When I was new to cultivation, I saw soil as dirt. It wasn't alive. It didn't have
life except for maybe worms. And I just filled pots with it. And it makes sense that I would
think that, because I was raised being taught to sterilize my soil with fire before using
it in pots. And sterile soil is dead soil. I held on to that perspective for a long time.
Then I started learning about the soil food web because I wanted to grow thriving cannabis
plants. All it took was seeing just one Elaine Ingham diagram of all the life that inhabits
wild soil to immediately jerk me out of that false reality and I realized that soil was
teeming with life. Teeming with microbes and a host of other participants. And then I understood
that complexity of life was everywhere. In soil, fresh water, the oceans, and the air.
All this microbiology was all around me and I was essentially swimming in it. And the
more I read books and got educated, the more I realized that every minute player in living
soil had an important role to play in the soil food web. And that seems beautiful to
me. And if you're here with us listening today, you probably find it beautiful too.
If you want to learn about cannabis health, cultivation, and technique efficiently and
with good cheer, I encourage you to subscribe to our newsletter. We'll send you new podcast
episodes as they come out, delivered right to your inbox, along with commentary on a
couple of the most important news items from the week and videos too. Don't rely on social
media to let you know when a new episode is published. Sign up for the updates to make
sure you don't miss an episode. Also, we're giving away very cool prizes to folks who
are signed up to receive the newsletter. There's nothing else you need to do to win except
receive that newsletter. So go to shapingfire.com to sign up for the newsletter and be entered
into this month's and all future newsletter prize drawings.
You are listening to Shaping Fire and I'm your host, Shango Lose. My guest today is
Dr. Ernest Bernard. Dr. Bernard is a plant and soil nematology researcher in the entomology
and plant pathology department at the University of Tennessee. Looking at his professional
resume, I see he was already a graduate assistant researcher in entomology at Michigan State
University in 1972, which means that he has been studying entomology for longer than I
have been alive. In 2010, he was awarded Outstanding Scientist of the Year for Biodiversity Education
by Discover Life in America and a NACDA Teaching Award in 1999. Last year, he was awarded a
team grant to study microplastics and the soil food web. Dr. Bernard has also served
as co-author on several mycology publications and illustrated several papers on new occurrences
of plant diseases, which is cool, right? Not only does he publish scientific papers, but
he does the illustrations too.
Finally, Ernie teaches a university course on classic film noir. Today we're going
to talk about nematodes, or nematodes as I learned it's properly pronounced. It is
important to point out in advance that we really don't know very much about nematodes
and cannabis yet. In fact, we don't really have a complete picture of nematodes at all.
They are an under-researched participant in the soil food web, so my questions today lead
us on a few paths which there are not solid answers for yet, and I'm very appreciative
to Dr. Bernard for being vocal about where the science ends and pointing out fertile
areas for new research.
During the first set, we will talk about the physiology, habits, and life cycle of nematodes.
The second set is all about the beneficial activities of nematodes, both as a pest predator
and essential participant in the soil food web. And during the last set, we talk about
parasitic nematodes and how to avoid them establishing in your garden.
I spent over a year researching nematologists, looking for one who had the depth of knowledge
on nematodes, was familiar with the cannabis plant, and was willing to talk publicly about
both. And they are incredibly rare, right? There are not many people studying nematodes,
fewer who are studying nematodes and cannabis, and nearly none researching nematodes, cannabis,
and are willing to talk about it publicly. So special thanks to Joe Romanecki at the
Entomological Society of America for helping me find Dr. Bernard.
Welcome to Shaping Fire, Dr. Bernard.
Glad to be here, Shango. It's a pleasure.
So glad to have you. So at the very beginning, let's clarify something that is often confused
in the cannabis cultivation scene. But as I was preparing for our interview today, it's
actually kind of confusing for some people even in the science literature, which is,
is a nematode an insect or not? Because people are often referred to them as worms, but taxonomically,
they are classified with insects in the same clade. And so to get us all on the same page,
would you kind of sort that out for us?
Well, I jokingly tell my students in my classes that if they use the term worm for nematodes,
they're going to lose some points. That comes about because they were originally known as
roundworms. There's even a group of animal parasites called whipworms. So the word worm
is in there, but it's okay as long as you say roundworms. Or in Britain, they say eel
worms. But nematodes are actually their own phylum. They're a completely separate group
of organisms of a million species or more probably, well separated from the arthropods,
which is where the insects are. The other arthropods are things like spiders, mites,
crustaceans, lobsters, those sorts of things. However, in recent years, there is some molecular
evidence that there is some kind of relationship between the two groups because they're the
only groups that really shed their skins in order to grow.
But they're not segmented, right?
No, they're not segmented at all. I mean, no one would expect them to be related except
the very most remotely, just like we would be to earthworms. But there is some molecular
evidence that they could be related, but you'd have to go way back, way back in deep time
to actually figure that out. And there are basically no nematode fossils out there and
hardly any insect fossils that are earlier than 400 million years old.
So if we want to be correct when we speak about nematodes, and we'd lose points if we
call them worm, but they're not exactly insects. What is the best word for us to use to describe
them?
Let's call them nematodes.
Just give them their own category.
That's right.
Okay, very good.
That's right.
Okay, thanks. So I know that we're going to be talking about a smaller subset of the nematodes
that exist today because as you said, we think that there might be up to 100 million species,
which is enormous.
Well, a million. A million.
I said 100 million.
That's still a lot.
Well, there could be. Who knows? Who knows?
So we'll be talking mostly about the ones that interact with the cannabis garden today.
But generally, nematodes, what is their range? Are they just about everywhere on the planet?
Nematodes are everywhere where there can be a plant, bacteria, moss, or organic matter
occurring. So anywhere you think of that's not covered permanently by ice and snow has
nematodes. In the Antarctic Dry Valleys, the highest forms of life there are three species
of nematodes. And you want to go up the tops of mountains, I've collected them off the
tops of Haleakala in Hawaii and several other places. So they're everywhere.
They're literally everywhere. And every step you take outside, you are stepping on the
homes of nematodes.
I've read that they outnumber other animal species, both in individuals and in species
counts pretty much everywhere they live. And so to tie this into cannabis container gardening,
would it be fair to say that in our containers or beds where we're growing cannabis, that
there are more nematodes and more varieties of nematodes than anything else in the soil?
If you set up a container, I assume you set it up with basically sterile media or something
that's been steam sterilized, something like that, there'll be no nematodes there at the
beginning. But gradually they come in. They are brought in by insects, they're blown in
a dry form and we'll colonize the medium. However, the difference is you're not likely
to get plant parasites in containers unless you're kind of sloppy and you're introducing
field soil.
So I would say that for this particular audience, that is exactly what we do. So with much of
the people, I know your expertise is with growing hemp and so much of that world is
sterilizing the soil because it's going into this controlled environment, usually of the
greenhouse. For most of the people who are listening to this show though, they are regenerative
growers who are wild crafting inputs, using no-till techniques for their pots, using last
year's soil, bringing in fermented plant juices from the wild. So most of the people
here have got pretty wild soils. And the goal for most of us is to try to keep that wild
bronching bull of soil in enough balance so that we can take advantage of the thriving
soil culture without it getting out of balance and then developing fusarium or whatever it
may be.
So it sounds to me that if many of us are including wild crafted bits, even if we started
with a bagged soil, we're intentionally mucking it up ourselves. It sounds like there is going
to be a slew of both number and variety of species of nematodes in all of our pots, it
sounds like.
Over time, you'll end up with... It's hard to say how many will end up there. It depends
on the surrounding environment and what is directly affecting those pots, what's flying
in, what's blowing in. But yes, you'll end up with a variety of primarily bacterial feeders,
some fungal feeders, even possibly some predators in there. If you get unlucky, you'll have
a plant parasite that can attack the plant roots.
Especially if... I'm not familiar with pot culture of hemp. But if you have other plants
around that you're not too careful about, or in close proximity to affected fields,
then you run a greater risk of somehow accidentally introducing these nematodes.
How much do nematodes travel? With some, both pests and beneficial life forms, sometimes
you can put pots pretty close to each other and they don't go from pot to pot. But then
sometimes if there's too close, just simple splashing of water will spread them around.
What is the distance of travel for a nematode usually?
Well, nematodes aren't exactly world travelers. The fastest one that I... Well, why that is
such a general question. It depends on the kind of nematode. A lot of the bacterial feeders
move at a pretty good clip and it could probably travel a few centimeters per day if they really
were trying. Plant parasites don't move very far. Most... None of them are really what
you would call moving huge distances. I think the record is the burrowing nematode in Florida
soils can move about three feet, but that's only in soil. They're not going to climb out
of a pot and then climb up another pot and get in. However, yeah, splashing water is
a great way for them to get around. In fact, any kind of flowing water is good for moving
nematodes. And they can rely passively on some breeze if they happen to be in the right spot.
If you have leaf litter that happens to have some of them have climbed on. Another problem
is that some nematodes can undergo anhydrobiosis, which means they dry out, but they're still alive.
They have a physiology that allows that. And those are easily blown around.
Oh, I see when they're dry and lighter. So if we are experiencing a pest nematode issue,
which we'll talk more about later, this is clearly a case where our first line of defense
is going to be material control. Sanitation.
Don't splash your water. Don't spread your soil. Don't let your leaf litter go from
one plant to another. All those basics. There are so many nematodes and from this
point forward, we're going to start focusing more on the ones that interact with the cannabis plant.
Compared to the overall nematode world of a million species, how many are we generally
going to be dealing with in a living soil and cannabis environment?
If you're talking about like field soil, which is what I would be most familiar with,
I still would say it's a black hole because there's been basically no field research done yet.
The crop is too new. Nematologists have not really geared up a lot to do that yet.
But you would have the typical in a handful of soil, you'd probably have 20 to 40 species of
nematodes, some more abundant than others. In a whole field, you might be talking 200, 300,
400 species of nematodes, most of which would not be plant parasites, but would be predators
or bacterial feeders or fungal feeders. So we're kind of at a black hole with regard to what is
actually happening at this moment. So for many cannabis cultivators, we are most familiar with
the bugs of all varieties that we can see. Because when you can see them, you're more aware of them,
you know to look them up. And generally, they're easier to deal with when you can see them.
And because microscopy skills are still very much growing in the cannabis cultivation scene,
not a lot of people are putting their soil under microscopes yet. Can you describe for us
like the size relation of a nematode, if any of the ones that we're going to be talking about,
are we can actually see with the naked eye and maybe a little bit of what they would look like
if we did throw one under a microscope? Okay. Nematodes are, the word is actually,
nematode comes from the word thread, it means thread-like in Greek. And it's because you can
actually see them with the naked eye, but all you see is a tiny little twisting white thing,
maybe half a millimeter long to a millimeter. Some species in the soil do get up to a couple
millimeters, but really they're quite small. You can't make out any detail like that. And
they require, and they can also, people can also mistake those for the very small,
what are called Enchitreid worms. They're true worms. They're white and very small,
small insect larvae. So what do they look like under the... Oh, another thing I should mention
is they don't, nematodes don't contract and elongate like an inchworm or an earthworm.
They don't have the capability to do that. So what do they look like under the micro,
look for in the microscope? There's no segmentation. So the body is not divided
in major divisions. They're pretty simple. Both ends are usually rounded, the tail end
is kind of pointed. The important part of a nematode is the mouth part, which we call
the stoma. Because once you see the stoma, you know exactly what that nematode does.
If it's a wide open stoma like a tube, it's taking a bacteria. If it's got a thing that
looks like a hypodermic needle, it's called a stylet, it either is a plant parasite or
fungal parasite, or it could be a predator. And there are some with large teeth inside
that are probably predators. So the front end of the nematode is the business end as
far as determining what it is. And one can determine that at relatively low power, 10
or 20, 100x would probably work. The problem is actually getting them out of the soil.
And that's where we have specialized techniques for doing that. They're not complicated, but
they do involve a little bit of time and effort to float them out of the soil so you can actually
get some.
In fact, that's right.
What is that technique? For gathering worms, we talk often about adding melons or avocados
to the top of the soil, which pulls regular earthworms up. But now you've got my attention
here. What is this trick?
All right, well, it's not really a trick, but that watermelon thing is interesting.
You probably, if you left that there for several days and dropped pieces in water, you'd probably
get some nematodes coming out that were near the surface and attracted into it and are
reproducing. That would be kind of cool. I'm going to have someone try that.
So the technique we use is called sugar flotation centrifugation. And it's probably more than
what most growers would want to do. But what it is, is you take a soil sample, like a handful
of soil, you put it in a beaker, you fill it up to about 800 mils, and you mix it up
really well. Then you pour it through nested screens. We use an 80 over a 400. So a 400
mesh screen is about, I think, 35 micrometer openings on the holes, maybe 25. I think it's
25. So very tiny holes.
So the top screen, the 80 mesh, is about half a millimeter. It catches most of the
debris. And you end up with the nematodes and the finer material on this very fine screen.
So the bottom screen is to catch the nematodes. Then you rinse those into a centrifuge tube,
spin them, spin them down, pour off the water, add a sugar solution, mix it up, and spin
it again. The sugar solution has the same density as a nematode body. So when you put
it through the centrifuge again, the soil goes to the bottom of the tube, the nematodes
stay in suspension, and we can pour that off. That's how we do it in our lab. But there
are simpler methods involved. And this might be really practical for people that don't
have a centrifuge and all the other equipment. It's called a Behrman funnel. There's a
actually a variation also called a Behrman pan, but they're basically the same thing.
You have a very fine screen or just kind of porous tissue. In fact, nematodes were once
said to be in operation as long as they had a funnel and a piece of toilet paper. So you
have a funnel and you have a screen inside that fits inside that funnel. And you just
cut that out of anything, aluminum screen or something. And then you lay a piece of
tissue over it. And it can really be just like one layer of Kleenex. You put your soil...
At the bottom of the funnel, you attach a tube, like with a piece of rubber tubing.
Attach a tube. Then you fill it up with water. You put it in your screen, the tissue. Add
your soil very gently on the top. Not very much. You want it to be kind of submerged.
Make sure it's damp or wet. The active nematodes will gradually wiggle through to the bottom,
fall through the screen and sink into this tube. And after two or three days, you can
take that tube off and let's see what you got. Now it requires active... Nematodes are
active and some of them aren't very active, but it will give a fair idea of what you might
have out there. So yeah, that method has been around a long time.
And I agree with you that there are probably few cultivators who are going to do the first
version and there's probably even few cultivators that would bother to do the second version.
But the reason why I wanted it included is because if somebody's listening to this show
because they are either curious to know what number of nematodes they have in their growing
environment or if they suspect that their substrate's being taken over by nematodes,
which we'll talk more about later, that would be a great tool for somebody to do that and
go, oh my God, look at all these nematodes. I think I need to look into this more.
I should also point out the other thing they can do in that case, and if they don't have
a problem with it, is they can send samples to their extension agent or extension offices.
Every state has them. You've probably heard that before.
For sure.
And get a nematode analysis done.
And luckily, these extension offices are becoming more and more comfortable with talking to
us cannabis folks. So hopefully, your mileage may vary on that, but hopefully we get somebody
who's open to us.
So one of the things that we talk about a lot on Shaping Fire is the living soil of
food web and how the different participants in the rhizosphere are doing different jobs
that when they all come together, you have a thriving, healthy soil that's in balance,
that is not susceptible to disease outbreaks, and you'll have a really good flower run.
And that's what we all shoot for.
I don't think many of us understand the role that nematodes play in that beautiful melody
that is the soil.
So would you kind of walk us through essentially day in the life of a nematode?
What are they spending their time doing so that we can understand their purpose a little better?
Okay.
Well, nematodes, because they do have different feeding strategies, occupy a pretty broad
range in the soil.
So let's just start with the...we get leaf litter or other organic matter lying on the
ground.
It's gradually consumed by millipedes, isopods, earthworms, and it gets broken down, and the
fungi and bacteria then move in and are more efficient at decaying and consuming this tissue.
Well, the nematodes actually come along then, the nematodes are there, to begin consuming
bacteria and fungi.
So this helps to keep the entire nutrient cycle going in the soil.
So they're consuming bacteria, fungi, some are predators that attack amoebae, of course
some are insect parasites as well.
And they consume those organisms and then they die.
They become incorporated in the soil.
At each level, we're getting a breakdown that provides easier nutrition for plants.
So you get this constant cycling organic matter of nutrition in the soil.
So nematodes form an important step in that they're consuming fungi and bacteria that
are engaged in the digestion of organic matter.
It sounds to me like they would be very useful in regenerating out of balance cropland or
beds or something.
It sounds like they are digesting machines.
And if we're trying to clean up beds that have got bacterial outbreaks or something,
they are essentially helping clean the environment and renew it constantly.
It's nice that you mentioned bacteria because many of the bacterial feeders have very short
life spans or very short life cycles.
Some are as little as two days.
So from egg to adult.
And so you can get huge numbers building up.
Not on exactly the same thing we're talking about, but we did a graduate student at the
University of Tennessee did a wonderful study on soil fauna when cadavers are placed on
top of the soil.
We used beavers and human beings at the world famous body farm, we say.
And we found bacterial feeders exploded in enormous, enormous numbers.
They were hardly detectable before they were put in there.
And after two or three weeks, we had 15 to 20,000 in basically a handful of soil.
So they respond very quickly to those kinds of imbalances.
So that has not...
I don't know how much that has been tried, but there have been some really good studies
recently on the effect of rebalancing nematode communities in forests by various means, organic
amendments or whatever.
And it's found that it really has improved the health of the soil.
It sounds like there's a lot of opportunities for research in nematodes right now.
You've mentioned a couple of different times that either there's an opportunity somewhere
or it's a black hole or the research is new.
And it sounds to me that if somebody is interested in living soil and cannabis and they find
nematodes interesting that there's a lot of promising research to be done there.
Oh, definitely.
There's no end to it.
And there aren't that many nematologists in the world.
And most of us are working on crop protection.
So those that are working on basic ecological questions are not as numerous.
Oh yeah, I and all my colleagues, we all have so many ideas that we're never going to get to.
Just for sheer manpower or person power.
That's about right.
Right on.
All right.
So I think that just about everybody who is here today is here to be talking about beneficial
nematodes.
So let's go ahead and wrap up this first set.
And when we come back with set two, we're going to start off with the meat of the pie
there on the beneficial nematodes.
So we're going to take a short break and be right back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire and my guest today is Dr. Ernie Bernard.
Now without these advertisers, Shaping Fire would not happen.
So please support them and let them know that you heard them on Shaping Fire.
One of the challenges with buying auto flower seeds is that often you'll have as many different
phenos as you will have seeds in a pack.
That can be fun.
Sure.
Having all the varieties in one pack is a sign of an immature seed line that hasn't
been worked enough.
I prefer my auto flowers to be worked enough that each pheno in the pack really captures
the aspects that the breeder was intending.
This is why I recommend Gnome Automatics to my friends and listeners who grow automatic
flower and cannabis seeds.
Gnome Automatic seeds are not just crossed and released.
They are painstakingly sifted again and again, tested in a wide range of conditions, and
taken to a level of maturity that each plant will be recognizable by its traits.
Traits that were hard earned so that you can have your best growth cycle ever.
Gnome Automatics became a trusted and loved brand in cannabis over the last 10 years as
Mandalorian Genetics and recently changed their name to Gnome Automatics.
The only thing that has changed is the name.
Founder Dan Jimmy continues to pour his passion of breeding cannabis into every variety he
releases for you to grow.
Check out the Gnome Automatics Instagram at gnome underscore automatics to see the impressive
plants folks are growing.
You can score Gnome Automatic seeds in Feminized or Regular at your favorite seed provider
listed in the vendors section of their website.
Farms interested in bulk seeds of more than 1,000 should reach out through the website
too.
While on the website, be sure to check out the Gnome Automatics shirts and other merch
section.
If you want reliable seeds, hand built from effort, expert selection and experience, choose
Gnome Automatics.
As cannabis regulations become more demanding and consumers become more educated, it is
increasingly important to avoid the use of chemical pesticides when cultivating cannabis.
Beneficial insects have been used for decades by the greenhouse vegetable and ornamental
plant industry, and today many cannabis cultivators are moving from sprays and chemicals to beneficial
insects.
Copert has the beneficial insects, mites and nematodes, microbials, sticky cards and air
distribution units you need to partner with nature to defend your garden.
Whether you manage acres of canopy or have a simple grow tent in your home, Copert is
ready to help answer your questions and help you transition away from chemical sprays towards
clean and natural solutions.
Since 1967, Copert has assisted growers in identifying pests and devising reliable solutions
while providing healthy insects and mites that will protect your yield.
Since the 1990s, Copert has been a leader in cannabis pest and disease control worldwide
and have highly trained consultants to assist you in Canada and the United States from coast
to coast.
With their global network of grower support, Copert can help.
Visit copert.com, choose your country and get detailed information.
That's copert, K-O-P-P-E-R-T dot com.
For the most up-to-date cannabis-related biological control information, you can also check their
Instagram at copertcanada.
You know getting away from pesticides is good for health and good for business, and Copert
is ready to help.
Visit copert.com today.
A fully functioning greenhouse grows extraordinary cannabis flowers that have exceptional bag
appeal, great terpene profiles, and exceptional yield.
But as we have discussed many times on Shaping Fire, a greenhouse is only as good as the
environment you create for the plants inside.
BioTherm has been on the forefront of developing and installing highly efficient greenhouse
solutions since 1980.
Whether new construction, major upgrades, or a retrofit, BioTherm's cultivation climate
solutions are tailored to each grower's specifications.
They even have root zone heating mats that attach to a home hot water heater for growing
areas 500 square feet or smaller.
The atmosphere of the growing environment directly affects the health and productivity
of your crop.
BioTherm offers heating, cooling, dehumidification, and CO2 enrichment to optimize the air your
plants breathe and optimize plant growth by enhancing the elements within the cultivation
space.
BioTherm's dissolved oxygen irrigation solutions will improve the vitality of your water and
the efficiency of your hydro delivery system.
When you implement BioTherm's systemic innovation, you'll experience increased yields, improved
plant vigor, and increased resistance to disease and pests.
BioTherm offers free phone and email support for everything they sell and will help you
troubleshoot and diagnose issues to get your equipment back online.
The explosion of greenhouse cultivation has crowded the field with novice consultants
selling unproven gadgets.
When you choose BioTherm to regulate your greenhouse environment, you know you're relying
on their over 40 years of experience designing, installing, and supporting mission-critical
greenhouse technology.
Your plants deserve nothing less than BioTherm.
Visit BioThermSolutions.com today to learn more and request a quote.
Welcome back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire.
I'm your host, Shango Lose, and my guest today is Dr. Ernie Bernard.
During the first set, we got a better idea of who our neighborhood nematode is, a bit
about their life cycle, what their interests are, and that there's so many of them everywhere
in the world.
But here in the second set, we're going to focus more on beneficial nematodes in both
how we can use the nematodes to protect our plants in the garden and the quality of soil,
and then also we'll talk a bit about making an environment that's good for them to live
since they are our allies in sustaining living soil.
So Ernie, the number one thing that people in cannabis cultivation turned to beneficial
nematodes for is fungus gnats because lots of people, they are inexperienced and they
overwater or they have got a watering system that they find out too late is watering a
bit heavy and boom, you've got fungus gnats and they're super annoying.
And so people, their first thought is, okay, I need to use the nematodes.
So if you would, kind of walk us through the relationship between fungus gnats and their
production of larva and where the nematodes come in to be a helpful participant in our garden.
Yeah, sirens, fungus gnats, definitely a problem that about everybody has that grows anything.
I know we have them in our greenhouse and we also have a lot of millipede cultures going
in the lab for various reasons and we get plenty of fungus gnats in there, can't seem to help it.
So the larvae of fungus gnats, and I'm not a specialist on these, but what I do know
is they eat rotting organic matter and so a lot of wet organic matter will mean a lot
of fungus gnats developing, especially if it's on the surface.
I don't know that...
Some of your listeners probably know better than me whether they actually attack cannabis
roots themselves.
I think some of them will.
The nematode being talked about, I don't recall the name of it, but it's an entomopathogenic
nematode, I know it's available commercially quite a bit, that's applied to soil that will
infect those fungus gnat larvae and kill them before they become adults.
As long as the instructions are followed carefully, they should work fine.
When you use the word infect, are we actually meaning like eat the larva, they'll eat the
larva or is there some kind of viral or bacteria that's passed?
I'm not sure how to take the word infect.
Right, and I can't quite remember the name of the species, maybe you have it in hand
there, that attacks fungus gnats, but typically these nematodes are...
They're produced as anhydrobiotic juveniles, so they're dried out, they're in a dry state.
They're added to soil surface and wetted.
This revives them.
Take water up and they begin moving around again.
They carry in the anterior part of their intestine a certain kind of bacterium.
When they locate a fungus gnat, they enter the larva through a natural opening.
I'm not sure on this one, it could be through the spiracles, how the larvae breathe.
It could be through the back end.
They might even wiggle it through the mouth, I'm not sure.
But they get inside and they defecate these bacteria.
The bacteria multiply rapidly, prodigiously, and that's what actually kills the larva,
the consumption of the tissues inside.
Once they've consumed those, while they're consuming those, now the nematodes are inside,
they start feeding crazily on these bacteria because that's their food source, not really
the gnat itself.
They reproduce very quickly within a few days, producing hundreds of thousands of new eggs
that can later hatch and produce infective larvae.
This is why nematodes are good both if you have an outbreak and also as a defensive mechanism
to keep you from ever getting fungus gnats because if you've got a large population of
nematodes, they're constantly eating their way through larvae and depositing this bacteria,
which I'm guessing and hoping that this bacteria is also probiotic for the rhizosphere.
Ah, well here's the catch.
The bacterium only survives inside the nematode.
Oh, wow.
So envision a female nematode inside the larva of the fungus gnat.
They're producing lots and lots of eggs.
Those eggs hatch inside the fungus gnat larva and they're eating prodigiously.
Now, some of them will go to maturity and produce more eggs, but most of them will stop.
They'll reach a point, there's a trigger inside with too many nematodes and not enough bacteria
or something and they stop development.
As the fungus gnat larva dies, these larvae then begin to dry up, but they hold within
part of their intestine, they hold some of these bacteria.
So now they are a package just waiting for another larva to come along under favorable
circumstances that they can penetrate.
So yeah, that's the grub about these bacteria is they're not free living.
That's really interesting too though.
What an amazingly specific evolved system and tool that is, right?
It's like carrying your lunch with you when you move across country.
That's right.
It's really nice.
Yeah, that's pretty cool.
All right.
So another thing that makes nematodes seem like an obvious player against these fungus
gnats is that if I understand correctly, nematodes mostly live near the top of the soil, right?
So they live exactly where the fungus gnat problem is.
Right.
That's where you'd like to have them, right?
In fact, these kinds of insect parasitic nematodes usually have a way to track prey.
There are two different groups.
There's ambush predators and there are ambush and there's another group that actually seeks
them out.
They move around and I'm not using the right term.
Some just sit waiting for a particular host to come along.
The other ones are called...
No, that's embarrassing.
One way or another, they chase.
They chase, yeah.
So let's move on to another variety of pest that people tend to turn to nematodes for.
In the general nematode scientific literature, Western flower thrips are named as one of
the pest varieties that beneficial nematodes can be used against.
It is common for cannabis cultivators to read Western flower thrips.
Even though I'm not aware of Western flower thrip being a threat in cannabis, we all see
that word thrip, right?
Right.
We have such problems with thrips and we're really looking for good solutions that people
use the nematodes for the cannabis thrips that we get, but I've never actually seen
the evidence that that is an appropriate matchup.
Are you familiar with any system where the nematodes will go after our cannabis thrip
varieties?
There are thrips that attack...
There are nematodes that attack thrips, but I've not studied them really very much.
I would love to know if that really works because our greenhouses have a lot of greenhouse
thrips and the dark brown ones are really bad.
So no, I can't provide any information on that really.
That's cool.
Like we said, the study of nematodes is a huge area and I don't expect you to have something
But I do know that you have studied their interaction with the hemp plant and I don't
know how wide the research is there that you've had the opportunity to do because as we've
already discussed, there's a lot of different research to do.
But what I'm getting at is, what other pests other than fungus gnats can you share with
us that nematodes are effective in combating?
There are a lot of nematodes out there now and available commercially for all kinds of
pests, grubs, other fly larvae, caterpillars.
There's a wide range of product available now that can be used or at least tried anyway.
They have...
A lot of them have kind of specific environmental requirements.
There has to be enough water, not too much.
Temperatures and things like that, the way that they're applied.
But oh, fleas.
Fleas can be controlled this way.
But each pest pretty much has its own particular nematode that can attack it.
Like several different kinds of caterpillars have one species.
Beetle grubs might have a different species.
And there may be variants in there.
I see.
So I think I was actually approaching this from the wrong direction because what I'm
hearing is that if there's a million or more species and I'm getting the idea that nematodes
tend to be picky eaters when it comes to other animals, that really what should happen is
the cultivator should figure out and identify what their pest is and then kind of reverse
engineer it to find what nematode is specific for theirs.
So it isn't like, oh, all right, we're going to add this one nematode which eats 20 variety
of pests and we're just going to dump them on it.
It actually takes some homework to make sure that we get the specific nematode that is
correct for whatever our pest would be.
Yeah, you've got it.
There are many different species of insect-parasitic nematodes out there, but they're not generalists.
They may take a small range of pests, but you won't find any one that will take care
of everything.
I certainly wouldn't apply something you'd use for beetle grubs to try and control thrips.
That's just, that's total waste.
In fact, they're very different kinds of, they're very different nematodes.
I think that some of us who got into beneficial insects by learning about, you know, predatory
mites that will eat our pest, two-spot spider mite, you know, you see the list.
It's like, oh, if I add this mite, it eats these, you know, it attacks these nine different
varieties of pests.
And I think that I was approaching nematodes as like, okay, which nematode is the generalist
that I want to focus on?
And that's not really the right way to think about it.
Right, right.
It's funny that I have to mention this about using mites to control insect, or control
two-spotted mites.
So we, occasionally we have two-spotted mite outbreaks and thrips outbreaks in our greenhouses.
And we do apply bio controls that are specific for these pests.
While I was watching once, there was a nice thrips sitting there on the bottom of a leaf
and a predation mite comes along, approaches it.
It touches the thrips, the thrips wiggle, the mite runs away.
He wasn't supposed to do that.
It's like, dude, play your position.
All right, so if my approach with looking for a nematode generalist wasn't accurate,
let's kind of change the direction of the conversation to creating an environment in
the soil that will attract and provide a good home for the nematodes that we want.
Because I'm starting to get the idea that if a soil is in balance, it will naturally
have healthy nematodes.
And then if we let our soil get out of balance, we start to develop parasitic nematodes, which
we're going to talk about in the third set.
So what is the living environment that the beneficial nematodes that we want to have
thrive in our pots as our defense mechanism, what is that environment that they do best
in and what can we do to make it a cozy place where they want to produce?
Well, wow, that's a good question.
That's a big question.
What would I do?
If I want to grow really good cannabis or any crop, really, I would have a lot of organic
matter.
I would keep the nutrition high in the pot.
I would avoid overwatering and underwatering, especially overwatering.
That is such a broad question.
What you're essentially describing is good container gardening.
And so it sounds to me like so long as you are doing the things that we know help with
organic growing and you're not out of balance, like you're not too dry, you're not too wet,
your pH isn't off for the plant, you're making sure to use compost teas.
So long as you're doing the things that we in the regenerative community naturally do
anyway for the good of the plant, those are all the same things that a nematode wants
as well.
That's for the bacterial feeders.
All nematodes would be happy with that.
In a container type situation, you're going to end up largely with bacterial feeders and
fungal feeders in the pot.
And those are the nematodes that are responsible for getting good carbon nitrogen ratio.
There's some very complicated research, very good research that's done at UC Davis on this
approach of a balance of bacterial and fungal feeders.
So yes, you'll get both kinds in there because they're naturally brought in gradually by
other insects, they're blown in the rain.
They can be picked up and carried by wind out of a field.
The plant parasites you're not likely to get unless there's a breakdown in the way that
you handle your stuff.
So let's say that I want to have the nematodes in my pot and there is the way that you just
suggested by letting them get there by happenstance.
Let's say that I want to intentionally equip the pot with it.
So as we've already talked about, there are commercial varieties that are available.
What I'm curious to know is, is it possible to add the nematodes and create a self-replicating
community where they are making more nematodes into the future?
Or is their life cycle such, I don't know, maybe it's too short or they don't reproduce
enough or whatever there might be about their life cycle where I should be adding nematodes?
Because some of the providers, they suggest that you're hand adding nematodes every two
weeks.
And if that's what's necessary, okay, fine.
But in my head and in the head of most of us into living soil growing, we would love
to have there be a community of nematodes that reproduces and maybe even expands.
And so we add them once but keep our soil good and now we've got nematode defense mechanisms
forever.
Is that unreasonable?
No, actually, every two weeks means you're not effective at all.
I would think that initial addition, as long as the pot is fine and you're going to have
soil that's naturally being colonized by bacteria and fungi that are just blowing it out of
the air in the water supply.
So those are already present.
Adding the nematodes, they should reproduce and continue to grow to a population that
is sustainable inside the pot.
If they run out of food, their numbers are going to drop.
It's just the supply demand thing.
And until that builds up again, then they will increase.
I don't see why they would not maintain themselves in these pots.
Is there any reason to add a food source for them?
You said that if they grow in number where they outstrip their food source, they'll just
die or not reproduce as much.
But I can totally hear the listeners who are saying, yeah, but I want to supercharge my
pot with nematodes.
So is there a bacteria that I can add so they'll eat more of it?
And I can see how that could be a dangerous road to go under.
But let's ask the question anyway.
Is there anything that we would want to feed the nematodes specifically like that?
Or is feeding the nematodes just keeping your pot in balance?
I think keeping your pot in balance, I'm not sure what you would feed them with.
Would you pour a bacterial broth in there or shove...
I mean, I know that sounds dangerous, but that is what I was imagining.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So I'm not sure how well that would work because you can rely on a naturally rapid reproduction
of bacterial feeders, somewhat slower the fungal feeders, but you're going to rely on
them to actually occupy their niche in that pot and all the places they can go, and they'll
be there.
And it may fluctuate up and down, but that depends on the background food sources.
They're living off dying roots or old cells or other organisms that might get in there.
I've never heard of anyone actually augmenting a pot and getting a result.
But then again, the literature is pretty vast, so I could miss something.
It's interesting.
And also, the people in the regenerative cannabis scene were kind of mad scientists.
And so it would not surprise me at all that somebody out there is all like, oh, well,
if they eat bacteria, what is a bacteria that I can produce?
And then they just start experimenting with it because we all kind of consider ourselves
citizen scientists, even though it gets us in trouble sometimes.
Oh, no.
I think any kind of experimentation with this formal just trying stuff is great.
I mean, how do we learn anything if we don't do that?
So this is kind of a non-sequitur corollary question.
So we'll see if you've got something for me on this.
Very often, people are directed to add nematodes to their crops through a sprayer.
And there is a lot of discussion with not a lot of clarity about the varieties of sprayers
or nozzle types to not use because some of the higher pressure ones can rip apart the
nematodes as they're going through the nozzle is what I have been told.
But I don't have first person experience with this.
So do you have anything to share with us about application by spray, best practices at all?
I don't have anything specific on that.
But the products that when they're sold, they should have a recommendation for what kind
of sprayer to use.
I certainly want to use our super high pressure one or one that puts out really fine droplets.
For a small operation, maybe you could mix it up in a watering can and just water it
in.
So as far as like the living environments for the nematodes, a lot of us like to mix
up our own soil with different amendments.
So it's perfectly made for our beloved cannabis plants.
Are there any soil amendments that are specifically appreciated by nematodes?
Well, it never hurts to have organic matter of some kind in there.
In our greenhouse, we use a commercial mix that we buy in bulk.
We buy 10 or 12 bales at a time.
I don't know how directly that affects them, but it allows for better drainage.
We use basically pure sand with organic matter in it.
The organic matter actually helps.
You'd think that sand would drain really fast, but some organic matter there really helps
to drain it.
It just helps to provide channels for them to move around in.
Yeah, that makes sense.
Being worm-like, I can imagine that they would not like compacted soil.
That kind of starts us down where we're going to start with the next set where compacted
soil is going to decrease their ability to move around.
Compacted soil also creates hydrophobic soil on the top.
I'm getting the idea with since nematodes interact so effectively with water that they
really do need a moist but not sopping environment.
We hit one of the key points about nematodes.
Nematodes are actually aquatic animals.
They require a water film to move around in.
In fact, when they move, they're pushing against the water film on a soil particle.
They have no way of burrowing through soil themselves.
They need to have the connectedness of the soil pores in order to get around.
You're right.
A very highly compacted soil is pretty much impervious to all but smallest nematodes.
It would seem then that this would also be a case for a living green mulch.
Some people might call it a cover crop or something.
Small plants that live below the cannabis plants that have got roots going down that
create highways for the water to go from the surface and down into the rhizosphere.
It sounds like that kind of a living moist root environment would be one that nematodes
would be like, hell yeah, we like living here.
That also provides additional food source.
More roots means more bacteria growing on the roots, more fungi attacking dead cells
or even the live roots themselves.
Probably more variety too since these different plants are very likely to have different types
of bacteria on their roots than the cannabis plant.
Exactly.
There's a lot of specificity we're finding out about bacteria on roots.
There is some specificity for nematodes that eat bacteria that may favor one kind of bacterium
over another.
Before we go to the second commercial break, I want to talk a little bit about who would
predate our ally nematodes.
We're going through all this process.
We're either attracting nematodes or we're adding nematodes.
We're trying to keep our soil in balance both for the plant but also for all of our beneficials
that are in the soil including the nematodes.
I understand how the tree of life works enough to know that somebody's probably eating my
nematodes.
Who are the threats to my beneficial nematodes in the pot?
That's a good question.
There's a big disparity between those that get in pots easily like bacterial and fungal
feeders and predators.
The bacterial and fungal feeders have very short lifespans but they lay a lot of eggs.
The predators have much longer lifespans and they lay fewer eggs.
They're also not nearly as portable or transportable as the other nematodes are.
It would be kind of uncommon to see most predators in those pots.
The other thing about the predators, something to keep in mind too, is that we're talking
predator-prey relationships with nematodes.
It's no different for them than it is for mammals.
Look at lynxes and snowshoe rabbits.
You have a large prey population, you have a small predator population.
Because of the differences in length of life cycle and number of eggs produced, they stay
pretty much in those proportions.
I've never heard of a predator population overwhelming the prey.
There's always more prey coming along than there are predators.
That is both surprising and good to hear.
Good to hear, that's right.
If we're going to be focusing on making sure that we've got enough nematodes in our growing
environment, the idea that they will just be there effectively unless we kill them,
that sounds pretty good.
What happens to ... You mentioned a little bit of this in the first set but I want to
dig in a little more.
What happens when the environment does fall out of balance?
There are varieties of microbes, etc., who if the soil gets dry or the pH changes or
something, they'll cyst up and do what we think of as hibernation with a protective
outer shell of a mucus or something until the conditions in the soil are favorable again.
Then they restart their life cycle.
I'm curious to know what defense mechanisms nematodes have for that.
A, because I want to hear you talk about that body drying out cycle again.
Also, I want to get a better handle on the idea that if I inadvertently drowned my pot,
am I actually going to wipe out the nematodes or do I just need to wait for them to come
back?
I guess it's a combination question.
Let's talk about the flooding first.
Back in the 50s and 60s, all kinds of things tried to kill nematodes.
I wonder what's flooding.
Let's flood a field and see how long it takes to kill all the nematodes.
It does work but you've also ruined your field.
Temporary flooding is not going to really damage your nematodes very much.
They're aquatic organisms and they take in oxygen but they can become quiescent which
just means they stop moving and they just stay quiet and just wait it out until water
drains away, more oxygen is available again and they can begin moving around again.
It'd be pretty difficult to do that unless you set a pot in a cistern or something, fill
it up with water and just wait.
Did it intentionally, right?
Yeah.
As far as drying out, the thing about soils drying out is you never really get them dry.
They feel dry but they still have a thin film of water around all the soil particles held
on very, very strongly.
The nematodes themselves are held strongly in that very, very thin layer of water and
can't move.
It doesn't mean they're necessarily going to die because the pot has dried.
If you really let it go a long time to where it's really getting dry, many nematodes, not
all but many, can undergo this process called anhydrobiosis which means life without water.
They undergo physiological changes that push certain compounds into their proteins to
keep them from deforming.
Then they lose almost all their water, 95% of their water, and they just sit there basically
dry as dust.
But when water returns, and this could be months or years later, I think the record
is ... I better not say.
I think it's more than 15 years.
Once water comes back, they revive in anywhere from minutes to hours and just pick up like
nothing ever happened.
Wow.
Well, that's really convenient.
I'm glad to hear ...
That is nice, isn't it?
Yeah.
I'm glad to hear that they're so likely to rebound because honestly, it is so common,
maybe not in an automated commercial setup, but so much of our audience is home growers
and patients who are growing their own cannabis for their own ailments.
It is sadly very common for us to go from an overwatered, a drowned pot to, oh gosh,
I added too much.
I better not water it for a couple days.
Now it's on the other side and it's bone dry because they were trying to make up for the
overwatering in which case now it's hydrophobic and then we drown it again, right?
Yeah.
I made a mistake once in the greenhouse.
I was adding just ... We use Peters as a supplemental fertilizer and I added too much
inadvertently, I hope.
And when I looked at the plants the next day, they were all wilted.
I don't want to lose these young hemp plants.
So I just watered the heck out of them to wash that fertilizer through and sure enough,
they revived.
So it's not a total loss.
Well, that's great because there's so many other ways for us to make mistakes and kill
everything in our pots.
It's nice to know that somebody's got the ability to rebound a little better than some
of our other allies.
So all right.
So let's go ahead and take a commercial break.
When we come back, we are going to talk about parasitic nematodes, what many of us consider
pest nematodes, even though they're uncommon.
We're going to learn about them and talk about what they're like.
So you are listening to Shaping Fire and my guest today is Dr. Ernie Bernard.
For years, organic cultivators have been looking for a peat moss replacement.
Peat moss has long been the go-to soil amendment for water retention and container growing,
but organic growers are recognizing now that peat moss is an unsustainable resource and
the mining of peat bogs destroys wetland habitats and releases sequestered carbon.
But peat moss works so well that many have continued to use it.
Now there is finally a revolutionary replacement for peat moss that provides better benefits
while being a sustainable choice.
Pit moss sounds and acts like peat moss, but instead of being mined from fragile ecosystems,
is actually made from upcycled organic paper and cardboard headed for landfills.
Pit moss is excellent at retaining water in your substrate and creating air pockets and
tiny living environments for microbes.
Pit moss instantly increases aeration, nutrient absorption, and water conservation too.
Carefully and locally sourced, pit moss is the result of decades-long research into the
use of recycled paper fibers.
Pit moss is lightweight and easy to use, and pit moss is inert so it won't change your
pH.
Available in a range of preparations including a nutrient-enhanced blend and an organic soil
conditioner with no added nutrients.
Pit moss is also available as an animal bedding for horses, chickens, and small animals.
You can save 15% with the discount code SHAPINGFIRE, one word, no caps, when shopping on pitmoss.com.
So go to pitmoss.com now to learn more.
That's P-I-T-T-M-O-S-S dot com.
Growing healthier, stronger, more sustainable plants.
Pit moss.
Once you've discovered the benefits of using cannabis, it's a very small step to start
making your own edibles, gummies, lotions, tinctures, and concentrated oils at home.
Magical Butter has been helping cannabis consumers become self-sufficient for over a decade.
With the easy-to-use Magical Butter countertop botanical extractor, you can create high-quality
cannabis products to your exact specifications at a fraction of the cost of store-bought
edibles.
I talk a lot on this show about the importance of home growing so you don't have to rely
on others to feel healthy.
The Magical Butter machine can empower your personal health by putting you in control
of how you use cannabis in your daily life.
I've been making my own butters and oils on the stove for years, and I much prefer
the ease of using the Magical Butter machine.
I just set it and walk away.
With the simple touch of a button, the Magical Butter machine grinds, heats, stirs, and steeps
your herbal extract all at the correct time interval and temperature for the perfect infusion
every time.
As a result, you achieve your desired infusion easily, safely, and consistently.
Check out the Magical Butter Instagram to see the machine in action.
And don't feel like you have to go it alone.
There is a huge community on Facebook called Magical Butter Users United sharing recipes
and best practices so you can learn at your own pace from others who are already doing
it successfully.
Now is the time to get your own Magical Butter machine and save money while enjoying cannabis.
Use the discount code SHAPINGFIRE, one word, no caps, to get 10% off.
Visit MagicalButter.com today.
There are so many seed banks nowadays that you really have options in who to choose.
Not only that, if you pick the wrong seed bank, you could be in for a really sketchy
ride.
And that's only one of the reasons I recommend Hembra Genetics Collection to my friends and
listeners who are looking for a seed bank.
That's Hembra, spelled H-E-M-B-R-A.
Hembra is not just another seed bank.
Hembra is a woman-operated boutique cannabis genetics provider that only sells thoughtfully
curated seeds from the top names in cannabis breeding.
With over 50 breeders and over 500 strains to choose from, you will certainly find something
you'll love.
Hembra Genetics has something for everyone with over 350 feminized strains, 200 regular
varieties, and over 100 auto flowers to choose from.
Names you know you can trust like Humboldt Seed Company, Night Owl, Canerado, In-House
Genetics, Fast Buds, and Gnome Automatics.
We both know that there are other seed banks who will take your money but have no customer
service.
I invited Hembra to advertise on Shaping Fire after hearing so many good stories about them
from my friends.
They have A-plus customer service with lightning fast response times.
In most cases, Helene and Kaitlin will get your order out the same day you place it,
and you'll usually receive your seeds in just a few days.
Most seed banks are simply not this organized or interested in getting your seeds to you
this fast.
But Hembra cares.
You even get free seeds with every order.
Helene and Kaitlin get it.
They have been in the cannabis growing scene for over a decade.
So save a few bucks by using this discount code too.
Use the code SHAPINGFIRE all one word at checkout to save 10% off your order.
Buy seeds from good folks who will get you great seeds reliably every time.
Visit HembraGenetics.com today.
That's Hembra Genetics.
Welcome back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire.
I'm your host, Shango Lose, and my guest today is Dr. Ernie Bernard.
Here we are in set three, and we are going to talk about the parasitic nematodes, which
I actually thought were a lot more common than Dr. Bernard has kind of suggested earlier
in the show.
But let's talk about them because they're the bad guys, and we should be prepared with
them.
So mostly what I understand about these parasitic nematodes is that they like to eat the roots
and slow the growth of the plant.
I also kind of get the idea that they are way more common than I think we think they
are because most people interpret what's happening with the plant as a nutrient problem.
So will you go through these plant parasitic nematodes and kind of explain how they're
working against us in the rhizosphere?
Sure, I'd be glad to.
So plant parasitic nematodes are very common.
They're everywhere.
If you can look out a window and see some grass or forest or trees, there are plant
parasitic nematodes feeding on those plants.
But in a kind of a balanced environment, let's say an undisturbed forest or even a long-term
meadow, they're all in balance.
They're taking their little share of food, but it's not enough to really hurt, really
damage anything.
That's when we go to monocultures, high-intensity agricultural production, that we begin to
see that these nematodes begin to dominate because we are removing a lot of the constraints
that keep them down, such as other parasites, other predators, diseases of nematodes, fungi
that attack nematodes.
And they become more predominant because we've altered that natural arrangement that
has been developing for millions upon millions of years.
So plant parasitic nematodes are also called phytoparasitic or abbreviated.
We call them PPNs because we get tired of saying plant parasitic nematodes.
They all have...
Their mouth is modified into a needle-like structure.
It looks just like a hypodermic needle, actually, that they use to puncture roots.
When they puncture roots, they inject enzymes that dissolve the contents of root cells.
Then they suck that back out.
That's their food.
Some nematodes just feed on the surface of roots.
These are not of much consequence.
They're called ectoparasites because they're on the outside.
We also have endoparasites.
One group of endoparasites enters the roots and migrates around in the outer tissues,
the cortex, just feeding as they go, laying eggs in there.
And they're more important than the ectoparasites.
We also have what are called the sedentary endoparasites.
These are nematodes that enter a root, find a nice spot in the vascular tissue, the xylem
or the phloem, establish a specialized feeding site by injection of various plant hormones
or plant hormone analogs, or they get the plant to do it.
They produce specialized feeding cells and then they settle down there, protected from
the environment because they're inside the root, and can produce lots and lots of eggs.
Those are the most important ones because they're directly taking photosynthetic nutrients
from the plant by their feeding.
So in nature, let's say I'm near the Great Smoky Mountains.
If I go up in the Smokies and sample around a tree, I'm going to find all these kinds.
They're all there, but they're not really high numbers because they're balanced out
with everything else in the soil.
So this is a phenomenon we call soil stasis, where everything is kind of checking everything
else to make sure nobody gets out of control.
And so it's when we begin to manipulate the environment, we begin to see problems.
It would make sense to me that these plant parasitic nematodes or PPNs are more common
in monocultures or in especially aggressive commercial environments because both of those
varieties are intentionally trying to maximize growth by intentionally having the biosphere
be out of balance.
It's solid host root is what it is.
It's a perfect environment.
The more diverse a plant community is, the less likely any nematode is to become dominant.
But in a monoculture, the food is everywhere.
So if we were to take the opposite, which would be either living soil versus hydro,
meaning like...
So not hydro, but like a living soil commercial cannabis environment that might be beds or
living soil pots or a home grower or like an outdoor craft grower in California.
The one thing that all these people have in common is that they are all trying to keep
their soil complex.
And the very act of trying to keep our soil complex sounds like it itself is the best
defense against plant parasitic nematodes.
I guess I wonder what complex means.
A lot of amendments and things like that will definitely be helpful.
Yeah, yeah.
Meaning lots of top dressing with mulches and compost teas and inoculant with mycelium
to make sure that you've got a good fungal environment.
All the things that folks who are doing their best to cause a thriving complex living soil
to do, which is what our variety of cultivator does for the plant.
So it sounds like by trying to take care of the plant soil as best possible, we are also
acting as a natural defense mechanism against these parasites.
Yeah, there's a lot of good evidence out there for the use of composting, soil amendments
and rotations.
Like I'm talking about rotation would be like a wheat soybean rotation in one year that
really do significantly reduce plant parasitic nematodes.
I was thinking about that earlier because there's not really a lot of crop rotation
in cannabis, either in licensed or unlicensed because in the licensed environment, your
space is so controlled by the regulatory part of your license, like where you're growing,
how much canopy you've got, how much you can afford to fence.
So there's a lot more of repeated growing in the same location.
And similarly, people use the same pots over and over again.
But the reading I was doing in preparation, the three season crop rotation seemed to be
like the number one suggestion for folks so that you mix up the food sources to discourage
these parasitic nematodes.
And it could be suggested, oh, we should do that too.
But it really doesn't sound like parasitic nematodes are enough of a problem to justify
that effort.
Yeah, the jury is out on that.
Going historically, I think you've seen the paper or heard my presentation before.
When you go back with the regulation of cannabis, so that really wasn't growing at all from
the 1930s on, this eliminated an entire, how many, 60, 70 years of research.
And that's when nematology was really taking off.
So the first report of plant parasitic nematodes on hemp in the US was in 1935.
And right after that, of course, production was shut down except for wartime necessities,
things like that.
So nothing was done on it.
And consequently, we don't have enough history yet working on it to know whether PPNs are
going to be a severe problem in production of cannabis.
We do know that there are some that will really attack it based on some European research
and some Indian research.
But as far as here, we don't know yet.
The jury has to, we have to say the jury is still a little bit out.
Well, if that research still hasn't come to conclusion yet, I know that this, I'm about
to ask you an estimated guess question, but let's say that we do find that PPNs are going
to be an issue for us in cultivating cannabis.
Is there anything that you would recommend us to do to rid ourselves of these PPNs other
than just bring the soil back into balance?
Is there an organic solution to these parasitic nematodes or is it as simple as get your soil
back into balance and the PPNs will just go away?
Yeah, they don't go away.
Once they're there, let's say that you've introduced them into your field inadvertently
or you just happen to find out that they're there, they're there.
And it's extremely difficult to eliminate some of them.
If we had nematodes that, let's say, were hemp specific and that's all they attacked,
that'd be easy.
You just not grow hemp on that area for a year or two.
That would eliminate it.
But unfortunately, there's no evidence of anything specific to hemp.
The ones that do attack hemp all have broad host ranges and can survive just fine on the
weeds and anything else you're growing there.
So they haven't targeted our cannabis, we just got unlucky.
We don't know yet because we haven't been doing field surveys.
It's been so recently.
There's only in Alabama and Auburn and North Carolina State have they done any field examination
at all.
We have been doing greenhouse work to establish susceptibility and resistance.
West Virginia University has done a little bit.
Anybody else?
And Florida, University of Florida.
So again, you listeners who are looking to get into living soil research, here are more
opportunities for you, right, to do this study.
Well, there's one thing I did want to mention, and it may sound...
I don't know how it sounds, but one of the things that hemp growers could do if...
I'm assuming that eventually, if not already, there will be state associations of cannabis
producers and interested in protecting their markets and all that.
One thing that is done a lot for commodities, especially the soybeans and cotton, is to
establish state commodity boards that assess a small amount to each grower based on production
and to provide that money back to researchers at state or other legitimate universities.
And that's helpful too because in the legal outdoor world, they're all growing in different
biospheres, right?
I mean, the biosphere for growing outdoors where I live in the Pacific Northwest is incredibly
different than that in California versus where you are in Tennessee.
And so that kind of local research, I think, is really important, especially with climate
change and everybody's bioregion getting a little wonky.
And it's amazing how much research you can get done by giving a researcher a little bit
of money.
All he wants to feel is a little gratitude.
That's all.
So I've got a couple of non-sequitur questions for you.
So it kept on coming up in the literature that you can plant marigolds and let them
go year-round without cutting them to limit nematodes.
What's going on there?
Why do marigolds limit the nematodes?
Marigold roots produce a substance called patcholin that is toxic to nematodes and reduces
and will actually kill them, I believe.
Will it get rid of our beneficial nematodes as well as the parasitic or is it mostly about
the parasitic because they're eating those roots?
That's another good question.
I'd say that, yes, it's probably just the plant parasites trying to feed on the marigold
roots.
But I believe it does leach out in the soil.
So I don't know the answer to that.
But I do know that, and we have touted this in the past in Tennessee too, for homeowners,
where they get a lot of root-knot nematode to grow marigolds for a year.
It might be hard to convince people to broadcast, have a big field of marigolds, but it would
be kind of pretty.
I kind of like marigolds.
I like the way they smell.
Marigolds are really popular in regenerative cannabis.
In fact, many people will actually grow marigolds and other similar ornamentals as banker or
trap plants for beneficial insects and then have those near the main body and co-planted
with cannabis.
Those are all good approaches, yes.
Another question for you is that there is a paper from 1997 that John McPartland put
out that's pretty popular in the regenerative cannabis scene.
He suggests that you can take a mature cannabis plant and mash it up with a solvent like water
or something and then strain out the plant material and then use that water enriched
with cannabis essential botanicals as a foliar and a root drench, which will discourage nematodes.
One of the things that frustrates a lot of us about that paper is that it doesn't say
where in the cannabis life and if there's only certain parts of the plant or what the
active ingredient might be.
We're pretty limited in that.
I was wondering if that tickled your brain in any place where that makes sense to you
that parts of the resin or maybe even the plant material of the cannabis plant itself
might be a discouragement to nematodes.
I don't recall John's paper offhand, but a lot of this research has been mostly in India
where they've used different extracts of leaves or roots or the whole plant and then applied
it in experimental conditions to see whether it kills nematodes or causes them to become
immobilized or has some negative effect.
I'm not sure how spraying on the leaves would help, but using as a root drench seems to
have some effect.
I'm just thinking back to the Indian papers I've read, which is where this research has
been done.
It makes sense to me and the results I saw in the papers looked like, yeah, that works.
The other thing that can be done though is simply once they've been harvested, and again,
I'm in the nematode infection business, so I'm not even all that familiar with how hemp
is harvested.
Is it cut and then hung to dry and then the flowers are harvested?
Correct.
Okay.
Well, you only use the flowers.
Take the rest of that material and plow it back into the soil.
This works for a lot of different crops, even just for the sake of adding more organic matter.
But I believe there are substances in the leaves and stems that have some kind of effect.
And also, there are smaller varieties of trichomes on many of the stems that contain the same
resins as the flowers.
That does all sorts of anti-fungal, antibacterial, anti-inflammation.
That wouldn't surprise me if those were playing a role as well.
Natural farming is really popular and increasing in popularity in cannabis and specifically
the variety known as Korean natural farming.
One of the applications of this system that we're talking about is that regenerative farmers
are taking the plant material and they're making a fermented plant juice by taking equal
parts plant matter and sugar in a closed jar and then just letting the plant material break
down in the sugar.
The sugars then create an incubation environment for those key botanicals.
And then you spray it at 1-500 both foliarly and then as a root drench.
And so it's the same kind of experience but makes it more shelf stable.
Well, maybe that helps deter foliar pathogens too.
Again, I'm not really familiar with that approach.
That sounds like the kind of experiments that citizen scientists do.
Yeah, it's exactly true.
Just trying things out.
And that's fine.
It would be really good to formalize some of those things and actually try them in experimental
conditions where we can be sure they're working.
It may work great.
So we've already established that as long as we keep our soil in balance, the lower
likelihood that we're going to have a problem with parasitic nematodes is low.
However, the literature has mentioned a few times essentially taking chitin and turning
it into a powder into something that looks like it's pronounced cheetah-san.
Chitin-san, thank you.
Because supposedly the nematodes do not like rubbing against it because it's scratchy for
them.
Is this something that you see deployed?
I've not heard that reason for why nematodes don't like it.
But what we think is going on is that chitin is a good food source for certain fungi that
attack nematodes.
And they will colonize that chitin and supposedly...
Here's the reason why.
The fungi live in soil.
There are nematode trapping fungi, nematodes with sticky spores and all this.
They're at pretty low levels most of the time because we have this soil stasis where everything
just kind of stays where it's supposed to be.
We add chitin and this is a good food source for these fungi.
And so they will colonize that and the numbers will increase.
The nematode comes along and gets caught.
And so that's the idea behind doing it.
It does work.
I don't know of a whole lot of recent research.
There was a big flurry of this back in the 80s and 90s because producers of shrimp products
were overwhelmed by giant piles of shrimp shells.
What are we going to do with this material?
So grind it up because it's all chitin, mix it into the soil and see what it does.
It does reduce nematode numbers.
The amount that...
And it may be that this process has become really refined, but the amounts back then
per acre were like six to eight tons per acre to see an effect.
But putting in that against nematodes, but putting that amount also sometimes led to
phytotoxicity.
Now there may be more recent research that gets around that, but that's my current understanding.
It's interesting too.
I think this kind of illustrates the difference between sometimes...
There is established science and then there's what we call in cannabis bro science, which
is essentially myth and unsubstantiated rumor that we learned from our mentor.
Our entire scene is going through a replacement of bro science, which for most of us, we're
very emotionally connected to.
Me as well.
But as we get more educated, we learn that some of the things we've learned from our
mentors or forums or magazines during the prohibition era, that it doesn't hold up to
science.
Earlier I learned about the idea that the chitin scraped the nematodes on the outside
was a forum for this.
And they were comparing it to diatomaceous earth, which is used for that.
For example, you put diatomaceous earth around your plant and it will discourage slugs because
they don't like to crawl across it.
It's funny because that being the reason I gave for it to use, it got a chuckle out
of you.
And then you went ahead and explained the actual science, which is feed the parasitic
nematode predator, which is an entirely different approach, but actually makes a whole lot more
scientific sense.
Or the flip side of, let's say, traditional approaches that have been used for so many
years is that a lot of those are going to have threads of real value in them.
And making that connection in the various states, getting scientists to hear about these
things can promote some useful research.
I'm sure there are many longtime cannabis growers who grow beautiful cannabis.
They just have the knack or the feel for it.
We had a person working here for us at the University of Tennessee in our greenhouse.
One time I just said, she's a hemp whisperer because she knew, just seemed to know instinctively
how to grow beautiful, tall hemp.
She grew hemp 10 feet tall in the greenhouse.
Couldn't treat it for insects, so we had to get rid of it.
But I mean, she was really good.
And it wasn't that she went through a long course of study, she just had a feel for it.
And it is interesting.
I think that humans have recognized that for years, people having a green thumb, right?
Right.
And you can get to that skill by education or good mentoring.
Some people just seem to have the natural vibration for it.
And I consider that a talent too.
So let's finish off with this kind of an odd question.
So, can these nematodes, can any of the nematodes that we're going to find around our cannabis
cause us harm?
The literature talks about hookworm, roundworm, whipworm, these different nematodes that can
get into the human body and cause us grief.
And our soils, both outdoors and in the pots, are filled with such variety of species.
Just like we have to be careful with splashing our soil while we're watering our plants,
because we don't want it necessarily to splash to an adjoining container.
Do we need to be aware of the possibility of giving a nematode access to our human while
we're working with soil?
Because most of us work ungloved pretty intimately with the soil.
Yeah, me too.
The chances are extremely remote.
The only one you mentioned that I would be concerned with in this country, it would be
hookworm.
And hookworm you're going to have only if you have pets, especially dogs around that
are defecating on the grounds and you're stepping in it.
It was a major problem in the South over a century ago.
And we lectured quite a bit of that in my class on hookworm and how it was eventually
brought under control.
But as far as these other parasites go, unless you are handling soil that has the eggs of
the nematode and then putting your hands in your mouth, you are highly, highly unlikely
to get an infection.
The way you avoid intestinal roundworms is to make sure that you are buying produce that's
thoroughly cleaned.
But in this country, we don't have much of a problem.
We do see infections sometimes around where there's animal waste flowing down into a field,
occasionally out of other countries.
But people who are resident in those countries sometimes have really serious infections.
Here, no.
But if anyone ever starts getting severe intestinal pains, they should see their doctor right
away because it does exist.
So it sounds like keep your grow area clean, wash your hands, and keep your hands out of
your mouth, you heathen.
Yeah, there you go.
That's exactly right.
That's exactly right.
I've handled soil all my life with my bare hands.
I wear gloves only if there's something I'm mixing up.
As far as I know, I don't have a problem.
Right on.
Well, Dr. Bernard, thank you so much for taking your time out of your very busy schedule to
hang out with us.
It's been my pleasure.
I said in the introduction to the show that it was very challenging to find a nematologist
who was, well, A, I could even make contact with, but who was also open and interested
in speaking about cannabis because there was this kind of general idea that there's just
not a lot of the research has been done yet.
I really appreciate that you chose to step up to the plate and say, all right, there's
all these gaps in what we know, but I do know nematodes, and so I will give it the best
shot.
So I appreciate your courage in coming on the show and sharing your depth of knowledge
with us and the little bit that we know about how nematode interacts with cannabis.
You're quite welcome.
Fantastic.
You can find more episodes of the Shaping Fire podcast and subscribe to the show at
shapingfire.com and wherever you get your podcasts.
If you enjoyed the show, we'd really appreciate it if you would leave a positive review of
the podcast wherever you download.
Your review will help others find the show so they can enjoy it too.
On the Shaping Fire website, you can also subscribe to the newsletter for insights into
the latest cannabis news, exclusive videos, and giveaways.
On the Shaping Fire website, you will also find transcripts of today's podcast as well.
Be sure to follow on Instagram for all original content not found on the podcast.
That's at shapingfire and at shangolos on Instagram.
Be sure to check out the Shaping Fire YouTube channel for exclusive interviews, farm tours,
and cannabis lectures.
Does your company want to reach our national audience of cannabis enthusiasts?
Email hotspot at shapingfire.com to find out how.
Thanks for listening to Shaping Fire.
