A couple times a month I get emails from listeners in prohibition states.
They always express frustration in learning of all the cannabis opportunities in other
states while their own state continues to live in the 1980s.
My heart always goes out to these folks.
I'm talking about you, friends in Idaho, Utah, South Dakota, Nebraska, Alabama, and
Indiana where I went to college and slanged.
I also feel for y'all who live in states pretending to modernize and yet having CBD-only
cannabis laws, THC maximums, or simply broken systems that don't feel like they will ever
be repaired.
Hell, that even includes my own state of Washington where we don't even have pesticide testing
on licensed products or HomeGrow yet somehow.
US cannabis legalization is a wreck.
It is mostly being run by politicians who don't know cannabis or cannabis medicine
and are more focused on making donors happy than providing informed leadership.
Between intransigent boomer politicians and aggressive business-focused lobbyists, American
cannabis is proudly evolving the worst of all possible situations.
This all sucks, but understanding the dynamics of what is going on is a major key to us getting
it all sorted out.
While it is most common for we cannabis folks to have a toke and mind our own business,
there are a handful of cannabis policy researchers out there who are keeping score, looking at
history to see what has worked and failed in the past, and are coming up with novel
ideas that help us understand what the hell is going on and why.
These are the individuals who are needed to lead us back to sanity.
If you want to learn about cannabis health, cultivation, and technique efficiently and
with good cheer, I encourage you to subscribe to our newsletter.
We'll send you new podcast episodes as they come out, delivered right to your inbox along
with commentary on a couple of the most important news items from the week and videos too.
Don't rely on social media to let you know when a new episode is published.
Sign up for the updates to make sure you don't miss an episode.
Also we're giving away very cool prizes to folks who are signed up to receive the newsletter.
This month we are giving away the entire Vashon Kush series from Farmer Fly Selections.
Ten lucky winners will receive one randomized pack of these ten new Vashon Kush crosses.
To learn more about what the crosses are in the drop, check out at farmer underscore
fly on Instagram.
There's nothing else you need to do to win except receive the newsletter.
So go to shapingfire.com to sign up for the newsletter and be entered into this month's
and all future newsletter prize drawings.
You are listening to Shaping Fire and I am your host, Shango Lose.
My guest today is Dr. Dominic Corba, PhD.
Dominic Corba is founder and executive director of the Center for the Study of Cannabis and
Social Policy based in Seattle, Washington.
He is a sought after speaker on cannabis policy and travels the world to consult for government
and academic bodies on effective cannabis policy.
He is also co-director of the Humboldt Institute of Interdisciplinary Marijuana Research at
Humboldt State University, affiliate professor of sociology at Humboldt State University,
and the cannabis policy specialist for the California Center for Rural Policy.
He received his PhD in geography from the University of Washington.
Dominic is also one of my most valued friends.
I met Dominic as I was making my transition from the black market to community organizing
medical cannabis cultivators back in 2013.
His mentorship, connections, and support have been invaluable to my career, the forming
of the Vimeo organization here on Vashon Island, and my eventual creation of Shaping Fire.
It is likely true that Shaping Fire would not exist today if Dominic had not encouraged
me to pursue helping cannabis patients and organized cannabis education events all those
years ago.
Finally, Dominic Corva holds a special place in the scene here in Washington State.
As is true in most states, the cannabis scene here is pretty small, and we know each other,
and many of us came from the underground.
Dominic is someone everyone embraces because he gets it.
His depth on cannabis policy is immense.
Dominic understands the historical basis for everything we see happening nationally today,
and he waves aside the bro science that constitutes policy discussion in most circles.
Dominic is a cannabis policy oracle, and he is a big-hearted, lovable academic who is
embraced by everyone I know.
Today we are going to discuss the impact of state licensing on long-term cannabis farmers
in California, the awkwardness of prohibition and licensed sales existing at the same time,
cannabis prohibition as a public health issue, the profitable injustice of nonviolent cannabis
prisoners, the latest on electrical usage by industrial agricultural cannabis farms,
and the rise of the citizen scientist.
Welcome back to Shaping Fire, Dominic.
Thank you, Shango.
It's a pleasure to be here.
I think this is my third time, and it's always great to be on your show.
Absolutely.
When I moved from the gonjpreneur.com podcast over here to Shaping Fire on my own, you were
my very first guest of the new show.
So thanks for being back.
And also, congratulations on your new collection of heavy-duty academic research entitled The
Routledge Handbook of Post-Prohibition Cannabis Research.
Wow.
What an amazing collection of research here.
You and your writing partner, Joshua Mizell, edited quite a powerful tome interpreting
the present with a firm understanding of the past and how we got here.
The 30 chapters provide a substantial look into the most well-researched perspectives
into these rather complex cannabis topics.
There's a lot written about cannabis nowadays.
It's such a popular topic in mainstream media, but we know they get a lot wrong all the time,
and it frustrates us when we read this stuff.
Also, there are small cannabis media companies inside of cannabis that aren't really mainstream
who are just slightly better, but they still get details and perspectives wrong all the
time.
And then there is simply people with no background fighting on the internet.
The variety of research in this new book is a different variety of any of those three.
It's vigorously researched, and these are top-shelf academics looking at these cannabis
topics.
I want people to understand why this is a different approach than most of the stuff
that they read out there.
So, will you start us out by explaining how a collection of academic papers like this
is unlike the other examples I gave?
Yeah, sure, Shango.
There's really two things that I define as part of post-prohibition cannabis research
as opposed to just cannabis research.
Post-prohibition, first, let's remember, is a term that I use to refer to cannabis with,
not after, prohibition cannabis legalization with, not after prohibition.
The concern as a social scientist and as a geographer was to collect across five meta-categories,
examples of research that did two things.
One of two things, and sometimes both of two things.
One of those I think people are more familiar with, which is now that cannabis is legal,
we can actually research positive things about it.
The defining prohibition research agenda was that really you could only research things
or get funding for research to look at how cannabis was bad.
That's kind of the first level, and that's a real accessible one.
I think A.D. Wilson Poe's Opioid Substitution Chapter is a really good example of that.
The other part of it is that obviously we still have prohibition with us.
We talk about cannabis legalization often in a vacuum, as though it's just operating
and creating these just sort of legal landscapes, when in fact those landscapes are totally
entangled with landscapes of prohibition.
I'll just give you a couple of examples.
The most obvious one, I think readers will get this right away, is federal prohibition
is still here.
That means a lot of things about what kind of legal landscapes we can construct.
For example, cannabis can't be agriculture in California.
It's an agricultural product, and that means a million different things for land use.
It means a million different things for other kinds of regulations, and it means a lot for
about local control.
Local control being sub-state jurisdictions get to really do whatever they want.
That would be another aspect of prohibition that continues, actually, because as we experienced
in Washington and Colorado a little bit, but certainly in California it's real obvious
that about two-thirds of the jurisdictions in California, and that is 56 counties and
something like 450 cities, don't allow cannabis businesses to operate, which means we have
a landscape that is a patchwork quilt of prohibitions and legal businesses that are operating.
Even in the jurisdictions where legal jurisdictions are operating, legal businesses are operating,
we continue to, of course, have prohibition on some things.
So Washington state most famously, obviously, does not allow home-grow.
It is illegal.
It is prohibited.
So in Washington state, therefore, legalization with prohibition means, yeah, we've got legal
cannabis, but you can't grow it at home without a license, and you can't get a license to
grow it at home.
So really, the broad concept of how legalization is entangled with prohibition, it's really
important to kind of start with that for a lot of research, because then the research
agenda is how do we disentangle prohibition from legalization?
It's not just how do we get legalization.
It's that even though we're getting legalization, we also still need to work to disentangle
prohibition from it and get rid of it.
And so some of our authors are really sharp about this and focused on it.
And I think that Sunil's chapter in public health is a very interesting example of a
challenge to public health as an institution, as an academic meta-institution, where they
still have a lot of those prohibition assumptions that are attached to what they do.
Sunil talks about really like, they don't recognize the right to spiritual health as
part of what's on their agenda, so they can't support research that is about that kind of
positive.
The last thing I want to say is that there's kind of a third degree as well.
And it's a contextual one, which is to say that legalization's politics are connected
with and entangled with other kinds of politics.
And by that I mean legalization may, especially in urban areas, be entangled with what might
be described as, especially public safety-oriented kind of liberal politics that gets in the
way of the implementation of legalization.
You can think about what about the kids as kind of that research question that is kind
of a liberal prohibition question because it doesn't ask whose kids, right?
And then also, you know, there's a very interesting entanglement with maybe what are usually thought
about as libertarian and right-wing thoughts about the free market, right?
And whether we should be, you know, deregulating especially small businesses, let's say, which
is not traditionally something that is on a left or liberal agenda.
So all of these things have an effect on what kind of legalization we get and where.
And it's important to think about those entanglements.
So we're promoting research agendas that almost nobody else really are thinking about.
The entanglements with prohibition, the entanglements with other kinds of politics.
And we do this, it's a pretty big, broad set of observations, by organizing it in five
meta issues, right?
So governance, public health, ecology and the environment, markets and society, and
culture and social change.
And these are kind of interdisciplinary clusters.
So when you say academic, academic means a lot of different things.
And it is divided into a lot of silos that we call disciplines, usually.
And so the disciplines that really haven't gotten as much run, I think, with either funding
or recognition are the social science disciplines, which have a long history of critical analyses
of prohibition, which is super important, right?
So we really got to draw on that, right?
If we want a legal landscape that undoes the harms of prohibition, then we need to draw
on observations, insights and research about prohibition's harms.
And those are found pretty exclusively in the social sciences.
And so we have a really broad array of folks from different disciplines or from interdisciplinary
research clusters.
It can get a little complicated, but broadly speaking, I think everyone kind of understands,
okay, governance is like the law of democracy in institutions.
Public health includes biomedical research, as well as citizen science, even.
Ecology and the environment isn't just about the impacts of outdoor cultivation on water
supply, it's about energy, right, and energy use.
Markets and society include a discussion of what's so difficult?
Why is it so difficult for people to actually make money as small businesses?
It's an important question to ask, and so forth.
So culture and social change also deals with stigma, ongoing stigma, which I haven't talked
about and is one of those slippery concepts because you can't quantify stigma.
You can quantify maybe the effects of stigma, but you need really qualitative research methods
to dig into, you know, how is stigma changing?
Where's it at?
Who is continuing to be harmed by stigmas of prohibition, even in legal landscapes?
And I would point out that often it's medical patients, as Newhart and Dolphin do in their
chapter.
So before we get into some of those specific topics, just for folks who are interested
in how the compilation came together, you know, with an ever-increasingly pool of talented
academics studying and writing about modern cannabis policy, how did you go about choosing
your authors?
You've put together a literal dream team.
It's an incredible cast of folks who are writing.
Did you choose the topics first and then find the authors, or did you choose an author first
and then invite them, or a topic, or maybe something else entirely?
Well, it was an iterative process, Shango.
And so, do you want me to walk you through the whole thing?
Just give us a thumbnail, because I'm looking for, like, A, any agenda that might be underneath
the people that you chose, and then particularly, you know, how one pulls together such an incredible
group.
But, you know, you don't have to go deep into it, because we want to move on to the topic
swiftly.
Right.
Sure, sure.
So, basically, once we had figured out the structure that we wanted, Josh and I both
reached out to, you know, academics in our network.
That was one of the first things that we did.
And of course, we're not new to the scene.
You know, we have a history of publishing and working with and following the research
of folks, you know, as far away as, you know, Uruguay and Morocco and the UK.
And so, really, it came from our networks, is the simplest answer to that.
These were people who, many of them were, you know, friends of ours already, certainly,
and already kind of tuned into what we wanted to do.
Some were, like Craig Reinemann, right, who starts off the book, was Josh's dissertation
advisor at UC Santa Cruz.
And Craig is a luminary.
Wendy Chapgas is someone that I followed for a really long time, and I've taught her book
and gotten to know her, basically, by reaching out to her, for example.
She's another superstar in the public health section.
And so, there weren't a whole lot of strangers, really.
I'd say that there were a number of people we reached out to, and they said no, right?
There were a number of people we reached out to, and they said, okay, let's try it.
And when what they wanted to write kind of came back, didn't fit what we wanted to do
for the book, we kind of like, we either worked with them to come to an understanding or let
them keep going.
So some of these were kind of famous people.
And I don't want to bag on them.
And then there was some other folks that just kind of, let's say Carl Hart was very busy.
He agreed to write a chapter, and then there was just a lot of silence and kind of dropped
the ball.
It looked like he was relying on his graduate students, and so we just kind of let that
go.
So, when this book came out, I can imagine the demands on his time have skyrocketed.
And I really like this idea that's coming clear that you and Josh Mizell are area experts.
You have both been doing this, teaching this at university level for decades on your part.
I don't know how old Josh is, but you guys are very much area experts and discipline
experts.
And the two of you just worked together and curated from all of the people they have access
to and you chose the best of the best who were also interested.
So thank you for that.
In your introduction, co-written with Josh, you say that this book is intended to encourage
critical research agendas that address the continuity of prohibition in legal cannabis
frameworks as they remain entangled with the continuum of global drug production.
Very similar to what you said during your introduction today.
But there's so much to unpack there.
But what piques my interest in that heavy-duty sentence is that no one country's relaxation
of cannabis laws happens in isolation.
Countries are forever interdependent, even if they think they're doing their own thing.
You and I talked about that during episode one of Shaping Fire when we talked about policy
transfer, right?
And this is especially true in regards to the drug trade.
So let's start out.
Please talk to us a bit about how we are seeing the global dynamic of cannabis production,
distribution and prohibition shift around as countries begin to embrace cannabis.
Yeah, so I think that sentence actually ended with global drug prohibition, but production
is part of it.
So I think, for example, you can look at the chapter on Morocco by Kenza F. Sahi, where
basically they've been cultivating cannabis for thousands of years in that area.
The market for it certainly has been, you know, they've produced hash, for example,
for Europeans for a long time.
But it's only been in the last, you know, maybe 20 years where basically genetics that
were bred, you know, generally by Europeans and US Americans were taken to the Moroccan
fields, right?
Which actually start screwing with their genetics.
And at a very basic level, of course, what they had were land races that were adapted
their environment, right?
And so they were, you know, resistant to whatever they needed to resist there.
And now with new genetics coming in, sometimes bred under conditions of quasi legality, sometimes
not, but generally speaking, being brought in because they want to feed the market on
the other end with something that they've found that market will prefer, whether that's,
you know, Europe or somewhere else.
They bring in the genetics and it really screws with the basic agroecology of, you know, Moroccan
cannabis.
So that's one example.
You can also think about the opening up of cannabis trade internationally, which hasn't
happened to the degree that I think some people think, as of course, being to affect the livelihoods
of folks who've been producing cannabis in other areas.
You know, right now, legally speaking, obviously, Columbia has done some exporting, right?
I think Uruguay has, and I think both of those have been through Tilray.
But that's a shift towards kind of the globalization that we've been familiar with, you know, around
other commodities, you know, for 30, 40 years, right?
The supply chains that rely on cheap labor to produce a low cost product and get it to
a market that has money that will pay more money for it.
And so that's sort of a mundane, you know, problem with globalization is that, you know,
labor gets screwed, for example, in the first world, the so-called first world.
But it's also kind of funny because the drug war did something during the age of globalization,
which is kind of crazy, which is it was anti-globalization.
We got domesticated US markets, right?
The production that we used to import from Mexico, Thailand, Columbia, and elsewhere
has been displaced significantly.
And you know, starting about 20 years ago, pretty close to half of what we consume in
this country started being pretty much grown here.
And so there's a lot of kind of counterintuitive, you know, explanations for what's going on.
And some of those involve applying critiques of globalization to critiques of globalizing
weed, right?
And some of them are, well, then where does like, you know, global prohibition come into
it?
And then you're off down a rabbit hole.
So, obviously, in countries that continue to prohibit cannabis, it is much, much harder
for them to attempt to continue to do so.
There's just a lot of product being moved around the world and in different ways.
You have in Peru, you know, cannabis being grown and processed into BHO, for example,
which has a higher price per weight than cocaine, you know, in Lima.
And so you're getting cultivation practices shifting from just coca out in the Amazon
area to coca and cannabis, and then, you know, processing into the refined product that's
smaller and easier to smuggle.
And you know, where does that go?
You know, it goes to Lima.
It probably isn't coming to the United States because we've had our extraction game, you
know, explosion here already, and there's a vast oversupply of, you know, for example,
BHO in Washington.
So those are just a few examples of what I mean by that.
I would think that the patchwork that you described that we're all aware of in California
really plays out the same if you look at the global presence as well.
And it must really cause a whole bunch of odd imbalances and contrasts when you, when,
you know, countries as a pool are both holding on to traditional prohibition that was pushed
by the West, plus now everybody wanting to, you know, increase health with medical.
And then also now this entrepreneurial approach where people are trying to commoditize cannabis,
and all three of these are happening at the same time.
You know, like, you know, as you know, these market inefficiencies must just be dazzling
as a social researcher like yourself.
Well, yeah, you know, like, I think you're exactly right.
The patchwork quilt exists at the local level, it exists at the state level, and by local
I mean city and county.
So there's patchwork quilt upon patchwork quilt upon patchwork quilt upon patchwork
quilt.
You know, regionally, North America, globally.
And so what I'd say that it's almost like a logarithmically more complex, you know,
landscape that regulators are faced with, because they're the ones who actually worry
about it quite a lot.
And it's, you know, it provides, I think, as you know, opportunities for a lot of entrepreneurial
activities that are different from and scaled differently than we used to have.
I think that when you throw in the medical regimes as well, and medical, of course, is
in there in that gray area of the entanglement between prohibition and legalization.
You know, you have the full-throated embrace of CBD, for example, like globally, very quickly,
and global supply chains for it, and actually in countries that are also pretty into prohibition,
they're absolutely driving CBD production and so forth, like China.
Just remember that even though the US has, you know, probably originated and pushed this,
that there are definitely other significant, you know, geopolitical entities that are hanging
on to prohibition, and they will probably hang on longer than the US will.
Look at Russia, look at the Philippines, which is an absolute war crime situation going on
there.
So yeah, it's pretty crazy.
And that, to me, says there is so much opportunity for research, and research that actually shows
how complex and difficult this is when you're stacking regulations on top of regulations
that may seem to work locally, usually they don't, but when you zoom out a little bit,
you have your Oklahoma situation headed in a different direction than your California
and Washington and Oregon situations.
So it's pretty crazy.
And of course, what does that mean?
It means that, you know, Oklahoma is a place where a lot of people went to, you know, become
entrepreneurs that then they can, they're not just selling it locally, right?
The same as the West Coast, you know, even today, but for Washington, Oregon, or for
Washington, maybe it was eight years ago, Oregon still exports, but Oklahoma has become
an export, like a THC exporting state, you know, which is crazy.
So your work and what we've been talking about so far, you've been talking about teasing
apart prohibition and legalization, because somehow they're both existing at the same
time.
And I'd like to look at an example from Northern California where cannabis cultivators went
from working in the medical, gray, and export markets during prohibition to a new kind of
prohibition that's actually being pushed by licensed cannabis companies trying to protect
their markets from unlicensed producers to the point that, you know, folks are, you know,
licensed producers are suing the state for not stomping out their competitors in the
unlicensed market.
Either way, growing cannabis and minding your own business is still experienced as
prohibition as law enforcement showing up with, you know, wood chippers and to destroy
family crops.
Is it even fair to call what we are seeing today as legalization, or are we just using
that word because it's the closest thing that we've got?
Well, I think you have to define the term and define how you're using it.
And we define it very, very clearly in the introduction.
Legalization is the licensing and regulation of a supply chain from cedar clone to consumer,
basically.
And if you have that, you've got a form of legalization.
So it's do you have a carved out space, whether or not you still prohibit it, you know, in
other ways where cannabis can travel entirely under circumstances that are regulated and
supposedly tracked.
So we got this, by the way, from Harry Levine in particular, who defined it years ago with
respect to Amsterdam back in 2004, which Amsterdam, of course, didn't actually have legalization
either.
It was the supply side of it wasn't regulated and the consumption side of it was.
But Levine had begun to think about, well, what is legalization at that point?
It's, to me, you know, it is the carving out of these supply chains that are governed or
at least supposed to be governed from the beginning to the end use.
And so that can happen.
That's actually, let's blow our readers minds.
That's been happening since the 1970s in the United States, right?
With the University of Mississippi and the investigative new drug program, right?
So there was a legal supply chain of federally legal cannabis that went from the University
of Mississippi to medical patients like LV Musica, right?
Robert Randall.
And it was entirely legal.
So we've had legalization in the United States since the 1970s.
Let's be real clear about that.
At the federal level.
And of course, there's still a couple patients still in that.
So once you think about that, then you don't think, well, legalization is not actually
a brand new thing, right?
It's existed before, but we didn't recognize it because prohibition was sort of an overwhelming
fact, total social fact.
And so I like to make sure that we're defining legalization.
I think that's an issue in the media and with a lot of other, like, policy scholars.
They just assume legalization is its own thing.
And it leads them to, I think, research agendas that often just kind of reproduce common sense,
to be honest, instead of actually anything new.
Scott Horrell.
Well, with this very specific definition of legalization, it actually is a very small
niche and the word legalization does not say very much about the overall landscape.
It really only speaks to a very small portion of the cannabis legalization, how it's used
casually, right?
Absolutely.
And let me just jump in real quick.
That's absolutely the case.
And one of the ways this happens over and over and over again are those maps of the
United States that are color coded for legal state and, you know, CBD only.
And well, usually there's like legal, medical, and neither, right?
And it looks like, okay, California and all these states are entirely green.
It's just legal.
And so, but actually, if you broke that up by jurisdictions, California would look a
lot more like a patchwork quilt.
And so people just kind of assume, oh, there's freedom there.
We've got the liberty we want.
And actually, it's just a big mess.
So what are your thoughts on the rural militarization of law enforcement and the emerald triangle,
right?
Like, you know, you and I have talked before, both on this show and personally about just
the general militarization of law enforcement everywhere.
But you know, almost daily we're seeing clips on social media of heavily armed officers
and military transports just tearing through the unpaved roads of Humboldt.
How can this not be seen as simply an extension of the campaign against marijuana planting
camp of the 90s and early 2000s?
It's like, yeah, legalization exists, meaning that there's this path for the growing and
distribution of taxed licensed cannabis.
But at the same time, you know, people who, you know, heritage growers who are in California,
their situation has not changed all that much.
So let me address that, because that's actually a really great question for saying something
for a while here, if you'll indulge me.
Please.
One of that is that it reminds me of your earlier comments about, you know, legal businesses,
you know, suing the state for not enforcing against unregulated ones.
And let me say there's a geography to that, and it is particularly in Southern California.
And what they usually mean are actually, you know, storefronts, retail storefronts.
And so often really the case is in Southern California, the places that are relatively
high density with legal retail, what they are trying to get people to do is, you know,
against, you know, unlicensed storefronts that pop up.
And you know, that is a can of worms itself, right?
Because those unlicensed storefronts are generally speaking, demographically underrepresented
populations in the legal landscape, because it's white rich people that have been able
to get these other types of licenses.
Now eradication is the rural version of urban enforcement.
Let's say that, right?
I think what people don't necessarily understand is that in Humboldt and elsewhere, over the
course of the 1980s and 1990s, local law enforcement backed off from being, you know, I think,
gung-ho participants in camp, or they continue to do that.
There was an informal regulation pattern going on, which is to say that law enforcement would
stay out of certain neighborhoods.
Maybe they would have, you know, maybe they would, you know, they would, you know, there
was a size and a scope of operations that were more or less just kind of left alone,
right?
Because they weren't hurting anybody.
And you're talking about rural law enforcement, and rural law enforcement is not really out
there to bug the sparsely populated folks.
You don't have neighbors complaining because it was all in remote areas.
They get left alone, right?
Meanwhile, of course, you know, camp would come around by the season.
And generally speaking, as time went on with camp, they started focusing more and more
on larger scale operations that sometimes were environmentally destructive.
And over time, this was definitely evident, you know, when I first got to Humboldt in
2009, over time, a lot of those old timers and small cannabis growers that since 96 had
been, you know, not that afraid, but especially like after 2001, like not too worried about
their small gardens, were absolutely up in arms about what they called the greed growers
and large scale, environmentally destructive cultivation.
At the same time, whenever policing that was maybe intended for that would catch up a heritage
farmer in its net, which, you know, is almost inevitable, really.
The collateral damage of focusing on larger scale operations, you know, that would be
pretty awful.
And the old timers would be totally against that.
But they also were kind of interested in, you know, like, they didn't want the large
scale environmentally impactful cultivation in their backyards.
And it wasn't just because it was environmentally impactful.
It was also driving down the price of their cannabis because they were flooding the market.
So the enforcement situation today is absolutely the continuation of camp.
But it's important to remember that camp changed over time.
And often in directions that I think, you know, heritage farmers had no problem with
and in fact cheered on.
And I think some of that is happening today.
Really, the smaller farmers are being hit by code enforcement more than by eradication.
Their issues are now with civil code enforcement.
Do you mean like the satellites being used to see greenhouses that are not supposed to
be growing cannabis and so they just start hitting them with fines before they even bother
sending in SWAT teams?
That's right.
That's right.
And that certainly, I think, is, you know.
The satellites really changed that game.
Yeah, sure.
The satellites did.
It's a pretty expensive program.
Mendocino's next up for one of those.
But like, there's a 1991 article by Joe Leeper in like the Humboldt Geographic with a map
that like has a pretty damn detailed depiction of where and how many cannabis plants are
in the entire county.
And so like there's a way in which actually like they've always been seen.
The question is whether they're left alone or not.
And to what use, like where does that information go?
Well, it used to go to law enforcement, but now it goes also to code enforcement.
And code enforcement is, you know, it is a part of civil government that is, you know,
not always, you know, connected to the broader maybe county vision of trying to protect its
citizens.
By its nature, code enforcement is out there to weed out the wrong types, right?
The people you don't want in your neighborhood, the people with their, you know, maybe there's
abandoned cars on their property, you know, maybe their house isn't up to code.
Code enforcement is really a form of law enforcement against poor people usually.
And so this is kind of different in rural areas than it is in urban areas, but it's
been real significant across the landscape.
I mean, you have Sonoma County, let's say, right, which largely accommodated medical
cannabis and commercial medical cannabis at that.
In 2013, you know, doing a joint task force, you know, raid on a mostly Hispanic, you know,
neighborhood called Roseland, right?
It's 33 houses.
And you look at what they got, and it only ended up at under three pounds a house, and
it's about $600, both of which were not really, you know, an issue for the white people, right?
They were being left alone.
You know, you have the city of Clear Lake, which actually, at the onset of the financial
crisis in 2007, defunded code enforcement entirely because they were broke.
And for like six years, you know, they didn't have code enforcement.
And Clear Lake is a very, very, very poor town.
There's demographically more in common with like a city in the Appalachians, you know,
to the east than it is the, you know, state of California.
And what happened was like, you know, city of 10,000, you know, probably half of the
houses had backyards full of cannabis being cultivated basically right out there in the
open.
So once they recovered from the—their budget recovered in 2014, they reactivated code enforcement
specifically to deal with their, you know, so-called problem, the backyard cannabis cultivation
problem, which certainly had some negative effects and had negative effects associated
with it.
Let's, you know, let's say that ripoffs are a pretty good example of, you know, something
bad that can happen when cannabis is being grown entirely out in the open under conditions
of prohibition.
You have valuable crops.
They're right there for the taking.
And that stuff gets violent fast often.
And that stuff gets violent fast, right, exactly.
So the landscape now is certainly, yes, you know, camp is out there.
Camp is—and not just camp, but local joint task forces as well.
And depending on where you are, they may be concentrating on large, environmentally
impactful, you know, cultivation sites that are politically, you know, probably more agreeable
to a lot of legacy cannabis farmers.
But they're also, you know, catching up certainly and causing collateral damage for smaller
farmers.
So it's complex, but it was always complex.
I guess the short summary of this long answer is that, yes, it's like camp, but camp isn't
necessarily something that was the same.
Like the 80s and 90s were really its gung-ho, you know, hit the small people, you know,
political thing.
There's a sense in which camp kind of professionalized a little bit over time and also justifies
funding by getting plant counts so they weren't as incentivized to go after smaller growers.
So you know, whether it was a moral decision or not, it became, you know, more profitable
for them to go after very large-scale cultivation.
Right on.
So let me reintroduce you before we go to commercial.
You are listening to Shaping Fire, and my guest today is cannabis researcher Dr. Dominic
Korva.
We're going to take a short break and be right back.
Business folks are innovators and problem solvers, and we like to make money.
Have you developed a tool, technique, or plant that you want to protect and monetize?
You'll likely want legal representation that is experienced, accessible, and shares your
values.
Plant and planet law represents a wide variety of clients who choose to respect the environment
while pursuing their business goals.
Have you invented a machine or gizmo that you're bringing to market?
Did you discover a breakthrough, environmentally-friendly pesticide or fertilizer formulation that you're
about to start selling?
Have you bred a cannabis plant with attributes not found anywhere else?
Attorney Dale Hunt and his Plant and Planet team have established genetic patents in over
30 countries.
Working to help entrepreneur scientists throughout the life sciences, Plant and Planet represents
environmentally positive clients in cannabis and other botanicals, fungi, water purification,
clean energy, emulsions, and medical applications.
Plant and Planet helps people protect what they've created.
If you are an early-stage company with an established idea and are in the process of
fundraising, often the investors require intellectual property protections happen at the same time.
Plant and Planet can be your sole representation, or they can integrate with your existing legal
team and plug in their specialties.
Plant and Planet is made of scientist lawyers with a real passion for cannabis, inventions,
and the environment.
They have the scientific and legal depth to help you establish patent protections for
your great idea.
You don't have to go it alone.
Friendly, qualified, and honorable legal representation is available to you.
Contact Plant and Planet Law today to start the conversation.
Email info at plantandplanet.com.
That's Plant and Planet Law.
Our clients make the planet better.
After you've caught up on the latest Shaping Fire episodes, do you sometimes wish there
was more cannabis education available to learn?
Well we got you.
Shaping Fire has a fabulous YouTube channel with content not found on the podcast.
When I attend conventions to speak or moderate panels, I always record them and bring the
content home for you to watch.
The Shango Lowe's YouTube channel has world class speakers including Zoe Sigmunds' lecture
Understanding Your Endocannabinoid System, Kevin Jodry of Wonderland Nursery talking
about breeding cannabis for the best terpene profile, Frenchy Canoli's Lost Art of the
Hashishin presentation, Nicholas Mahmoud on regenerative and polyculture cannabis growing,
Dr. Sunil Agarwal on the history of cannabis medicine around the world, Eric Vlosky and
Josh Rutherford on solventless extraction, and Jeff Lowenfels on the Soil Food Web.
There are several presentations from Dr. Ethan Russo on terpenes and the endocannabinoid
system too.
While there, be sure to check out the three 10-part Shaping Fire session series, one with
Kevin Jodry, one with Dr. Ethan Russo, and one with Jeff Lowenfels.
And even my own presentations on how to approach finding your dream job in cannabis and why
we choose cannabis business even though the risks are so high.
As of today, there's over 200 videos that you can check out for free.
So go to youtube.com forward slash shango lose or click on the link in the newsletter.
For 20 years, Humboldt Seed Company has been family owned and providing reliable high yielding
seeds originating in Northern California.
While the current trend is to slap one super male into a line of hype strains, Humboldt
Seed Company continues to breed with precision and care by doing large sifts and back crosses
to emphasize the absolute best traits that a line has to offer.
This kind of breeding takes time, talent, and space to work.
No matter what kind of aroma you are particularly into, Humboldt Seed will likely have something
you'll love.
If you love fruit, you can choose from banana, mango, apricot, papaya, blueberry, blood orange,
melon, and lemons across their various strains.
They have all gas, glue, and classic sour diesel lines as well.
Of course, there are the Heritage California strains like OG Kush, Jack Herr and Headband,
and their award winning Blueberry Muffin is one that delights just about everybody's
palate, especially when concentrated.
Humboldt Seed Company is proud to bring to market the infamous freak show Cultivar II,
which has a great THC high but looks so much like a fern that some folks can't even identify
it as cannabis.
It's a plant that really needs to be seen to be believed.
If you're looking for well balanced CBD seeds, Humboldt Seed Company can turn you
on to CBD strains that actually have flavor like the dill and pepper terpenes of Willie
G's Lebanese landrace.
Whether you are looking for regular, feminized, or autoflowers, Humboldt Seed Company has
the gear to make this your best growing cycle ever.
Visit humboldtseedcompany.com today to check out their line of vigorous genetics, download
their catalog, and find out where you can pick them up.
You can also check out their Instagram at the humboldtseedcompany to check out their
gorgeous flowers and the extraordinary freak show plant.
Humboldt Seed Company, let them know Shango sent ya.
Welcome back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire.
I am your host, Shango Lose, and my guest today is cannabis researcher, Dr. Dominic
Korba.
So, you know, chapter four of the book you edited with Josh Mizell begins with a provocative
quote from Oregon State Representative Diane Russell, who said that the conversation about
who makes the profits off this industry is irrelevant.
She said this as a way to try to focus activists on getting any legalization passed in the
state of Maine, rather than nitpicking the particular policy choices.
But as we've all seen in California, Prop 64 was immediately a slippery piece of legislation
that quickly became weaponized.
And then with the removal of the one acre cap that was promised, the entire market tilted
towards large industrial producers distributing mediocre cannabis and driving prices down
to a point where the heritage market has just been decimated.
And we see this happening in one way or another in nearly every state that is normalized so
far.
And as we see these multi-state operators weave their brands across the country state
by state, the future looks very exasperating for smaller heritage players.
What are your thoughts on who is making profits now and into the future versus how these laws
were originally sold to the public?
Well, I think the public didn't care, to be honest, who it was that was supplying the
cannabis to a large degree.
So certainly not the part of the public that needed to be convinced about legalization
necessarily.
A lot of folks who just wanted easier access to cannabis.
And I think access historically has been culturally determined.
It's your friend that is into cannabis and maybe comes from a place where it's around
a lot.
Maybe it's your friend that's a grower.
But it has been difficult for some.
I remember a Seattle journalist years ago, happy that he could just go to a store because
his dealer was so unreliable before.
And so let's just say that the people voting for legalization, or at least the voting bloc
that mattered, definitely were not the cannabis culture people.
They're a very, very, very tiny percentage of the population.
And literally they were going to vote for legalization wherever.
So first of all, I don't think that legalization was sold originally as an economic justice
thing.
That conversation has shifted tremendously in the last eight years.
And primarily because of the Black Lives Matter movement and the way that that particular
social movement has highlighted the whiteness and richness essentially of ownership in the
cannabis industry.
But let's talk about that.
Let's talk about what that actually means.
When you refer to multi-state operators, we're usually talking about operators who are getting
their funding from being listed on the Canadian Stock Exchange, usually.
And so who's making money?
Well, none of those MSOs are actually making money, or very, very few of them.
What they're doing is losing money until their competitors can go out of business.
That is a tried and true method in the United States that especially developed since Silicon
Valley and the tech sector, that all you had to do was scale up and buy everybody.
And it didn't matter if you lost money.
You could always go back to the stock exchange and raise more money until basically you could
go into the green.
And I don't know how many tech companies lost money, or are even continuing to lose money
today, whose CEOs and founders are making tens of millions, hundreds of millions of
dollars while they do this.
So the companies aren't making money, but the CEOs and the founders and their officers
are making money because they're being paid like corporate America.
What do you pay a CEO in the United States?
Well, usually it's something absolutely ridiculous, because that's what essentially early 21st
century financialized capitalism has done.
It's created enormous inequality in terms of income, and the people who are kind of
sitting at the bottleneck, just like extracting what would be an enormous amount of money
to any other individual while their company loses money, those are the people getting
rich.
And they tend to be white and they tend to be male.
That's absolutely the case.
So in the cannabis industry, the media part of it really has fallen down about this, because
so many people want to talk about how much money is being made, how much revenue is being
made in cannabis.
And of course, that's a stupid question.
How much money is being made in cannabis means nothing if you balance it with, well, how
much is it costing us to actually make that money?
Because that's where you end up with net revenue losses, even though you're raking in millions
and millions of dollars.
That just means you've got a lot of sales, but you had to spend money to get there.
And so ultimately, it's these large MSOs that can lose money, but while small businesses
can absolutely not do that, they will go out of business.
They will get acquired.
In fact, that's probably the strategy of a lot of folks who actually did transition to
legalization at this point, is they've been barely getting by or not at all.
They're positioning their businesses to get acquired so they can get out of this, because
they didn't sign up for basically a business model that was absolutely no fun and had absolutely
no reward to it.
And so really, most of them got into cannabis to get out of the rat race.
And so legalization puts them right back in the rat race, and nobody wants to be a rat
racing around.
So this is an interesting question across the landscape, but it's that popular assumption
that anybody who starts a cannabis business must be loaded.
That is a problem, and it's entirely because of all the IPO pumping that's been going on.
The media really is all about celebrating how much revenue comes in, and they have absolutely
no...
On the other hand, these are the costs of doing business, and we don't get to deduct
them when we pay our taxes, because cannabis is still illegal.
So that's an issue in a couple of ways, and I'd say that it gets real messy when you start
talking about a lot of these equity programs that are oriented towards diversifying ownership
in the cannabis industry, because being an owner in the cannabis industry is not the
reward for someone who is not a corporation that you would expect.
It's an invitation to go bankrupt.
So we both have this problem that, yes, too many white people are owners, but especially
too many white people are CEOs of these large companies.
Too many companies are, in fact, just these giant financial conglomerations that are just
whales trying to swallow all the smaller whales until they're the biggest whale.
So that's a problem, and that problem is almost entirely produced by the levels of regulation
that are required, that you can lose a bunch of money and just pay those costs of regulation
and upkeep and unpredictability in the marketplace if you have access to essentially a revenue
source that is a public stock exchange.
You just sell more shares.
And so the shareholders themselves also have essentially bought little pieces of something
that they hope will eventually become big pieces.
And so they themselves may eventually cash out too.
So let's acknowledge that shareholders are also part of this landscape.
What's the demographic of those shareholders?
Well, there should be more research on that.
I think that would be an important thing to uncover really, is how financialized is the
cannabis industry, and what are the demographics of that financialization?
So who really is making a bunch of money, and why?
And when the answer is, well, they're making a bunch of money because they're doing exactly
what capitalism in the United States and elsewhere incentivizes them to do, then you're like,
well, how do we change this?
Think about that for a second.
Well, if the problem is actually existing capitalism, then maybe the issue is you're
going to do something about capitalism.
Let me actually break that down so it's not as vague.
By capitalism, let me refer to the financialized sector of our GDP.
Let us separate out the capitalism of small businesses and entrepreneurs and livelihood
operators, who are also, depending on how you're defining capitalism, for example, using
wage labor, right?
They're practicing capitalism, but they aren't practicing the kind of capitalism that operates
through stock exchanges.
And when you have these regulations, the regulations work just fine for ... they're a small barrier
for a financialized company relative to the kind of barrier they are for small businesses.
So if you don't want to be like me and throw all of capitalism under a bus, it'd be good
to kind of think about this in terms of, well, what do regulations do in terms of business
competition and ownership considerations?
Well, in the rest of the United States, what it does is it concentrates ownership in the
hands of the few and wrecks small businesses.
Makes it very difficult.
Heavy regulations are very difficult for small business owners to deal with, but they are
not really much of a barrier for highly capitalized interests.
So you have this kind of ambivalent thing going on here is we need big regulations for
big business and small regulations for small business is probably the most sensible way
to think about that.
But we really aren't set up in the society to think that way.
We're set up to think, oh, there's either regulations or no regulations.
Well, actually, if you want to democratize the economy and maybe do a little work on
economic justice, what you would do is have big regulations for big business and small
regulations for small business.
I want to tease out one particular demographic that you're talking about here.
Be patient with me.
This is kind of a big setup.
So you were just telling us about how these large cannabis companies that are creating
a lot of revenue but not actually necessarily profit because they're spending so much money,
but they are paying their executive suite members.
They are able to take on more and more debt by selling at a profit until their competition,
including smaller financialized companies and the entirety of the craft artisan market,
you know, the heritage folks, until they are all just crushed and go out of business.
And then more, as you mentioned, get picked up.
And we're starting to see some of the heritage brands that have been successful starting
to ally with some of these distributors, you know, potentially setting up a future buy.
But we'll see how that goes out.
I'm very interested in the vast majority of heritage growers who are actually buckling
under the weight of the low prices and the fact that they don't have the same efficiencies
of scale that some of these industrial agriculture cannabis producers have.
What happens when their backs are finally broken in the licensed system and they're
all like, you know what?
Screw this.
I'm not playing in the licensed system anymore.
I got to interrupt you, Shengo.
You've gone really staticky.
Oh, all right.
All right.
Let's figure out what that is.
Hold on.
Hold on.
Let me figure out where we are.
We're at, time-wise, 5836.
All right.
So what has changed and when did it change?
Are you there?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
The problem was I couldn't hear your entire question because you were going in and out.
All right.
Is it staticky now?
Not the last sentence.
Yeah, so no static.
All right.
So maybe what I did, let's try something.
Let me turn my head this way.
Is this what was happening?
Can you now hear me less well?
No, you're just kind of quiet now.
Before it was literally staticky, you'd go in and out.
All right.
Well, I guess I will, I guess we can just blame that on the internet, I guess.
Yeah, yeah.
It might have been a burp.
You're sounding good now.
Maybe just start that question from the top.
Yeah, I will start that question from the top.
Cool, thanks.
All right.
So there'll be a moment for me to edit into and I'll restart the question.
Okay.
There's one group in that demographic that I really would like to tease out.
And be patient with me because this question takes a moment to set up because you pointed
out how the large cannabis corporations are financialized and they have a lot of revenue
coming in, but they're actually losing money.
But they're okay with that because their goal is, like you said, to be a bigger whale and
buy out the smaller whales.
And then the much smaller people just run them out of business and to the point that
prices are so low for cannabis that there's not enough of a premium market left for the
smaller artisan craft producers that I herald on this show all the time.
The heritage growers who have been doing this for decades.
So there's going to be a certain point where this substantial number of growers are no
longer able to see financial benefit in the licensed system.
And so they're like, all right, fine, we're out.
And as we already know, a lot of these craft companies have got two businesses going.
They've got the licensed one that they're hoping to participate in and they've got a
second one that's still exporting and helping pay the bills while the legal business gets
up and running.
But if there's enough strength in corporate cannabis, they're never going to grow to that
point.
And eventually they'll just have to choose to give up their license and air quotes, go
do something else.
But for the craft growers that I know who have grown up in cannabis, cannabis growing
is all they know.
And I wonder what that looks like from a sociological perspective, which you offer, about
these people who grew up in illegal cannabis and then took a shot in the licensed market
and became publicly known.
And the public market was so broken and monopolized by financialized cannabis companies
that they have to go do something else.
And I suspect their first choice would be to go back to the unlicensed market, which
has now grossly changed both in California and in the markets that they used to and still
do to a certain degree export to.
So what do you think, from your perspective, seeing the grand landscape, what's going to
happen to this particular pool of heritage growers who eventually give up and say, I
can't do this in the licensed market?
What do you think or what have you seen these folks starting to do when the black market
is so changed?
Well, let's say, you know, let's acknowledge from the get go that probably 95% of them
never made a go of the licensed market.
Really?
I didn't, I didn't realize it was such a large share of the unlicensed market that
never even tried.
That's, that's an impressive, that's an impressive number.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, I'm pulling that number a little out of my butt, but it's also a matter of
you know, you look at Humboldt that had an estimated to say 15,000 cultivators, you know,
on the, on the, on the eve of legalization and they have 800, you know, 800 distinct
owners of cultivation or other kinds of licenses right now.
That are going through the permitting and licensing process.
So that right there is 90%, right?
Like roughly.
And, and Humboldt, you know, had a very high concentration also has a very, very large
amount of licenses per capita, way more than anybody else.
So, you know, Mendocino certainly, certainly, you know, has a very large amount of licenses
per capita.
So, you know, Mendocino certainly similarly, you're already actually seeing in Mendocino
and elsewhere, the revenue reports of the last year of, you know, all these people that
had permits and were operating, but are not reporting revenue this year.
It don't appear to be operating.
So we're already going through an extinction event in that sense.
And, and so there's kind of two things to think about here.
One is, you know, returning to the unregulated markets or participating in it as a way to
try to stay in place and not become displaced from their communities.
Right.
Finding something else to do in terms of an occupation.
There's also a displacement, you know, like a, definitely a lot of people are
definitely a lot of people went to Oklahoma lately.
Right.
So these are all, you know, different outcomes, you know, staying in place.
And if your name is already in the system and your property is already in the system
and you cease to be a licensed or a permitted operator, stop reporting revenues, you're
you stuck your neck out.
And so the odds that you're going to be able to stay there and do the same thing are pretty
low.
Yeah.
Because, you know, they're looking for you and they're, they're wondering what happened
to you.
So there's that aspect.
I think that it's important.
Important to realize that.
A lot, a lot of operators, you know.
There's many different kinds of heritage farmers is the thing I'm struggling with here, Shango.
And some of them have been, you know, at the cutting edge of indoor and, you know, breeding
and staying on top of the latest cultivars and, and, and regender of agriculture and
stuff like that.
And then there's, you know, a lot of folks that, you know, were not, they were, you know,
they were growing and they had places to send it.
So adapting, I think, to, to new things, especially, you know, staying on top of what it is you
can export, because it's not just anything anymore.
You know, I think that adapting in terms of what it is you're growing and how you're growing
it are two big things.
And certainly reducing your inputs and staying, you know, low impact.
And I mean that, you know, environmentally as well as socially, right.
Staying under the radar.
You know, these are all adaptive strategies that people are using.
I want to say that also within the licensed market, the problem isn't just the MSOs overproducing.
The problem is that California cannot open enough retail that like, you know, again,
two thirds of its jurisdictions, you know, don't have retail.
And so what that means is that there's more and more product going to, you know, amount
of stores that is staying completely, you know, the same.
And that drives down the cost of, or the price of wholesale cannabis.
And eventually a little bit drives down the price of the consumer.
But then what's also happening is, you know, distributors, distribution licenses are operated
as burners.
So then you have these entrepreneurs who basically acquire distribution licenses, buy up tons
of product, and then report it all lost or stolen basically, right.
And so it's like, yeah, your wholesale price that you can buy on the legal side is like
down to very, very little here, four or five hundred, three hundred.
And then you can turn around and export that somewhere else for three times as much, you
know, per pound.
You know, that's when, I think we talked about this before, that's when basically the legal
market becomes the black market, the diversion market.
And so that kind of interplay between the unregulated and regulated, you know, diversion
and not diversion dynamic is homeostatic in a certain way.
Because now the unregulated market gets flooded and drives the price down.
So anybody going to the unregulated market and hoping that's what saves them is going
to get chased by this flood of, you know, diversion coming from the licensed market.
From the licensed market, yeah.
So there's a dynamic that's not just like what's happening this year, it's like what's
happening next year.
And so this is all very difficult, right?
But what I will say though is that obviously, you know, there's no logical reason why farmers
shouldn't have direct to market access.
Like why did they have to go through distributors and retailers?
Why can't they sell directly to consumers, right?
And so, you know, if they got that right, as any other farmer or agricultural sector
has, you know, you can sell your apples, you know, on a farm stand.
That's not, you don't get arrested for that, you know, like then that would help, right?
I think that the other part is like if you are producing the absolute top of the line
craft stuff, right?
Then your market share isn't falling because basically those, you know, corporate
cannabis at large scale can't produce quality that is high enough to attract the
sophisticated consumer, right?
Like the sophisticated consumer is barely even patronizing the legal market anyway,
right?
But the fact is, you know, like I remember in 1993, 94, you know, my stoner buddies,
you know, come into a party and they're like, we got the kind bud, you know, like,
and I was like, how much did you pay for that?
And they're like $400 an ounce.
And I was like, oh my God, because like what we were buying was like, you know,
$100 ounces of Mexican seeded stuff.
And, you know, I didn't have any, I didn't know, you know, why a poor college
student would choose to like, you know, purchase a much more expensive product,
you know, until you consume it and you see the difference.
And you're ruined forever from Mexican brick weed.
Exactly, exactly.
And the fact is, is that like, you know, over the course of the 1990s and
2000s, like people literally chose to spend four times more, you know, on the,
on the, on the consumer end.
Cause they have the, they could have bought the Mexican, but our entire
domestic market shifted towards the more expensive stuff because it was that
much better.
And so like, again, there, there is like craft, actual craft, you know,
production, which not every heritage grower has the ability necessarily to
do.
You know, it will have shelf space at prices that are, you know, much more
agreeable to the growers.
So you have to actually hone your craft.
In addition to, you know, embracing new marketing possibilities like
Appalachians and, you know, equity branded supply chains and local branded
supply chains.
There are many other marketing tricks that you can do to kind of stay in the
market.
But the fact is, if you can't pay your rent, you're not going to be, you're
not going to go forward with this.
And so those are, those are kind of the options available is to, you know,
embrace all of the things that you can do to add value to your product.
And, and, and, you know, usually that means smaller scale cultivation
because that's how you get really high quality products, not mass produced.
And as long as you can do that, you know, if you're a heritage farmer, you
know, that's rural on your land, you know, like that was the point you're
you're doing the same thing.
And you can grow, you know, organic food and vegetables as well and, and,
and mix it up.
Right.
Heritage farmers that are, you know, historically maybe more urban or
indoor focused.
Well, is it going to, is it paying the rent or is it not?
You know, like that's the question, you know, if it's not, and if you
don't have access to it, you know, you're not going to be able to, you
know, you're not going to be able to grow it.
Or is it not, you know, like that's the question, you know, if it's not,
and if you don't have access to market, then you're going to be
displaced basically, or, or, or, or you're going to, you know, you're
going to get a different job.
And let's say that, you know, a lot of those, those folks, a lot of
those folks actually developed trade skills that are pretty vital to
like indoor production that are not bad options, you know, going back
and going back into real estate, going into, you know, HVAC or, or,
you know, electric or whatever else, you know, those are options
basically.
So like a lot of the rest of the gig economy, it's kind of cobbling
stuff together to, to move forward.
So I think there's always been a difference though, between the folks
who were doing it to like stay out of the rat race and the people who
were doing it to basically cheat in the rat race.
Right?
Yeah.
I follow this.
You follow that?
Yeah.
Yeah.
And I got no moral judgment actually about the latter, let's just
say as well.
Not necessarily.
It's like screw the rat race, you know, anybody who's trying to get
around it is I totally understand it.
But you know, like I think that's the right to not be displaced from
one's community and land is a really important principle.
And that's the one that I think we should be.
We may be able to do something about certainly the state of
California is increasingly maybe it's too little too late, but you
know, the equity program monies are arriving.
There's another million dollars that Humboldt County has taken out
of their general fund to help their farmers.
This is just announced like a week ago, you know, jurisdictions
were collecting, you know, a bunch of taxes that aren't supporting
their local businesses are going to lose those taxes.
So they're going to start, you know, saying, okay, well, maybe,
you know, maybe we'll, you know, beef up our equity programs, try
to keep people.
But the ones that do that are usually the ones that recognize
people that are part of their communities, their mothers, fathers,
sisters, brothers and daughters, and you know, they're not trying
to make a move to Oklahoma, you know, yeah.
So for the rest of the set, let's let's take a let's pivot and
move from more the governance and cultural disciplines into
public health.
And you know, nearly everyone knows somebody who's being helped
by medical cannabis at this point, even if they're not a
state, at this point, even in states that don't have any sort of
medical or, you know, rec cannabis, they still have their sister
who lives in California or their uncle who lives in Oklahoma.
And, and these people are saying, oh, my gosh, I'm using this and
my arthritis is so much better.
So, so people are aware of medical cannabis use now.
And it is very quickly tearing down the the taboos and and moral
panic that as you refer to it in the book, and and it has now
shown this interesting contrast between public health and public
policy, because public policy on especially the local level,
because of the patchwork regulations we've talked about,
local level public policy can be anti cannabis and be decreasing
access or, or, for example, the use of cannabis in the public
health system.
Can be anti cannabis and be decreasing access or, or, for
example, not having pesticide tests because the businesses are
resisting it versus the public health drive for cannabis,
because people are finding unique ways to get relief from
cannabis that doesn't have some of the same side effects as some
of their other options.
So what are you seeing, you know, from from your 10,000 foot
view of, of cannabis use in the public health system?
And what are you seeing in the public health system?
You know, from from your 10,000 foot view of of this, this
contrast is friction that we're getting now between public
health and and kind of antiquated policy.
Well, I think that as usual, I'm going to point towards
complexity.
Yeah, because I think that often, you know, public health
institutions are actually, you know, feeding back on, you know,
prohibitionist policies, and and and and and and and and and and
and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and
and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and
and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and
and, you know, doing everything that they can to actually, you
know, keep prohibition and legalization entangled, right?
And so
you know, an example of that would be
the ways in which, you know,
really strict zoning in terms of like setbacks in
Setbacks in particular from parks and schools and so forth that are way more harsh than alcohol
You know are supported by you know, usually public health, you know professionals
Who are all very very very worried about the kids. Yeah
Of course, it's it's usually the white kids ultimately that they're worried about
so
So let's just say that those are they're not necessarily, you know opposing each other necessarily
There are you know in terms of health research
more broadly speaking, I think
that
It is pretty important for
You know
bioscientific research
to do its thing and
This is where I want to give a plug to the person you last had on miyabi
Dr. Miyabi shields, dr. Miyabi shields man, like that's
pretty much like both those interviews I
would just say, you know are an answer to that that your question, you know, like
you know, this is someone who is
Talking about the science of it as something that can be
complementary to the herbal medicine and traditional medicine approaches and not just
You know
Another hierarchical situation where the the pursuit for molecular, you know
double-blind controlled
studies, you know
Runs herbal medicine out of town right the burns the witches at the stake
Which is I think a situation that is a problem for public health
But can be complementary and synergistic with it. I
Also think that
She had some really sophisticated answers when talking about the
you know the the cultural value of trusting, you know, the experts in terms of you know,
Bioscience and and this humility with respect to like what we actually know
Which is you know, not much yet, you know, I think she they sorry my apologies for the
Miss gendering
They pointed towards, you know, really being at the very beginning of discovery
about you know
the endocannabinoid system and so forth which is often not the attitude of
Researchers getting big grants because they can't say that in their grant applications of the was are not going to get that grant
So there's there's this
Culture I think that is attached entirely to funding
That you know promotes this hierarchical dismissive
Approach to health that is, you know only worried about
Danger and is not humble about what it actually knows as opposed to a you know health research agenda driven by
You know
bioscientists like me Abhi who are
Listening to you know, what what patients are saying about their own bodies and respecting that right?
That's what I mean by a more non hierarchical approach that
Expertise is developed to them with patients not in spite of them
So I would say that in addition to this non hierarchical approach
This this contrast that that I recognize that you're saying is very complex
It's it's also complex in other ways, right?
For example the the limitations on on on scientific research search still that even though we know
There's a great need for more research into the medicine
Well, it's still really hard to get them approved using these controlled substances or or another as we've seen
Play out recently in the Olympics, you know
The regulation in sports making criminals out of athletes who are just trying to recover. There seems to be
Culture-wide friction between the public health benefits of cannabis and
the the kind of hangover of
Moral panic that drove prohibition for the last, you know
50 years
50 years. Yeah, absolutely. Absolutely. So
The you know health research has has
Been a part of the moral panic historically. It's been maybe the main driver of it
Because nida, you know again was funding research for you know, 40 years on how harmful cannabis could be
and so
I think that that's that's important. I think that that you know
The the olympics example is a really interesting one as is the the general field of exercise and sport that dr
Whitney ogle talks about in her chapter in public health
that's
You know when when whitney went back to do essentially a literature review
What she found was in the 1960s and 1970s. There were actually all these
the beginnings of a body of research
That was about the potential public health benefits of of cannabis in exercise and sport
And it completely vanished
so much so that like when you're
Starting a paper now and you're reviewing the literature like you're you it's not much from the last 10 years
But there's a whole lot from the 60s and 70s. And so it's like a thread to pick up
uh
To pick up really that got just completely obliterated and dropped
um
And in exercise and sport, obviously when it comes to the olympics
I think that's
What the the scandal about you know, shikari richardson being disqualified from the olympics
Had more to do with like a public like
What you know like?
like uh people being flabbergasted people being flabbergasted than any sort of like oh
This is like a new thing because we have ross robaglio the olympic. Uh,
um
snowboarder
Uh, you know 15 years ago was lost his medal, right?
But but nobody said okay. Let's change the rules. Therefore like now like this literally is okay
Wait a sec like this is a really weird thing
That we have disqualified a world-class athlete for using cannabis
Because we have listed it as a performance enhancing drug
Because that's how you ban things from our
You know from athletes
Uh, it's like it's like backing into the regulation. This is completely completely and I do think that that things will change
Although here's the question for you shango like is cannabis a performance enhancing drug?
Can it be?
uh, uh, I I think that's like a next level question that
You know, I I would argue
Not to the level where you know should be banned like steroids or something like that, right
But it is anti-inflammatory
It might help you recover faster
uh, you know world-class athletes that use cannabis
Including like nba players, you know, like like at least half of them apparently, uh
You know is that giving him an edge, uh, and that's a research question, right?
uh, but you don't start from the point of it's already banned and then then ask that research question you
You say this doesn't make sense on the surface and it wasn't in here for any particular research reason
There's no research that said this is performance enhancing drug. Therefore. Let's ban it
Uh, the the research was like is it illegal? Therefore? Let's ban it, right?
uh, but like
That's you know, I think a very interesting
Research agenda, which is is whitney's as well as like well, how can cannabis be integrated into you know
uh exercise and sport in a healthy way and
I think that's a legitimate question, but it's you know
I think there there there's uh, you know
There's a research agenda there about whether cannabis can be performance enhancing that shouldn't be
Connected to an already existing rule that like, you know bans people
But
If we're going to argue that yeah cannabis can be used, you know when you're exercising
Then you have to embrace that as a legitimate research question right on
Well, let's go ahead and take our second short break and be right back
You are listening to shaping fire and my guest today is cannabis researcher. Dr. Dominic corva
There is no doubt that auto flowering cannabis plants have finally come into their own and night owl seeds works tirelessly
Bringing you auto flower genetics that are reliable thriving and with extraordinary terpene profiles
Night owl seeds is an industry leader because of the focus work of their founder
Daz's passion about the cannabis plant and pushing what auto flowers can do and cultivators know that these efforts show through in his seeds
And night owl seeds really are extraordinary. Just take a look at the thousands of photos and by fans on instagram. The proof is there and obvious
Terpenes are complex and rich plants have vigor if you are a fan of mephisto genetics like I am
You'll likely also love night owl seeds night owl founder
Daz worked with mitch mephisto to build the mephisto brand for years including breeding mephisto's much-loved sour stomper and cosmic queen cultivars
I'm growing both night owl and mephisto this year because I want the best
And night owl seeds knows how to cultivate community, too
Daz puts out great stickers exclusive packaging for limited runs and desirable freebies
He really draws you in if you love creative branding
Night owl even has the secret owl society text club
Just text the word night owl one word to seven six zero six seven zero three one three
Oh for early announcements and exclusive opportunities
Of course, you can see lots of photos and find out about upcoming drops by following the night owl seeds instagram, too
at
Daz.nightowl
That's d-a-z.nightowl
You can get your packs of night owl seeds at several distributors including dc seed exchange insane seeds and hembra genetics
That's night owl seeds. There's a difference because we're different
Sometimes the topics I want to share with you are far too brief for an entire shaping fire episode in those instances
I post them to instagram. I invite you to follow my two instagram profiles and participate online
The shaping fire instagram has follow-up posts to shaping fire episodes growing and processing best practices product trials
And of course gorgeous flower photos the shango loess instagram follows my travels on cannabis garden tours
My successes and failures in my own garden insights and best practices from personal grows everywhere and always gorgeous flower photos
On both profiles the emphasis is on sharing what i've learned in a way that you can replicate it in your own garden
Your own hash lab or for your own cannabinopathic health
So I encourage you to follow at shaping fire and at shango loess and join our online community on instagram
As a business owner you are incredibly busy in reality you are responsible for everything your company does you've got so many
Responsibilities every single day that often you just don't have the time to really dig into your marketing as deeply as you'd like
You know, there's more that you could do to reach out to new customers and encourage loyalty in the customers you already have
But you certainly don't have the time for it and you're not ready to hire somebody full-time for that role either
For you, I recommend blunt branding at blunt branding kirsten nelson and her team are focused on improving your bottom line
You know, most marketing firms are excited to make your logo packaging and website very pretty but they leave responsibility
For improving your bottom line up to you. They don't want that kind of responsibility
But that's pretty much the most important part of marketing, right?
Kirsten and her team will help you engage new customers funnel them to your point of sale
Whether it be online or a storefront and keep them coming back to you and telling their friends
Now if you happen to be a new cannabis company or an established company moving from medical to adult use in your state
Kirsten especially can help you not only is she well versed in marketing and finance
But she totally gets cannabis whole plant medicine terpenes heritage farmers and the particular needs of startups
Check out what she did recently for moontime medicinals and humbled at moontime medicinals.com
Kirsten and her team put together a whole brand package for them built their website and wrote their sales materials
No doubt. This is a paid commercial spot, but that does not mean they bought my opinion
I've worked with blunt branding on five projects now for various of their clients and every single time
They have done more than they have promised and over delivered on results
I love how they generate new revenue and focus on that as the goal instead of just making a pretty logo
Similarly every single friend i've referred them to has come back to thank me and that just does not happen every day
Grab a pen and paper because the website address is coming up
If you want someone to implement marketing programs that feed your bottom line give blunt branding a call
They will share proven techniques to increase your audience and generate sales while using cutting-edge technology solutions in the background that make all of this
easy automatic and trackable
Go to shapingfire.com
Blunt branding to find out more you can also click the link in our newsletter blunt branding marketing that makes you money
Welcome back. You are listening to shaping fire. I am your host shango. Los and my guest today is cannabis researcher. Dr. Dominic corva
So dominic, um, i've got another point. I want to bring up about public uh public health and um throughout the book
Prisons come up again and again as an enforcement tool that is applied unevenly both by uh,
Well, I guess it's more by by locale by race and who the judge may be. Sometimes it's just the roll of the dice
the number of americans who remain in prison, you know props up a
For you know for-profit prison system that is of course severely broken
And now we see this strange inequity of prisoners continuing to be held while white collar entrepreneurs receive licenses
to sell the same stuff
Not only does that strike most folks as wildly unfair
Prison for non-violent cannabis offenses continues to break up families and have extensive impacts on public health
so would you
continue with an explanation of what you see happening now along the
prison public health axis during this, you know difficult and rocky transition between
Um prohibition and prohibition alongside licensed and taxed cannabis
Yeah, absolutely there's there's a lot to say about that and and the first thing that I want to point out is that
For example in colorado legalization came with new criminal penalties
uh for people
under the age of 21
uh, and that this is
Often a knee-jerk part of legalization is to
actually increase penalties criminal penalties
uh for uh, you know folks under the age of 21, which is
you know
absolutely counterproductive
And so, you know that has to do with kind of like
Deciding an age at which cannabis is legal, which is also part of the entanglement of legalization and prohibition
Because like as far as I know we will never be done with prohibition, you know
criminal prohibition sanctions against people under the age of 21
so, um
perhaps these may get reduced to like civil ones, but uh
As long as we have basically decided that a legal consumer is only someone over the age of 21 or someone with a medical
uh, you know, uh authorization that's under
under 21
then we're going to have
Uh, you know a criminal justice system that tilts against younger people in cannabis
um
Also as we pointed out before
demographically
The legal licenses are going to you know, whiter
wealthier people
And they sometimes have an incentive to call for more enforcement and that enforcement happens
against black and brown people
uh disproportionately
Um, this is especially true in urban areas so the phenomenon we call mass incarceration
Is a combination of federal and and local, you know prison systems basically, right
Uh that sometimes have something to do with each other and sometimes not
uh
In large urban cities like los angeles, new york chicago
In the 1990s and 2000s
What those cities chose to do, um
In terms of policing and public safety was to do broken windows policing what they called broken windows policing
Which meant that basically the police?
had kind of a free hand to um
uh
Identify, you know the metaphoric broken windows, uh signs of disorder
In any given community and you know come up with ways to uh, you know
uh
Bring them into the criminal justice system. And of course, uh
You know
Usually a broken window in a white community is a black person, right? There's a sign of disorder
so uh in in urban areas in particular
that kind of
Policy combined with that kind of discretion
really intensified
the you know, uh
bringing black and brown people
you know, uh into the criminal justice system
um, this is also true in rural areas, but the the
Disproportionality is very very different that that black and brown people in rural areas definitely are disproportionately
You know when you look at the numbers
Arrested uh for for for cannabis and other drug crimes
But there is it is it is drastically lower than in urban areas at the same time
There are like arrest rates are often higher than urban areas per capita
Which means that they are arresting a lot more white people as well and women actually rural areas
often have
higher than state average, um
arrest of women
uh and
This is in particular let me say to
Because the data that i'm that i'm thinking about is from california. So let's let's make sure that i'm not trying to generalize
I think that's a research agenda for everywhere else as well, by the way, but we know this uh, uh of california, especially
Uh legacy producing regions, which are the ones that i've been able to study the data for
um
So
the other part of it is that
A lot has been done in the last 10 to 20 years
to actually reduce
Um jail populations local local jail populations in big cities
That there's been basically reforms going on since the early 2000s
That are you know bail reform or other things. Um
That are helping a lot with that but folks in federal prison
That's it's a it's a population that's much more stable and much more long-term
uh
and part of this has to do
with
the power of prosecutors, especially federal prosecutors
uh that basically
Increased substantially relative to defense or judges actually since in given the the criminal justice acts
You know 1986 1988 1994
Uh that basically created these draconian mandatory minimums
truth and sentencing
And all this tough on crime legislation
That basically means that whatever
Whatever it is you did when you did it is actually pretty important because if you did it in 1988
You're you got like, you know 40 years to life or something for something that you know
Today would not get you 40 years to life and this is true for every offense. Not just cannabis
Cannabis is part of of course at the federal level which means, you know, we're talking about the federal prison system
uh part of
prohibition
that means not just that cannabis is prohibited, but like
All these other drugs are also prohibited
and so cannabis is part of
You know this range of delinquencies essentially that the state has decided is worth like
You know all this effort time and money
To imprison people for and lock them up for
and so
Cannabis is kind of a long for the ride with the other drugs whenever there's a moral panic about crack cannabis also
Gets caught up in it. It's about fentanyl. Cannabis is going to get caught up in it at least federally, right?
It's you know
To prosecutors it's it's it's a drug crime. You know, it's it's a felony. It's not a cannabis felony. It's not a you know
uh
Some other kind of felony so it's
important and this is actually
the other part that's that I think in the introduction really lay out is like
Don't forget that cannabis probation prohibition is absolutely part of drug prohibition
And that's an entanglement that is absolutely meta
because
Drug prohibition, you know takes cannabis along for the ride
um
so
With respect to you know who gets prison and not?
And in terms of you know, wealthy white people having licenses to sell things people are going to prison for
I would just point out that like
Even if those wealthy white people were getting arrested
They would either not be spending any time in prison
Or they would be spending basically their time in prison club med like like murth stuart, right?
Yeah, like that's our criminal justice system. It is
Absolutely unequal in this country just like our economy is
uh
The privileges you have when you have a lot of capital
Have nothing to do with whether that's cannabis capital or whether it's oil capital or whether it's pharma capital
It's privilege
uh, and so it's very important, I think not to
Not to be like militantly particular about cannabis as an issue and and and and the prison system
Actually, like our prison system itself is just awful
Prosecutorial discretion has driven mass incarceration
Uh, no amount of you know, legalizing discrete supply chains of cannabis
Are going to have a large impact
on what's going on there and like
You know sure it's very important to advocate for people to get out of prison
but I I think that like a lot of people are really kind of myopically focused just on cannabis criminals and cannabis crimes and actually
It's all the other ones too
uh, there are a lot of people who just
Are poorer and are you know people of color?
That are caught up and trapped in this prison system whether or not it's about cannabis
so, uh, this is one of those things that I think
In terms of the promises and and and and goals of legalization has shifted
Like back in 2010, there was a lot of talk about, you know, ending mass incarceration because you're legalizing cannabis
Which is always a great exaggeration
Uh, and I think in 2020
What you have is actually more of a like let's put our money where our mouth is at this point
Um because back then it was just kind of a marketing ploy
Uh, and in many ways it did a great disservice to black and brown people by legalizing cannabis and then absolutely having no
No part of the legal cannabis system
Oriented towards, you know, actually helping black and brown people we use them
We use them
In in in washington, we absolutely use them
As like let's legalize cannabis because it's bad for minorities, but then legalization comes along and actually doesn't do anything good for
for people of color
Uh, and I think that's changed. Uh significantly in the last 10 years
I think that the the aclu was probably the worst offender
uh is much more in tune now to uh, the the realities of the situation is no longer treating this like a
Advertisement
worth for legalization right on
Well, thank you for that perspective. Dominic. You're you're always you're always remixing my perspective and I appreciate that
um
I've got two more questions left for our conversation and each of them
Uh hits on different different areas in the book
Um, I see that professor evan mills is back with an update of his groundbreaking research into electrical usage by indoor cultivators
Um his his original paper kind of blew everybody away back. I don't know. What was it 2013 or so 2012?
Yeah, and it just floored everybody. Um the numbers he was quoting that was
The electricity that was being used by indoor cultivation
And um for a while there. Anyway, um, it looked like it was going to influence
um
regulations and encourage, uh, preferred regulatory
Environment for outdoor and you know that mostly went away as um as indoor interests, um lobbied back
um, but uh, the the the press version of of your new book that I got did not have the the
Chapter from professor mills in it and and I think that uh, I'm I and probably a lot of other people who are familiar with
That work, uh his early work are curious to know what he has to say now
So so since I haven't read the chapter, I don't know how to direct you on this question
But it's other than to say what what does evan mills say now?
Oh, well, you know evan has a lot to say about how this is playing out in the regulated landscape
Uh, so he's not just engaging with like, you know
Arcata california and the electricity usage in houses. He's
He's talking about a much bigger carbon footprint when you're talking about warehouses
um
and so
Uh what he really especially engages really very well with is how regulations
That are supposed to be about you know, uh
protecting the environment
You know because we're we're real worried about as we should be, you know water
uh land use
you know, um
Impacts wildlife absolutely like those are important things
So we've we've got all these regulations actually
Like the ones that are probably the most difficult for you know, uh heritage farmers are these sequel regulations
But at the same time we're basically incentivizing carbon footprint intensive cultivation
Uh because we're making it so difficult to grow it outdoors and on ag land necessarily along with other crops
um
so
The perspective really is a is a bigger and broader structural perspective really?
um
He reviews information from like california and colorado in particular
um
and
What's interesting is obviously?
His paper had a big impact back then
And arcata, you know raised its electricity tax rates and everybody moved to mckinleyville and just kept kept going. Uh, so
So
The the issue though is that like what evan wants to talk about now isn't unregulated cannabis impact
necessarily at all like uh, certainly he's concerned about that and very you know
Not in favor of indoor cannabis, you know cultivation because it's carbon footprint
But the really big you know
Uh problems now are in the regulated system
And so this is a critique of legalization
Not just a critique of unregulated cannabis
And that in itself is is you know profoundly important and let's see whether it gets the kind of attention that his previous research did
because his previous research may have been a little more convenient for
people, you know, uh that wanted to you know
say
perfectly reasonable things about you know, the carbon footprint issues of indoor cultivation, but also
Uh, you know it played along played played
played into you know, um
Folks wanting to essentially, you know
Prohibit or or or reduce the amount of cannabis cultivation going on
In this case now because that is very inconvenient
uh, once again, it's an inconvenient truth, but it's inconvenient to the regulators and and
Evan is uh
in
fine form
uh, you know
Addressing political and regulatory interests and and in corporate interests
That uh, you know
Are are making this carbon footprint issue
you know, uh
Or metastasizing it just growing it massively
um
Of course with with with the climate change conversation being that much more important now than it was 10 years ago
um, we hope that uh
This is a an intervention that is you know
Um spread as widely and as fast, uh as quickly as as his prior one
Right on. Well, i'm looking forward to reading it and I am glad that uh,
That evan mills is is still in the mix and still looking into this topic
Let's let's finish off our discussion with uh the chapter by our mutual friend. Uh, dr. Michelle sexton
um this chapter two i'm excited to read still because it wasn't in the press edition because
Uh, dr. Sexton and I have been discussing that for years the nexus of institutional science
And the good work done by citizen scientists
And and it's fun because you know, like most of the topics that you cover here. It's a complex one
And and she and I have both
evolved our ideas, you know over our what 10 years as friends and
And and debating this topic and as a citizen scientist myself, I know that often my sample sizes are low
And my controls perhaps not the most complete but citizen scientists everywhere are also working faster than institutions in many ways
and blazing new paths that
Institutional researchers can you know follow up on later plus i'm hearing things from patients who talk to me
That are often, you know, not insights that are are being heard
Um by traditional, you know clinical doctors
So what are the main arguments in this chapter on the intersection?
of cannabis citizen science and and institutional or academic, uh scientists
Well shango, that's a very good question, uh
and I also want to
Just say that uh, you know, dr
Sexton is an absolutely, you know, dear friend of mine and and helped me co-found casp as did
cindy lagerwal
Both contributors to this handbook. So it was especially great to to have them both in here. Yeah for sure. Uh, and so
Really I think when it comes down to it's you know, michelle is very very concerned to
Address the entanglement of commercialization and and and citizen science
uh and
Citizen science, you know
Is one thing when it's listening to patients and responding to them
Right, and it's another thing
when
It's manufacturing claims in the service of selling, you know
uh as much
You know cbd as you you know distillate as you can
Oh and so like these are kind of the the divergent
Situations like one is kind of the traditional herbal medicine citizen science
that uh
I think uh, you know
10 years ago or eight years ago when you when you might have met her. She was at the forefront of
certainly
uh first analytics lab in washington state
um
a naturopathic doctor
uh
And then kind of this explosion of all these claims that get made
that are
Have a lot of issues, but the primary one is that they're incentivized by essentially the supply chain and marketing
especially around cbd, um
and so these this can be problematic for several reasons one is just like
Taking an anecdote and like, you know
Uh turning it into a law of nature right and saying that this will always help everyone
Just buy this cbd, you know that you can get your gas station, right?
um and the delta-8 and
Everything else that's going to gas stations
um
So there are those claims made that are bastardizations of citizen science
uh, and I think i'm doing uh, um
I think i'm doing her chapter service by by by clarifying this that there are those claims that that
They come out of a tradition of you know healing and patient-centric
You know, uh clinical observational research in particular
Uh that was not possible under conditions of prohibition just prohibition not just prohibition with legalization, right?
um
And then there is essentially the you know commercial incentive to take those claims and completely divorce them
From the intimate social relationships
That characterize, you know, uh traditional herbal medicine
right
and so
This is I think absolutely
A fantastic intervention that could have gone in the public health section
But we chose to put it in to the culture and social change section
because
It's it's it's about to me
This this cultural difference between like the
Commercialization cult basically cultures of commercialization
and cultures of care patient-centric care
right, so
citizen science is both
Something that has helped
and also something
that others have
Bastardized basically to make a bunch of money off of
and so
That to me makes it an incredibly important chapter, uh because
What happens is a backlash and I think you're seeing it a lot actually and you will see more of it
And the backlash is from you know
policymakers and and health researchers
Who instantly see through essentially the the the commercialization of these claims?
but they don't really
also understand that that that
The citizen science actually has been doing a lot of important work on the ground. So they discount
Really the traditional herbal medicine thing and and and hitch their wagons to like the pharmaceutical
visualization of of of uh cannabis entirely right
Yeah, it feels safer to them. Yeah. Yeah, it feels safer. They're like herbal medicine like that's a joke, you know
Like look at these cbd companies
uh, you know, uh, and so like
You know, michelle shares their distastes but doesn't have that distaste for actual like, you know
Herbal medicine. She's she's a naturopathic doctor
and so like in many ways, it's to preserve the integrity of
Actually, you know the entire
You know tradition of herbal medicine herbal nutritional medicine, which is finally becoming recognized in the united states in the last 30 years
As something that's actually valid
But still is kind of seen as you know
um
Not scientific right because it's it's not uh
It's not working with molecules and standardizations
Uh as opposed to herbal medicine which can work with like the whole plant and actually address
Differences in people's you know body chemistry
Uh that actually standardizing medicine is a terrible idea
uh from a certain perspective
Because everybody's bodies are different, right?
and so
Uh, it's a really really crucial intervention. Um, and and I hope to see more of it, but
It's really kind of this like
We don't want
cannabis to become snake oil
Right, like like when it comes down to and snake oil is all about marketing over, you know safety. Um
But safety is not defined by pharmaceutical procedures. Like uh, that is something that is part of the the herbal tradition as well
so, uh
If dr. Sexton is listening to this, I hope i've i've done her chapter
Uh, you know the kind of service it deserves it's a crucial intervention. Well, it's also great
It was I was very happy to see dr. Michelle Sexton's chapter in the book. Uh
Uh for for a host of reasons, but but what I like is that she's always been a friend to the patient first
You know, she has been involved, you know advising
different uh companies in cannabis and and of course she's been working with cannabis as an herbalist for uh,
for a very long time
and even myself, you know with with with michelle and I being allies and and
Having very similar agendas. She would often catch me and say well, you know
Shango, you're kind of overstating what we know about cannabis based on your anecdotal, you know
conversations with um with patients and and sometimes that would frustrate me but then then I had to come back to
To what's real and realize that you know, um, you know relying too much on hype is where we get into these problems
and um, you know if if dr. Michelle Sexton is anything she is anti-hype, so
So yeah, i'm i'm i am grateful for the chapter and her participation as well
Yeah, so dominic. Thank you so much for your time
Um again congratulations on uh, the release of of this uh collection you edited with uh, joshua
Mizell the roteledge handbook of post-prohibition cannabis research
Um, uh, where can folks get the book?
So first of all, let me actually because I haven't yet in this interview. I want to
Express my profound gratitude
towards my partner in this project, uh josh
My humble state university sociologist, uh
He was he's been just uh, we've been a dream team together and we're doing a lot of other things together, too
uh, so I just i'm so grateful for his friendship and and
collaboration, uh, and
He deserves a lot of credit as well. And so
I want to make sure that I don't don't leave him out. But uh, so the other thing is of course is that
You can buy the handbook on amazon you can buy it on routledge.com
Routledge is a global academic publisher. This is the hardback version right now. There's going to be a soft cover
That's going to be much less expensive
the book is you know, uh part of the route which handbook series which is sold to
universities around the globe basically and so that's a price that
is essentially reflecting the
The you know business model of routledge which is that universities are you know institutions and they're going to pay more for books
uh
And so and then there's also obviously an electronic document
Which is also often very good for universities to to get because then they can their students can use it
uh
This is the kind of handbook that is going to have a much wider appeal though and a bigger audience
and so I recognize that and I want to make sure that
Folks don't feel like they're, you know economically squeezed out because of the
The you know at at 25 off 200
Price of the hardcover. There will be a soft cover will be out, you know in a few months
and uh, you know
uh strongly encourage folks who are
Not, you know, particularly wealthy
You know not to go out of their way, uh and get the expensive one, but the the cheaper one will be available
Right, um, well dominic, thank you so much, uh, both both. I appreciate your friendship and our very long time working together
Uh every time, uh, you join us here on shaping fire or on my prior, uh podcast
um, you always bring the truth and uh, and I really appreciate that you don't let yourself get um,
You know cut up in the cut up in all the excitement and the hoo-ha and you're always telling me well shango
It's not as simple as that
We need to look at this in a more complex way
So so I very much appreciate you and and and thank you for joining us on shaping fire today
Thank you. Shango. I am absolutely proud of uh,
of uh your program and listen to it regularly and
Just uh, it's been a pleasure and an honor knowing him and uh, look forward to a long and
Wonderful friendship right on. Thank you, brother. So if you want to find out more about uh,
Dominic corva and his work you can go to cannabis and social policy
org, which is the website for his nonprofit research group
Also, I can refer you all the way back. I didn't have to write this in my notes episode one
of shaping fire all about um, uh cannabis policy transfer from state to state essentially
How it works that uh state policies in one state, uh get transferred to another state uh for better or for worse
and uh, and of course the book, um,
Whether or not you want to get the hardcover now or whether or not you want to wait and get the the softcover electronic versions
Um, there will be a link to that on amazon
on the page for this episode on shaping fire.com
You can find more episodes of the shaping fire podcast and subscribe to the show at shaping fire.com
And wherever you get your podcasts if you enjoyed the show
We'd really appreciate it
If you would leave a positive review of the podcast wherever you download
Your review will help others find the show so they can enjoy it, too
On the shaping fire website
You can also subscribe to the newsletter for insights into the latest cannabis news exclusive videos and giveaways
On the shaping fire website. You also find transcripts of today's podcast as well
Be sure to follow on instagram for all original content not found on the podcast
That's at shaping fire and at shango los on instagram
Be sure to check out shaping fire youtube channel for exclusive interviews farm tours and cannabis lectures
Does your company want to reach our national audience of cannabis enthusiasts?
Email hotspot at shapingfire.com to find out how thanks for listening to shaping fire. I've been your host shango los
