Patients always want exact answers. I know when I go to the doctor, I too want specific
answers to specific questions and I rarely get them. Similarly, when cannabis patients
ask me detailed questions, often the answers are also elusive. The best medicine is individualized
medicine and by definition, individualized medicine is going to be somewhat unique to
every person. That said, when it comes to cannabis, if you identify the proper blend
of cannabinoids and start slow and low in the dosage, a path to resolving the issue
usually presents itself. Cannabis is safe for nearly everyone and humans have had thousands
of years to get in a relationship with the plant and learn it to be reliable and with
few side effects. However, when you add complex chemical pharmaceuticals to the mix, sometimes
things don't go as planned and most pharmaceuticals have only been around for a mere fraction
of the time that cannabis has been used by humans. And also, while a layperson can easily
understand the dosing dynamics for cannabis, that is entirely untrue for most pharmaceuticals
whose contents are intentionally obscured and instructions for use are shrouded in legally
defendable double talk. It is enough to frustrate anyone just trying to get well.
If you want to learn about cannabis health, business, and technique efficiently and with
good cheer, I encourage you to subscribe to our newsletter. We'll send you new podcast
episodes as they come out, delivered right to your inbox, along with commentary on a
couple of the most important news items from the week and videos too. Don't rely on social
media to let you know when a new episode is published. Sign up for the updates to make
sure you don't miss an episode. Also, we are giving away very cool prizes to folks who
are signed up to receive the newsletter. There's nothing else you need to do to win except
receive that newsletter. This month's sponsor is Multiverse Beans at multiversebeans.com.
Ten winners will randomly receive a free three-pack of Femini seeds from either Gnome Automatics
or Humboldt Seed Company. So, go to shapingfire.com to sign up for the newsletter this week and
be entered into this month's and all future newsletter prize drawings. And be sure to
check out the multiverse beans Instagram. You are listening to Shaping Fire and I am
your host, Shango Lose.
My guest today is Jehan Markku. Dr. Markku is a molecular pharmacologist with over 15
years of experience in cannabinoid research and a PhD focusing on the pharmacology of
cannabinoids. Not only is Jehan a committed scientist, but he goes way back too as a cannabis
activist and policy influencer. Dr. Markku is a founding partner at the consulting firm
of Markku and Aurora, which provides life science consulting to the cannabis and psychedelic
fields. He is also chief scientific officer at Physicians Research Center Plus. Jehan
also co-developed a biotech application to predict drug-drug interactions between cannabis
and commonly prescribed pharmaceutical drugs and co-authored one of the first product safety
studies on CBD. Dr. Markku co-authored American Herbal Pharmacopoeia's Cannabis Quality
Control and Therapeutic Monographs and serves on multiple expert government advisory and
trade association committees. He is the founding editor-in-chief of the American Journal of
Endocannabinoid Medicine and is adjunct faculty at the University of the Sciences in Philadelphia
teaching the pharmacology of cannabis. He has many research and media publications and
has appeared in Rolling Stone, Science, Nature, JAMA, The Washington Post, CNN, and many others.
He is host and producer of the How to Launch an Industry podcast and is often called upon
as a cannabis and synthetic drug expert witness. Dr. Markku has received numerous awards including
the Mahmoud El-Souly Award for Excellence in Cannabis Chemistry and the Billy Martin
Research Achievement Award from the International Cannabinoid Research Society.
On today's episode of Shaping Fire, we will talk about how to think through the dynamic
challenges presented by cannabis and pharmaceutical interaction and give you a roadmap for doing
this research for yourself or the cannabis patients you care for. During the second set,
we will review red flag pharmaceuticals and drug families that present especially high
risk and how the availability of new cannabinoids and concentrates has exacerbated these issues.
In the third set, we look at the differences between endocannabinoid and phytocannabinoid
drug interaction, discuss the state of drug-drug interaction research, and we encourage everyone
who uses cannabis to visit BudsInfo.com and complete a short questionnaire to help in
the research into this topic.
Welcome back to Shaping Fire, Jehan.
Thank you, Shango. It's great to be here.
You know, even though you and I have interacted over the years, this is episode 104 and your
last visit to appear on Shaping Fire was all the way back on episode 29. And that seems
like such a long time ago. In fact, it was the week of Christmas in 2017.
Wow.
Yeah, it was like back in the before times, you know?
So much as that seems like a lifetime ago for so many things and projects. That's amazing.
Yeah, for sure. And that was in the early days of Shaping Fire when we focused a bit
more on business. So, episode 29 is a great one about cannabis product manufacturing standards.
We don't cover the licensed market as much anymore. But folks, if you're in licensed
cannabis or in medical cannabis and in production, that's a really excellent show that has remained
evergreen over the years. So, I encourage you to go back and check out episode 29 if
you haven't.
I would say, you know, the big update to that though is I've gone from, you know, voluntary
certification assessments for regulatory compliance on all types of cannabis operations
around the world. And since then, I actually got to visit hemp facilities in China, Europe,
and I've started to work with state governments on, you know, determining compliance assessment
criteria and updating regulations, you know, driven by science from that experience.
So, you know, I feel like you're like the paleontologist, Shango. You got to walk with,
you know, a dinosaur like me in the early days.
I guess that's one way to put it, except you're still so young though. So, I hope so because
I think you're younger than me. But today, we're here to talk and focus on the interplay
between cannabis and the pharmaceuticals that cannabis patients may be taking. And we both
want to be clear right off the bat that we are not giving you medical advice today. We
have no way of knowing your actual whole situation. And our goal today is to flesh
out some of the intricacies of this topic and help you gain some perspective so that
you can figure out effective individualized medicine for yourself or the people that you
care for.
So, all right, let's get right into it. So, Jehan, the idea that any one of so many phytocannabinoids
interacting with any one of thousands of prescription drugs, that they could have an unintended
side effect seems like a pretty realistic thing nowadays. But for years in the medical
cannabis community, no one wanted to admit that it was possible, including me. And maybe
it was simply because there was so little research into it or, and we just hadn't seen
it. But also, it could also just be that we're all really protective of our favorite plant,
cannabis. But now we know that these interactions actually do exist. As more and more people
use cannabis and we're able to collect more data, are we actually seeing more reports
of interactions nowadays?
The potential for drug-drug interactions, regardless of the substance, you know, cannabis
has compounds that interact with receptors and are metabolized by our body. Else it wouldn't
have all these, you know, wonderful therapeutic benefits that we hear about. But drug-drug
interactions or DDIs are increasing generally across the board, not just for cannabinoids
or cannabis, but it is the primary cause of adverse drug reactions. And it's something
that creates over half a billion dollars of estimated burden on our healthcare system
annually. And there's a lot of efforts to avoid these drug-drug interactions. You know,
drug-relegatory agencies like the FDA usually mandate this sort of thing. And we know a
lot about them for some stuff, for like Marinol, which was approved, you know, a decade or
so before we even knew there were cannabinoid receptors, as well as for Epidiolex or CBD.
So these have been explored. But what we're dealing with now is, you know, we live in
a really lucky time and in a really lucky place. If you're listening to this in the
United States, we have the FDA. And I know that people like to criticize the FDA. Well,
that's great. That's one of the great things about being alive. You get to criticize things.
But it's also the best drug-regulatory agency. In fact, it's so good that most of us simply
throw away the insert on any medication we get. It's like as this long fold-out map of
potential issues. And we're like, oh, just throw that away. This is FDA approved. So
we do live in a time where we buy a loaf of bread, we buy a bottle of aspirin, we get
our prescription medications, and we just assume that if it's on a shelf, it's safe
and the risks are known or it wouldn't be on a shelf. However, you know, there's interesting
things are happening with cannabis compounds. Due to a strong patient and consumer demand,
cannabis-based products don't follow the traditional standard drug development pipeline that we
hold pharmaceutical drugs like antidepressants or other drugs too. They just, you know, you
package and label them at the state level. And so there is a lack of understanding or
appreciation of the potential drug-drug interactions. And again, a lot of these occur from oral
administration of multiple substances. Sort of the more drugs that you use, the more pharmaceutical
drugs, the more medicines you take, the higher your chances of interactions. And, you know,
this is not, you know, we have to kind of like, you know, I've been a passionate advocate
of product safety, particularly for medical cannabis patients for almost two decades.
And you know, I remember a time when the plant products weren't even tested before giving
to people who had compromised immune systems. I remember arguing with operators to put,
voluntarily put expiration dates and people saying things like, well, cookies don't go
bad. But again, we see drug-drug interactions all the time. We talk about them all the time,
but we don't know that we're talking about them. Some of them are for our benefit and
some of them can increase risk. Let me give you an example of a conversation I had 15
years ago, maybe 20 years ago. I was just a, just a little researcher at the time, an
undergraduate, and I approached a cannabis operation and started talking them up about
CBD. You should carry CBD products. This is like going to be a great thing. And people
had started small circles to talk about and they asked me what it did. And I said, oh,
well, it, it actually blocks the intoxicating effects of THC. And they're like, oh my God,
that sounds terrible. Nobody will ever want that. But CBD and THC is a form of a drug-drug
interaction. It's not quite what we're talking about, but it can be one that may not be ideal
for some people. You know, so I think that when we talk about drug-drug interactions,
we talk about them. We talk about, oh, this variety of cannabis has this mixture of compounds.
It's good for this. It helps with this. It's, it's has these indications. There's an array
that can be present. So I think we always have to keep in mind that we are familiar
with this. We talk about it. You know, it's like saying, I like to talk about, you know,
baseball statistics, but I don't like math. Well, clearly you do like math because you're
analyzing averages and percentages. So we, we do have the fundamentals of this, I think,
in the industry. So we're not really talking about, I think, anything new today that you
probably haven't discussed before. How do drugs interact together to produce an effect?
And let's talk about that how a little bit, because the different mechanisms, I think
it's important for people to wrap their heads around. The first interaction that I was aware
of was years ago, learning that CBD can increase the potency of some seizure medications, meaning
that the seizure patients taking CBD could sometimes take less of that seizure medication
and get the same effect. In some cases, let's dissect that idea because the CBD could be
causing the seizure medication to be more potent for many reasons. One being perhaps
that the CBD and the seizure medication are doing the same thing and working side by side
instead of actually on each other. Or secondly, CBD could be acting in a way that the seizure
medication has gets more resources or something. There's a lot of different mechanisms for
why that could be happening. And, you know, I know that you have studied in detail these
different mechanisms of drug-drug interaction. I'd really appreciate if you would tease them
apart and explain a few of them. And like, take your time, give us like three or four
so that we can really grok the different mechanisms.
You know, absolutely. And when we talk about mechanisms, you know, we can, I like to think
about them in three ways. One is cannabinoids as victim, right? Where the mechanism is that
the levels of the cannabinoid is changed. You take a drug and it makes the, you take
it with THC, let's call it drug X, right? And you take it with a THC product and suddenly
you're feeling way more sedated or have way higher munchies side effect or whatever. Pick
your side effect for your conceptual example. And it's just, it's increased because the
cannabinoid levels are changed by another drug. So cannabinoid is a victim where its
levels in your body are changed. Well, cannabinoids can also be perpetrators. They can cause
changes in the levels of another drug. And so in this case, you know, they might be increasing
or decreasing the amount of, like you said, like an anti-epileptic medication or a pain
medication. And if this information is well understood, you're absolutely right. It can
be leveraged to improve healthcare outcomes. You know, if you're like, oh, there's a drug-drug
interaction between cannabinoids and opioids, you can take less opioids and get the same
effect. Wow. We, thank goodness we knew about those interactions so that we could take steps
to make that a benefit instead of an increased risk. Now there also are, so we've talked
about cannabinoids as victims, cannabinoids as perpetrators, and there are also pharmacodynamic
effects. I think that's the first five syllable word we've used so far, but there are pharmacodynamic
effects. And what this means is that both drugs have overlapping effects and our concepts
of victim and perpetrator don't apply here. But you know, one thing is like if we take
a research on THC and baclofen, individually a dose is given to people in studies is a
little bit of sedation, not too much to write home about, but you put them together. There's
like sedation coming from that drug, sedation coming from the other drug, and put it together,
sedation plus sedation equals a lot of sedation. And that could be an unwanted side effect
and adverse effect. And so as we continue with this victim and perpetrator analogy,
you mentioned cannabidiol, CBD. I think this is a great example because here we have a
drug that is given to pediatric patients in large amounts who are also taking other medications.
And in the, you know, I think even several years ago, starting, I think, Davinsky published
a paper in 2018. And those of you listening can email me, message me on social media.
If anything I mentioned, you're like, I want that study, send me that link, feel free to
reach out. But you know, they show that high doses of CBD significantly increased levels
of narcolobazam, which is an active metabolite of clobazam. So basically what you're saying
is you have a baseline amount. Let's call the baseline zero. It's just or normal, right?
And so when you take it with CBD, you can start to see that the amounts of clobazam
and the ratio of clobazam to narcolobazam, the metabolite and the parent compound, just
go a little haywire. You start to see those levels change. It's almost completely different
than without CBD. We're talking, you know, the, we're seeing, you know, 150, 200, 350%
above baseline. Those, you know, those bars on the graph look like skyscrapers of New
York City, which is a signal that we need to pay more attention to. And that would be
an example of a cannabinoid as a perpetrator of a drug-drug interaction. And so how is
this happening, you might be saying? Well, we have a lot of things in our bodies that
like to handle drugs. You know, we're hardwired to consume things, have them hit little proteins,
also known as receptors throughout our body, and send along little messages. Well, however,
we have to have a system that gets rid of the drugs after they've sort of sent their
message to the brain, to the body, and had their effect. And we have these drug-metabolizing
enzymes. What do they do? Well, they are the garbage trucks of drugs. They just like, they
like chewing up drugs and helping us pee them out. So the enzymes are responsible for this.
So when I say enzymes, I say proteins, I say receptors, these are all things that our body
makes from our DNA, right? We have DNA, it codes amino acids that form these proteins,
and proteins can do a lot of different things. And these CYP450, we call them SIPs for short,
for short for cytochrome P450, there are many different forms. And, you know, there are,
you know, we inherit different ones from our family. And I think this next point is important,
because with the advent of gene testing, you can find out some information about how you
might metabolize drugs. So there are people who are slow metabolizers, like really poor,
that means the drug stick arounds longer. There are people that are intermediate metabolizers,
there's people who are extensive. And then there are people who are ultra rapid. And
that means that if you're an ultra rapid metabolizer, you can take a drug, and you may not even
feel or you may feel just the faintest of effects for it before it's metabolized and
excreted from your body. There are some really wild examples of this. You know, for example,
there is an association with, because people who suffer from genetically from sickle cell
disease, they have some genes in majority of the population that are conserved. And
many of them are ultra rapid metabolizers of opioids. And frequently people with sickle
cell disease get prescribed the maximal allowed amount of opioids, which has been steadily
decreasing over time, but they tend to be ultra rapid metabolizers. So whereas most
average people would probably fall in the intermediate, in the mid range of drug metabolizing,
and a little opioid goes a long way, there are populations that would rapidly just wouldn't
feel an effect. So it'd look really weird on someone's chart had a doctor like, wow,
you're taking a lot of opioids. But unless you knew the genetic component, and the other
drugs they were taking, it may not make a lot of sense. So one is to know thyself, right?
And so using kind of all available tools to understand, first of all, from a baseline,
how do I even metabolize drugs? Am I the type of person who can drink coffee all day
long and go to sleep because I'm a rapid metabolizer? Or will just smelling a cup of coffee keep
me up for three days? Like these might be things you can playfully tease out. And so
the reason I want to mention that, because that is a factor with this stuff, because
there are people who have mutations, polymorphisms, a single little change can cause people to
be much more, say, you know, it can change the amount of THC that's even in their body.
So if you are a slow metabolizer of THC, you'll have more THC floating around. And much like
someone floating around with nothing to do, they might get into trouble. And so that increases
the chances of a drug-drug interaction. So you could be a slow metabolizer and realize
that I have to be careful about the timing and method of ingestion, because this is going
to stick around for longer than the average person. So you could get, you know, depending
on how well you metabolize things, you could have three-fold higher levels floating around.
Which I have to say, if you are a rapid or ultra-rapid metabolizer, you'll probably have
a better chance of passing a blood test if you were ever pulled over for a cannabis-related
DUI. You just better hope and pray you're a rapid metabolizer if it's based on thresholds
for the amount in your system. Just to give you an example of some real-world implications
for this information. Powerful information is available for you to navigate this, I think,
is the point I'm making. And so we talked about CBD and Clobazam and how that's an interaction
where CBD is inhibiting a CYP that prevents the metabolism of this class of benzodiazepine.
Not a fun time. And so, you know, we have these CYPs, these enzymes, and there's a whole
bunch of them, and they do different things. I mean, they metabolize different drugs. And
when we think about cannabinoids as victims, there's different CYPs, and they have fun
little names like CYP3A4 or CYP2C9. And you're probably wondering, those are so beautiful,
I'm so glad scientists named them that way because it's totally easy to understand what
they do. It's not like, you know. So CYP3A4 can be inhibited. They can be activated by
different drugs. And so, clorithromycin, ketoconazole, there's other protease inhibitors that people
take. And when you take those drugs, you're inhibiting some CYPs. They like to block those
proteins for some reason. And if you take a cannabinoid, you could have two to four
times the amount of THC or CBD in your bloodstream, in your plasma, relative to just, you know,
taking the cannabinoid alone. And that's, again, these could be drugs that have nothing
to do with each other, like clorithromycin or, again, ketoconazole. And that's a paper
I think published in 2013, you know, 10 years ago, they identified this reaction. And so,
what we see is that you have these drug metabolizing enzymes that can be either, can be largely
inhibited by a drug that then affects another drug. So THC needs CYP3A4 to be metabolized
and processed by the body. You inhibit that, it stays around longer, which could have unintended
consequences. But again, it all comes down to how we use the information as well. And
so, I think that there's, again, you know, a lot of this information is extrapolated
from drug metabolism studies. Like, there's not a lot of clinical work where people are
like, we want to study drug-drug interactions. It's all sort of teased out from studies.
And so, a lot of this stuff has been put together from almost like detective-like work. And
again, you know, there are some clinically significant ones and, you know, CBD, you know,
with clobizam, warfarin, tacromyas, and methadone have all been implicated in having a potential
significant drug-drug interaction. But I will say that the nuance there is that it also
depends a little bit on your genetic makeup and a couple of other factors. But again,
on paper, these things have a clinically significant interaction potentially. And THC does share
some of those similar concerns with, you know, CBD and THC both represent an issue with warfarin
potentially as well.
I think that we're seeing now exactly how complex this has become because I think for
most of us, we're just kind of thinking in this singular way that the cannabinoids are
interacting with pharmaceuticals and generally we think of it as having a bad effect. However,
you know, we're getting a better idea now that we can have cannabis acting on the pharmaceutical
and then we can have the pharmaceutical perhaps acting on the cannabis. And they can also
be going in different directions. One could be inhibiting the other or they could also
have additive effects. So now that's going in two directions. And then there's another
two directions because the additive or inhibitive effects could actually end up being desirous
or they could be something that we don't want. And so suddenly now we see this multi-dimensional
interplay between these drug-drug interactions and our definitions kind of start to float
away because some of the interactions for one patient are going to be negative, but
for a different patient they're going to be desirous. And I think that you've done a really
good job at illustrating how we need to look at individual patients and not make big, grandiose
rules that we're going to try to apply to everybody, all drugs or all types of patients.
And I like this encouragement for us to dig into our genetics as well, especially if we're
trying to tease out some kind of drug-drug interaction problem we think we have and we
want to get specific with that. I also like this idea of this perpetrator and victim idea
where you've got one compound that is receiving the action and the other one that is placing
the action. Let's talk a little bit about the cannabinoids that are already in our body.
Up till now we've been talking about adding phyto-cannabinoids, so cannabinoids from plants,
to the mix, but we know that we already have endogenous cannabinoids in our body. They
already exist. And usually when we are taking additional phyto-cannabinoids from the cannabis
plant to supplement the endocannabinoids that our body creates, that's our goal. I'm curious,
do we see any significant interactions between these endocannabinoids that somebody who doesn't
even use cannabis will have in them and these pharmaceuticals?
Sure. We certainly can talk about some of the things that will make you realize you
have an endocannabinoid system. When we talk about the endocannabinoid system, it's not
just anandamide and 2-AG and PEA and OEA and all the amino acid conjugated endocannabinoids.
We could definitely delve into the molecular psychiatry of all those compounds, but we
have to remember that a lot of these endocannabinoids are made on demand and they are metabolized
quickly. And the reason that's important is because we want to focus on anandamide and
2-AG, but we also have to focus on them being made. We can't just look at the bullet, we
have to look at the gun that's firing the bullet. And in this sense, the analogy isn't
perfect, but when we think about pha, which is the, as in, you know, I like to think far
out research, pha out research, but pha is an enzyme that, you know, chews up the endocannabinoids.
So it's the, you know, the endocannabinoid dump truck, they are made quickly by our body
on demand. Again, most signaling molecules are made and stored and released. Endocannabinoids
are made on demand. And so one interaction with the endocannabinoid system that I think
most people have experienced, I will describe in a moment. There's actually an over-the-counter
medication that anyone can buy that will interact with your endocannabinoid system. And I'm
not going to let you think about it for a minute, listener and Shango, but I just want
to tell you about this case report real quick. And so imagine you had a history of painless
injuries in your life. You accidentally cut your finger and everyone's like, oh my gosh,
did that hurt? And you're like, eh, it's all right. Stub your toe, don't feel it. Morphine,
opioids don't really relieve your pain. You get some minor surgery from experiencing life
and you know, you're like, I don't need pain medication. And you know, people around you
and even you, it's like, wow, I have this high threshold for pain. So how could the
endocannabinoid system explain, well, I'm not really getting an effect from opioids.
I actually don't even need them. And this is from a story that was laid out in a case
report about a micro-deletion in the DNA. And it was in a pha gene, the gene that tells
our bodies how to make this enzyme that breaks down the endocannabinoids and that without
the dump truck, the trash just piles up. And so you get a lot of anandamide and you know,
decreases in pain sensitivity. And so this actually really happened. The mutant walks
among us. It was a 66-year-old female, had a history of not requiring any pain medication,
a history of painless injuries. And why does this relate to an over-the-counter endocannabinoid
drug? Well, it's a little tongue-in-cheek, but paracetamol, or as some of us call it,
an endocannabinoid, requires pha to exert its pain-relieving properties. And so basically,
Alex Makrianas, who's at Northeastern University, was an advisor on my thesis and was also,
you know, many of my colleagues like Dr. Josh Hartzell and others worked with him as well.
And he discovered a drug. And it turns out that it's related to an endocannabinoid. And
basically, when you take Tylenol, it is metabolized into a pha inhibitor, which temporarily increases
the amount of endocannabinoids in your system. And so if you created what they did in an
experimental model, a permanent pha inhibitor drug, which irreversibly binds pha, you know,
paracetamol or Tylenol had no effect. So no endocannabinoid system, no Tylenol. And
this is, again, this is a fun example, an extreme example for us to play with these
concepts. Like, wow, I'm taking Tylenol. How does it work? One of the ways it works is
by inhibiting this enzyme that allows my endocannabinoids to flourish and be produced in higher than
normal concentrations. It does other things as well. And so I think like there's one
example of endocannabinoid interaction. And so the next time you go to a grocery store,
you know, look, there's an endocannabinoid medicine right there on the shelf. But obviously,
you know, endocannabinoids are slightly different in their activity than THC and CBD. They share
a lot of interactions. And I think there are other things we can think about. You know,
cannabinoids obviously interact with the endocannabinoid system. And I think one of the ways that we
can think about it is that, you know, cannabinoids can, you know, inhibit or enhance certain
activities of each other. And so, you know, if we have, you know, CBD in there and it's
modulating cannabinoid receptors to make them more difficult to be activated, it's actually
a negative allosteric modulator of CB1, you know, what does that do to your natural anandamide
functionally, right? So CBD can definitely influence that. And I think we can think about
other aspects there as well. It's, you know, I wish I had like a virtual whiteboard to
start drawing out circles and charts. But let me try to sum it up real quick. So, you
know, CBD is a great one to talk about because it does a lot of things. It's a very promiscuous
molecule, but it increases anandamide levels because CBD does have a little bit of FAA
inhibitor activity. So it increases anandamide levels. That stimulates a bunch of other channels
and receptors like TRPV1. If you're a vanilloid receptors, TRPV1, something you stimulate
every day. If you eat spicy food, it's a capsaicin from chili peppers stimulates it. And so,
you know, you could take, you know, CBD increases anandamide levels or if you just have naturally
high anandamide levels, this will counteract or antagonize the effect of potentially of
CB1 receptors on glutamatergic neurons. And so you can, you know, one thing that THC does
is it slows brain activity a little bit. And what I mean by brain activity, it doesn't
like make your brain dead, but it's one of the reasons it has a benefit, right? Is that
people talk about cytotoxicity, excessively active neurons. If you have a seizure or traumatic
injury, your neurons might be firing like crazy and firing till they kill themselves.
Just like release, release, release, stimulate, stimulate, stimulate, you know, red alert,
red alert. And you can decrease that signaling. That's why one of the reasons it makes it
hard to remember stuff, but it also makes it, you know, makes it harder to receive a
pain signal. So what happens is just simply put THC hits a receptor, decreases in glutamate
release. However, you can also enhance glutamate release by stimulating TRP receptors. And
so you could have this sort of give and take these forces going in different directions
to impact it. So I know that was a little bit of a heady response, you know, but I mean,
there's lots of examples like this.
That's probably the one we need for now, though, because you're right. It is incredibly complex
and we're certainly not going to be able to explain them all in one episode, but you made
the point very clearly that we need to not go into this with assumptions that A, we know
what's going to happen based on science that might be outmoded and that individuals and
really show the importance of individualized medicine and that cannabis can do that. And
then also in a way, we're kind of like already swimming in all of these drug compounds that
we're taking from over the counter drugs, plus any pharmaceuticals that were being offered.
Plus, you know, you add to it maybe some cannabinoids and maybe somebody is also microdosing mushrooms
and suddenly now there's this soup of different drug-drug interactions going on and there's
no surprise that there would be some sometimes unexpected effects.
And before you jump on that, because I can almost feel you going for it, we need to take
our first short break. We'll be right back. You are listening to Shaping Fire and my guest
today is molecular pharmacologist, Jeon Marku, PhD.
You've heard me talk about the award-winning cannabis seeds that come from the analytical
breeding program of Seth and Eric Crawford who founded Oregon CBD Seeds. In fact, Seth
was a guest on Shaping Fire in 2020 to talk about triploid genetics.
Seth and Eric are now releasing high-THC seeds for home growers and farms as Grow the Revolution
Seeds at GTRCeeds.com. Their high-THC seeds are extraordinary in that they will start
to flower at 16.5 hours of daylight instead of the typical 14.5 hours of daylight. That
means in most regions, your plants will start to flower outdoors in the middle of July instead
of the middle of August, which means these photo-period plants finish in September and
not October, totally upending the photo-period seed market.
Seth and Eric took their prized early-flowering CBG line and bred it to some of the most desired
verified genetics out there, including Sour Diesel, Triangle Cush, Wedding Cake, Chem
Dogs, Skittles, and others. These crosses all express powerful photo-period terpene
profiles and THC, giving you a great high. GTRCeeds has a new THC-V line with plants
like Double Durban and Gigantor that boast 1-to-1 THC to THC-V. And people want that
THC-V.
GTRCeeds are very consistent, true-growing inbred F1s from stabilized inbred parent lines.
These seeds are nearly homogenous, and the plants should all grow the same. There is
only one phenotype in every pack, available as diploids and triploids. Seth and Eric's
company is still family-owned, patient and employee-centric, and partially powered by
their two acres of solar panels. Everyone can purchase these seeds and the entire catalog
of Oregon CBD seeds at GTRCeeds.com. Go to GTRCeeds.com today and choose something revolutionary
for your next indoor or outdoor run.
The cannabis seed market is filled with big-name and hype breeders fighting to get your attention.
And occasionally, you discover a breeder who is breeding because it is the only thing they
care to do, and they would be doing it even if they never made a dime. That's my friend
Craig Hartzaw, who makes seeds as magnetic genetics.
Craig comes from five generations of farmers and is earning his master's degree in horticulture
right now. He's been growing cannabis for 15 years and been breeding for 9. He hasn't
sold many seeds because he really isn't a sales guy, but I've personally been growing
his seeds for years, and I know I can always rely on his seeds to germinate, thrive, and
smell and taste great. I suggested to Craig that he should probably sell some seeds and
asked if he had enough stockpiled to bother. Much to my shock, he was sitting on 5 full
menus in cold storage that he produced in the last 2 years and hadn't even tried to
sell any of them. He was simply too busy breeding. Well, we his friends convinced him to make
his damn seeds available to the people, and now they are.
For the first time anywhere, you can now buy magnetic genetic seeds at Neptune Seed Bank
and on Strainly.io. Neptune Seed Bank has just picked up magnetic genetics for a trial
to gauge your interest. They are carrying 3 strains from his Mean Mug, Prominence, and
Turpinado menus which are exclusive to Neptune. It's an easy way to score his seeds. You
can pick up those menus plus his Hillbilly Skunk and Candy Breath crosses and more on
his profile page on Strainly.io. If you want very affordable seeds that are exceptional
quality with rare terpene profiles from a good guy, go to NeptuneSeedBank.com or Strainly.io.
Sometimes it is fun to buy the hype thing from the brand you admire, but when you're
ready to buy the strain you'll love from an obscure mad scientist, you're ready for
magnetic genetics. MagneticGenetics.org and on Instagram. Magnetic Genetics.
There are a lot of good people launching new businesses in cannabis, psilocybin, and other
psychedelics, and it's a very strange time for us. In the same moment that psilocybin
mushrooms are illegal at the federal level, they are becoming increasingly legal in states
across the country. These businesses leading the way into the future of plant medicines
require specialized legal representation by attorneys who have depth not only in litigation,
mergers and acquisitions, but also in psychedelic and other plant medicines.
Green Light Law Group has been empowering cannabis businesses since 2014, and as the
market has diversified into psilocybin and other plant medicines, Green Light has been
right there evolving with their diverse clients to provide legal expertise with a high level
of legal acumen, creative strategy, and precision that comes with an intimate and specific understanding
of both business law and plant medicine. If you are a business owner trying to navigate
the layered local and national drug laws on your own, you are at risk of fumbling. These
confusing and quickly changing laws complicate everything. Green Light Law Group is ready
to help you when hit with a lawsuit, or because you were shafted by a vendor or business partner,
or simply because you want to stay legal and could use some preventative guidance before
cultivating a controlled substance as an entrepreneur.
Green Light Law Group is a collection of folks who care profoundly about their work, and
I know this is true because I know the folks from Green Light. There is a huge difference
between a big legal firm who has decided to start representing a few drug companies, versus
working with a collection of high integrity, passionate lawyers who are personally interested
in new plant medicines and firmly believe in their power to heal. Contact Green Light
Law Group today and learn more about the services they can offer your industry leading cannabis
or psychedelics company. That's Green Light Law Group at GreenLightLawGroup.com.
Welcome back. You are listening to Shaping Fire. I'm your host, Shango Losa. My guest
today is molecular pharmacologist, Jehan Marku, PhD.
So Jehan, during the first set, you were very clear that we are seeing more of these pharmaceutical
and cannabis, cannabinoid interactions for two big reasons. One being there's more people
using cannabis, and then two, there's more people researching it and collecting the data
on this stuff, which is really great. I would have to think that not only is there just
more people though using cannabis, cannabis itself has expanded. We're suddenly accessing
all these new cannabinoids that we are experiencing in higher amounts than they would have in
land races. And we're also got new ways to use cannabis, like dabbing, where you're suddenly
getting all these terpenes and cannabinoids at one time. And it's not uncommon for people
to keel over after a fat dab. And there's so much more than we as humans ever interacted
with when we were walking the plains and mountains and pulling cannabis plants out and getting
the kind of land races they had 10,000 years ago or whatever. Will you speak to that, to
what effect these new methods and new ranges of cannabinoids are having on the interaction
with pharmaceuticals?
Yeah, absolutely. I think our ancestors used to just eat cannabis and clear some land and
there'd be more cannabis growing in fresh cut land. They didn't have access to chemicals
like butane and shoved it in a tube and extract it. I mean, they would do manual extractions.
And so I think it's always important to remember that concentrating cannabis has been around
for a long time. You know, Hasheesh, Arab merchants used to trade it up and down the
coast of Africa. Some of the earliest reports about cannabis use are these black Hasheesh
bars with guys riding basically naked and horseback into villages to trade these products.
But the composition of the matter has changed greatly. And, you know, this always reminds
me of a mantra, a phrase, or a principle from my colleague Teresa Simon, who's an epidemiologist.
And we've done a lot of database mining, FDA database, adverse events databases, collection
tools, like the budsinfo.com thing where we collect experiential data and adverse events
from cannabis products. It's a part of a student project. But she says this thing, it seems
like every week at every meeting, she says, efficacy gets it on the market, safety keeps
it on the market. And I think if we've all been in the cannabis industry more than two
years, three years, we can all probably think of one or two products that hit the market
because they were effective. Where are they now? And we have to really pause and think
about that. We have to think about a little bit about our commitments here when we put
these products out there. And, you know, I'm trying to get back to your question about
your question as I've meandered off the path a little bit, but it just made me think about,
you know, a lot of these products are concentrating things beyond what our ancestors would have,
you know, encountered in the wild. You know, CBL and all these other cannabinoids, I mean,
they've never been consumed in large amounts. It's unprecedented in our, you know, in our
time frame. I mean, people even 20 years ago weren't really consuming huge amounts
of purified cannabinoids. Even the distribution of cannabinoids and products in concentrated
products from Morocco over the centuries does not nearly compare to the purity and refinement
of these dabs, waxes, shatters, whatever you want to call it. The stuff that looks like
earwax at things like that. And, you know, there's no question. Those are very efficient
products to deliver cannabinoids into your body. What is unclear is what is the tradeoff?
What's the risk benefits to using that? And do you need to use as much as you're using
or could you use less? And I think that those are questions we have. You know, we think
about, you know, there's this old question, the dose, you know, makes the poison. You
know, nothing is poisonous. Everything is poisonous. It's all a matter of dose. And,
you know, we think about terpenes. You know, at ambient air levels, terpenes are wonderful.
You walk into a grocery store and if they've got that produce section, it smells great
to be there. Cool breeze, light smell of chlorophyll, and maybe they have some flowers going. But
if you concentrate some of those products, you know, you'll find them as cleaning agents.
Limonene is a good one. It's delicious and refreshing and uplifting in lemonade and even
on a cannabis product, as has been reported. But if you concentrate it, it makes a great
cleaning agent. It can strip a sticker off a metal wall. Not necessarily something you
want to inhale into your lungs is a pure concentrated terpenes. And it also depends, again, like
there are terpenes that you shouldn't even use in a diffuser if you have a small pet
like a cat. And so again, I think we always have to think about that some of these compounds
do carry risks. It's not like they're safe at any level, you know, without risk at any
level. And what I'm really talking about here is, you know, there are moments where we should
pause and think. There are red lights, there are yellow lights, there's proceed with normal
precautions, there's proceed with extra precautions, and there's consider alternatives. And I think,
you know, we're really lucky that THC, CBD, low toxicity, great therapeutic index. I mean,
they're both FDA approved in one form. You know, where the THC appears in three scheduling
categories. If it's below a certain amount, you know, it's been legalized in the form
of hemp. I mean, hemp chocolates can have more THC in them than a THC product you buy
at a dispensary. I mean, it's so clearly they've, you know, through regulation and stuff like
that, and even this public health experiment we have going on, we found that, hey, you
know, there are certain, you know, levels that are lower risk than others. And THC,
CBD, again, just because they're relatively safe, doesn't mean that every single thing
on the plant is relatively safe. You know, so I think we have to be, it's good to be
optimistic, but also to have skepticism. Skepticism is our friend, like, you know, okay, THC,
CBD, we know about them, we know about their acidic components a little bit, but what do
we know about the, you know, other hundred or so compounds that can be found on it in
small amounts? You know, I think of, you know, things in nature, the most potent things in
nature are often there in the smallest amounts. You know, if you look at marine biology, like
nematodes and other stuff like that for documentaries, they have, you know, really potent compounds
for defense in them, and they're usually, you know, small amounts. And, you know, we
think about things like, I think it's THCP and these other things that are like, ooh,
a hundred times more potent. And it's like, what does that really mean? You know, what
does that mean? Does it mean it's just going to be more pleasurable, or does it mean you're
going to be catatonic for three or four days if you consume a large amount of it? And then,
and these stories are not often popularized for a number of reasons, but there are stories
you know, back in the, you know, back in the decades ago, it was very common for pharmacologists
who developed drugs. This is something they phased out when I was a graduate student,
so no fun for me, but one of the most common things was the pharmacologist to take it to
see if it actually worked. It usually ended with a student being doubled over a sink vomiting,
but you know, that was what people would do. And I think we have to, there are lots of
stories if you go to conferences and you ask around, oh, has anyone ever taken this
compound that's a hundred to a thousand times more potent than THC? Someone may tell you
a story, yeah, that guy was catatonic for five days on his floor of his kitchen, you
know, and stuff like that. But again, that's not to say that, and I'm not saying that any
compounds like that exist on the market that we know of, but again, I'm just wanting to
get the idea that, you know, small changes to a molecule, small differences can have
dramatic effects. You know, ethanol, we like to drink it. Methanol can make us go blind.
There, there's a very subtle difference in their chemical structure.
Right on. I want to tie a couple of things that you said together for the caregivers
who are listening, because, you know, as, as, you know, everybody who listens to the
show knows that like I'm very patient-centric, and while I myself have not a healthcare professional,
because of the role I play in the community, I talk to a lot of patients and have heard,
you know, anecdotal stories and like, you know, over a thousand patients. And so, if you're a
caregiver, based on what Jehan just said, these are the couple of the takeaways that, that I would
offer, which would be number one, just because you've had a, just because you're working with
a patient or you are a patient who has always used cannabis and, and has used a particular
pharmaceutical for a long time, don't take out a possibility that the cannabis and the
pharmaceutical could be interacting in a new way now, because the cannabis that is available to
you as a patient has now changed. Maybe you're no longer just, you know, you know, smoking your
home grow and, and, and rolling up joints and, and using that for your pain. Maybe now you are
dabbing and maybe you are taking edibles with, you know, 200 milligrams of THC, or maybe you are,
you're dabbing and you are supplementing with straight terpenes, which I see people do, which
is like, is so dangerous because there's, there's no scientific history of us, of us dabbing straight
terpenes like that. And so, so, you know, I'm not saying don't dab. I'm not saying, you know,
don't amend with terpenes in your edibles, other things. What I'm saying is, is you as a patient or
as a caregiver it is, it is a helpful perspective to realize that as cannabis changes and as it's
not the same cannabis that we had 30 years ago, that the patient's relationship with cannabinoids
and the pharmaceuticals might change as well. So moving on from, from that to the next area,
Jehan, you know, I wanted to talk just briefly about isolate versus whole plant medicines,
because, you know, I've warmed up to isolates a little bit. I've never really had all that
much good to say about isolates. I'm a big fan of, of whole plant cannabis preparations,
but I've had to be more open to isolate as, as the breeding for specific, you know,
blends of cannabinoids in plants is, you know, going slower than we want it to go to be able to
relieve the suffering of, of so many patients. And so, you know, before, before CBD was available
everywhere you know, we eventually figured out that, okay, if you've got a THC type one plant,
but you don't have access to CBD, all right, spiking it with some CBD isolate in the presence
of the rest of the cannabinoids in the, in the whole plant resin, that's probably a good thing.
And, and, you know, you know, Dr. Agarwal and, and Dr. Russo have all been on the show and have
said, you know, that's, that sounds like a really good idea. And so more of us are using isolate
here and there to, to spike our different preparations. On the other side, you've got
pharmaceutical companies that are using, you know, isolate and hand chosen terpenes to make,
you know, you know, the early endocannabinoid drugs like, like Epidiolex, right. Which,
you know, you know, when I read the, when I read the descriptions, you know, it, it,
it smacks of like kind of Frankenstein's monster to me a bit. I would much rather have a plant that
is a two to one CBD to THC with a proper terpene profile and, and have it in the resin from the
plant and then just use the plant, right. Because there's, there's thousands of years
of good relationship between us and the plant that I think is less effective when we, when we
tear it all down and, and put it into a pharmaceutical. But, you know we have,
we're going in this direction and it's certainly helping people and that's good. So I've, I've had
to soften my opinionated on this, you know. So, so this is all circling around to this question,
is that when we're talking about interactions with other pharmaceuticals, are there any things
that we should as cannabis patients or as caregivers be aware of how isolates might
interact with pharmaceuticals differently than how whole plant preparations like rosins and stuff
might interact with pharmaceuticals? You know, that it's a question that,
um, you, the answer is yes and no, you know, to give a truly academic response. So,
you know, spiking, adulterating, or, or, you know, can be one in the same term.
So I might use them interchangeably as I just kind of speak off the cuff, but, you know, mixing,
let's start with ancient times, right? So, so changing the composition of something you're
consuming for the purposes of a psychoactive effect is, is not a new practice. I would,
I would give you very poor odds against the idea that our ancestors mixed lots of plant products
together and smoked them. I'm willing to bet that things like lavender or chamomile and
calamus root, I think even some of these have been documented, were smoked and probably mixed
with cannabis, not all too different in concept from spiking with terpenes, adding a foreign
compound to the mix. Um, indeed like Sativex, that's like what you're describing sounds like
how Sativex is made, uh, the, the, the oral mucosal, the tincture that's sprayed under the
tongue that's licensed in over 30 countries, but not in the United States. Um, that is two cannabis
varieties extracted by CO2 extraction, turned it in oil and mixed together to get this nice ratio
of a one-to-one THC to CBD. So it's a proven strategy or tactic, um, in preparing medicine
and making consumer products. Um, anytime you are increasing the dose or your exposure,
you're introducing new complications. Um, cannabinoids are waxy and sticky compounds. Um,
and you know, if you're really consuming a lot of this stuff, um, it can stick to everything. It can
stick to your teeth. It can start to stick to your lungs. There's been some people who, um,
have way, and I'm talking extreme, like a lasagna tray of, you know, a dab sort of thing just to be,
you know, um, a little silly there, but they're, they're, they're consuming a lot. It can coat
airways. It can collect on material and things like that. And that, that, that, that may be a
bad time for, for some folks. Um, so again, but that's not going to happen with moderate or low
use of these products. I mean, um, typically you can't, you know, um, what's sold in a lot of adult
use stores, um, regulated adult use dispensaries is, is really not enough, um, to induce some of
these things. But again, you know, chronic consumption of concentrated products can introduce,
you know, new things. And I guess, um, let's, let's use an analogy. Um, let's talk like beer,
right. Versus, um, you know, vodka, right. Beer, few percent alcohol, maybe 8%. Let's,
that's a pretty potent beer, right. You know, vodka, they don't even use percents. They use
proofs. Uh, you know, it could be quite, uh, it could be quite a lot more potent by an order of
magnitude. Even wine, wine can be, you know, upwards of 20% alcohol. That's, you know,
twice as much that's, uh, than a beer. You know, if you're talking 40 to 60% by weight alcohol,
I mean, you could be adding a zero onto the percentage of a beer. Beer is 5%. And you have
a alcoholic beverage that's above 50% alcohol. That's an order of magnitude more ethanol. So if
you're drinking a beer, you know, you have all these other things in there. Uh, you know, you
got some, some flavor compounds, you know, a nice big double hopped IPA, you know, they just,
they smell amazing. If you're into plants, um, you can, you can smell the terpenes from the hops
plant. You can, there are other compounds in there that give it flavor and body and color.
It's, it's a bit dilute though. The alcohol in that mixture, you're, you're drinking like liquid
bread in a sense. You know, if you look at like a Guinness, for example, um, or some of those more
heavier beers, unfiltered beers, there's other components. Now, what is the difference between a
beer and vodka? Well, I just, you know, we can describe it in terms of smell and taste,
but you can also describe it in terms of calories and what else is in there. And is it better to
drink the ethanol in a liquid bread preparation, or is it better to drink it in a pure form?
And I wanted to use something that perhaps people who don't use dabs or extracts or are considering
it to give them, you know, an analogy to think about when it comes to these products. Uh, I think
the idea of adding a compound to mitigate the side effects, like putting CBD in a product
to decrease the potential adverse effects of someone who's sensitive to THC. I think that's a
wonderful idea. Um, and I'd love to see, I think more, more of that available to people.
It's this form of compound pharmacy, I think. Um, and so I think, uh, you know, it seems
like, you know, these extracts have a utility, I think, especially in people with severe conditions,
cancer, chemotherapy, um, extremely difficult to treat neurodegenerative disorders. You know,
when we look at CBD, even, um, you know, the average person, you know, buys a boutique CBD
product, might have five milligrams in it, maybe 20. And they're like, I feel so relaxed. Uh, but,
uh, if you look at what's being used in the clinic, we're talking hundreds of milligrams of CBD for an
effect. So, um, we can't really say, oh, it's bad. And this is good. It's, it's all a bit of a spectrum
in terms of the context of use and why you're using it. Um, but again, the more you take of
something, the more you have in your body. Again, I use the analogy of the guy walking around town
with nothing to do, might just get into trouble if they walk down the wrong alley. So, um, I think
about that a little bit too. Um, you know, if you're hanging out, playing in the street, because
you got nothing to do, it's all fine until the wrong car comes along, you know? So, um, there are
things like that I think about too. So, if you're using a lot of cannabinoids and suddenly you get
a new prescription medication, um, you know, that might present some complications. That's why,
you know, that they have that advice, you know, go low, start low and go slow, take it at night
when you're using new products. It's to sort of give you like, I'm going to use it in a safe place.
I'm going to use a small amount and I'm going to write down what happened and how I felt, just so
I can start to track things. Because no one's really, you know, Shane, I don't think either
one of us are saying, um, you know, we're not telling people not to use it. We're thinking,
we're just giving them pause to think about it, you know? Exactly, exactly. Know what you're doing
and just because other people are doing it doesn't mean that it's necessarily right for you, you know?
Make informed choices. Absolutely. And I think about, you know, I don't golf that often. And
when I do, it's pretty terrible. But, um, you know, I think the same thing for the cannabis is
same thing. The things I like in golf are putting the slow putts, the short distance things, you
know, hitting, whacking the ball as hard as you can with as much force as you can to go as far as
you can, you know, taking heroic doses of things. You know, it's, uh, I see you might spend a lot
of time wondering just where that ball is versus, you know, putting, you got a green, there's a lot,
there's still a lot of fun there and a challenge there as well. Um, but again, it's, it's different
strokes for different folks. But again, I would really just give people pause about that because
you want to take a holistic approach with this. And, and, you know, you, when it comes to patients,
you know, especially avoiding drug-drug interactions, there might be a real strategy here.
Maybe you prefer edibles, but the edibles stick around so long because they're, they're swallowed,
they go through GI tract, then they go to the liver, just like a pill. However, inhalation
avoids that first round, eventually does get metabolized, but it avoids that first round
pass metabolism. So, if you're consuming, uh, let's call it healthy, normal cannabis, not,
not special cannabis, not, um, you know, cannabis dipped in hash oil, not dabs, not
cannabis with spiked with other cannabinoids, but just good old fashioned, uh, plant material,
you know, and you're inhaling that, you know, you might be able to decrease your chances as a
strategy, just conceptually, you know, the amount of administration matters. Swallowing things
makes everything complicated. Um, there's a reason why Sativex, and if you haven't looked
into Nabixamals or tinctures, I think this is an area worthy of further development.
Um, taking a product that can be applied under the tongue or in the cheek and absorb bucally,
don't swallow it. Don't, don't, don't even visualize yourself swallowing it. Um, I don't
want any placebo effects on this podcast, but you, uh, you absorb it bucally, it goes into your
mouth and it goes right into your brain. Like why send the, the cannabinoids on a wild goose chase
through your digestive track and through the body? All they got to go all travel through the whole
body before they get to the brain. It's a little, little crazy trip they have to take. So why not
just load the magic school bus and send it right, right to the brain and avoiding, um, some
complications potentially. So you have options, you know, the point of this is, is your only
option isn't inhalation. Your only option isn't oral. Um, there are potentially other strategies
that you could use. And I think these are great conversations to have with the, your PCP or your
primary care physician, not talking about another drug there, um, but, uh, or, or any medical health
professional, um, doctors are trained to talk about drug, drug interactions. They can look up
any of this information quickly, or you can reach out to me or check out, you know,
rewind the show and pull some of the, the, the references we talk about, um, and bring those
to your clinician. I used to advise medical cannabis patients. And I did a lot of advocacy
and give them, you know, papers. I'm sure there's like a couple clinicians at like Kaiser or some
medical place in California are being like, who the hell was giving my patients all those peer
reviewed studies and having them bring them to my office. So I was sometimes arming medical
cannabis patients with peer reviewed studies to share with their clinician, to have these types
of discussion. How should I consume it? What are the benefits and risks of consuming these products
topically, orally, submucosally, um, by inhalation. Um, and these are all in, in what amounts and
things like that. So these are all great conversations to continue to have. And as you
said, it's going to continue to change because products change, varieties of cannabis change.
Um, and I think it's always good to just check in about that.
Right on. So, um, when we come back from our commercial break in set three, we're going to
talk about some, uh, uh, red flag drugs and, uh, categories of drugs, um, that we want to be
especially aware of. Um, if you are a cannabis patient or you are doing, um, uh, you know,
caregiving for somebody else and, uh, we'll go through those, um, with, uh, Jayhan. So,
uh, we're going to take a short break and be right back. You are listening to Shaping Fire.
And my guest today is molecular pharmacologist, Jayhan Markhu, PhD.
Online cannabis seed distributors often seem to be all the same, but Multiverse Beans constantly
works to provide you with cannabis seeds and a buying experience that you won't find elsewhere.
Multiverse Beans works directly with the breeders to secure as many packs of your favorites as
possible so that they have your favorite beans long after others have sold out. Some shops simply
buy breeder minimums, but I get messages all the time from breeders saying some version of
Multiverse asked to buy my entire run. At multiversebeans.com, you can find rare cannabis
seeds from night owl seeds, including the dark owl sub label, Mephisto genetics, square one genetics,
Robin Hood seeds, and ethos and so many others. Multiverse also initiates projects with breeders
to secure exclusive packs that you simply won't find elsewhere. Multiverse founder Paul Lall
sees himself not only as a curator of the best cannabis seeds available, but also as a collaborator
with breeders trying to bring novel crosses to the market that his customers are asking for.
Multiverse Beans also creates exclusive stickers for their popular seed varieties
that are available free only when you order those seeds from Multiverse.
Check out their stickers like the badass recent slap for Mothman by Gnomed Automatics on Instagram
at multiversebeans. And finally, the freebies. As you'd expect, Paul sends quality freebies
with every order. And when you spend at least $150, Multiverse allows you to choose your freebies
from their special selections. You can get a 10% discount off regularly priced items when you use
the discount code shapingfire, all one word at checkout. Sign up for their mailing list to be
eligible for their monthly seed giveaway worth $250. So go to multiversebeans.com now for a
buying experience you won't get anywhere else. As cannabis regulations become more demanding
and consumers become more educated, it is increasingly important to avoid the use of
chemical pesticides when cultivating cannabis. Beneficial insects have been used for decades
by the greenhouse vegetable and ornamental plant industry. And today, many cannabis cultivators
are moving from sprays and chemicals to beneficial insects. Copert has the beneficial insects,
mites and nematodes, microbials, sticky cards, and air distribution units you need to partner
with nature to defend your garden. Whether you manage acres of canopy or have a simple
grow tent in your home, Copert is ready to help answer your questions and help you transition
away from chemical sprays towards clean and natural solutions. Since 1967, Copert has assisted
growers in identifying pests and devising reliable solutions while providing healthy insects and mites
that will protect your yield. Since the 1990s, Copert has been a leader in cannabis pest and
disease control worldwide and have highly trained consultants to assist you in Canada
and the United States from coast to coast. With their global network of grower support,
Copert can help. Visit copert.com, choose your country, and get detailed information.
That's Copert, K-O-P-P-E-R-T dot com. For the most up-to-date cannabis-related
biological control information, you can also check their Instagram at Copert Canada.
You know getting away from pesticides is good for health and good for business,
and Copert is ready to help. Visit copert.com today.
There are so many seed banks nowadays that you really have options in who to choose.
Not only that, if you pick the wrong seed bank, you could be in for a really sketchy ride.
And that's only one of the reasons I recommend Gaslamp Seeds to my friends and listeners who
are looking for a seed bank. You probably already know Gaslamp Seeds as Hembra Genetics.
Hembra recently changed their name to Gaslamp Seeds. Gaslamp Seeds is not just another seed bank.
Gaslamp is a female-operated boutique cannabis genetics provider that only sells thoughtfully
curated seeds from the top names in cannabis breeding. With over 60 breeders and over 1,000
strains to choose from, you will certainly find something you'll love. Gaslamp Seeds has something
for everyone with over 650 feminized strains, 300 regular varieties, and over 200 auto flowers to
choose from. Names you know you can trust, like Compound Genetics, Humboldt Seed Company,
Night Owl, In House, Fast Buds, Gnome Automatics, and Ethos.
And we both know that there are other seed banks who will take your money but have no customer
service. I invited Gaslamp to advertise on Shaping Fire after hearing so many good stories about them
from my friends. They have A-plus customer service with lightning-fast response times.
In most cases, Helene and Caitlin will get your order out the same day you place it.
Most seed banks are simply not this organized or interested in getting your seeds to you so fast.
But Gaslamp Seeds cares. You even get free seeds with every order.
Helene and Caitlin get it. They have been in the cannabis growing scene for over a decade.
Want some extra freebies? Use the code ShapingFire, all one word, at checkout and they will
give you an additional set of Gaslamp-provided freebies. That's an extra $30 in free seeds.
Buy seeds from good folks who will send you great seeds reliably every time.
Visit GaslampSeeds.com today. That's Gaslamp Seeds.
People can see all these different avenues that we could say are avenues of concern,
but they're really avenues of solutions. Usually, by the time a cannabis patient is either A,
us and sick, or B, we are a caregiver and we've been called in to help out,
usually there is a problem to be resolved and healing to be applied.
And so, what I want to ask you is that there have got to be some categories of pharmaceuticals that
are just red flagged because they are up at the top of the list of drugs that are likely to interact
with cannabis. And while our goal today has been to hopefully arm cannabis patients and caregivers
with lots of different ways to dive into what they're trying to suss out,
there's probably a few that we should just put a big red flag on.
Why don't we go through two or three of these? What's at the top of your list of red flagged drugs
that are going to interact in cannabis in potentially sketchy ways?
So, things to be concerned about. First, I'm going to start with alphabet soup real quick,
then we'll go into more specifics. But if you are taking potential drug-drug interactions,
have to do with drugs, or looking at CYP, C-Y-P, 2C9, healthcare professionals will know exactly
what you're talking about. So, if you are listening, pulling out a little piece of paper
and writing these down and then throwing them into a search browser will reveal all. But CYP2C9,
CYP1A2, CYP2B6, and CYP2C19, and even some of the acidic cannabinoids like THC, THCVA, CBD, CBDVA,
CBGA, these all interact, for example, with CYP2C9. So, if you have taking a medication,
which is probably, you know, these are very common targets of medications,
you could have a victim-perpetrator effect going on. So, a couple of red flag potentials, you know.
You know, I used to think, like, I want, you know, I already, you know, have my own podcast as well,
and I thought about starting another one just called What the Hell Happened, where people would
call in with drug experiences and be like, I was doing fine, I was having fun at this party,
and I just got lightheaded and passed out, and like, what the hell happened? And, you know,
these stories, you know, joke a little bit there to cut the tension, because this is about
hypertension and hypotension. And the hypotensive effects of cannabis, most people probably don't
even notice, or it's transient. You've been sitting down for a while, playing a board game or
whatever, you know, FIFA on your Xbox, and you step up, oh, I feel a little lightheaded,
and then you're like, oh, I'm better now. But some people, that is really severe. So,
if you're taking cardiovascular medication, I think, and you have a cardiovascular condition,
a great idea to really pause and think about things and maybe have a discussion,
because cannabis does cause hypotension. The blood vessels, you know, will dilate,
and the heart will work a little harder to pump blood around, because, you know,
things are a little more relaxed. But that hypotension could result in being so lightheaded
that you have to sit down, or, you know, you really feel the pull of the gravity of the earth
and just bam. And that could be bad, especially if you hit something on the way down. So, I'd say,
red flag interaction, cardiovascular medications that treat hypertension, you know, I would say,
look into that if you're on anything having to do with cardiovascular medications.
All right. What's another area?
Yeah, I'd say warfarin. And I pronounce drugs a little weirdly, because I had, my mentor was from
Lebanon. One of our collaborators that I listened to a lot was born in Scotland and spent 30 years
in Australia. So, I'm used to hearing drugs pronounced in really weird ways. And so, I don't
know the correct way to say apoptosis or apoptosis or apoptosis, you know, there's all these ways. So,
bear with me here. But warfarin is one. And this is, most people probably find...
It's a blood clotting drug, right?
Right, blood thinning. So, yeah, so, if you take that, you could potentially, you know,
this is where cannabinoids are perpetrators, warfarin will stick around longer, increase risk
of excessive bleeding there. So, that would be a potential red flag, something to think about,
consider. Again, that's where this mantra we hear, start low and go slow, comes in.
We mentioned clobazam. And this really is, again, a risk of benzodiazepine toxicity.
So, and most notably with CBD. So, again, thinking about benzodiazepines and cannabinoids,
you may want to proceed slowly there. Central nervous depressants could have additive effects.
We already talked about that. A lot of the pines, the clozapine and olanzapine will have reduced
efficacy. And I think that, you know, and again, I'll just tie it in, the CYP3A4 and CYP2C9,
you know, you should think about those and drug-drug interactions. If you have drugs that
are metabolized or interact with those, I would say discuss alternatives that might be appropriate
in that instance, just based on the literature and what's available. It may not be clinically
feasible, so you might have to consider, you know, different routes of administration or something.
So, you mentioned the clobazam, which is a benzodiazepam. So, while that one,
most of us don't come across in our regular life, but I believe another benzodiazepam is
Valium, which is like all through, you know, our scene and, you know, your aunt gives one to you
or whatever, you know, these are very common to come across. Should we be careful similarly mixing
Valium with cannabinoids?
Yeah, absolutely. I would say probably true for any anti-anxiety medication.
So Xanax?
Yeah, Librium. Even antidepressants, Zoloft, Prozac, Lexapro, just like naming things off the top of my
head. You know, these things even like carry over to the psychedelic space too, you know, people,
you're not supposed to, you know, go on a psilocybin therapeutic session while on these
things either. And so, you know, mostly what we're concerned about with a cannabis or hemp product is
that these increased side effects, dizziness, drowsiness, confusion, and other difficulties
when you're using a diazepam together with something like cannabis.
Now, again, everyone's going to be different. Some people will probably listen to this and be like,
I do that all the time and it's fine. And other people are going to be like, I'm never doing that
again. And what we're really talking about here, I think, is, you know, cannabis can be a beneficial
thing in people's life and we don't want it to be a bad thing. We want it to be a good thing
in people's life or at least have no net effect. No net effect and a good thing. That'd be great.
And so we're really trying to figure out how do we prevent people from, you know, having,
out of the phrase, I'm never doing that again, or that was terrible. You know, I think of how hard
the cannabis industry has worked to get where it is and you don't want a first-time patient who
could benefit from cannabis to get the wrong product, have a drug-drug interaction, or a
side effect and say, you know what, I'm never touching that stuff again. And it might have just been
a simple issue as timing, route of administration, or again, dosing.
I want to focus on one thing that you said. It makes a lot of sense that if you would take a
benzodiazepam like Valium or Xanax and add THC blend to it, that you are going, you know,
you are more likely to, you know, have decreased dexterity and increased drowsiness and, you know,
won't be able to drive your car as well. And these things that like slow your human down,
right? That all makes sense. But you caught me off guard when you mentioned those SSRIs because
so many people who are taking, you know, some of these, you know, long-term anxiety and
depression medications like Welbutrin and, you know, that whole basket that you mentioned,
many of them also supplement with cannabis either for quality of life or just, you know,
because they still have residual anxiety, even on those drugs. What is the mechanism
of cannabis interacting with this basket of drugs? And is there anything that patients
who are blending those themselves at home should watch out for?
Great. Great question there. Let me think about that for a second.
The mechanism of action, I mean, the antidepressants are, it's a very broad field.
So we could think about maybe like Flexitine or Prozac. And, you know, some of these have,
like that one I like to talk about, because again, it has no known drug interactions according to
information available, but it can have overlapping side effects. So that would be more in the
pharmacodynamic area with some of these antidepressants. I'd have to dig in a little
bit deeper on some of the mechanisms of actions with those pharmaceuticals.
Fair enough. Let's talk about in use then. All right. So maybe I caught you off guard with the
actual pharmacodynamics, but if you are taking one of these SSRIs, would the side effects that
you would want to be cautious of when taking cannabis, the same ones as the benzodiazepines,
with the SSRIs, are we still talking about loss of dexterity and sedation and
difficulty driving cars, or are we talking about something potentially more serious, like
serotonin poisoning or something? I don't know. I'm just guessing.
Right. So I think you might experience, so some of the SSRIs specifically, right?
Citalopram, I think is a pretty popular one. It's extensively metabolized by CYP2C19, one of the
alphabet soup things I mentioned in the beginning of this thing, which is one of the
major enzymes that metabolize cannabinoids. And so you could run the risk of having cannabinoids
be a victim of an interaction, which could make them more or less effective, make them
more likely to have an unwanted effect. Again, just going back to that analogy of the guy strutting
around town with nothing to do, might walk down the down street or just, you know, it's okay to sit
in the middle of the street when it's not busy and do your work that you need to do, but it can
get more dangerous the longer you sit there. So again, just to try and cobble together an analogy.
So I think with some of those SSRIs, you might be thinking it could be go either way, victim or
perpetrator. And this is, you know, kind of at the limit, I think, of a lot of information out there.
If even if you go, you know, I worked with Penn State, they have a cannabis research center there,
and I've been advising and participating with their center, and they put up like a little
database where you can put in cannabinoids and look up potential drug-drug interactions. And
you know, it's like, I think of it like this, like they've made the beach and a little bit of shoreline,
and you can wade into the water and explore what's there. But if you want to go any deeper and like
see dolphins and, you know, the shipwrecks and things, we're not there yet with being able to go
to that level of exploration. But we do know that SSRIs and cannabinoids do share common routes of
metabolism. And that could be something to think about, you know, because not every SSRI goes
through the same SIP, but a lot of them do. All right. The last medicine category I want to
touch on, it may be a specialty that you may or may not like, you know, overlap with, but what
about children's medicines, right? Because, you know, the fact that children who have got, you
know, a range of issues, you know, very easily pointing at like immunocompromised type kids,
like they have literally been the poster children for cannabis medicine and helping to expand it,
you know, over the last 20 years because, you know, the way that cannabis medicine helps kids,
it pulls at your heartstrings and people are like, yes, these kids should be able to be using
cannabis oil for their seizures and let's get this law passed, right? And so, would you have
anything to add about interaction between cannabinoids, which might be coming from a
parent who is feeling desperate and other pharmaceuticals that they might already be on?
And just to reiterate, we are not giving medical advice. All we're doing is pointing out things for
caregivers to stay aware of.
I am so glad that we're talking about this because so often when we talk about healthy,
normal adult volunteers in a research study, we extrapolate that to the entire population.
And in the absence of pediatric drug information, adult information is used.
However, there are subtle differences in development and all sorts of things between
children and adults. I mean, just look at the differences between a two-year-old and an
eight-year-old and a 15-year-old, right? There's a huge, you know, and so the magnitude of a drug-drug
interaction in a pediatric patient population may differ from adults because of age-dependent
changes. Puberty and prepubescent, for example, can change the drug disposition or response.
You know, in some of the early studies with THC compounds in pediatric populations, like by the
late Rafael Mishulam, you know, they didn't really see what they thought that they would see in
adults given that compound. And, you know, the brains are still in a high state of development.
So, you know, there may not be the same response to THC or other cannabinoids. And there could be
other factors, dose formulation, the disease state, body mass, things like that. And I'll say again,
it needs to be assessed in children separately from adults. And this is a challenging thing,
but careful consideration. You need to account for age-dependent changes. And you have to build a
little more confidence about that. But it is absolutely a concern. And it may, you know,
these, again, these DDIs are routinely performed in healthy adult volunteers in early clinical
studies. But, you know, there's a lot of ethical, logistical, and method challenges to, you know,
doing these types of study in pediatric patients. I mean, you know, I don't know if you've ever
tried to get like a four-year-old to fill out a form or a survey. Might be a little tricky.
Adults can do that thing just fine. So, I think there's a whole range of it. But,
you know, pediatric patients in the hospital often receive multiple drugs. And so, there are
efforts to characterize those things.
I like this phrase that you've got age-dependent changes. And I know that you were talking about
kids, but that definitely applies to adults too. Because I know that the effects that,
you know, my plant-based drugs and fungus-based drugs and my pharmaceutical-based drugs,
they have all changed as I've gotten older and my reaction to it. You know, I was kind of
impervious in my 20s. And now, you know, I'm a little more aware because it's easier to knock
me out of balance. But I like that phrase, age-dependent changes. So, I could give one
solid example. This is a cross-the-board example. Cannabis is not special. I'm just going to say
across the board, anytime there's, I think, morphine and opioids, fentanyl, combined with
anything in a clinical setting can have effects on respiratory depression. And so, that is something,
I think, especially when we talk about chronic diseases, hospitalization, outpatient stuff.
You know, just because in adult populations, we're observing this phenomenon of decreased opioid
overdoses and deaths in adult populations. Again, this is a thing, we're talking about
age dependence, right? It may not be quite as clear-cut in pediatric populations. So,
I just want to throw that out there. It's like, you know, you can look this up. Don't take my
word for it. Do some of your own research. But again, you can find a lot of information about,
well, these are the potential most difficult areas.
Dr. Peter Salgo Right on. So, I've got two more
questions before we wrap up here. I know that, you know, it was our goal today to not answer
every potential question that could be asked about this because it's just too complex.
Dr. John Santa Lucia We would need 20 more minutes.
Dr. Peter Salgo Yeah.
Dr. John Santa Lucia
But our goal was to help give patients and caregivers a perspective of how to
suss out their solutions in their unique situation. And so, I want to kind of like
throw you this kind of umbrella question for you to answer here. In what manner would you
recommend patients and caregivers go about their own research to discover if they may be having,
you know, interactions between their pharma and their cannabis? Very specifically, let's say that
either, you know, you're the patient or you're the caregiver and you're like, you know what,
I think that might be what we're seeing. What would you say is their first and their second
step to try to suss that out? Dr. Peter Salgo
Keep meticulous records, you know, and that doesn't have to mean you're journaling all day.
It just means that you are a bit vigilant about that. You're controlling your inputs. So, you
know, if you're like, oh, I went to brunch and drank four mimosas and then I took my medicine
and then later that night I smoked cannabis and boy, did I feel funny. I must have had a drug-drug
interaction with cannabis and those, you know, my prescription meds. Well, it could be the alcohol,
could be other things. So, and then could be diet also plays a role. So, I think first thing to do,
get a journal, find the criteria, find some baseline things. There's no shortage, I think,
of like questionnaires. You could even draw smiley faces, like do I feel frowny face today? Do I feel
flatline smile today? That's a, you know, people use those types of charts and things like that,
different scales. So, find your scales, find your measurements. But again, I think
keeping track of what you, you know, I have talked to patients and caregivers in the past and
sometimes I say, hey, if you have a label on a product, take a picture, keep a digital journal.
If you want to do it, it's almost like a scrapbook. You have a journal, you can peel off the product
label, put it in your journal or write down the information from it and keep track of what you're
taking, when you're taking it and when you're taking other things. And this is even a strategy
that's used for pharmaceutical drugs. So, doctors will be like, okay, well, you're taking drug X,
I'm going to prescribe you drug Y. If you take them both in the morning and you feel X or Y,
then take this drug two hours later, take it four hours later, take it six hours later. And so,
start by taking, if you're new to this, everything, you know, this is based on literature
that's out there. Russo and McCallum have a great paper on dosing strategies and, you know,
taking things at night and low amounts. If that's okay, feels all right, you don't feel the DDIs,
you can, you know, start to play with the timing and the dosing and finding that range where you're
not getting adverse effects. But again, if you don't feel good, you know, it's not great. If you
get, if you get like all the side effects of cannabis, like, oh man, I feel sedated, I feel
hungry, my mouth is dry, I feel dizzy and I can't remember anything. Yeah, that's like a lot of boxes
to check and that may not be what you're looking for from a product. And so, again, I think it has
to do with keeping track of the inputs, control as many variables as you can. And I think you'll
start to, you'll find that there's a lot of things you'll be like, well, I've been drinking caffeine
all day and, or I haven't been drinking it all day. And so, I think finding those baselines
will help you. Is there a database that you recommend more than Google? Because after the
patient journals and they've got some suspicions, they're probably going to search these drugs and
cannabis and see what they get. And Google may be our best option and I'm always a big fan of the
projectcbd.org conditions section because that's always great too. But is Google still our best bet?
I mean, until AI takes over?
You know, the internet can be helpful and I would look for multiple resources that corroborate your
evidence. Don't just take the computer's word for it. Find a couple references online from
different types of sources. Maybe the Mayo Clinic, maybe PubMed.gov, maybe from a webinar where
there's a doctor talking about stuff. Like, you have to take on this challenge using all available
resources to do that. Because things often, just because the same study is cited over and over and
over again, doesn't mean the study itself is reproducible and the results are translatable to
you. And so, finding the information from diverse sources, finding the same thing, the same results
from different people running the studies and different reputable organizations coming to the
same conclusions, that will help. As they say, try and find something written, something you can
watch, something someone you can talk to to corroborate the evidence. And so, I think that is
just kind of where we're at because AI and the internet love to lie to you. That's the ongoing
thing. Like, wow, AI will just make stuff up to make you happy. It knows what you want to hear
or want to read or want to see. And we have to always be suspicious if we're getting,
you know, exactly, hearing exactly what we want to hear. You know, you're probably about to buy
a used car. So, just be careful out there. And I think that what I would say is try and test things,
you know, if it's okay, if I believe X, let me try and stretch out X as far as it can go,
this line of thinking until it breaks. Where is the weakness in this rationale? Whatever it is
you're looking at, drug-drug interactions, their significance, they're not significance.
So, the last question I want to hit on with our last two minutes here is I want to go back to
and plug the budsinfo.com project. You and I have talked about that, you know, before we started.
You know, the listeners of Shaping Fire knows that we support cannabis research and we are
always trying to plug research that we know is going on. We participated in, you know, Ethan
Russo's CBD and CBG projects before sending people their way. And, you know, you've told me about the
good folks behind budsinfo.com and I looked it up and it looks like something legitimate. So,
my question for you is what does the research look like to unearth these interactions that you
and I have been discussing today and, you know, what kind of research is happening? What does
that look like? And then give me a brief plug for budsinfo.com and then we'll wrap up.
Sure. So, you know, my exploration of research has been, you know, a lot of frustration with
getting funding and grants and, you know, in some ways, you know, you're always waiting on grants
and maybe private funding from the industry and stuff. And as time has gone on, I found more and
more ways. I've just said, you know what, this summer, I'm just going to do the dang research
and I'm not going to wait for funding. I'm going to bootstrap this. You know, I believe in it. I'm
going to invest in it. And there's so many databases out there. There's so much you can
find at the tips of your fingers if you're just willing to spend time doing it. And so,
unearthing the research for me, you know, doing case reports, contacting clinicians,
and starting to unearth these things where they have these patient files. No one, they're busy
clinicians. They don't have time to go through them. Some of, most of it's like, you know, not,
it's like, I can't read this. This is not like the best of it. You find nuggets, you find signals,
you know, it's like, it's like searching for extraterrestrial life. And suddenly, you hear an
alien TV show and you're like, what is going on here? And you're like, I picked up a signal,
you know. And I have to say, digging through, we had a paper come out recently about Delta 8 THC
derived from hemp. And we combed through, you know, the lead epidemiologist on the paper,
you know, brought this to our attention. Hey, there's this database, we can access it, we can
run these queries. We got a whole team together to go through the data. And it's really exciting
because, you know, this is data that people are reporting to the FDA, to poison control centers.
And it's just floating around. Nobody wants to comb through it. And we requested more and
more information. They sent us case reports, hospital files, you know, the products scanned
and pictures of the products, along with the reports from the patients and why they showed
up to the ER, what they were feeling. And we came to realize that one, the classification system
for how these things are entering the database is not useful. I'll give you an example. Psilocybin
has an E at the end of it in the FDA database. So if you search psilocybin, you will find nothing.
But if you search psilocybin, you will. So if you look up cannabinoid, you may not find anything.
If you look up, you know, if you think about Delta 9 THC, is it plus minus version or the
minus minus version? Like what version is it? So there are some issues around there. So it takes
a bit of knowing what you're looking for. But that led us to create Buds Info. We're like,
you know, there's an explosion of product diversity here. And, you know, as a colleague
told me, where are the guardrails? And so we decided to bootstrap this. So budsinfo.com,
please check it out. Please scan it. We are trying to use this to centralize the collection
of data, standardize the data. Right now, if there is an issue with a cannabis product,
hemp product in a vulnerable population, it goes to local, state, or city centers,
and eventually makes it, or not at all, to a central database. So we may not, we may never,
some of this stuff can be quite late to the game to uncover. So it's been very, I have to say,
it's been very exciting to be sort of on this forefront of public health, where we're finding
signals, and very specific ones. You know, as you would expect, there are not a lot of adverse
events for whole plant cannabis compared to other products. Oddly enough, there's not a lot of
adverse events being reported yet for psychedelics, but it might be again, because people can't find
psilocybin in the database to report it. So there are a lot of interesting issues where we've been
comparing and trying to figure out, are we using the right metrics to detect these signals? And
again, it's not about saying cannabis is good or bad. It's about, we want everyone's ship to reach
a safe harbor, and we want to know where that big rock is in the harbor, so you don't run aground.
Right on. Let's bring this on home there,
Jehan. So what you want to do, dear listener, is go to budsinfo.com. There is a short form there
for you. It is very easy to fill out, and the questions are about if you've ever had adverse
experiences with cannabis, and for you to describe that. I went ahead and filled one out. It took me
four minutes tops. And Jehan, they're all anonymous, right? So they're not going into
some tagged database or anything, right? Absolutely not. It is completely anonymous.
We're doing this in full compliance so that we don't need an IRB board. So the great thing about
research is learning how to be like when you need certain things and when you don't. So it's totally
anonymized. This was started by students. It's largely run by students, and we are trying to
perfect this. And we think that versus trying to find the med form watch or a poison control
center form, I think we have figured out the... As you just said, it takes four minutes to fill
out and it's easy. And again, what will help federally regulate and federally legalize cannabis
is knowing the risks. And I strongly believe that, that if we can clearly communicate that we know
what the risks are and we're continuing to commitment to track what those might be,
that I don't think anything will stand in the way of complete legalization and regulation of cannabis.
Fantastic. Well, Jehan, thank you so much for joining us today on Shaping Fire again after all
of this time. This is an incredibly complex area of work, and I am grateful that you are dedicating
your expertise to it amongst some of your other areas you love because we really do need to get
to the bottom of this, not only for patient care, but also so that we can get normalization to be
more grounded and have its feet under itself better because we are still a long way from that.
And so, thank you for coming and sharing your expertise and your stories and your goodly nature
with us today so that we could enjoy it. Thank you. And thank you very much. I guess
I'll see you in 80 episodes. Yeah, there you go. Well, hopefully sooner than that.
Right on. So, if you want to hear more from Jehan Markku, and you know you do,
he's got a couple of great places for you to go. Well, first of all, let's go ahead and plug
episode 29 of Shaping Fire about the cannabis product manufacturing standards. But Jehan's
Instagram is great. You'll be able to hear about what he is into from week to week and also where
he'll be speaking. And that's just simply at his name, Jehan Markku at J-A-H-A-N-M-A-R-C-U. So,
that's his Instagram. And also, he's also pretty active on Twitter. And that is also his name,
Jehan Markku. Also, if you're interested in any of the aspects that I talked about,
either at the top of the show or it came up along the way about his consulting for companies or
legal folks, or if you've gotten busted for DUI, you want to go to his consulting website,
which is Markku-Aurora.com. And so, that's Markku, M-A-R-C-U-A-R-O-R-A.com.
And then, if you want to hear him wax brilliant about the cannabis industry,
he has launched a relatively new podcast called How to Launch an Industry. And it's all about the
birthing and stabilization of the cannabis industry and what our best practice is going
forward. And that is at Howtolaunchanindustry.com. You can listen to the episodes there,
as well as anywhere that you download your podcasts.
And if you're interested in any of the aspects that I talked about, either at the top of the
show or it came up along the way about his consulting for companies or legal folks,
you want to go to his consulting website, which is Howtolaunchanindustry.com. And that is Howtolaunchanindustry.com.
Does your company want to reach our national audience of cannabis enthusiasts?
Email hotspot at shapingfire.com to find out how.
Thanks for listening to Shaping Fire. I've been your host, Shango Lose.
