Hello and welcome to the 100th episode of Shaping Fire. I am your host,
Shango Lose. Before we get to the meat of the program, I'm gonna take a little bit
of time here at the top of the show and share some of the philosophy and themes
behind the Shaping Fire podcast that we've never really talked about in the
first hundred episodes. I get questions about these things and I figure I might
as well, you know, what better time than the 100th episode to share it with you.
So number one is, of course, the main guide behind the program is to make
cannabis enthusiasts self-sufficient. I appreciate that access is increasing
across the United States as normalization kind of creeps in and it's
good to support those stores. However, I also think that patients should be able
to grow and produce their own medicine and preparations at home and every
of Shaping Fire works towards that goal. Also, each episode I try to make sure is
packed with information that you can take action on. I try to include
everything you need in an episode to make a decision or take action or at
least feel like you have a handle on that topic. Too often I listen to a
podcast to learn and I'm only given about 65 or 70 percent of the information
I actually need and so I still have to continue my research to fill in the
holes. With Shaping Fire episodes I really try to give you everything you
need to start making decisions and sure there's almost always more research
that's needed but at least you know that you have the basics covered and you can
go forward on your second layer race research with confidence. I book Shaping
Fire episodes or my guests based on topics and I don't do company profiles
and I don't do people profiles. I find a topic that I'm interested in and I think
that the audience would be interested in and that is under covered in cannabis
media. After I've got that topic and what I want to cover I then go
and find a guest who is an industry expert in that area and then I invite
them on the show. Every week I get lots of people interested in being on the
show or their press agents and they let me know that this person is very
interesting except Shaping Fire is not about that person. Shaping Fire is about
cannabis patients and those are the people who are important and so I see my
role as a role of service bringing you topics that you are interested in
learning in and then we just go and find the right person for it. Before people
are on my show we have a conversation so they too understand that this show is
not about them and it's not about me. Doing this show is a role of
service for cannabis patients and that's how we treat it and people who don't
work in that way they don't end up on Shaping Fire so that's how I choose
guests. Similarly I choose my advertisers based on those same kinds of morals. I
choose advertisers that have a message or a product that I actually think that
regenerative minded cannabis users are going to be interested in and so because
of that you don't see me accepting money from bottled salt fertilizer
companies and boy do they want to be on the show and gosh have I had to turn
down a lot of money but it would be very difficult for me to have all of these
regenerative guests and then cut to a commercial that is some kind of A plus B
salt nutrient for indoor. It just would be out of integrity for me and so I
don't do it. Online I don't fight with trolls I just restrict them and move on
with my life you know a lot of people really get into the fight online and I
just don't I just don't have the energy for it I don't like that feeling of
stress in the middle of my chest when when people are involved in online
fighting so so I just I just don't even respond and I block them or restrict
them and get on with my life I got way more important things to do than
internet fighting. My first podcast my first 55 of them were actually for
gontrepreneur.com I worked with them for a year doing weekly shows and I
recommend that you go over to gontrepreneur.com and check those out I
love the guys there but you know I realized that I was pretty darn good at
this podcasting thing and I wanted to own all my own intellectual property so
I said goodbye to the fellas and I wish them the best and we're all still
friends and and I formed Shaping Fire so that I could be in control of my own
destiny choose my own advertisers own my own intellectual property and move
forward and now five years in I think that was a great decision and happily
I've been met with a lot of success and can support myself off the show. I've
also done a hundred episodes of Shaping Fire over the last five years 20 per
year roughly twice a month with a break around Christmas so at 20 episodes a
year it's certainly not as fast as many podcasts that have got weekly or even
daily episodes I've just never been interested in that and I spent too much
time curating my content and and finding difficult to find guests and then
reading their books before they're on the show or if they're a scientist all
their scientific papers and doing lots of episodes has just never been
attracted to me attractive to me I'd rather do less shows and have them be
more in-depth and that's that isn't to shame anybody else's show like there's
lots of room in this scene for lots of different shows and people love
different types of entertainment and education so while Shaping Fire isn't
the show that I'm gonna be smoking out with the guest and we're gonna be
talking about what we're smoking on there's certainly a place for that and
I think that there's enough room for everybody and certainly my audience
appreciates how how I approach things there's also the YouTube channel in case
you're not familiar with that there's almost 200 videos of various speakers
speaking on cannabis and entheogens and it's kind of funny because the the
YouTube channel was an accident actually when I started traveling back in 2015 or
so people were flying me out to speak at cannabis conventions you know since I
was at the cannabis convention I was also going to see really good speakers
and it seemed like a waste to not record them so every time I went to see a
speaker I also recorded the speaker so that I could bring home that content to
you so you could enjoy it without ever having to travel and so I started dumping
those videos onto the YouTube channel and you know eventually more and more
people started watching them and subscribing and you know we've got over
10,000 subscribers now I think we're at like 13,000 perhaps and you know over
over a million and a half minutes served and you know serving 30 to 40,000 people
a month so it's pretty good it doesn't generate any money at all but it's just
a good resource for people and I'm glad we started it all that time ago.
I talk in this episode a lot about patients I've been involved with and I
have but I don't practice medicine I'm not a doctor or do I have an office and
nor do I charge a fee for these consultations so you'll hear me refer to
patients a lot in this episode and this is simply because when you are
interviewing medical doctors and scientists every week and then speaking
about that publicly you start to attract people with questions and stories and
then I tend to keep in contact with people and so it's been over this decade
of learning from patients that I have been able to amass this knowledge for
myself as a cannabis patient and to help the people around me here on
Vashon Island where I live but but it's important to be sure that that I am NOT
a doctor and I am NOT cosplaying as a doctor at all nor charging money so not
practicing medicine without a license and I always encourage you to talk to
your doctors about anything that you just decide to do after listening to
Shaping Fire. That said with this episode I'm trying to offer this dosing
information in a way so people don't have to reach out to me all the time so
please this is not an invitation to send me Instagram messages and emails asking
me about your specific ailment I'm not really working with patients anymore
except for my local neighbors so so I hope that you get what you need from
this episode and I tried to make it as complete as possible just for that
reason. So going forward you can expect more soil episodes, more regenerative
techniques, more making hash and oil and such at home and of course more cannabis
and health and I'm going to keep up with the mushrooms, DMT and other entheogen
topics too. So thank you for being part of the Shaping Fire community and thanks
for telling your friends about Shaping Fire. If you want to learn about cannabis
health cultivation and technique efficiently and with good cheer I
encourage you to subscribe to our newsletter. We'll send you new podcast
episodes as they come out delivered right to your inbox along with
commentary on a couple of the most important news items from the week and
videos too. Don't rely on social media to let you know when a new episode is
published. Sign up for the updates to make sure you don't miss an episode. Also
we're giving away very cool prizes to folks who are signed up to receive the
newsletter. There's nothing else you need to do to win except receive that
newsletter so go to shapingfire.com to sign up for the newsletter and be
entered into this month's and all future newsletter prize drawings. You are
listening to Shaping Fire and I am your host Shango Lose. My guest today is well
me, Shango Lose. I have been a cannabis educator for the last decade and have
been involved with cannabis medicine since 1989. I have listened to the
stories of more patients than I can count. I founded the Vashon Island
Marijuana Enthusiasts Alliance many years ago to gather cannabis patients
and those who love them to share best practices and to bring in international
guest speakers and boy oh boy has that been a success. I presently spend my time
producing the Shaping Fire podcast as I recover from burnout and study
neurodivergence. This is a long episode but I was careful to add out anything
that felt like filler. My hope is that it's a comprehensive guide for those who
are new to dosing cannabinoids so they can take their next steps toward healing
with confidence. This is the first time I've ever recorded solo like this so
perhaps cut me some slack. If you like this sort of episode please let me know
because I have an episode like this written on the 90-day cancer protocol
too that I do if you happen to like this format. Okay friends let's go. So here we
are friends I have been wanting to record this episode for a couple years
now. It's one of the most common things that I'm asked for. I teach about dosing
a lot to you know small groups of people in their homes and you know
occasionally I'm asked to do this talk at you know at conventions or you know
caregiver events or whatever but those are always so informal and there's
always lots of questions it never really seemed appropriate to put any of those
recordings out. So for the first time here for the 100th episode I figured I
would give it a shot to put this body of information that I've got here for you
so that you can you know potentially learn some yourself and share it with
caregivers and family and friends in a way that can get folks up to speed on
cannabis dosing in a way that is useful to them in their everyday life and isn't
packed with misinformation because as we all know most of the information that
you can get from just searching online is pretty bad. But I will take a moment
and plug projectcbd.org. Martin Lee has done a great job pulling together you
know accurate cannabis information with excellent articles on different medical
conditions and using cannabis for it and at the end of all the articles they have
got links to all of the original cannabis white papers on that particular
cannabis medical topic. So if I would recommend that you go anywhere else it
would be to Project CBD. So this episode is primarily designed for patients and
those who love them. You know I pretty much consider everyone who uses cannabis
to be a you know air quotes cannabis patient because you know even if you're
just using cannabis as you know recreationally because it you know makes
you feel good and maybe decreases your anxiety and you know causes you to have
fun when you're out in nature or playing video games or whatever. You're using it
to you know as a euphoric to improve your life so that you know you have a life
that's worth living right. Things are hard now for a lot of people and a lot of us
turn to cannabis for quality of life and you know and that's a good thing. So I
want to point out that the vocabulary I'll be using today is layman's
vocabulary primarily. It's true that I do a lot of teaching to caregivers and
doctors and nurses and things like that to help them understand how best to you
know assess and plan for and dose cannabis medicine in their clinics. But
the vast majority of the people that I talk to are just like regular folks you
know like somebody's mom somebody's uncle somebody's neighbor and and hell a
lot of the times it's just the people that I run into at the grocery store on
the island where I live. And so that's those are the people that you know I
talk to most because I think that's where I can have the most authentic
impact. So this episode is for those folks for you folks who are don't don't
necessarily have medical training and yet you really want to have a specific
dosing information for yourself or to help the people that you like. So you
know my experience is with consulting teaching however you want to put it for
over a thousand patients for almost a decade now. And also as a medicine maker
for myself I've had a brain injury a couple of car accidents things like that.
And so I've had the opportunity to participate in the Washington medical
market and learn lots of different feedback from different types of
patients at different ages and you know economic levels on different types of
products from tincture to flour to edibles to you know what we call RSO but I
don't prefer that name I prefer just the full extract cannabis oil all that stuff
you know and after you spend this much time talking with people and learning
everybody's best practices and then giving suggestions to people and then
hearing back from them you know I've developed a pretty good body of
information in my head. And then you know four years ago I put together a study on
Vashon on CBD oil dosing. I guess that's five years ago now. And then three years
ago I did the same thing with CBG oil and that brought up a whole bunch of very
interesting applications for CBG and we'll talk about that later. And then I'm
just setting up one right now on CBDV the varin version of cannabidiol. And so
these are opportunities that really afford me a lot more first person
information than than even most clinical doctors. So so here we go. During the
first set we're going to talk about some basics about the endocannabinoid system
and different methods of use of cannabis and their pros and cons specifically for
patients. And then during the second set we're going to talk about the specific
cannabinoids that we are most familiar with and we and we have actual dosing
information for. And then to help get your head wrapped around like how to
actually apply this stuff. The third set is is all about very specific medical
conditions that once we talk about those medical conditions and how to think
through the dosing on those you'll have a really good idea of how to think through
similar medical conditions and how to think through dosing on those because my
goal with this episode is not just like give you a spreadsheet in your head of
OK if you've got this take this if you've got this take this because really every
human is different and individualized medicine is something that we can attain
with cannabis. So so let's do that. And so instead of just giving you very you know
tight dosing specifications for for assuming everybody's the same I want to teach you
how to think about cannabis dosing so you can understand why the dosing is the way
it is. And and so you can make subtle changes based on you or your patients needs
and you can be a more dynamic cannabis user than than you would be if you were just
you know hearing you know the specific milligrams you need because honestly people's
dosing needs flexibility. Let's start by talking about the endocannabinoid system.
The endocannabinoid system is the human body's primary regulatory system. It's kind
of like a thermostat for all of the mission critical systems of the body. If you've got a
system that's running hot it cools it down. And if you've got a bodily system that's
sluggish it fires it up and it brings everything back to the middle a balanced place
with a call in Chinese medicine to tauntify right to bring back into balance. And that's
what the endocannabinoid system does. I think of it and I often explain it as being a second
grade teacher when the second grade teacher is in the classroom. The kids are generally
behaving right. They're doing their work and doing their thing. But if somebody comes to the
door and the second grade teacher needs to step out into the hallway for a moment the kids
will be fine for a while but eventually some kid will you know crack up or make a noise and
then another kid will crack up and then you know eventually a bunch of the kids are
cracking up until the second grade teacher comes back into the room. Same thing with your
endocannabinoid system. When the endocannabinoid system is thriving and strong it is regulating
all of those bodily systems the way that it's supposed to. The challenge comes in to when our
endocannabinoid system becomes weakened and different folks have different systems fall into
dysregulation. That's one of the odd things of why endocannabinoid deficiency can look so
different because when you have a weakened endocannabinoid system you know different people
have got different second grade students that go bad right. So somebody might see it in
migraines and somebody else might get it in irritable bowel syndrome and somebody else might
get fibromyalgia and since somebody else might get a combination of these things and the longer
they ignore it they start to stack up more and more of these ailments from the endocannabinoid
system no longer effectively keeping their different bodily systems in balance. And so that's
why it's so important to keep the endocannabinoid system from becoming deficient. Some of the
most common first things we see are IBS, fibromyalgia, migraines, but also autoimmune issues
and Parkinson's and dementia. These are all ailments that at their core have got an
endocannabinoid base. So let's talk a little bit more about endocannabinoid deficiency. So these
are aspects of a dysregulated endocannabinoid system, right? When the endocannabinoid system is
not making enough endogenous cannabinoids, which means cannabinoids that are made in the body,
it doesn't have enough signaling molecules to go around the body and do the work and to regulate
these systems. And if you refer to Dr. Ethan Russo's original paper on endocannabinoid
deficiency and you look at the causes for endocannabinoid deficiency, it reads just like a
normal day in America. Listen to this. These are the five big things. So number one,
environmental toxins. Number two, pharmaceuticals that repress the immune system or
intentionally dysregulate the human body in some way, like chemo being an extreme example. But
antibiotics are another example. So it doesn't take much. We're just talking about any
pharmaceutical that's going to be repressing normal endocannabinoid operation. Poor sleep,
poor nutrition, and stress. Well, my gosh, that's just the modern world. So it is very likely that
most, if not everybody in the country has got an endocannabinoid deficiency. And that explains
why we've got such a terrible situation with so many people getting sick in different ways and
having weakened immune systems, which cause us to walk around our lives with heightened
anxiety and susceptible to all sorts of disease and virus. So when teaching specifically about
CBD, cannabis medicine in general, but really about CBD, some people become skeptical asking
how can one supplement help so many different ailments? But it's really just one thing that CBD
supports, right? And that's the endocannabinoid system. But that system touches nearly
everything in the body. So when we add cannabidiol, CBD, as a supplement, it just makes
sense that if you would strengthen the body's self-regulation system, that you would also
empower the body to make the changes it needs everywhere. So this is why they say, oh, you got
migraines, CBD, you got irritable bowel syndrome, you got, you know, CBD, you got poor sleep, CBD,
you got pain, CBD. It's like, oh, come on, man. Like it can't be a panacea. But it is and it
isn't like it really does help alleviate all of this suffering. But it's really just because it's
helping one system and that system is the endocannabinoid system. And that's the master
regulatory system. So it's really just a matter of perspective. If you want to learn more about
this firsthand from Dr. Ethan Russo, his seminal paper on that from 2004 called Clinical
Endocannabinoid Deficiency is available easily for free online. And if you go to the Shaping
Fire website for this episode, number 100, I've got a link to it for you there. Also, if you want
to hear Dr. Ethan Russo talking about endocannabinoid deficiency and medical cannabis, I
did an interview with him about endocannabinoid deficiency a long time ago back in 2015
when I was still a partner over at Gonjapreneur.com and hosting the Gonjapreneur.com
podcast. So if you go over there to Gonjapreneur.com into 2015, you can find my interview
with Dr. Russo there before I left Gonjapreneur.com and started Shaping Fire. You can also read a very
helpful article on endocannabinoid nutrition from 2016. Actually, it's not an article, it's another
interview I did with Ethan Russo at Gonjapreneur.com again. So I did a full year of weekly
episodes for them. I think I did like 54 episodes before I wished them well and came over and
started Shaping Fire. So in 2016, that episode's called Endocannabinoid Nutrition. It's probably
really easy if you just Google endocannabinoid nutrition, Ethan Russo, Gonjapreneur.com. That'll
get you there. Also, more recently though, if you want to learn more about endocannabinoid mechanics,
I also recommend Shaping Fire episodes 78 and 81. They're both with Dr. Miyabi Shields,
who is an endocannabinoid researcher. We talk in detail about endocannabinoid mechanics and
the endocannabinoid system in depth. Miyabi is absolutely a fantastic guest and
a pharmacologist and really understands the biochemical workings of the human body.
So let's move on to the next section. You can always look up more on the endocannabinoid system,
but I think that that is a good enough explanation for most folks to get a good picture of it in
their head. So the next thing we're going to talk about is method of use. How do you get the
cannabinoids into your body? How we jump from endocannabinoids to using the cannabis plant is
pretty simple. I mentioned that the endocannabinoid system creates and manages cannabinoids. When
they're made inside the body, they're called endocannabinoids because they're endogenous to
the body. They're germane to the body. They come from the body. But if your body is not making
them because you have endocannabinoid deficiency, you've got to get them elsewhere. And then you've
got to put them in your body to strengthen your endocannabinoid system. And hopefully,
you'd be able to decrease those five things that cause endocannabinoid deficiency so that you can
start making your own again. In the interim, you're going to supplement with phytocannabinoids,
which are cannabinoids that come from plants. So your long-term goal is actually to take
phytocannabinoids from cannabis, but then also go back and fix as best as you can the five things
that cause endocannabinoid deficiency. The poor sleep, all right, get better sleep. Poor nutrition,
eat better food, eat fresher food, don't eat as much processed food. Environmental toxins, well,
that's pretty difficult if you live in the city. But do what you can to decrease environmental
toxins and then decrease as much as you can the pharmaceuticals in your life that are screwing up
your endocannabinoid system. For many of these ailments we take pharmaceuticals for, we would be
better to take a cannabis medicine full of phytocannabinoids to strengthen our endocannabinoid
system to let the endocannabinoid system solve these issues for us instead of taking more
radicalized pharmaceuticals that often have unpleasant side effects. So we want to get
phytocannabinoids into our body and those are in the plant. And so let's talk about the different
ways that you can take the cannabis plant into your body. Let's start with the most common way
that people get cannabis into their body, which is by smoking it. So while the most traditional
and accepted way to use cannabis, dosing from smoking cannabis plants is hard because it's
very inexact and often patients don't have proper test results for whatever they are smoking.
The inexact part is that you don't know how much of the flower or a joint or a bowl or a bong to
smoke to get the dosage that you're shooting for. If you're shooting for five or ten milligrams
of THC, it could just be an extra two puffs that take you from where you want to be
to actually being more medicated than you want to be and you've missed the zone that you want
to target to help you with your ailment. I mean, we've all had the experience of wanting to have
a little puffy puff before we go somewhere and it ends up coming on a lot stronger and then we're
like, oh, I guess I can't leave right now and you have to wait to come down a bit before you go.
Well, if you're in the social time of your day and you don't have a lot of pressure on you, well,
that's fine. You can do that. But if you're in a lot of pain and you have to get to work,
if you're having a lot of suffering and you have to stay sharp to take care of your kids,
really smoking may not be the way to go because it is so hard to titrate your dosage and know
exactly what you're taking. Also, most patients don't have test results for the flower that
they're smoking. Most folks don't get the flower that they grow at home tested. Most folks don't
get analysis testing when they buy their weed from their neighbor.
If you're shopping at a medical or a licensed recreational store, they may or may not have the
analysis on hand. Some states, they don't have to have it there. They just need to have it back at
the original grower and you can email them for it. So, there's a big difference whether or not
it's available in the store or if it just theoretically exists in the world and you can
ask for it. Also, just because there is a certificate of analysis in the store and you can
look at it, that doesn't necessarily mean those are the ratios that are in your particular flower.
There are different parts of the plant will develop different cannabinoids. So, the things
on the top that are going to the flowers on the top that are getting longer and more intense
sunshine, they will develop different cannabinoids than flower that is more in the interior or on
the middle or towards the low. So, different parts of the plant are actually going to be
different medicine to some degree. Also, smoking cannabis results in cannabinoid conversion.
It's kind of a myth that the lab results that you are getting about your flower is showing what
exactly is going into your body when you smoke it. We know from significant research that when you
combust the flower, the cannabinoids convert to different cannabinoids often.
So, you get this cannabinoid drift and you would only know what you're actually getting in your
smoke by testing the smoke, which is not something that's available to nearly anybody. The reason why
smoking moves so fast is because when you inhale the smoke, your lungs are very efficient
at bringing in cannabinoids through the lung. It's very quickly in the blood and then it's very
quickly to your brain and distributed around your body. So, it's just the fastest. As soon as you
smoke, within the first 10 to 15 minutes, you take this fast, fast ride up this roller coaster and
then you slowly start to come down over time. Whereas, when you are using a different method,
which we'll talk about, you're not going up really fast. You're going up at a measured pace and
you're coming down as a measured pace. For repeatable results and for continuing to be
able to be productive during your day, this is what is called for most of the time for patients
rather than smoking. Obviously, with the added caveat that if you have got an acute situation as
a patient and you need medicine now, top of mind would be severe pain patients and some types of
anxiety patients. Sometimes you need to smoke now and you need the cannabinoids to hit your
bloodstream now. For those folks, smoking certainly makes the most sense. Generally speaking, for most
ailments that most cannabis patients have, smoking will not be your option because it's too uncontrolled.
Let's talk about cannabis oil. Cannabis oil is the concentrated resin that is found in the trichomes
on the cannabis flower. This is where the majority of the medicine lives that we remove from the plant.
There are a lot of different solvents that you can use to remove cannabis oil from the plant material.
Over the years, hydrocarbons have been very popular, butane, propane.
There has been a lot of pushback around that because not everybody knows how to purge
those hydrocarbons from the oil correctly and some of that can end up in your human.
I much prefer, as does many medicine makers, to use ethanol because ethanol does a really good job at
removing the vital components of the resin and is quite easy to remove after the fact
by just adding a small amount of heat and the alcohol just vapes off. It's pretty hard to get
into trouble with ethanol and is certainly what is most called for for home medicine creation,
but honestly I've got a lot of respect for licensed companies that use ethanol too
because even though it's a little bit more laborious than hydrocarbons often,
I think it gives a much better snapshot of all of the healing potential that is in the resin.
A lot of people call it RSO, Rick Simpson oil. While Rick Simpson deserves some respect for
popularizing RSO, it's not like he invented it. He did bring it to a larger audience and for that
we'll ever be grateful, but a lot of his original recipes, when we look at now, they're using
dangerous solvents and so that was a little sketchy. But building on what Rick made popular,
there are now more modern processes that, for example, use ethanol, which is the primary solvent
used nowadays. And so we all still kind of call it RSO because that's what people know at first,
but a whole bunch of other names have been tried to be given to it. Another popular one is FECO,
full extract cannabis oil. Unfortunately FECO sounds like fecal though, right? I don't think
FECO is ever going to catch on fully nationally, but full extract cannabis oil, that sounds good.
Some companies have tried to name their process different things, but
I'll probably sometimes accidentally say RSO during this episode, but I usually just call it
full extract cannabis oil and just say those words and don't usually use FECO.
But now you're at least familiar with the terminology. So one of the reasons why using
full extract cannabis oil is probably at the top of the list of what to use as a patient
is because once the oil was made, all of the oil is pretty uniform and homogenized.
It's not like, oh, this part of the batch has got these cannabinoids and this part of the batch has
got these other cannabinoids. Once you have soaked the cannabis in the ethanol and then gone and
vaped off the ethanol, the sticky resin that you're left with is pretty homogenized and it's all the
same. And so when you go ahead and you send it off to a cannabis lab to have the analytics done,
you know that those analytics are representative of all of the medicine in the batch.
And you can compare that to what we were just talking about, about cannabis flowers, where
the flowers that are at the top, middle, bottom, or interior of the plant will all have slightly
different cannabinoid profiles. But by the time it's in oil, because it's all been soaked and
vaped off together, your oil is essentially uniform. And that's great. And if you happen
to live somewhere where you don't have access to a cannabis lab, at least you know that when you
take your first trials of your oil to see how strong you made it, once you've taken it three
or four times and you're like, okay, I know how much I need as a patient of my stuff, it's going
to be like that for the rest of that oil that you take. It's not like you're going to take the first
couple and you're like, okay, I now know that I need 0.05 milliliters of this oil for the medicinal
experience that I'm looking for, only to take that same amount four days later and you're like,
oh my god, I'm so high. That's not what medicinal cannabis is about. Medicinal cannabis is about
repeatable results that you can rely on to improve your health, improve the strength of your
endocannabinoid system, and allow you to take cannabinoids while you can still function in life
by going to work or taking care of your family or, I don't know, if you're bad enough,
just live. We're looking for repeatable results and that is one great aspect of cannabis oil.
Another thing that's great about cannabis oil is when you're buying flour,
flour costs money if it's got any particular... It costs more money if it's got any sort of bag
peel. The least expensive flour to buy is flour that is ugly. I don't mean all molded and such,
but I mean like mids and lowers and stuff that was trimmed badly or wasn't trimmed at all. This is
the best stuff to be making cannabis oil out of. It also happens to be the cheapest stuff in the
market. It's not uncommon for a home grower to take all of the tops off their plant and cure
them and either keep them or sell them and then take all of the lowers and either process it
themselves or give it to a loved one who's a patient to make into cannabis oil. Back in the day,
you know, we used to call that trash. People would all like, where'd you dump your trash?
Because all of that trim that came off the plant, people weren't really doing extraction yet. People
were just trying to find places to dump it where no one would find it and bust them back in the day.
Then all of a sudden, people started blasting BHO in their backyards and trim became really
valuable. Then we've just evolved from there that we now use every part of the plant.
We're not going to talk about making cannabis oil today. I just want you to understand that
the advantages of cannabis oil in its consistency of analytical results throughout the batch
and the fact that once you put it in a capsule and take it, your body will process the capsule
and take the cannabinoids in. Then you will slowly feel the cannabinoids or not feel them,
depending on the dose that you choose. You'll slowly have an intensity of cannabinoids and it'll
slowly go down. That process usually takes between three to four hours. A patient who is doing a
cannabis oil protocol will often take their capsule every three to four hours, depending on
their needs and what they can afford. The last thing I want to say about the cannabis oil is
that because it's usually offered in syringes, like oral syringes, it's also quite easy to make
capsules. Most folks will pick up one milliliter capsules on eBay, excuse me, one milliliter
syringes, oral syringes on eBay. You make your oil at home and you fill your syringes. Then
the nozzle, the nipple, not nozzle, on the one milliliter syringe fits really nicely into a
number three size capsule. It makes making your capsules really easy. The sides of the syringes
are marked so you know whether or not you're putting in 0.05 milliliter or 0.1 of a milliliter,
which is usually where most people are. People can take it by there. One note, if you are going to
buy your own capsules, I recommend that when you buy them, buy them separated. I went years
before I realized that you could buy your capsules separated. I would just buy bags of capsules that
looked like capsules. Then I'd have to separate them all by hand before I filled my capsules
with the oil. I got to tell you, when I was first starting making my capsules, after I got my dual
concussion resulting in a traumatic brain injury, filling capsules was mentally a lot of work.
I wanted to make the process as slow as possible. It would have been really nice to have known that
I could have just bought caps that came in two bags separated. There's pro tip for you.
Let's talk about tincture now. One of the interesting things about tincture
is that tincture is, at its most essential, cannabis oil that we just talked about,
suspended in ethanol. When you make the cannabis oil, you are using ethanol to extract the resin
components from the trichomes on the flower. With a tincture, what you have is the cannabis resin
suspended in ethanol, which is what's used to extract it. It's certainly true that some people
will add vegetable glycerin, coconut, honey, or a lot of other things to adulterate the oil
to make it more palatable. A straight ethanol tincture has got some bite to it. I normally
tell patients that if they're making an ethanol tincture to be prepared to just take their dose
and put it in a little bit of water and then just drink the water. If you're going to be using
food-grade ethanol at 190 proof, say for example, Everclear, Everclear burns most people's tongues.
Just putting a little bit of water in a sake glass or a shot glass and then adding your tincture to
that will make the ethanol a lot more palatable. If you happen to be in recovery from alcohol and
you have chosen to not have any alcohol at all in your life, what many patients do is that they
will make a hot tea, not boiling, but just hot tea. Then they'll put their tincture into the hot
tea and let it sit for a couple minutes. The hot tea will vape off the ethanol aspect of it and
will just leave the cannabinoids, the resin, in the tea. Then you just drink your tea. That seems
to work for them. One of the things that's great about tincture is that when you put the resin
into the ethanol, once you let it sit for a little bit, it will self-homogenize. It will
become ubiquitous throughout the jar. Which means that if you make your tincture and you
strain your tincture and then you let it sit for a day and let it come to, I don't know,
I want to say homeostasis, but I don't think that's right. If you want to give it time to
self-homogenize, you can go ahead and take a sample out of it. I like using a turkey baster.
Take a sample out of it and put it in a little one-ounce bottle and send it off to your
cannabis lab. You'll know that the test results that come back apply to the entire jar of tincture
that you've made. That's the same thing I like about cannabis oil, that it's uniform. It is one
of the biggest problems with smoking flour because it's not uniform. Tincture we like because it's
really easy for anybody to make. If you don't add the adulterants, and I don't add any
adulterants to the stuff that I make for myself and the stuff that I make for my parents, because
as we get older, it is more difficult to shake a bottle of tincture. If you've got
cannabis resin in there, maybe a little bit of ethanol and some glycerin, those have all got
different weights and they will not be uniform in the tincture bottle. If you give it the kind
of shake that you can imagine you do with a tincture bottle, that's not going to homogenize.
You're just going to mix it up a bit. That means that if you are taking a tincture that has got
THC in it, which can cause intoxication, you will not be getting consistent doses. If one squirt of
the dropper is usually going to be 5 mg and your tincture has got honey or glycerin or something
else, your dropper could have anywhere between 2-8 mg of THC in it. That's a really big swing for
a lot of patients, especially new patients. A lot of folks don't have the wrist to be able to shake
it anymore because they've got arthritis. If you're making your own stuff and you're making a
CBD and the actual amount at any particular time doesn't matter as much as you making sure you take
it 4 times a day and making sure you get a daily dose, put glycerin or agave or honey or whatever
with your CBD because having each dose be exactly the same is not really as big of a deal with CBD.
But with THC it does because if you go too high, you may get more THC than you are prepared for
that part of your day. Another thing that's great about tincture when it's in ethanol is that it's
shelf stable. For a lot of patients, you don't have an opportunity to make tincture all the time.
You might grow your few outdoor plants every summer and then you'll choose to process that
into tincture and that tincture needs to last you a whole year. Cannabis oil and tincture in ethanol
are both quite shelf stable if you keep them out of the sun and cool. Cannabis oil specifically
does pretty well in the crisper but you don't have to do that with the tincture as much because
of the ethanol. You can either just store it in a mason jar in a dark closet or if you want to
keep strict controls over your use, you can put it into 1 ounce tincture bottles that you can
pick up online from places like specialtybottle.com and then just fill those bottles for
yourself, label them, and put them away. For a lot of people, managing their tincture use that way
is very visual because you know like, okay I've made 30 bottles and this has got to last me the
year and so you can just see them in the box and as the box gets lower, you've got a really good
visual example of how much you've got left and you know if you should be getting nervous and
maybe figuring out where to get some more flour to make s'more or more hopefully you're just
reinforcing the peace of mind that you are a self-sufficient cannabis patient and you can
take care of yourself and you've got what you need so that's great. Another thing that's great
about tincture is being able to control and fine-tune your dosing. So with the cannabis oil
that we talked about and certainly with smoking, with cannabis oil because the oil is concentrated
it's harder to hit low numbers so you know most of the time when I'm talking to patients
if their need is only for five or ten milligrams of THC it makes sense that they are going to use
a tincture because a tincture you can get it down to you know number of drops out of the dropper if
you want whereas with oil you know which is essentially the resin without the ethanol that's
in the tincture you know it's kind of hard to extract resin from a plant that's high in THC
and get your doses dose down to five or ten milligrams you know you might you might you
know at 0.05 milliliter which is a usually one of the smallest markings on a syringe
you might already be up to like 17 milligrams of THC and so when it comes to THC
I'm usually recommending that new patients to THC focus on tincture but if you have a very
significant ailment and your tolerance is very high because you're taking a whole bunch of THC
every day well you've probably graduated up to cannabis oil. Now that's different if we're
talking about CBD and CBG where you know if we're gonna if we're gonna grow a plant that has CBG
we might use tincture so that we can have make it last longer but in most cases you'll probably
make an oil because and then just make caps with you know 0.05 in it because it's just more
convenient and you don't have to use keep the the ethanol in the tincture bottles and you can
pre-make a whole bunch of capsules because the difference you know whether or not you take 5,
10, or 20 milligrams of CBG it won't end up in you potentially getting intoxicated like it would if
you were taking THC. So you know when I make my CBG caps I'm a little more casual about it when I
make my THC caps I'm very exacting because I don't want to accidentally over medicate myself
but if I'm making CBG caps well you know I might watch TV while I'm doing it or something right
because if I squirt a little bit extra in it's not really going to be you know bad in any way.
I might be a little wasteful but it's not gonna make me super stoned and so this is one of the
reasons why tinctures are good because once you have once you've got test results and you know
how much is in one one dropper of your tincture if if you want to take a little bit less one day
or a little bit more another day you can totally make those changes on the fly and it gives you
as a patient a lot of control and and that's what you know that's what we want. Some days you might
wake up and you know you have to go to a doctor's appointment and so you want to go a little bit
more conservative on how much THC tincture that you take because you know that you're going to
have to interact with people in an hour or something or maybe drive there right but but
on another day you may have slept really badly and you are experiencing your ailment significantly
and you don't have anywhere to go and you might triple your dosage because you're like you know
all i'm going to be able to do today is sit on the couch and you know try to try to not be miserable
well you know that gives you that kind of flexibility if you've already made all of your oil
into capsules well you know unless you've made different potency capsules all your capsules are
going to be the same strength and so that is a great reason that you know tincture can be
a superior choice for patients. So let's talk about edibles. So edibles have got a place but
i gotta admit that i am not the biggest fan of edibles except for specific kinds of patients and
first i'll talk a little bit about why i tend to recommend cannabis oil and tincture over edibles
but then we'll also talk about why edibles are the perfect thing for particular patients. So
first of all edibles are usually non-homogenized and or poorly homogenized right which means
either at home or at a licensed cannabis bakery they are infusing an oil a fat a butter
with cannabis either the the flour or an oil or some or an isolate i guess and they're mixing that
into the oil and then you add that oil to your recipe of whatever you're making for for the sake
of this discussion let's say that they're making brownies since that's so traditional and so you
mix it into your brownies and then you bake your brownies and and and you know most of us who have
been you know using cannabis for a few decades we've all had the experience where you make a
batch of brownies and the first brownie you have is a different strength than the fifth brownie
which is a different strength than the tenth brownie right because it's kind of just luck of
the draw where how much oil ends up at different parts of the brownie pan and so you could eat one
and it could you know you are you're like okay i know that if i eat the you know a half a brownie
that's about the right amount and then you go to eat a different brownie and that half a brownie
actually has got a whole lot more oil on it just from luck you know from randomness and now
suddenly you're like you know really high and you need to go lay down and you're like damn um i really
thought that all those brownies were going to be the same strength and that is very very hard to do
with baked goods especially in the home right like like this primarily happens when people share
the cookies or whatever that they make at their house and um you know they're they're moving along
and they they just mix the brownie mix or whatever until it gets the right consistency well it being
the right consistency may not be also homogenized and suddenly now you're making brownies that where
each one you have is a lottery ticket to being two-stoned so um uh that is that is one significant
issue with edibles now now certainly in the commercial markets where they are increasingly
using um isolate and they have more control over their processes um you know there are a lot of
these 10 milligram gummies for example they're quite you know homogenized um you know unless
any company that's got a worthwhile lab and kitchen is doing a pretty good job putting those
together so there's not huge swings um but that's not true man you you get a you get a company that's
that's newer or have less than less experienced employees um or you know what's happening as you
know some states go medical right because you get all these people who're trying to go professional
for the first time and they they made they made edibles at home right for their and now they're
suddenly trying to scale up but they haven't learned their lessons and best practices yet and
so suddenly you've got a new company in a medical market that's putting out edibles with wild swings
with their potency and you know they'll get complaints and they'll get best practices and
you know eventually with time they'll be more consistent but if you're buying from them at a
medical shop you know early on in your state's process chances are very high that you're you're
going to get something that's got a certain level of risk to it so that's homogenization also um
for many of the patients that i talked to um they're not in a position to be taking on these
extra sugars and flowers and artificial colors and sometimes even artificial flavorings that edibles
have especially if you are um you know an advanced patient and you need edibles you know four times
a day oh my gosh like let's go back to the brownie example like like you shouldn't be having
a brownie four times a day or a cookie or probably a gummy and um and you know you may decide for you
that that's okay and that's cool like we're all our own empowered patients but i'm talking about
general best practices and generally speaking the edibles that are are available you're not
going to be wanting to eat them four times a day or maybe even every evening before you go to bed
right if you're taking it for insomnia so you got to be really aware of of the you know what your
cannabinoids are encapsulated in right are they are they surrounded by you know sugars and gmo
flowers certainly there are really healthy um whole plant resin edibles out there they exist
but um they they almost always cost more because they're made with quality food products
and um and you know they might not have them by you um so the next thing we're going to talk about
is the delayed effect due to digesting right so um in in our first example when we were talking
about smoking at top one of the great things about smoking is that it comes on so fast you've got all
you know you're peaking on your cannabinoids in your in your bloodstream at you know 10 to
15 minutes in that's super fast right um edibles are the opposite right because uh you're going to
chew it up and then you're going to swallow it and then it hits your gut and then it goes through
your liver and then now it's in your um blood and so it comes on um you know most people say
between 30 to 45 minutes but for but everybody should be aware that sometimes you do get a a
sneaker edible and it takes a while for your body to process it maybe maybe you had a a meal earlier
and so the edible is actually behind all the other food that's got to go through you and so yeah
sometimes it does take two hours but you know that's that's that's that's pretty rare compared
to like 30 to 45 minutes um and so if you need relief now waiting for 45 minutes may not be
the right solution for you so that's something you've got to weigh for yourself and your own
needs um also one thing that's interesting about it is that um when thc goes through the liver
it changes to 11 hydroxy thc in the liver um which means that you know even though we're you know
we're talking about cannabis and even though we're talking about thc it's really a different
form and it um it feels different it acts differently on the body and so this is probably
um where the the best benefit of edibles comes from because there are certain patients um i would
put at the top of the the list um uh pain patients um rheumatoid arthritis patients and um
uh pretty much any of the inflammation uh diseases lots of um uh immune compromised folks
they find that the 11 hydroxy thc experience that comes from an edible is far superior to them
than a delta 9 thc um preparation and um so you'll have to find this out for yourself
um you know 11 hydroxy thc is not going to be the choice for most patients but for those that it
works better for um they become very serious about their edible consumptions and making sure that
they are finding the edible that they can make homogenized that is low in sugar that they can
eat the smallest amount of edible and get the more profound effect um and it and it really does
become something that the patients are dedicated to so um so yeah sometimes 11 hydroxy thc is the
is the way to go and you'll just have to if you are that patient you will you will come to that
realization yourself i just want to let you know that it's there so um so that's edibles right um
a very common way to take thc um but also probably not necessarily the best for most patients if
you're going to be taking it every day because you can take a tincture or a cannabis oil um
that's not going to have any of those extra sugars and flowers and colors oh my okay the last one
we're going to talk about is suppositories and uh you know suppositories are not used all that much
because usually um you know taking your cannabinoids orally is going to be appropriate
for just about everybody but i have certainly worked with patients who came to me because
they were having problems taking their cannabis oil orally because they had something going on
that was um you know chronic and dastardly with their gut um say for example that their their gut
was dysregulated and they were not creating digestion enzymes properly and so um you know
putting anything into their gut was a really bad experience or potentially they have something going
on in their gut so they can't take any fats or oils into their gut well you know it's true that
cannabinoids in cannabis oil are really great for the gut but if the vehicle is an oily resin from
the plant um you know some patients they can't be taking any oil into their gut and so or else you
know it causes um you know lots of grief and suffering so so that might be a case as well
um i'm sure that there are other ones that i haven't come across right like you know potential
ulcers or lacerations in the gut that that you know you might not want to get oil in as well
but for some people they they need to skip the gut um also there there are some other
ailments that that suppositories are just a great idea for for example um for menstrual cramping
right for menstrual cramping um you can use a suppository either in the rectum or in the vagina
and um you will get more targeted placement of the cannabinoids to relieve your symptoms
um if you are going to put cannabis oil in um a vagina be really careful about the amount you use
because you don't want to throw off the ph and and cause other issues um luckily we don't really have
the same kind of ph issues uh for the rectum um also rectal cancer right if you are uh you know
if you are dealing with uh tumors or or uh such um in the rectum uh placing the cannabis oil right
there um is going to increase the level of you know targeting that you can do for it and then
also if you've got like you know just general hip pains right if you've got if you've got
pains or discomfort in you know in the area between say your belly button and your thighs
right like that whole area applying it to the rectum may be a solution that works for you
now granted most people are going to take it orally and it can work great but um you know
this is where you decide because every patient works out their own protocol in the end um you
you know you you learn these things from people who have done it before you like i have but you
know you do this for two weeks and now you're going to become the expert on your body and that's what
that's what you know good cannabis educators are going to do is give you all of the options and say
choose what works for you um instead of saying all right i have the solution for all patients because
you know each patient is unique just like growing um different types of cannabis are unique you know
and uh and we need to we need to treat each person um in a way that works the best for them
so um if if you've decided that suppositories are something that um that might be appropriate for you
there's lots of great kits out there for making your own at home on for example ebay um they sell
these little molds um that mold them into like a like a little suppository like a football you know
and there's a bunch of different recipes that you can um that you can use some people use shea butter
some people use coconut oil some people use a combination along with a little bit of a full
extract cannabis oil and um you know people find what they like some people won't use shea at all
because they don't care for it some people will have different uh percentages of each right um
and so what you do is you you would you would make up you'd fill up these little molds with
whatever you're going to put in your suppository and then you put them in the freezer right and
then they get hard and then you pop them out like ice cubes out of an ice cube tray and um and then
when when it's time to dose you just like pop one of those out of the freezer and you you put it
where you're going to put it and um um you know it's you might be cold for a moment but uh it
doesn't last long it's not like they're that big and um and then it it melts where you put it and
so um that can be a really great win for um a lot of folks um that said it doesn't have to be that
much work um when i was first learning about suppositories and practicing with them so that
um i could um teach it to patient groups um i went through that whole process and i'm like oh my god
this is so much work and um you know it's so like kind of oily and everything on my fingers
um in the end um you know i realized that you can also just take a boring cellulose cap
that um that you would use for cannabis oil you know up in the cannabis oil section when we talked
about that you can just put your your cannabis oil in a cellulose cap and put that in your rectum too
i don't think i would do that vaginally um i haven't had that experience um but but um but
in your rectum it works and um you know the the the fluid or that's in your rectum will break down
the the cap and and then you will you'll you'll get the oil through the the rectal wall and that
works um you know um but you know most people do recommend against it just because it's it's kind
of inelegant but um but you know if you're if you're if you're a serious cannabis patient and
you are already to the point that you need to be taking suppositories you are probably
um doing what you need to do and don't really care about elegance anyway um so by the time you're at
that point you're doing what you need to do to not suffer but you know there is there are the
great options because i that you know there is nothing as luxurious as a shea butter and coconut
oil suppository but but you know if you don't have the time for that um or or the money for the
inputs um putting it in a a vegan cellulose cap works as well um all right so that that was a
great topic to end this set on um so uh so my goal at this point in the show was for you to have
a really solid understanding of the different methods of cannabis intake and a good picture
for yourself of the endocannabinoid system why we are taking cannabis at all so on from this platform
we will now in the second set go into specific cannabinoids and understanding the amount of each
that we would want to take to reach different effects so we're going to go ahead and take a
short break and be right back you are listening to the hundredth episode of shaping fire and i
am shango los without these advertisers shaping fire would not happen so please support them and
let them know you heard them on shaping fire one of the reasons why no-till cannabis growing is so
valued by farmers is because the mycelium networks in the soil remain established from year to year
and we know these fungal networks are essential because they are the nutrient super highways that
extend far and wide in the substrate to feed your plants the trouble with growing in new living soils
or blended cocoa substrates is that it takes most of the plant's life just to create these mycelium
highways dynamico endomicroysal fungi inoculant reduces that time and gets your plant eating a
wider array of nutrients faster and it's three times the concentration of the other popular
brand in the u.s. at 900 propagules per gram of two fungal species selected specifically for
cannabis cultivation dynamico is the result of 30 years of research and trials at the volcani
agriculture research institute in israel it has also been vigorously trialed by cannabis and food
growers across the u.s. dynamico is now available at grow shops and on amazon in the united states
i love using dynamico to both speed up the growth of the mycelium networks in the soil
but also as a biostimulant to make clone cuttings more virile you can see side by side showing the
comparative growth on their instagram at dynamico if you demand reliable growing results and
appreciate the importance of an active root zone in creating a thriving plant i encourage you to
check out dynamico.com and use the store locator to find out where you can get yours that's d-y-n-o-m-c-o
dot com shaping fire listeners can get 10 off any size of dynamico on amazon or dynamico.com
by using the discount code shaping fire one word no caps whether you are starting with new beds or
pots or if you want to add some zing to tired soil choose dynamico to maximize your plant's potential
dynamico endo mycorrhizal inoculant online cannabis seed distributors often seem to be
all the same but multiverse beans constantly works to provide you with cannabis seeds and a
buying experience that you won't find elsewhere multiverse beans works directly with the breeders
to secure as many packs of your favorites as possible so that they have your favorite beans
long after others have sold out some shops simply buy breeder minimums but i get messages all the
time from breeders saying some version of multiverse asked to buy my entire run at
multiverse beans.com you can find rare cannabis seeds from night owl seeds including the dark
owl sub label mephisto genetics square one genetics robin hood seeds and ethos and so many others
multiverse also initiates projects with breeders to secure exclusive packs that you simply won't
find elsewhere multiverse founder paul lall sees himself not only as a curator of the best cannabis
available but also as a collaborator with breeders trying to bring novel crosses to the market that
his customers are asking for multiverse beans also creates exclusive stickers for their popular seed
varieties that are available free only when you order those seeds from multiverse check out their
stickers like the badass recent slap for mothman by gnomed automatics on instagram at multiverse
beans and finally the freebies as you'd expect paul sends quality freebies with every order and
when you spend at least 150 multiverse allows you to choose your freebies from their special
selections you can get a 10 discount off regularly priced items when you use the discount code
shaping fire all one word at checkout sign up for their mailing list to be eligible for their monthly
seed giveaway worth 250 so go to multiversebeans.com now for a buying experience you won't get anywhere
else for years organic cultivators have been looking for a peat moss replacement peat moss
has long been the go-to soil amendment for water retention and container growing but organic
growers are recognizing now that peat moss is an unsustainable resource and the mining of peat bogs
destroys wetland habitats and releases sequestered carbon but peat moss works so well that many have
continued to use it now there is finally a revolutionary replacement for peat moss
that provides better benefits while being a sustainable choice pit moss sounds and acts like
peat moss but instead of being mined from fragile ecosystems is actually made from upcycled organic
paper and cardboard headed for landfills pit moss is excellent at retaining water in your substrate
and creating air pockets and tiny living environments for microbes pit moss instantly
increases aeration nutrient absorption and water conservation too carefully and locally sourced
pit moss is the result of decades-long research into the use of recycled paper fibers
pit moss is lightweight and easy to use and pit moss is inert so it won't change your ph
available in a range of preparations including a nutrient enhanced blend and an organic soil
conditioner with no added nutrients pit moss is also available as an animal bedding for horses
chickens and small animals you can save 15 with the discount code shaping fire one word no caps
when shopping on pitmoss.com so go to pitmoss.com now to learn more that's p-i-t-t-m-o-s-s.com
growing healthier stronger more sustainable plants pit moss welcome back you are listening to the
hundredth episode of shaping fire and i am your host shango los during the first set we talked
about the endocannabinoids and make sure you had a decent understanding of that and then we talked
about the different methods of getting cannabinoids into your body and so you're starting
to get an idea of how your body functions and the different ways that we can add the cannabinoids
to meet your particular needs as a cannabis patient so now on set two what we're going to
talk about is the specific dosing for particular cannabinoids that are commonly available and that
we have actually got some decent research on so you know i'm not going to go through all of the
cannabinoids that exist because some of them we barely know anything about yet however we do know
quite a bit about thc and cbd and we know a bit about cbg and so we are going to cover those and
the idea is that you know with those three you can get well on your way to relieving your symptoms
and also once you understand how to think about individual cannabinoids as new cannabinoids become
popular and the research starts to come out you'll you'll have a good idea of how to think through
bringing a new cannabinoid into you know your health protocol so you know we have to start
with a conversation about isolates and whole plant resin i would have originally and i would have in
the old days say that whole plant resin versus isolates because historically i have not been a
fan of isolates but over time as the quality from some distributors have increased and you know some
people don't have access to certain novel cannabinoids it does there is a place for isolates
in the health program of many cannabis patients and so i really can't justify writing them off
anymore though it's really important to know what their good uses are and where their limitations are
so so first of all let's um let's go back a little bit so historically people sought whole plant
cannabinoids simply because it was the only thing that existed i mean the people took the plant
and they used the resin as they got it off the plant either by smoking the plant or or
mechanically removing the trichomes and making hash or you know as as solvents were developed
mixing it with ethanol alcohol so whole plant was like the whole deal but as technology evolved
the creation of isolates became possible and pharmaceutical companies were very interested
in isolating these compounds so that they could study them for potential future healing products
in the future and you know if you're not familiar with the term isolate the isolate just means a
single molecule of the cannabinoids so so one single molecule of thc or one single molecule
of cbd whereas in a whole plant resin you're getting a melange of of different cannabinoids
and flavonoids and you know fats and all these other things that make for this particular synergy
which works so well with the human body so you know the first time i saw that there was a really
good reason to consider cbd isolate was in the early days of cbd before cbd plants were available
just anywhere there was a time you know not too long ago let's see um let's call it like seven or
eight years ago where people started wanting cbd but getting your hands on on plants that were bred
with cbd was was pretty challenging unless you lived in california you know when you were you
were getting them from folks there who were intentionally trying to spread them out
and so um we got to a point where people wanted cbd and they especially wanted cbd in their
cannabis oil concentrate but it just wasn't to be had in any kind of significant dosage
and so uh companies started filling that void by extracting cbd single molecule isolate from the
cannabis plant and selling that separately as a powder and you know like i said i was pretty
pretty against that at the time as as being an over processed product um but after i got over
myself and realized that you know you didn't have to take cbd powder alone and and we would
eventually find out that cbd powder is helpful for some applications that the important thing was
people should have the understanding that they can spike their regular thc dominant cannabis oil
with cbd to expand the benefits a great deal and i i remember speaking first with dr sunil agarwal
at the washington cannabis conference i asked him while he was speaking whether or not he thought
that spiking thc dominant cannabis oil with cbd to make it slightly more whole plant right since
since cbd used to be in landrace plants but we progressively bred it out over the years
so our cannabis plants were stronger in thc so you know a landrace a natural plant actually has a lot
more cbd in it than um than the bread plants that that are are used for more recreational
use nowadays and he said yeah he's like he said that would make sense to me to him dr sunil agarwal
and he said that um you know until until more plants can be evolved that have a significant
amount of cbd in them and they can be distributed across the country if you can get cbd isolate go
ahead and and and add that into your brew when you are making your um your thc dominant rso or
cannabis oil and i was caught off guard but i considered myself um you know smarter for it and
then um on an episode with dr ethan russo about five years ago i asked him the same question he
said yeah yeah you know if you if you need cbd and you can't find whole plant cbd well go ahead and
take the isolate and then spike your your cannabis oil because your thc dominant cannabis oil will
have the thc of course plus it'll have a whole bunch of those other you know um flavonoids and
cannaflavin and and and novel cannabinoids and trace amounts and then you're adding a um you know
heaping dose of cbd from the isolate and while everyone agreed that that when possible it's
always better to just extract the plant and take the plant as is um you know we don't live in a
perfect world and sometimes you need to sometimes you need to spike your oil with a cannabinoid you
need so um so another thing that's interesting to consider when comparing isolates and whole plant
is that in the early days of cannabis research they were doing cannabis research with the whole
plant resin right and so the early studies that you can look up when you when you read what they
were using and how they actually performed it they were extracting a a thc dominant resin and
experimenting with that but as um you know creeping normalization started and and companies
pharmaceutical companies started um considering what pharmaceutical products they were going to
make out of it well suddenly the medical started study scientific studies started focusing more on
isolate because you know the two main advantages of isolate are that number one you do isolate the
molecule and so you can be sure for repeatability of results because um you can you know you can
make that isolate molecule discreet from all the other components that are usually in resin
and then second you can't um you can't patent the plant but if they made a medicine and they
made it out of isolate well then they would be able to patent that and call it a product and sell
it which is how you get products like sativex so um so if you look at the uh if you look at the
scientific studies now they are much more dominantly using isolate now um to varying results
and um and and one thing we know is generally you need to take a whole lot more isolate to get the
same kind of results that you normally get with a whole plant resin and uh and that when you take
isolate um your efficacy goes up to a point and then it plateaus whereas when you take whole plant
because of all the synergistic materials um generally speaking the more you take the more
reaction you're going to get it's worthwhile to note too that uh whether or not you want to use
isolates or a whole plant often just depends on how much money you've got um there is no question
that isolate is far more affordable than a whole plant resin um you know your mileage may vary with
it but if if it's what you can afford and it happens to give you benefit well then you know
you should definitely go for it um it's really interesting um as the market for cannabis medicines
and other fun products evolve how odd the the price ratios work so for example um whole plant
resin is very expensive compared to isolate single molecule and so you know you need to have enough
money to be able to afford the resin and when it comes to cbd resin most patients their dosage is
as much as they can actually afford because they always want more and so in this case the the resin
is very expensive and the isolate is very inexpensive however in contrast if you are a
cancer patient and you are trying to use thc to straight up beat the cancer and you're taking a
90-day thc protocol versus doing chemo well suddenly now a thc cannabis oil is very affordable
because you know spending 1500 to 2000 dollars for 60 syringes to take over 90 days
is very affordable versus a round of chemo and all the associated costs with that so
you know we can't jump to any conclusions about this is you know cannabis medicine is so expensive
or cannabis medicine is so cheap or don't use this or don't we really need to think it through
for each patient what their unique needs are and what their financial capabilities are so
yet another reason why you know we really don't want to just group cannabis patients into big
buckets and tell them what's good for everybody because because each patient is really unique
all right with that discussion of whole plant resin versus isolates um past us um let's go ahead
and talk about um the first cannabinoid we want to talk about in detail and that of course is
the very popular thc and by that i mean delta 9 thc tetrahydrocannabinol and so this is the one that
you know people have known about um forever and it's the one that if you take enough
um you can get intoxicated um they referring to that as a euphoric um but you don't have to take
that much and for most of the things that patients need um you do not need to take uh enough that
you will necessarily get high but let's talk about in in detail so a thc strongly activates
the cb1 receptors in the body and the endocannabinoid system triggering a feeling of euphoria
and this activation also increases the blood flow blood flow to the prefrontal cortex in the front
of your brain which is the area that controls your ability to focus as well as your motor skills and
attention and memory and like your your ability to make decisions and then thc also interacts with
cb2 receptors uh providing the the analgesic or pain relieving effect um also giving muscle
relaxation and enigmatic effects which is like helping with nausea and vomiting when we're
thinking about thc dosing we have to be really aware that there are two different time frames
for thc you've got what can thc help with me today and what will thc help me with over over
the time so the short-term effects of thc are number one it's an analgesic that uh lessens and
softens your experience of the pain um it's a distractant and meaning that you forget about
your ailment and you can focus on other things for a while like you know working or caring for
the kids or focusing on a fun activity and um you know when i say it's a distractant it it kind of
just makes you forget about the thing that you are suffering from which is why it's especially good
for ptsd patients right they can set aside their their memories of a trauma or of a war zone or a
bad experience and for a moment be distracted by the use of the thc which allows them to do other
things that give their life value and so and honestly that's one of the odd additional ways
that thc is an analgesic because like not only does it soften your experience of the pain and
kind of turn down the volume but then it distracts you from it as well and so thc actually helps with
pain in two different modes it's also an anti-inflammatory and so this is used a lot by
people who are experiencing you know rheumatoid arthritis or you know just regular arthritis or
swelling or inflammation of the joints so in the in the short term once you take some thc
those will go down temporarily as part of the short-term effects we'll talk about that more
in the longer term effects as mentioned it's also an enigmatic meaning that it decreases nausea
it's a muscle relaxant and which which decreases spasticity and and if you're unfamiliar with that
that is the the the involuntary clenching of your muscles that make your body feel all tight and
stuff and and we can apply this to lots of different types of patients right parkinson's
patients who have got tremors also parkinson's patients who start to get crampy and they start to
hunch over people who have got pain pretty much anywhere in their body because very often
the other side of their body starts to clench in response to the side that you're trying to
keep safe right you're trying to keep one side of your body out of harm's way which means that
your other side of your body is doing more work and those muscles tend to get tight and annoyed
and then also when you have muscles that are relaxed it decreases your experience of stress
i mean so often with stress we again we clench our body and as soon as we're like ah and you can kind
of like open up and your muscles feel relaxed your anxiety will go down with it and the thc thc
can help with that as well and then finally it can help with sleep due to relaxation because
if you're having a hard time sleeping because you're stressed out and tight and in your pain
you add some thc and suddenly your muscles are relaxed and your pain is turned down and you're
kind of distracted from it and some varieties of thc can cause drowsiness and lethargy well boom
there you go it's going to help with with your sleep now and that lethargy can be used for other
things too or combined with other things so if you were to get a a thc plant that also is high
in terpenes like myrcene or linalool which are both relaxing you're you're really setting up a
good combination for somebody who has insomnia especially if their insomnia is compounded by
discomfort when they're trying to go to sleep it's also really good for people who are who have just
had surgery because so many of us after we've had surgery we're like okay i'm feeling better i want
to like start moving around the house and we're like no you're supposed to stay in that bed for a
week and and like i'm supposed to bring you food and and people start to get antsy but if you give
them some some cannabis stink sure well you know they can they can enjoy that lethargy take more
naps and like you know be more easily entertained with like color book coloring books and crosswords
and word searches and stuff stuff that just like keeps them in bed so their body can heal
and the last short-term effect of thc i'm going to hit you here is um as an appetite uh stimulant
and you know we can all joke about getting the munchies and and sometimes it is very funny
and sometimes it's dangerous because we eat all of our food but um but for folks who actually are
having a difficulty eating perhaps because they are going through um you know a cancer treatment
or some other kind of treatment that suppresses the appetite or they're depressed or or anything
that's going to decrease the appetite um very often if you use cannabis well suddenly um you're
feeling snacky um because thc interacts with the hunger part of the brain and also uh thc um makes
food taste better and smell better and so you're more likely to uh to smell or you know smell food
being made in the other room and start to salivate and you're like oh my gosh i'm actually hungry
and so uh so those are the short-term effects of thc so there are additional benefits for specific
ailments but this this list gives you a good understanding of the most commonly used benefits
of thc and and one or more of these are probably appropriate for you or the patient that you're
working with so so those are all the things that thc will do for you now today as soon as you take
it so now when taken over time from once a day to twice a day or more for a few weeks
these daily benefits start to stack up um one of those reasons is a decrease in chronic inflammation
right if if you're taking thc and in that moment you're pushing back the inflammation a little bit
if you continue to do that over time you will be decreasing your overall inflammation not just
decreasing it a little bit for for the next four hours but if you decrease it now and then you take
thc again in four hours and then you take it again in four hours and you do that tomorrow you can
decrease your i guess standard inflammation that your body has which buys you some time to
decrease your discomfort while you are trying to figure out what is causing your inflammation
and and decreasing those and decrease those causes the second long-term thc benefit that i
will tell you is probably the one that's the most important and that is apoptosis thc kills cancer
cells and it's very interesting to watch it happen in a petri dish a a thc molecule come up against a
cancer cell and and burst its sidewall um which i swear has got to be the word where the term
apoptosis comes from and um and it kills the cancer cell and so you know if you just took
thc today um you know it would kill some cancer cells and that's great and that's why a lot of
people use it as a um you know some preventative for cancer because if there are any cancer cells
in your body the thc will hopefully mop them up while they're still small but if you are taking
thc every day you're you're you're you're killing cancer cells now and then you're killing more in
four hours and then more in four hours and then more in four hours and then you sleep and then
you do it again tomorrow and so as you start to stack these days um next to each other um suddenly
you are decreasing the size of tumors and other forms of cancer and and we have seen significant
um you know both scientific and anecdotal evidence that this works for a great many people on a
variety of cancers and so um you know uh hopefully there will be another episode like this where um
where i'll be doing it solo and i can i can lay out the um you know the entire application of of
the cancer protocol but uh for now just understand that it causes apoptosis and it's a great thing to
take as a preventative and finally i'm kind of the same category as the as the appetite
stimulant that's a short-term effect long-term um you can get weight gain from the appetite and
and so for people who have got like a wasting disease or they're just losing weight long-term
because they're depressed well oh you know the the munchies that you have today and tomorrow and the
third day they start to add up and you start putting weight on and and hopefully start feeling
better so okay so um now that we've kind of got an idea of what the short-term effects are and the
longer-term effects of taking thc generally um let's start about talking about some real specifics
of of the amounts the the milligrams that we're talking about when taking thc so um the first
benchmark we want to look at is um a generally a sub perceptible dosage of 2.5 milligrams now at
2.5 milligrams um you really shouldn't feel it at all it would be it would be a surprise if your
patient felt it now um they may have anxiety about it and so they may think that they're feeling it
because placebo is a strong thing um but generally at 2.3 unless unless somebody is
exceptionally sensitive they're not going to feel it yet so 2.5 is is generally pretty safe
for most people who are either scared of the intoxication experience or they've got control
issues and they don't like to feel like they are in any way out of control or perhaps they had a
really negative thc high when they were younger and they just never want to feel that again and
yet they need thc for some reason and so for these people we start them off at 2.5 milligrams which
honestly the most of us who use cannabis regularly might scoff at 2.5 if you're taking 2.5 milligrams
of thc three to four times a day every three to four hours and you're doing that every day
you are going to see tremendous results with your arthritis and and other sorts of inflammatory
issues that just need to be addressed every day in a small amount and not today in a large amount
so so don't rule out 2.5 milligrams it can also be used to you know create appetite
and to a lesser extent but it is true to give you a little bit of muscle relaxation for just
like physical comfort so that that would be our first our first benchmark is 2.5 milligrams but
but 5 milligrams is where most people start to feel it in some way it's often compared to one
glass of wine for most people and this is this 5 milligrams is a is the baseline dose for most
cannabis patients once patients get comfortable here many to most will move up to 10 milligrams
if they also like the feeling of it being a slight euphoric right because if if the job that you need
is getting done at 5 milligrams but if you take 10 milligrams and it's also pleasurable well well
you know a lot of people go to that 10 milligram mark pretty quickly just because they're like well
if my medicine can make me feel good like okay let's do that you'll find that the majority of
edibles that are sold in medical and licensed recreational shops are 10 milligrams because it
just seems to be a uniform dose that can help a wide range of people and so they'll give you you
know whatever it is 10 milligram gummies 10 milligram cookies 10 milligram gum drops you
know like whatever they'll likely give you 10 of those to a package so there will be 10 milligrams
each and then there'll be in a package of 100 milligrams that you can just take yourself and so
at this at this 5 to 10 area you're gonna need to I mean if you don't have an experience with cannabis already
starting with 10 milligrams might surprise you and so this is one of the reasons why I recommended
tincture earlier in the show because if if you have zero experience with cannabis starting with 10
milligrams it might be great but then also it might not be for you there's there there is a
lot of variability in folks and even though 10 milligrams sounds low to people who use cannabis
all the time to somebody who's particularly sensitive and they've got a lot of cb1 and cb2
receptors and so their body takes on a lot of that thc really fast they could have an uncomfortable
you know dysphoric experience and it happens all the time so whenever possible you know perhaps
start with a tincture and experiment at 2.5 and 5 and 10 and kind of find out what your appropriate
dosage is for what you're trying to take care of and then and then to understand what the really
high end of the numbers look like let's let's let's talk about extreme examples so so if we're
talking about like 5 or 10 milligrams for most folks if taken regularly in contrast it's common
for cancer patients seeking to beat the cancer to take as much as 750 milligrams of thc of whole
plant oil extract every day divided into three servings of 250 milligrams so so we're comparing a
potential 10 milligram thc serving to a 250 milligram serving three times a day that's a
whole bunch and actually a devastating amount actually and um you know you don't start at that
at that dosage you know part of the cannabis uh cancer protocol is that you titrate in so you're
starting with you know lower amounts and then over over the weeks you increase the amount that you're
taking with the hope that by the time you're taking 250 milligrams at a time that you've got
some amount of thc and awareness of what it is to be high and and you know awareness of what it
means to be um kind of uncontrollably high there are certainly people who can handle 250 milligrams
you know no sweat but the vast majority of people will be absolutely blown out at 250 milligrams
to the point that you know they could be questioning their sanity right which is which
is why you don't just take 250 milligrams without knowing what you're doing and in a cancer protocol
why you titrate your your way in so you build up over time it's also important to understand that
the the the maximum dose of thc that is necessary for a patient is really their call and even though
somebody might not be taking high levels of thc intentionally to cause apoptosis and cancer
there are other very unique patients who take extraordinary amounts of of thc um you know my
my my most significant example is my buddy nick rised in back in michigan he's a cannabis and
dog breeder who also has lyme disease and when i first visited him at his home i was astonished to
see him taking 400 or 500 milligrams of thc and cannabis oil three to four times a day and i was
just astonished as as he's just like you know squirting these syringes into his mouth to um to
help quell his seizures and ease his pain and and and i was i was just astonished watching it and i
was actually afraid for him but he's like oh man i do this every day this is this is all right and
and so you know this is this is where patients start to really have to grow their own cannabis
because being able to afford that much as a patient on the open market is is very unrealistic
and so why i always um you know stand up for for patients having the rights to grow their own and
be self-sufficient so the next thing we're going to talk about is um you know once you're going
over 10 milligrams you're going to learn how your particular body responds from thc and you can
move away from dosage guidelines like this one because all it's going to take is is a couple
weeks of you uh taking thc every day and and you are going to learn what works for you and so
guides like this are to help you understand how to think about cannabis dosing but once you're
doing it you become the expert for your body because everybody's body really is different
this is why i always recommend that people keep a a dosing journal of their cannabis use
because over time you might forget how much you used to take for this or that or or you you might
want to look back and see how you try titrate it in um also if if you're going to bother to
tell your doctor about your thc use as as part of your overall health solution
um doctors like really dig it if you can show them that you're taking that you're you know
keeping a journal and that you're tracking the stuff um because so many doctors are already very
suspicious of cannabis medicine but if you can show that you're doing it in a controlled air
quotes responsible way um you know they might be more likely to to you know play with you and and
and not give you you know a hard time about using it so um there are two varieties of black swan
patients that we need to talk about before we end this um this discussion of thc specifically
um the first one um we're going to talk about our rapid metabolizers um there is a variety of
human that just metabolizes everything super fast and i have worked with these patients and they
metabolize thc so fast and and often mushrooms and ls lsd and um you know anything you give them they
they metabolize it super fast to get almost no effect and um we have to know that these folks
exist i i worked with this one patient who um had no experience with cannabis prior
and then they decided that they um you know needed to take it for their health
and so they started with you know the you know the 2.5 5 milligram 10 milligram and like didn't feel
anything and so then moved up to 40 and didn't feel anything and and they found that their um
efficacious dose was actually um 80 milligrams of thc at a time and and this patient was still like
doing stuff around the house and being productive and it's it's it's actually what they needed to
take care of their um their ailment and function like a normal human but but if you told me that
somebody who had only been taking thc for two weeks was already at 80 milligrams i would fear
for them you know that they that that they were taking so much that um you know if they took that
80 milligram amount that they would have a very bad day um and yet this this patient just like
worked titrated themselves up over the course of four or five days and now they sit at 80 milligrams
and you know that kind of rapid metabolizer is very rare but if you are a caregiver you know
it's also important that you know that it exists and if you are a patient um now you have keywords
to um to search so that you can show your caregivers that yes you you you may require
this much thc um the second variety of black swan is that it's estimated that about one in 10 000
patients are wildly sensitive to thc um the point where you know only a a gram or two or excuse me
a milligram or two is uh going to give them a very bad experience and i've only seen this once
um a patient reached out to me during their very bad experience they they took a um a five
milligram tincture that they got at the licensed store and they experienced dysphoria hallucinations
and like intense energy for 12 hours from such a small dose and honestly i wouldn't have believed it
if i hadn't first if i hadn't seen it firsthand and i was familiar with that product and knew that
um the analytics on it were were likely right and and that that dose is so small and and should have
such an incredibly small effect but i i saw it happen and so um we do need to be aware that on
the rare occasion you can give a very small dose to a patient and they will have an outside risk
outsized response to it and they're going to need some support in you know just trying to stay calm
and feel okay until it wears off like towards the end of the day so um you know i hope for you that
you don't come across either rapid metabolizers or or hyper sensitive folks to thc because um
it's always a real surprise and and as a caregiver um you know you feel so bad for them
you know because they're they're they're they're trying to do their best with cannabis medicine
and now they're like blown out and they've had a really bad experience and um and now they now
they really hate cannabis medicine so um so i i i hope that um i hope that you aren't one and i hope
that you don't you know come across them in your work all right so let's move on to cbd now you
probably have got a pretty good idea how to work with thc at this point hopefully so so cbd um
which stands for cannabidiol it activates the cb1 and cb2 receptors but to a much lesser extent than
thc does um it doesn't cause intoxication but it's it's certainly psychoactive you know a lot
of people say oh it's not psychoactive but um while it won't get you high like thc will um it
is definitely certainly psychoactive in the sense that it can change perceptions by bettering your
mood um how cbd exerts its therapeutic impact on a molecular level is still being sorted out
um cannabidiol is a pleiotropic drug which i don't usually have much much opportunity to say
in that it produces many effects through multiple molecular pathways the scientific literature has
identified more than 65 molecular targets of cbd and the study of these pathways has always
only just begun so while we do talk about cbd interacting somewhat with the cb1 and cb2 receptors
it isn't that they oh just don't interact with receptors they interact with a lot of things and
we're just now trying to you know figure out what those what those other types of of receptors um
might be what those might look like cbd is a very active signaling molecule and it's one of the most
useful um cannabinoids for the endocannabinoid system um because of this variety of 65 plus
targets um it does a lot uh to support the endocannabinoid system it feels very much like
a utility player like whatever's needed you know come you know fill in you know phyto cannabinoid
version of cbd to replace endocannabinoids and so it's um it's definitely a workhorse
similar to thc cbd has benefits now and benefits later for certain thc is more of a help me today
cannabinoid and cbd is a bit more of a help me tomorrow cannabinoid because for most of its
applications it takes time to strengthen the endocannabinoid system but it's true that cbd2
has some today benefits so so let's let's talk about short-term and long-term benefits just like
we did with thc so uh shorter term benefits of cbd number one the most low-hanging fruit
uh brain chemistry mood anxiety and stress um this is of all the things that i tell people
you know you need to give cbd some time to do its job when it comes to mood anxiety and stress this
is something that it can help you um you know like within an hour depending on dose and your
receptability to it um and the reason is is because cannabidiol stimulates the 5-ht1a serotonin
receptor and so you take it and it goes and it activates it and um your mood your brain chemistry
will start to even out um as we talked at the top of the show in the first set the the main goal of
the endocannabinoid system is to balance um the body's other systems and that is what's what's
happening in this effect if if your chemistry has swung one way or another causing you to be either
be you know depressed or anxious um cbd will help bring you back to the balance place where you can
be your best um it is also an antimemetic and anti-nausea like thc is and when you use them
together they work together to be even more effective and then cbd binds to they're called
trip v1 receptors a trpv1 receptors which also function as ion channels and so these trip v1s
are known to mediate pain um and inflammation and body temperature but the main thing that people
are looking to it for is to mediate pain so um cbd of course is handling the experience of pain
very differently than thc does and so when people put cannabis all in one bucket on how it helps
with pain um you know that they don't really understand the medicine very well because
thc as we've already learned it helps by being a natural analgesic and decreasing the um the muscle
contraction as well as being a distractant right well cbd in its own way um it activates the trip v1
which mediates the pain perception so it kind of just like turns down the volume of your experience
of it so when you again when you have cbd and thc together they work really well at decreasing pain
today so the longer term benefits of cbd are usually what people are going for very often
the short-term benefits people are looking to thc for help and and they may have heard cbd helps but
but realistically cbd's um most effective role is to strengthen the endocannabinoid system so it can
do its job right and so the longer term benefits of cbd would be number one first and foremost
to strengthen the endocannabinoid system so it can do its job in rebalancing the various
bodies systems and the body can heal itself it just needs some more signaling molecules
and cbd because it targets these 65 different receptors it has a little bit of help for all
the different systems and so it is a great thing to supplement yourself with every day
to strengthen your body's ability to take care of itself cbd also exerts an anti-cancer effect as
well and i won't get too much into the mechanics of it but but what it does is it it has an
anti-proliferative effect which means it slows down cancer's ability to replicate itself and
again if you're taking it every day over time you would have the cbd slowing the increase in
number of the cancer cells and then you'd also have thc coming in and bursting those cells so
they're a very good team in this regard also another great thing is that cbd tends to kick
off the body's housekeeping mechanisms and so it is helping take care of of things that if
allowed to go neglected over a long term can get especially worse so for example
um when you take cbd it activates the ppar gamma which degrades the amyloid beta plaque in the
brain and when this plaque builds up it is linked to the development of alzheimer's disease and so
when you are taking cbd as a prophylactic like daily just so things don't get bad or worse for
you you are actually staving off a a certain amount of potential of alzheimer's in the future
we've also seen patients that have like they're starting to have dementia and then they start with
a pretty heavy daily use of cbd and their dementia tends to calm down um both probably because of this
ppar gamma activation but also because cbd causes neurogenesis the creation of new brain cells new
neurons especially the ones that are dopamine excreting and these dopamine excreting neurons
help stave off things like parkinson's and so it really is helpful to use cbd on a daily basis
um you know probably for everybody since we know that just about everybody is suffering from
endocannabinoid deficiency but especially as you're getting older and
your body isn't working as well as it used to and you're starting to forget things and you're
starting to be more aware of a potential dementia or parkinson's in your future like like you don't
want to go too long without supplementing your endocannabinoid system so it can do the business
of keeping you healthy now if you really want to dive into understanding cbd the only place i
recommend is projectcbd.org that i mentioned at the top of this show founder martin lee has put
together an exceptional cannabis resource for patients and it's the only online source that
i fully trust so the articles are written in layman's terms and then they also provide direct
links to the original scientific papers so so don't forget projectcbd.org it is it is a great and as
far as i'm concerned the only place to go online so there's a great deal of confusion and debate
about the proper dosing of cbd so when using whole plant we can offer cbd milligram suggestions but
the other cannabinoids in the resin will always play an uncontrolled role because we don't know
how cbd might interact with the cannaflavin that is also in the resin and what they might be doing
synergistically together so cbd in a whole resin goes further than just a cbd isolate because it's
got its partners in the resin all the other components of the resin there with it and so
because of that cbd whole resin will almost nearly always give you a a better efficacious
experience than than just isolate alone but again if you don't have access to cbd resin or you can't
afford it at the amount that you need by all means give a high quality cbd isolate a try and see if
that will help you all right so with that let's talk to let's talk some specific numbers so looking
back to 2015 when i was first recommending cbd to patients you know doctors willing to take a
position at all said that about 10 milligrams per day of whole plant cbd was good for as a supplement
that would support a healthy person to stay healthy and i think that the actuality for healthy people
is probably twice that so 10 milligrams twice a day once in the morning and once again after lunch
not in the evening because about 20 of people find cbd stimulating and not stimulating in a way of
like coffee or caffeine or anything like that it more stimulating where when people take the cbd
suddenly their body wants to do that housekeeping stuff like removing the plaque on the synapses in
the brain and cleaning up the mucus off the the the cilia in the gut and so you don't really want
to kick all that stuff off as you are you know trying to trying to go to sleep and so but you
know that's only about 20 of patients but i don't recommend that people take cbd in the evening
unless they've already had a trial right and you don't want to do your trial like on a work night
or a school night or something like that try it on a try it on a saturday so so that you make sure
that you're not reactive to cbd and making it more difficult to sleep so as soon as you have
something wrong that number of 10 milligrams twice a day will jump up and if you're actively working
on an issue like arthritic inflammation migraines ibs or something like that you immediately are
going to want to jump up to more like 20 to 40 milligrams twice a day and and that will work on
your endocannabinoid system at a rate that you're likely to see something even maybe within a week
but i always recommend a full month of daily cbd as a trial because it it does take your body
some time to rebuild the endocannabinoid system enough to probably meet your goals
and we don't know how many uh cbd receptors that you have in your body you might have more or less
so it may take longer for your body to get the reaction to the daily supplementation of cbd that
you're looking for and you know a month is it's not too long but it is enough right if if you've
taken it for a month and you're taking enough every day and you're not really seeing results
at the end of the month well you might as well put your money elsewhere now if you're dealing
with something big and chronic like rheumatoid arthritis or lupus or multiple sclerosis or just
wicked joint pain the right answer for most people is probably to take as much as you can
afford and this is so frustrating to patients when i'm talking to them because um you know if
they've got something serious and a whole plant is expensive and sometimes hard to find um they're
just all like well how much do i need and and i'm all like well you know it's expensive how much can
you afford it which is a very frustrating answer and i and i understand that so i try to give them
an idea of how many milligrams of cbd they want and then they start doing the math and they're
like oh man you know that's that's half of a cbd syringe and i need that you know twice a day so
you're going through like one a day and depending where you are in the country those cbd syringes
can be anywhere between 30 and 80 bucks each and it's not like the old days where um you know in
many states medical systems even when you were buying from from the grower there was always a
discount to people who had chronic illnesses especially people who were fighting cancer
because by the time you're fighting cancer most people are broke when they when they find their
way to cannabis and so it's very challenging to recommend cbd for people who who need a lot of it
and you know perhaps for some of those people a good solution will be to purchase cbd whole plant
oil in a syringe and then maybe even spike it with with isolate to get more bang for your buck now
i have a chronic disease and i take 80 milligrams twice a day but i grow my own and i make my own
oil so my costs are much lower than at a licensed store and this again is why i'm a big proponent of
cannabis patient self-sufficiency and i really hope that our society continues to increase our
support of that so before i go on to the black swan patients around cbd i want to kind of like
wrap up the numbers of dosing that i was suggesting into a little nicer package because
um i can imagine that it might feel a little a little vague at this point especially when i've
all like take as much as you can afford right so so we essentially have got three different
levels of of dosing and and to find out where your dosing may need to be for your particular ailment
again i send you back to um the project cbd site because on projectcbd.org you can find the actual
studies and you can find out how much cbd they're giving the patients what their results were like
and if they were using a whole plant or an isolate preparation and because at this point you
understand that the whole plant tends to be more more effective and then isolate you can you can
start to kind of gauge where your particular needs are for where you want to start your your dosing
and then you can start making your changes after after you see or don't see effects so those those
three levels are um if you're if you're generally healthy and you want to stay that way um shoot for
10 milligrams of cbd twice a day as a minimum if you can afford or get your hands on more well that's
that's all the better but um but the the doctors that i have talked to and interviewed say that
you know if you're not actually actively trying to fix something taking 10 milligrams twice a day
for 20 milligrams a day is a great place to go um the next level up are if there is something
actively you're trying to work on like you're um like migraines like ibs like arthritic inflammation
in the arms or or in or in your knees or whatever and that that you're really talking about um like
40 milligrams twice a day at that middle middle place and then of course there's this high end
where you know if they're using 200 milligram doses in trials um not a lot of people can afford
200 milligrams of whole plant cbd or maybe even isolate cbd and so you just you know you take as
much as you can and and perhaps you can find yourself a syringe of cbd whole plant and then
spike it with some isolate and get creative and so um while that seems a bit on the vague side
there's a lot of different things there's dozens of different ailments that cbd can help with and
you know this isn't a show just about dosing cbd i want to teach you how to think about how to dose
cbd and then you can continue with a little bit more of your own research and this will provide a
a context for you to put that new information in as you are designing your own protocol all right
so one note on black swan patients around cbd so i have worked with one immune compromised patient
who also had rheumatoid arthritis and would become delirious and experience missing time
after simply ingesting 10 milligrams of cbd in a whole plant cannabis oil and you know and it was
really hard to believe it unless i had seen it and i saw it a few times and we know that it wasn't
very high in thc in the oil because it was hemp extracted and lab tested and so we're certain
that the thc component was under one milligram and yet something in this patient was definitely
activated and on more than one occasion because the patient had a long history of using this same
oil suddenly when they took the oil at this low amount of just 10 milligrams they were they were
losing entire afternoons and and were kind of delirious and tired and had to sleep the rest
of the day we still don't know what that is and when i talk to you know cannabinopathic scientists
they they're skeptical and they don't want to believe me but i've been doing this a long time
now and i know the stuff to rule out and so i see it so i don't really tell you this to caution you
against cbd because cbd is so safe but you know this is an extraordinarily rare thing and i bring
it up in case you are a caregiver and you come across a patient like this um no just know that
it's possible humans are incredibly varied and knowing that something is possible even if rare
can help us guide patients should they have this sort of rare reaction so before we close this cbd
section it's worthwhile to mention that cbd-a which is the acid and raw form unheated form of cbd that
is present in the cannabis plant also has a strong affinity for the 5-ht1a receptor even more so than
cbd and preclinical studies indicate that cbd-a is also a potent antiemetic or nausea stronger than
cbd or thc which also have the anti-nausea properties and the reason why i dropped this
in here is just to kind of ignite the idea in you that while most of the preparations of medicine
that we have are not the acid forms so most of the time what is available to us is cbd not cbd cbd-a
and by the time we take thc it's thc and not thca we need to remember that the acid forms that have
not been decarboxylated or heated they have their own sets of ways that they help the endocannabinoid
system and and don't be shy about taking your cannabinoids raw right from the plant say for
example by making hash and just eating it instead of using some kind of preparation that you have
to heat it either by making an extracted cannabis oil which you have to heat to remove the the
ethanol or or you know traditionally smoking thc where the burning of it is the decarboxylation
process so it's just it's just valuable to understand that these acid forms of these
cannabinoids often have entirely different useful properties than their non-acid forms
okay so the third one we're going to cover in this set is is cbg and and we're going to cover this
in a shorter amount of time than thc and cbd because i would say that the vast majority of
people who are here are looking for dosing recommendations for thc and cbd because those
are the ones that have been studied the most and the ones that we can get our hands on the most
but cbg is now becoming increasingly available ever since some cbg dominant cannabis plants
found their way into the market you know about five years ago now so so now there are many hemp
farms that are growing cbg dominant plants and so cbg is now available in isolate form and
and as a whole plant resin too i must admit i don't see cbg resin available just anywhere and
you know i have to grow my own plants and make it myself if i want it because
it's not it's not available in the licensed recreational system where i live so one of the
newest cannabinoids to get attention and one with very specific uses is cbg cannabijerol
so i'm going to delineate two specific uses for cbg and then and then give you the dosing
for it so we found when we did our research here on vashon island three years ago when we gave
cbg to a round of patients and then did a questionnaire afterwards that the number one
the number one thing that people responded to was that it helped neuropathic pain so that's pain from
some kind of nervous system damage or dysregulation like like a stabbing pain that seems without cause
or cold or numb fingers or limbs that feeling of pins and needles for example
and especially on your periphery right the external parts of your body and so when people
take cbg it decreases that experience and it is true we don't we don't know exactly know why yet
but we do know that it happens and it happens pretty consistently across the board some of the
some of the things that cannabis help with we have to very much say oh your mileage may vary but
these two attributes in cbg seems to be pretty reliable across the board and one of the great
things about cbg is that it doesn't have intoxication so it unless you are are taking a
cbg from a plant that it's married to thc in the preparation like like you don't grow a cbg hemp
plant instead you you grow a one-to-one plant that's one part cbg and one part thc so as long
as you're you're not intentionally adding the thc component cbg on its own won't get you high which
makes it very reliable for lots of people who have pain but they don't want to feel any level
of intoxication and cbg is incredibly reliable for this the second great use for cbg is actually
anxiety i was really surprised when we got back the questionnaires and and there were there were
multiple different flavors of anxiety that people found great help with so the first one was social
anxiety people said that it kind of like calmed them down and allowed them to be social and
interact with other people we also heard from people that it softened performance anxiety so
public speaking or at the beginning of covid when everyone was getting on zoom meetings for the
first time you know zoom meetings are very socially awkward situations and a lot of people found it
very uncomfortable to be doing these zoom meetings and cbg helped people like cool out so that they
could tolerate the the awkwardness stay calm and engaged and and be productive in their zoom
meetings and then the third one was a real surprise many patients would explain it to me by
by putting their their hands on their hips and and thrusting their chest out like a superhero would
and and they'd say like it gives me the confidence of a superhero and after i heard that enough times
i i really had to start like listening and thinking about it because people really seem
to get an increase of confidence from it like and how they described it as i feel like um i feel like
i have the resources to get what i need to get done today versus you know if you wake up with
rumination and you're like oh my gosh i just don't i just don't have what it takes to get through the
day that can really just like hold you back your entire day but if you start your day with a little
cbg and suddenly you're all like okay i can handle this let's go and um it showed up very
significantly in the questionnaires that we got back but then also in the three years since then
um i just i just see it in patients all the time when they when they tell me that they have sourced
it and they're using it and they're loving it and they never want to not have it again
and so cbg can have a gerol can be relied on for as a really reliable anti-anxiety with no
intoxication okay so now the specific numbers and milligrams that that we're seeing people have
success with um 10 milligrams of cbg every three hours does a great job for both so if you want to
use it as a pain reliever 10 milligrams of cbg every three hours does does usually has fantastic
results if you have got a very high background anxiety you might need to take cbg multiple times
throughout the day but really for most folks they'll take it in the morning and it kind of
sets them on the on an anti-anxiety path for the day and they just seem to be like okay with that
one dose now if they have like a stress event in the afternoon many people will take it again but
really unless you already have chronic anxiety if you just like have a bit of anxiety or if you have
like morning ruminations that you need to get rid of you may get away with just taking 10 milligrams
of whole plant cbg just once in the morning and good for the rest of the day but you know if your
anxiety continues throughout the day you can certainly take it as needed because taking more
has got no negative impact now 20 milligrams makes it happen even faster and with a bit more
spunk so let's say that you know generally you take 10 milligrams just because you've got a high
background anxiety but today you need to give a presentation right and so your your your anxiety
is going to be especially peaked well then go ahead and take 20 milligrams and and don't monkey
around with it right um and those are those are great low numbers right you know if you if you
think back to the thc we were talking you know um you know 10 you know 5 or 10 but then the cbd we
were talking 80 and 200 well this is back down to uh thc levels more like 10 or 20 milligrams and
makes it much more affordable if you can find it because the cbg that is available to you
just lasts a whole lot longer okay so uh to wrap up this second set we looked at um the the you
know how to think about dosing for thc and for cbd and for cbg and granted there are a lot of other
cannabinoids out there but um between the lack of availability in most places and the lack of the
research about what is an effective dose um i don't want to give you information that is not
solidified yet and and so since these are the three cannabinoids that most people um have easier
access to this is this is what we're going to talk about today and as new cannabinoids become
more available in the future like for example cbn we're going to be seeing a lot more of cbn soon
you know when that comes you will have um you will have the proper understanding and context
to look at the studies that are coming out and being published on project cbd.org and learning
how to add that to your own particular health protocol with cannabis medicine all right so um
we're going to take our short break and when we come back with set three we're going to talk about
some use cases like arthritis and leg and joint pain and neuropathy and and and we'll just talk
about um thinking through some of these use cases to make sure that you really understand how to
think through doing your dosing because like i've said everybody's dosing in the end is unique we
we can give you these guides to get you started but in the end you will be devising your own
protocol as you get to understand how cannabis medicine works and how it works with your own
body so uh we're gonna take a short break and be right back you are listening to 100th episode
of shaping fire and i am shango los without these advertisers shaping fire would not happen so please
support them and let you know let them know you heard them on shaping fire as cannabis regulations
become more demanding and consumers become more educated it is increasingly important to avoid the
use of chemical pesticides when cultivating cannabis beneficial insects have been used for
decades by the greenhouse vegetable and ornamental plant industry and today many cannabis
cultivators are moving from sprays and chemicals to beneficial insects copert has the beneficial
insects mites and nematodes microbials sticky cards and air distribution units you need to
partner with nature to defend your garden whether you manage acres of canopy or have a simple grow
tent in your home copert is ready to help answer your questions and help you transition away from
chemical sprays towards clean and natural solutions since 1967 copert has assisted growers
in identifying pests and devising reliable solutions while providing healthy insects and
mites that will protect your yield since the 1990s copert has been a leader in cannabis pest and
disease control worldwide and have highly trained consultants to assist you in canada and the united
states from coast to coast with their global network of grower support copert can help visit
copert.com choose your country and get detailed information that's copert k-o-p-p-e-r-t.com
for the most up-to-date cannabis related biological control information you can also check their
instagram at copert canada you know getting away from pesticides is good for health and good for
business and copert is ready to help visit copert.com today once you've discovered the benefits of using
cannabis it's a very small step to start making your own edibles gummies lotions tinctures and
concentrated oils at home magical butter has been helping cannabis consumers become self-sufficient
for over a decade with the easy to use magical butter countertop botanical extractor you can
create high quality cannabis products to your exact specifications at a fraction of the cost of
store-bought edibles i talk a lot on this show about the importance of home growing so you don't
have to rely on others to feel healthy well the magical butter machine can empower your personal
health by putting you in control of how you use cannabis in your daily life i've been making my
own butters and oils on the stove for years and i much prefer the ease of using the magical butter
machine i just set it and walk away with the simple touch of a button the magical butter machine
grinds heats stirs and steeps your herbal extract all at the correct time interval and temperature
for the perfect infusion every time as a result you achieve your desired infusion easily safely
and consistently check out the magical butter instagram to see the machine in action and don't
feel like you have to go it alone there is a huge community on facebook called magical butter users
united sharing recipes and best practices so you can learn at your own pace from others who are
already doing it successfully now is the time to get your own magical butter machine and save money
while enjoying cannabis use the discount code shaping fire one word no caps to get 10 off
visit magical butter.com today after you've caught up on the latest shaping fire episodes
do you sometimes wish there was more cannabis education available to learn well we got you
shaping fire has a fabulous youtube channel with content not found on the podcast when i attend
conventions to speak or moderate panels i always record them and bring the content home for you to
watch the shango los youtube channel has world-class speakers including zoe sigman's lecture
understanding your endocannabinoid system kevin jodry of wonderland nursery talking about breeding
cannabis for the best terpene profile frenchie canoli's lost art of the hashishan presentation
nicholas mamoud on regenerative and polyculture cannabis growing dr sunil agarwal on the history
of cannabis medicine around the world eric vlosky and josh rutherford on solventless extraction
and jeff lohenfelds on the soil food web there are several presentations from dr ethan russo
on terpenes and the endocannabinoid system too while there be sure to check out the three 10
part shaping fire session series one with kevin jodry one with dr ethan russo and one with jeff
lohenfelds and even my own presentations on how to approach finding your dream job in cannabis
and why we choose cannabis business even though the risks are so high as of today there's over
200 videos that you can check out for free so go to youtube.com forward slash shango los or click
on the link in the newsletter. Welcome back you are listening to shaping fire episode 100 and i
am your host shango los. So here we are in the third set the big wrap-up so during the first set
we learned about how our endocannabinoid system functions and considered some of the different
ways to take cannabis medicine into your body based on what is going to be best to suit the
ailment that you are working with. During the second set we talked about very specific
dosing strategies and how to consider dosing protocols for the most popular three cannabinoids
that people look to supplement with THC, CBD, and CBG. And here in set three which hopefully will be
shorter than the first two we're going to talk about one two three four five six specific
issues that people come to me asking for dosing strategies for and we'll go over those
since you've heard most of the analysis already earlier in the show. I'm just going to tie them
together which should you know kind of give you a roadmap to how you can think about them yourself.
So all right let's get right to it so the first one we're going to talk about is kind of this
bucket of issues which is arthritis, leg and joint pain, and neuropathy. The thing that these all
have in common is that it is an ongoing chronic discomfort or pain most likely caused by
inflammation and so even though it manifests differently in these different issues they
really do have a lot of similarity in how we're going to treat them. And so if somebody came to
me with one of these this is what I would say. First of all I would recommend 2.5 to 5 milligrams
of THC if they are intolerant of THC or are especially concerned about you know feeling out
of control or high in any way. And then if they well I would also tell them that once they built
up a comfort with taking THC or if they already take THC perhaps they are a you know a recreational
toker or something then go ahead and start with 5 to 10 milligrams you know if they are THC
tolerant. You know if you build up a tolerance from daily use this number can go as high as 100
milligrams or more as we've already talked about. These patients could probably benefit from a
tolerance break from the THC and I understand that some patients cannot live a day without THC so
I'm not being cocky about it or ableist. What I'm trying to say is if you can work it out for a day
or two or more to not take THC to bring your tolerance down from needing to take 100 milligrams
a day it would probably be both physically and financially of benefit to you. And the last thing
I would say here is to consider a topical. With arthritis and leg and joint pain and often
neuropathy you can actually use a THC based topical localized and targeted to where the discomfort's
coming from and then that way you are taking cannabinoids orally which will help with a
systemic anti-inflammation but also when you place the topical locally you're getting you know
you're doubling down on making sure that you're applying cannabinoids in the proper area. If you
are making your own tinctures and you are aware that topicals are expensive I encourage you to
just take some of your tincture and you know a ramekin like they serve you ketchup in at the
restaurant go ahead and put some kind of a hand lotion or a massage lotion or like lubriderm or
something in one of those little ketchup ramekins and then put just a little bit of your tincture in
it and swirl it around with with your finger and now you have made instant topical. It's what I
used in the early days before I learned how to make topicals and it works absolutely fantastic.
So you can consider that and save a lot of money on the kind of prices that they charge for topicals
at the licensed stores. All right so that's a quick run-through of arthritis, leg and joint pain, and
neuropathy. Let's talk about cancer symptom relief. So we're not talking about the full fight cancer
protocol here and hopefully we'll do this again sometime and I'll talk about the cancer fighting
protocol in detail. What we're talking about here is for patients who have got cancer and are
either simply just suffering from the cancer and that's all they're doing so they're
looking for comfort or more commonly they've chosen to go the route of some variety of
chemotherapy and so they are dealing with the symptoms from the chemo stacked on top of the
discomfort and from the cancer experience itself. So for these people the first thing I would
recommend is THC and that's going to help them in so many ways. The first thing it's going to do
is just make them a little more comfortable in their body. By the time cancer has gotten
advanced and especially if you are taking any kind of chemo your human meat suit is just
not feeling like your ally anymore. You've got aches and pains and things aren't working properly
and fluids aren't moving properly and it's just all around lack of comfort. But taking five to
ten milligrams of THC based tincture is going to put you in a place where you feel a little more
comfortable in your body. Your muscles are a little more relaxed instead of just being clenched
and you're a little distracted from the THC too and you haven't really changed the status of your
body. Your body is still incredibly uncomfortable and sick however you can get a little bit of
respite just from the THC and the relaxation and the easing of your human. Also that THC is very
likely to give you an appetite as well and as we know cancer patients especially in chemo tend to
lose their appetite and we really don't want you thinning down at the same time. We want to try to
help you keep weight on so that you don't slip into some kind of a wasting cycle because that's
that's not usually a good sign. If you have access to THCA that's THC that has not been
heated or decarboxylated THCA is actually really effective in cancer patients for helping rebuild
appetite as well just in case for you THC is not appetite forming. Try the acid form we get a lot
of good results with that here on the island ever since we started talking about it so that's been
a real positive. And so and the last thing for cancer symptom relief is to just simply take as
much whole plant CBD oil as you can afford as we discussed earlier because your body's
endocannabinoid system is probably a wreck from all of the pharmaceuticals and especially if you
are taking chemo and your body's natural balancing system is has been totally traumatized and so
you're not properly making signaling molecules and endocannabinoids and you could really benefit
from dumping as much CBD into your body as you can likely afford. So you know I guess I should
put a top on it I wouldn't put you know more than 400 milligrams of whole plant into you know a day
you probably your body probably couldn't process more than that and I actually don't have an
opinion on how much isolate is a maximum in especially for cancer I would really recommend
that you use a whole plant preparation so that you're getting all the secondary novel cannabinoids
and the other synergistic components that we're not entirely certain how they help out yet
like cannaflavin and the others for example. Let's talk about migraines so migraines they're
kind of low-hanging fruit it either works or it doesn't but what the dosage is is pretty basic and
it's 20 milligrams of whole plant CBD two times a day minimum so you can take more if you'd like
of course but 20 milligrams two times a day seems to work pretty well for folks once people realize
whether or not they are of the 20 percent of people who are kept awake at night by CBD because
of it activating the body's housekeeping if you're not one of those 20 percent go ahead and take it
in the evening too which hopefully will act as a prophylactic so you don't wake up in the morning
with a migraine but be aware that if you are one of the 20 percent of people that CBD keeps up at
night you want to avoid that because that probably will increase your likelihood of actually waking
up with a migraine. I also would have you consider a small amount of THC for muscle relaxation
because we know that not only does a relaxation of the muscle sets help decrease the likelihood
of migraines but if you are a pretty severe migraine patient your body's fear of having
another migraine and going through that that cycle of pain and discomfort itself can cause the body to
constrict which in and of itself can cause migraines and it just feels bad so if you're
not resistant to trying THC taking five milligrams of a THC tincture along with the 20 milligrams
of CBD will likely help you either move out of a migraine or even better be a preventative.
I would also have you consider microdosing psilocybin mushrooms at 0.1 milligrams
taken 20 days a month. If you'd like to learn more about working with your migraine using
psilocybin mushrooms I encourage you to listen to Shaping Fire episode 67 with Dr. Russo where we
talk all about treating migraines with cannabis and psilocybin mushrooms. It's a good one.
The next one we're going to talk about is insomnia. Insomnia is incredibly common
for me to hear about because so many people have got it for different reasons and it is actually
pretty easy to treat with cannabis. The first question I always ask people though when they
tell me that they have insomnia is not one that they generally like and that question is always
do you drink coffee in the morning because that is the first thing to go. The half-life of the
drug we call caffeine is 14 hours so by the time you are drinking tomorrow morning's coffee you are
still on yesterday's caffeine that you took in the morning and if this is continuing every day
you're never not on caffeine which means that when you're trying to go to sleep at night you are
always fighting against a stimulant that you took not only that morning but yesterday morning as
well and so that would be the first place is to stop drinking caffeine. Second I would ask them
what they think their source of their insomnia or what's the flavor. Insomnia tends to fall into
two categories one being some sort of discomfort or pain and then the other sort being some sort
of anxiety or rumination and then I would suggest for them solutions for the pain or the anxiety
rumination but oddly they do tend to be both the same cannabis prescription which is 5 to 10
milligrams of an indica tincture made using purple flowering cannabis plants. Now I know that the
terms sativa and indica are antiquated but people are still using them and they can be helpful when
going to you know a licensed store and talking with a bud tender but what we're looking for are
tinctures preferably made from plants from the you know Afghanistan Pakistan region
that are purple because these plants are heavily narcotic and lethargic and that's what we want
to do right we want to cause drowsiness and we want to cause muscle relaxation and we want to
slow you down and make you feel a little dreamy and then put you to sleep. Also these plants these
purple flowering cannabis plants they're usually packed with the terpenes myrcene and linalool
which also help you feel drowsy and have you go to sleep. Specifically if the insomnia is caused by
anxiety and rumination it would be really great to add some CBG tincture to that as well and if
the person that you're working with or yourself is THC intolerant either on principle or they're
sensitive to it you can just give them CBG. CBG helps with both pain and anxiety rumination
and so taking between 10 milligrams and 20 milligrams of CBG for insomnia is very effective
for folks especially if they are very much not interested in taking THC. Depression. Depression
would be 20 milligrams two times a day of CBD where you're taking that because your goal is
to build up the endocannabinoid system and to help regulate the brain chemistry. This is something
that you want to do long term right CBD is not something that you're just going to take Monday
and then Thursday and then Sunday no no no you want to take CBD every day because the benefits
the primary benefits come from building up your endocannabinoid system and making it burly so it
can do its job regulating your body's systems so that would be 20 milligrams two times a day
three times if you can take it in the evening of CBD and also to put yourself in a good mood and
make things a little more tolerable while you're trying to change yourself systemically go ahead
and try to get your hands on some CBG tincture or oil as well and take 10 milligrams of that twice
a day in the morning and then after lunch that CBG my goodness is it an effective anti-anxiety
and it just makes things feel a little better and the confidence that it brings really helps even
out the depression vibes of hopelessness and then I would also recommend microdosing psilocybin
microdosing psilocybin really helps improve your neural network and pull you out of a funk
there's lots of research on it to support it and I encourage you to check out the
the microdose psilocybin episodes on shaping fire and the last one we're going to talk about here is
neurodivergent support more and more people especially during quarantine when our lives
got less thrilling and we were creating less dopamine from having relatively boring quarantined
lives a lot of people realized that they have some flavor of neurodivergence and while you
figure that out by doing your reading and checking out the neurodivergent community on tiktok I also
recommend these as potential things to help you get through as you figure out the best combination
for you 40 milligrams of CBD whole plant oil two times a day this is of course because we want to
build up that endocannabinoid system and we want to give our brain as many signaling molecules as
it can to do its job because neurodivergent brains they are running hotter and faster than other
people's brains and they need intentional support you're not driving a you know a regular car like
everybody else you're driving a formula one and formula one cars they need specialty tires
specialty oils specialty fluids and so do you my friend it was also helpful to you know
keep things in a good perspective by supplementing with cbg 10 milligrams two times a day and and the
reason is just simply it's hard out there for neurodivergent folks this world was not designed
for the neurodivergent brain and that can get incredibly frustrating and so taking some cbg
giving you that that confidence and a feeling that you've got the resources to make it work
it can really make your days more tolerable I also recommend 200 milligrams of L-theanine
now this is not a cannabis product that's for sure but I know that neurodivergent folks who run
hot and anxious find that L-theanine 200 milligrams of it really evens out the spiky
parts of the day the days that where you get overstimulated and or harshed out from uh from
you know feeling over sensory inputted L-theanine does a really great job taking out the scratchiness
of your day and if you happen to be a person that's into THC well you know having some THC
tincture just to make you too feel more comfortable in your body that can often feel strange to you
feel free to add you know five to ten milligrams of THC as you wish and good luck
so these these uh these six areas that I just you know swiftly went through how I would think
through dosing suggestions I did this not because I you know I can't go through everything all the
issues that everybody has but the idea is I wanted to give you a couple pictures a couple examples of
how you can stack different cannabis different cannabinoids along with different entheogens like
psilocybin mushrooms along with occasional you know herbal supplements like L-theanine
and some common sense like perhaps don't drink coffee if you're have insomnia
so that you can you know figure out a stack for yourself that meets your needs
um you don't have to do it the way other people do individualized medicine is a thing and your
body is unique and so keep a journal figure out what works for you and and don't let your family
or doctors push you around I am a strong advocate of patients rights as as everybody knows especially
cannabis patient self-sufficiency so it's your body take notes and and learn what's best for you
and I guess that's a wrap if you are still with us thank you so much for listening to this entire
episode it is the longest shaping fire episode that I have published and I wanted to get this
all in one document right I have been thinking about this show and and working on notes for it
for a long time now and if you know you have found the time to listen to it for yourself
I congratulate you and if you are listening to this because you are a caregiver or someone you
love uses cannabis medicine well I really appreciate you too because cannabis patients
need all the help and support and love that we can get so if you would like to learn more please
peruse the first hundred episodes of the shaping fire podcast and subscribe to the show in your
favorite podcast app there are so many great episodes for patients about patient health
and for how to cultivate your own cannabis in a healthy and organic regenerative way
who knows if you're a patient maybe growing will be your new hobby I also recommend that you check
the shaping fire youtube channel where there are nearly 200 videos of speakers from all sorts of
different conventions and such that I have attended over the years and I've just always
posted the videos there so you can find those topics ranging from cannabis to mushrooms to
ibogaine all sorts of different videos there on youtube just search youtube shaping fire
so thanks for being here for episode 100 of shaping fire and I am your host shango los
you can find more episodes of the shaping fire podcast and subscribe to the show at
shapingfire.com and wherever you get your podcasts if you enjoyed the show we'd really appreciate it
if you would leave a positive review of the podcast wherever you download your review will
help others find the show so they can enjoy it too on the shaping fire website you can also
subscribe to the newsletter for insights into the latest cannabis news exclusive videos and
giveaways on the shaping fire website you also find transcripts of today's podcast as well
be sure to follow on instagram for all original content not found on the podcast that's at
shaping fire and at shango los on instagram be sure to check out shaping fire youtube channel
for exclusive interviews farm tours and cannabis lectures does your company want to reach our
national audience of cannabis enthusiasts email hotspot at shapingfire.com to find out how
thanks for listening to shaping fire i've been your host shango los
