When I was a kid there wasn't much concern about concussion.
If you fell or hit your head we'd look for blood, but if you didn't break the skin
we were told to shake it off and keep going.
Even as an adult back in those days, if you were hit by a falling brick, or a car, or
were playing sports, you were pretty much told to go put ice on it and get back to work
as soon as you could.
In the last decade though, the diagnosis of traumatic brain injury, or TBI, has gotten
a lot more serious.
TBI was diagnosed in nearly 3 million Americans in 2013.
On average, about 20,000 armed service members receive traumatic brain injury every year.
About 5.3 million Americans live their lives trying to manage the symptoms that come with
an unresolved brain injury.
That's a lot of people.
To a great degree, we're talking about TBI so much now because of the roadside bombs
used in Iraq.
Roadside bombs were a new tactic in Iraq that, in addition to taking lives, often injured
soldiers in ways that we only found out later to be brain injuries.
Veterans across the country struggle daily with intense symptoms from this brain trauma.
We've also been talking about TBI more because of the NFL.
Football players are coming forward to talk about how repeated concussions from tackling
can develop into an array of brain injuries.
Even common folk like me get brain injuries.
I was diagnosed with a traumatic brain injury back in 2011 after a car accident.
I was lucky that mine was pretty mild, but I still experienced migraines, nausea, dizziness,
vertigo, loss of memory, and exhaustion.
There's a new way to treat traumatic brain injuries that some neuroscientists believe
will help resolve many of these cases.
Microdosing cannabis to support the endocannabinoid system while also microdosing psilocybin,
the active molecule in hallucinogenic mushrooms, promises to help in the recovery of brain
injury by giving the brain what it needs to heal, rebuild, and reorient itself.
If you enjoy hearing frank discussions that dive deep into cannabis health, business,
and technique, I encourage you to subscribe to our newsletter.
Every week you'll receive a new podcast episode delivered right into your inbox along
with commentary on a couple of the most important news items from the week and videos too.
Don't rely on social media to let you know when a new episode is published.
Sign up for the updates to make sure you don't miss an episode.
You are listening to Shaping Fire and I am your host, Shango Lose.
My guest today is Dr. Ethan Russo.
You may remember Dr. Russo from Shaping Fire episode 11 when we talked about the phytocannabinoids
and terpenes in cannabis.
Ethan Russo is a board certified neurologist and former senior medical advisor at GW Pharmaceuticals.
He served as study physician to GW Pharmaceuticals for three phase 3 clinical trials of Sativex.
He is now medical director at Phytex.
He graduated from the University of Pennsylvania and the University of Massachusetts Medical
School before residencies in pediatrics in Phoenix, Arizona and in child and adult neurology
at the University of Washington, Seattle.
He was a clinical neurologist in Missoula, Montana for 20 years in a practice with a
strong chronic pain component.
In 1995, he pursued a three-month sabbatical doing ethno-botanical research with indigenous
people in Peru.
He joined GW as a full-time consultant in 2003.
He has held faculty appointments in pharmaceutical sciences at the University of Montana, in
medicine at the University of Washington, and as visiting professor at the Chinese Academy
of Sciences.
He has been president of the International Cannabinoid Research Society and is former
chairman of the International Association for Cannabinoid Medicines.
He is author of several books of cannabis medicine and has published over 30 articles
in neurology, pain management, cannabis, and ethno-botany.
Today we're going to talk with Dr. Russo about treating brain injury with cannabis
and mushrooms.
Welcome back to the show, Ethan.
Thank you so much.
So during the introduction, I described what a traumatic brain injury is and some of its
symptoms.
But one thing that we know about injury is that symptoms are usually the result of an
unbalancing of one or more of the body's systems.
So how does a traumatic brain injury impact the body systematically?
Well it's pretty encompassing, I'm afraid.
First I would like to define a couple of things.
In the classic sense, a concussion used to refer to a head injury in which there was
loss of consciousness.
We now know that that is not necessary to have a post-concussive syndrome.
So you can have all the symptoms of a concussion without ever observably losing consciousness.
So that's one thing that needs to be made clear.
And it is true that there is some correlation between the length of unconsciousness, if
it occurs, and how bad or how prolonged the post-traumatic syndrome will be afterwards.
But these things do vary a great deal.
Concussion of course involves the brain, which is our most delicate body system.
Also one of the most metabolically active.
At any given point, something like 20% of the blood flow from the heart is going to
the brain and that's far out of proportion to its weight compared to the rest of the
body.
So it is our most important organ and obviously it is the area from which our personality
and all the aspects of our being derives.
So very important in that respect.
It is also a situation in which the balance in the brain is critical.
And this is where the endocannabinoid system comes in because its function really is to
maintain that homeostasis, that balance, which is so critical to proper functioning so that
we can think, relate to other people, do our jobs, and all of those things that are involved
in daily life.
So when the brain has that impact, what is the experience of the brain?
We kind of just talk, oh, the brain is swelling.
But I don't know if that's actually always the case.
Is the actual damage that takes place, is it more than likely a swelling of the brain,
a bruising of the brain, or a combination of that and more?
Well it can be any of those things.
Let's picture a situation, the proverbial bowl of jello.
That is the consistency of the brain in life.
And so we have essentially what amounts to a bowl of jello that is in this rigid container
that we call the skull.
And so when it gets hit, or specifically when there's a sudden deceleration like in a whiplash
where there may not be any actual contact to the head, this is thrown forward, thrown
back and it's easy to understand how this would be highly disruptive to the delicate
fibers within.
So in some instances, if we do a high-level scan of the brain like an MRI, we may not
see signs of swelling or bleeding.
But certainly in the more serious injuries, there may be what's called a brain contusion.
That's medical ease for a bruising.
This would look like a series of tiny little hemorrhages on the surface of the brain.
Or there may be overt bleeding when larger blood vessels are broken.
So it can be a continuum all the way from seeing no overt anatomical change to seeing
gross evidence of damage.
Any of those things may be possible.
Let's talk about the ones that don't show a lot of damage.
So if you're not seeing the bruising or ripping or things like that, is the impact from the
concussion, is it merely a chemical change of some sort that is causing what we consider
some of the more common symptoms of a light concussion, things like vertigo and migraines?
If it's not physical damage, what causes those symptoms to happen?
Well I guess that the bottom line is we would call it an electrochemical disturbance of
the brain.
In other words, if we're not seeing overt anatomical changes, bearing in mind that a
scan has only so much resolution, obviously if we had the ability to look at things microscopically
in the living person, there might be changes that are evident.
But for the victim of this, I'm afraid it's more a scientific argument that's not helpful
to the patient.
The patient may be reassured by medical personnel at the emergency room, for example, that look
your CAT scan was normal and you should get better at a time when they feel dreadful and
that can persist for prolonged periods of time.
Concussion is one of those things where the patient may walk, may talk, look okay to their
friends and family members, but only the people closest to them may be aware of the degree
of impairment which can be considerable, even in the cases where there is no visible damage
on the tests that have been done.
Right on, that makes sense.
And that also gets us to where I was hoping we were going, which is if this is an electrochemical
change, that makes a lot of sense why the interplay with the endocannabinoid system
can be so effective and acute, right?
Because that's the realm of the ECS.
Yes.
Let me give you an example.
The main stimulatory neurotransmitter in the brain is called glutamate.
So you need this for proper communication in the brain.
But as in so many instances, there can be too much of a good thing.
Under conditions of insults to the brain, whether it be strokes or head injury, there
tends to be a release of glutamate to an excessive degree.
On the one hand, this can drive pain, neuropathic pain, and make it persist.
In its worst forms, however, the glutamate excess can be so great that it causes what's
called an excitotoxicity.
The excito is an excitatory neurotransmitter, glutamate.
The toxicity is that it actually can produce death of brain cells that were perhaps marginally
damaged in the injury, but not dead yet.
In the days after a head injury, these can actually succumb.
And so it is a serious problem initially, but one that looks worse after the passage
of a short amount of time.
That makes sense too.
They're always saying that after you have a concussion to watch somebody for a while
because the symptoms may not show up right away.
And so if they've got continually actively dying cells, they may actually be experiencing
lessening of functioning for a couple days after the actual trauma happened.
Yes, certainly that can happen.
The other reason that people need to be watched after a head injury is there can be delayed
bleeding.
For example, the development of a subdural hematoma, that is blood between the dura covering
the brain and the brain itself.
This is particularly dangerous in elderly people where it can come on slowly and there'll
be a very sudden deterioration that requires very rapid intervention.
One of the other immediate impacts that I saw while doing my research for the show today
was something that I'd never actually seen before.
People with two different size pupils.
And it's a pretty remarkable thing to see photographs of.
Just as kind of a side, what causes that to happen?
Well, the situation I just mentioned, the subdural hematoma is infamous for doing that.
So it indicates damage on one side.
If this has not been present before and suddenly appears acutely, it's a reason to get them
to an emergency room expeditiously.
Right on.
So PTSD is often associated with traumatic brain injuries and is treated similarly, at
least now it is.
Do the symptoms from PTSD seem to arise from the unbalancing of these same systems?
Do they essentially have the same cause or do they have their own source?
Well, you can have one, you can have the other, you can have both together.
And certainly, I guess the classic situation where you'd have both would be in a battlefield
situation where someone is concussed by an explosion and has that coupled with PTSD due
to the sheer emotion and terror of the incident.
So the more violent the circumstances surrounding the head injury, the more likely there is
to be concomitant or comorbid PTSD with it.
So you and I have talked about the endocannabinoid system a lot and the different experiences
that patients will have that CBD is called for.
And it's really interesting to go down the common symptoms of PTSD because they're almost
exactly the same as everything that we would recommend CBD for.
Memory fragmentation, flashbacks, disassociation, hyperactive fight or flight, even hypervigilance.
These are all the same kinds of things that we would offer CBD to a patient for to help
them relax their signaling systems and kind of rebalance them.
It sounds to me like these are all in the same pot of symptoms and by attempting to
do our best to rebalance them, we can kind of take care of them as a group.
Well, I think there's a lot of truth there.
Of course, there are similarities and differences.
In concussion, one of the cardinal symptoms is some degree of memory loss, whereas in
PTSD, it is a hypervigilance to memory.
So in PTSD, it is helpful to have some THC present.
This helps the person adjust, distance themselves from the traumatic event.
Additionally, one of the cardinal symptoms of PTSD is intrusive dreams or nightmares.
One of the effects of THC is to suppress REM sleep, rapid eye movement sleep associated
with dreaming.
Although that sounds radical, there's not much danger with the amount of REM suppression
from THC, but certainly this is helpful in reducing those intrusive dreams from which
PTSD patients suffer.
But beyond that, absolutely, cannabidiol can be of great benefit in either post-concussive
syndrome or post-traumatic syndrome because of its ability to serve as an anti-anxiety
agent, an anti-psychotic agent.
Additionally, its benefits on pain and inflammation and its overall neuroprotective effect.
In both instances, we are talking about damage to the brain and having a neuroprotective
agent certainly could be of benefit in these situations.
Historically, that is what we see when patients pursue this kind of treatment.
Before we move forward, I want to double back because you said something that threw up a
flag for me.
You said that THC tends to be a dream suppressant, if you will.
Working with patients, I get anecdotal evidence all the time that when somebody starts taking,
say, for example, an indica tincture to help them get to sleep and stay asleep more, it's
not uncommon to hear them come back and say, oh, my dreams are so much more epic and creative
sometimes.
Is there a second aspect of taking the THC which could also lead to dreams or is it really
just dream suppression and that unique patient has got something unknown going on?
Right.
Well, if we look at EEGs, electroencephalograms, recording the brain waves, we do see a suppression.
This might diminish over the usage.
Sometimes people just become more aware of their dreams in certain situations and so
it's hard to say in a given instance what might be operative.
Yeah, fair enough.
So PTSD is often thought of as a psychological issue, but the studies show that the hippocampus
is damaged by extreme stress as well.
If there's no physical impact directly to the hippocampus, for example, maybe you take
trauma from a blunt object on the other side of your head, that must mean that it must
be a chemical impact.
What kind of a chemical, electrical impact can actually cause physical damage in the
hippocampus?
Well, again, it's really hard to say and we've got this mismatch between imaging studies
which may be negative for showing any visible damage, but yet functionally the patient is
definitely having problems that we can trace to that area of the brain.
I'm afraid even in the 21st century, our tools are not always terrific.
Actually beyond scans, this is a situation where EEGs, brain wave tests, are more sensitive
than the imaging and most sensitive of all are psychometric tests.
These would be the advanced tests of memory, emotion, etc. that are done by a neuropsychologist
over the course of many hours, but that is a very involved, expensive process.
Certainly people that have suffered these kinds of traumas may benefit from that kind
of investigation.
Initially at baseline and then say six months down the road to look at the degree of recovery
that might have occurred.
So in the next two sets, we're going to talk about using cannabis as a treatment and also
psilocybin as a treatment.
But before we go into those, I just want to do a quick review of what are the traditional
treatments for a TBI as it's done today and where do you think that they're missing all
they can do, which kind of brings up this conversation of cannabis and psilocybin as
new and old treatments?
Right.
Well, I'm afraid that the current armamentarium of conventional drugs for treating TBI is
traumatic brain injury is not very effective.
It can run the range.
A lot of the symptomatology is similar to migraine and so migraine preventive drugs
are often used.
But if anything, post-traumatic headaches are harder to treat than garden variety migraines.
But these can include the tricyclic antidepressant drugs like amitriptyline.
They can include a whole variety of anticonvulsant drugs.
They're also used sometimes to treat migraine preventively.
But these are not uniformly effective at all.
Additionally, people may try non-steroidal anti-inflammatories, which are probably familiar
to everybody, but are associated with side effects like heartburn or worse ulcers, even
heart attacks and strokes.
I'm afraid they haven't been tremendously effective.
Beyond that, in terms of the dizziness and brain fog, these kinds of things, they're
often very, very poorly treated.
It is a situation where alternative medicine can often do better.
When I was in practice, I employed a lot of these agents such as using a chelated magnesium
that has a calming influence on the brain, particularly in preventing headaches, whether
post-traumatic or migraine.
Additionally, things like ginkgo biloba, the herbal agent that's traditionally used to
treat dementia in elderly people, often can have a benefit on the symptomatology, and
particularly memory impairment if it occurs in association with a traumatic brain injury.
These are the kinds of things I incorporated into my practice along with consideration
of cannabis treatment.
It would seem that all of those, that long list of pharmaceuticals would also have the
likelihood of knocking the endocannabinoid system out of balance as well.
Well, we hope that's not the case, but suffice it to say that a lot of these drugs are not
very effective and often can contribute side effects of their own.
So we're going to take a short break and be right back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire, and my guest today is neurologist Dr. Ethan Russo.
We humans are attracted to plants because they offer us relief and are a whole lot of
fun.
Sometimes though, the best parts are buried inside the plant, and we need to use specialty
extraction technology.
When it comes to cannabis, it is extraordinarily important to extract its precious oils without
changing them in the process.
We want to preserve the properties of the cannabinoids, terpenes, and other constituents
that all work together.
Since 1994, Eden Labs has been developing extraction technology and processes to do
just that.
Eden Labs was founded by a cannabis-loving engineer during the early days of medical
marijuana in California, and the expanded Eden team has been designing and building
industry-leading solutions for cannabis extraction ever since.
Eden Labs' flagship product is the newly improved High Flow CO2 extractor.
As other extraction companies enter the market, it is the high flow from Eden Labs that everyone
chases and tries to compare themselves with.
Not only that, but the improved automation software allows data to be collected, stored,
and studied.
Eden Labs can outfit your whole lab.
Eden's Cold Finger ethanol extractor creates astonishing whole plant extracts working alone
or in tandem with an initial stream distilling step to isolate monoterpenes before extracting
the rest of the botanical constituents.
Eden offers you many options, including vacuum distillation, column distilling, stirred reactor
units, and accelerated solvent recovery.
When you partner with Eden Labs, your lab team is enrolled into the Eden Labs training
program to boost their understanding of Eden's best practices to ensure that your outputs
are exactly what you require for your application, whether it be dab oil, oil for pen cartridges,
or edibles.
When you work with Eden, you're not just buying the tech, you're buying dedicated
customer support to help you attain your business goals, too.
You can hear Eden's CEO, AC Braddock, talk about the company's values during Shaping
Fire episode 19 that was all about CO2 extraction.
So many of the new companies in the market just smell opportunity, slap an extractor
together, and hire a marketing company.
Eden Labs has been listening to feedback from extractors and consumers for about 25 years
now.
They care about both you and your consumer.
Partner with Eden Labs to extract astonishing cannabis oils and terpenes that you will be
proud of.
Go to shapingfire.com forward slash eden to find out more.
If you like podcasts like Shaping Fire, chances are that you'll like audiobooks, too.
Just like with podcasts, audiobooks speak to you, tell you stories, and teach you stuff.
Here's the thing.
Audible.com has an offer that I want to tell you about.
Right now they are offering a trial of their audiobook service for absolutely free.
You can go to shapingfire.com forward slash audible and you'll get a free audiobook.
Straight up.
You can listen to it on your mobile device, computer, or download it and listen to it
like anywhere.
It's really simple.
Of course, they want you to subscribe to their service after the free trial and enjoy
audiobooks forever, but you don't have to.
All you have to do to get the free audiobook of your choice is to just check out the service
for free.
The service is pretty great.
There are whole sections on permaculture, sci-fi, history, biography, hell, you can
even listen to a book about card counting and blackjack.
Whatever, it's all pretty rad.
So that's the deal.
Your first book is free, it's easy to sign up, it's easy to quit, and their online library
of free books is pretty incredible.
So just check it out.
Go to shapingfire.com forward slash audible to find out more or just click on the link
in this week's newsletter.
Welcome back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire.
I'm your host, Shango Lose, and our guest this week is neurologist and cannabinoid researcher,
Dr. Ethan Russo.
So before the break, we were talking about the traditional efforts that can be made after
a traumatic brain injury to help bring the systems back into balance.
And during this set, we're going to talk about cannabis as a treatment.
So Dr. Russo, you have described cannabis as a helpful aid in both the prevention and
the resolution of TBI.
In what are the modes in which cannabis can help somebody who is experiencing this trauma?
Well, they're very varied.
First, let's give a little background to say that there's been extensive research done
on traumatic brain injury using animal models and showing disturbances in the endocannabinoid
system.
This has been going on for about as long as the system has been known, 20 years or more.
Certainly we know that this kind of injury produces deficits in endocannabinoid function
and that when these deficits are rectified, that there is clinical improvement in the
animals.
However, additionally, beyond that, and this was known back in the 90s, but when I was
in practice, I noticed in talking to patients who'd had mild concussions, for example, that
occasionally, some would come to me with the story that, you know, hey, something really
strange happened.
I've been having all these symptoms and one of my friends suggested that we smoke a joint
together and I thought it was a really bad idea and yet we did.
I felt a lot better.
What's that about, they'd ask me.
And I started hearing this from multiple patients.
On the one hand, I guess logically, it wouldn't make a lot of sense to most people because
we associate cannabis with worsening of memory and creating a high and I guess it's illogical
to a lot of people how this could help.
But in this instance, it became clear to me that these patients were telling compelling
stories about how this reduced their symptoms.
A lot of them would tell me that they felt normal for the first time since the injury.
They said that the brain fog cleared.
They felt clearer.
They were able to think.
They were able to reduce their headache, nausea, dizziness and all the associated symptoms
that are just dreadfully persistent when someone has this kind of syndrome.
It reached the point that I had to include cannabis as an alternative when discussing
treatment with my patients in this situation and always prefacing it with, look, this is
going to sound weird but... and then we discussed cannabis and its relation to endocannabinoid
function and how what we had learned from the basic science could really suggest that
this could be helpful and that we had a lot of patients saying that it did help them.
Almost uniformly, when patients tried it, they reported benefit.
And certainly in the 90s, this was a very unconventional idea and things weren't as
liberal politically as they might be now.
But it was very compelling and I came to think that this was one of the best treatments available
for a very difficult condition.
Yeah, I can imagine it'd be very politically unpopular 20 years ago versus today.
And I'm curious what you think and maybe what you thought at the time and maybe how that's
changed over the 20 years.
Did you think that them smoking a joint and then removing their symptoms were either A,
a function of them getting support to their endocannabinoid system or B, the fact that
the symptoms that come from ingesting cannabis actually directly relieve those symptoms kind
of outside of the endocannabinoid system?
Well, I think it is all related.
If we closely examine what the endocannabinoid system does, it's involved in memory.
It's involved in generating headaches.
It affects all these functions and so it makes a lot of sense.
Plus, it's clear in a post-traumatic syndrome that there is a severe disturbance of homeostasis.
We also know again from the experimental work that there's a disturbance in endocannabinoid
levels and thus supplementation from an external source, in this instance with cannabinoids
from cannabis, makes a lot more sense.
But it goes beyond that.
Let's discuss for a minute the more flagrant situation of repetitive head trauma as occurs
in CTE, chronic traumatic encephalopathy.
There's been a lot of publicity about this now, particularly in relation to retired football
players that have developed this syndrome of dementia, personality change, violent behavior.
And we know that in the brains of people who have died after having this condition, that
there are some very serious changes that occur.
Overt scarring, also the development of what are called tau protein disturbances.
Tau proteins are part of microtubules in the neurons of the brain.
I know we're getting a little technical here, but what I wanted to mention is these disturbances
closely resemble what happens in the brains of elderly people with Alzheimer's disease.
And so, there are some similarities between pathologically in chronic traumatic encephalopathy
and Alzheimer's disease.
Now, we also know that cannabidiol in particular seems to interfere with the development of
these tau protein abnormalities.
So, there's a solid scientific basis for thinking that some of this kind of progressive damage
that we see in these degenerative diseases, Alzheimer's on one hand and chronic traumatic
encephalopathy on the other, can possibly be slowed down or even arrested with cannabidiol
as an intervention.
That makes sense to me.
While we're talking about memory, when I was recovering from my brain injury, and I guess
still to some extent today, it feels like some of the memories are now filed just to
the left or the right of where I kept them prior to the injury.
How is our memory filing system impacted by a TBI?
And is it possible that cannabinoids could help them as well, specifically the filing
mechanism?
Well, it's an interesting conjecture.
I think there's some basis for it.
Let's explain how it might well occur.
Diseases like depression and post-traumatic syndrome can also be thought of disorders
of plasticity of the brain.
What do I mean by that?
Plasticity means your resistance to disturbance and the ability to regenerate.
It's often been said that you're born with all the neurons that you'll ever have, they
can't be regenerated, but we're learning that isn't quite true.
It's been shown that THC and other cannabinoids increase plasticity of the brain and may lead
to what's called neurogenesis, which like it sounds is production of new brain cells.
We also know that throughout life, particularly if we're continuing to learn that these neurons
will create new connections.
That is one of the fundamental bases of learning and memory.
So as we heal from this kind of injury, you're making new connections and things do come
back that seemingly might have been lost to memory or ability before.
It seems certainly the case that benefits to the endocannabinoid system can help and
certainly this could come from properly applied therapy with cannabis.
So I want to kind of nail you down on dosage right now.
I know you don't care for this part very much because individual patients respond to cannabinoids
in very different ways.
With any particular patient, you do a long intake with them.
But we also, you and I both don't know that people are listening to this show who are
dealing with traumatic brain injuries and they are self-medicating, trying to get it
dialed in themselves.
So with those caveats, for someone who is dealing with a recent TBI, what milligrams
and how often would you recommend of THC and CBD, assuming whole plant, for someone who
is starting to rebuild and trying to cause neurogenesis and trying to decrease the symptoms
that they're going through because of the concussion?
Sure.
Well, as you indicated, everyone's different.
But I would say that the doses required for THC to help someone with symptom management
are usually very tiny, not very high at all, probably a few milligrams at most.
If they were smoking or vaporizing, they'd probably have to do it every few hours.
But given that this is a subacute, relatively long-lasting condition or even a chronic one,
better would be use of an oral agent or a tincture in the mouth that would last a lot
longer, probably allowing dosing two to three times a day.
Now, with respect to CBD, the dose allowances would be much higher.
Quite frankly, only extreme doses of CBD are associated with any side effects or drug-drug
interactions.
So, certainly, if a person had access to a CBD predominant preparation that would have
just a little THC and a lot more CBD, this would probably be the most advantageous.
But as in so many situations, I would probably recommend, if they're able to ascertain the
dosing, that they try not to exceed 15 milligrams of total THC per day once they've titrated
up, gotten used to the effects of the medicine.
Now, again, there could be quite a range here.
I wouldn't preclude that some people might benefit from more, but those would be general
guidelines.
Right on.
That makes sense.
So, we're talking two and a half milligrams to five milligrams taken maybe three times
a day on the THC side.
You did say that CBD would be coming in at a much higher amount, though.
Are you thinking more like 20 milligrams taken three times a day?
Well, it could be even higher than that.
Let's say we have one of the modern CBD predominant chemovars.
It could be that there's as much as 30 times the dose of CBD.
So, for example, if there were 15 milligrams total of THC a day, that would be 450 milligrams
of CBD.
That's a good healthy dose, and it would likely have a lot of benefits in a severely affected
patient with these kinds of issues, particularly if we're dealing with someone who had advanced
chronic traumatic encephalopathy that was agitated, perhaps hallucinating or having severe
behavioral disturbances.
This could really make all the difference and allow them to look a lot more normal.
This is not to say that it would totally reverse the damage that they've already sustained,
but I think we've all heard the stories of how difficult these patients can be in the
advanced stages of that disorder.
Yeah, yeah, absolutely.
I want to hit on it just briefly.
If folks are really interested in hearing more of this part of the conversation, you
can go back to episode 11 where Dr. Russo and I talk about this at length.
I just want to clarify that when we're talking about CBD and THC and you're talking about
preparations, we are talking about whole plant medical cannabis preparations, and we're not
talking about CBD extracted from industrial hemp that is an isolated molecule, correct?
Well, that sure would be my feeling about it.
It would be very hard for someone using one of those preparations to get the proper dosing,
not to mention the risks of contamination with pesticides, etc.
What I would recommend in this situation is an organically grown whole cannabis extract
with proven accompanying analysis.
I think that this is what patients deserve and hopefully will be available soon in more
places.
Yeah, I can see how it's a shame that so many people still live in markets where you're
not able to get legal medical marijuana preparations, which creates this CBD from hemp market for
them.
We're going to go ahead and take another short break and be right back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire, and my guest today is neurologist Dr. Ethan Russo.
Now that the health benefits of terpenes have become well known in the cannabis industry,
people everywhere are looking for the purest terpenes without adulterants.
The problem with most terpene providers is that they're not sourced naturally and instead
are made as a byproduct of refining petroleum, and that's so sketchy.
The terpenes sold by True Terpenes are entirely different.
They are certified organic, non-GMO, and food grade.
That means that they are extracted from real plant sources.
There are no solvents of any kind.
They are distilled only with steam.
That's right, only steam.
In fact, terpenes from True Terpenes are so pure that you can eat them.
Not only that, but you can stack them with better results too.
What I mean is, other companies' terpenes have got a few percent of impurities,
and when you stack those terpenes to make your blend,
you're adding a variety of impurities that degrade your final product.
True Terpenes also have strain-specific terpenes for a wide range of cannabis strains
like Durban Poison, Sunset Sherbet, and Granddaddy Purple.
True Terpenes has robust and supportive customer service,
so your questions will get answered fast and efficiently.
If you've shopped for terps before, you know how rare that is.
So whether you want to cup your hands to smell some beta-caryophyllene to calm down after getting too high,
or if you want to dab some pinene so your lungs feel fabulous and your mind feels liberated,
True Terpenes will provide you with a truly natural experience.
If you are a cannabis product developer,
these are the terps you want to add to your oil or edible or capsule or whatever.
True Terpenes are simply the best your money can buy.
Don't try and make a premium product with substandard terps.
Choose True Terpenes for a top-shelf experience.
Go to shapingfire.com forward slash true terpenes to find out more or click on the link in this week's newsletter.
As a business owner, you are incredibly busy.
In reality, you are responsible for everything your company does.
You have so many responsibilities every single day
that often you just don't have the time to really dig into something as deeply as you'd like.
You know there is more that you could do to reach out to new customers
and to encourage loyalty in the customers you already have,
but you certainly don't have the time
and you're not ready to hire someone full-time for that role either.
For you, I recommend Blunt Branding.
Blunt Branding principals Kirsten Nelson and Anthony Garcia are focused on improving your bottom line.
You know, most marketing firms are excited to make your logo, packaging, and website very pretty,
but they leave responsibility for improving your bottom line up to you.
They don't want that kind of responsibility.
But that is pretty much the most important part of marketing, right?
Kirsten and Anthony will help you engage new customers,
funnel them to your point of sale,
and keep them coming back to you and telling their friends.
No doubt, this is a paid commercial spot,
but that does not mean they bought my opinion.
I've worked with Blunt Branding on three projects now for various clients
and every single time they have done more than they have promised
and over-delivered on results.
I love how they generate new revenue and focus on that as the goal
instead of just making me a pretty logo.
Similarly, every friend I've referred them to has come back to thank me,
and that just does not happen every day.
So grab a pen and paper because the website address is coming.
If you want someone to implement marketing programs that feed your bottom line,
give Blunt Branding a call.
They will share proven techniques to increase your audience
and generate sales while using cutting-edge technology in the background
that make all of this easy, automatic, and trackable.
Go to shapingfire.com forward slash Blunt Branding to find out more.
You can also click the link in our weekly newsletter,
Blunt Branding, marketing that makes you money.
Welcome back. You are listening to Shaping Fire.
I am your host, Shango Lose.
And our guest this week is neurologist and cannabinoid researcher, Dr. Ethan Russo.
So during the last set, we were talking about how cannabis in different modes
can help support both the endocannabinoid system
and decrease and alleviate a lot of the symptoms associated with a TBI
and also help with the eventual resolution of it.
Now, this next part is the part that I'm especially excited about hearing about.
I've heard about psilocybin microdosing for a couple years now,
but trying to find somebody who's willing to actually talk about it
and explain how it alleviates a TBI, that's a rare thing.
So I'm really excited to hear what you have to say.
So let's get right into it.
So, Ethan, what is the mechanism by which psilocybin from what
normal otherwise people know of as hallucinogenic mushrooms,
how does that work to alleviate the symptoms of a traumatic brain injury?
Well, we don't exactly know, but let's set the stage with some background.
It was apparent to me actually decades ago that historically,
there's been a relationship between the use of psychedelics or hallucinogens
and treatment of migraines.
In other words, these kinds of agents, which at high doses produce psychedelic experiences,
at low doses were used to treat headaches.
And it extends to the ergot alkaloids and a whole bunch of others,
including psilocybin.
Mescaline, for example, was used as a migraine preventive in the 19th century.
It was part of the US pharmacy,
It was part of the US pharmacopoeia for a time.
So these are interesting things and this actually led me to my research in the Peruvian Amazon
with the Machiganga tribe.
And certainly, they had the example of psychotria leaves,
which contained dimethyltryptamine, a related psychedelic that's related to LSD
and psilocybin and mescaline.
This would be used as part of their ayahuasca mix,
the vine of the soul that's used in visionary sessions.
But in low doses, they would drip the juice from the leaves into the eye to treat a headache,
also to increase the sensory acuity for hunting.
And I saw this work.
And so there is this interesting parallel there.
And so again, there's this overlap between migraine and post-traumatic headache symptoms
and certainly this kind of agent just on that level would seem to help.
Now what science tells us is that this kind of agent works on a thing called the serotonin or 5-HT 2A receptor.
But there are plenty of drugs that affect that receptor that do not create these kinds of experiences
and certainly nothing with such a prolonged or long-lasting effect like people are noting
after uses of these agents, even in very small doses.
So there's something going on that we don't yet understand.
We have ideas though.
It may be that these agents are increasing the plasticity of the brain, much as we've discussed earlier.
They are opening up pathways.
They are opening up people's thought processes.
And it may be that they're producing neurogenesis.
Could it be that they're actually creating new connections in the brain?
We don't know the answers to these questions, but those are the possibilities.
Just phenomenologically, what we note is that many patients are getting long-lasting relief of headaches
and better relief of these post-traumatic symptoms in using very low doses of these kinds of agents.
I guess most commonly this would be with low-dose psilocybin, often in the form of psilocybin mushrooms.
Right.
So a lot of folks, they get the giggles when talking about using hallucinogenic mushrooms for this kind of patient relief
because folks are just imagining getting really high and having a psychedelic experience from it.
But we're talking about a dosage amount that is lower than that, lower than the threshold than you would take to have a hallucination.
Would the patient experience anything, or would it be kind of transparent to them at the proper microdose?
Well, it could be either.
Just as an example, a threshold dose for a psychedelic experience with psilocybin is generally felt to be about 20 mg.
At lower doses, 2.5 to 10 mg could vary.
The patient may not feel much of anything.
They could have slight nausea.
They may feel that things are brighter, more intense.
Like I mentioned with the machiginga hunters, dripping psychotria leaves in the eye, just a heightening of the senses.
But this would fade after a time and often be replaced by a persistent calm and positive emotion.
And this can go on for a considerable length of time.
You may have heard of some of the recent research that indicates prolonged benefit on adjustment to end of life or alleviation of chronic anxiety from this kind of treatment.
So there seems to be a relationship there as well.
So how is psilocybin normally measured?
Because I'm sure there's folks listening who have had a brain injury like I have and who can't help but think,
all right, well, I know where I can get mushrooms where I live because they grow naturally.
And then they're going to have to look up some sort of preparation that they're going to go with.
But is the only way to get a proper dosage to pull it out of the mushroom into its crystallized form and weigh it?
Or is there a rule of thumb that folks can use as a starting place for self-experimentation?
Well, this is difficult.
First of all, if someone's going to use mushrooms, they need to be with someone who can positively identify them.
With psilocybin mushrooms, there's a certain built-in safety factor in that they will notice a bluing reaction of the mushroom.
As the surface is bruised, it rapidly turns blue.
This is sort of a diagnostic test, but this does not replace the need for someone very experienced in mushroom identification.
Beyond that, if the species is known, there are written guidelines on what the relative concentration might be.
And in terms of resources, some of the older books on this, such as Jonathan Ott's Pharmacotheon, has dosage guidelines.
Additionally, some of Paul Stamets' older works.
Online, there would be information from a couple of places.
One would be maps.org and also the Beckley Foundation.org.
They have both done extensive work in medical applications of the psychedelics and specifically psilocybin.
And searches on those websites would provide a lot more information.
Right.
Right on.
So for folks who are listening, if you're in your car or you're running or something and you're dying to have those written down,
if you just go to the website at shapingfire.com and go to the episode page for this episode, all of those are going to be linked there.
So before we move on from psilocybin, Ethan, I guess since this is the part of the topic today that I know the least about,
because I've spent most of my time studying cannabis and not mushrooms,
I want to toss this question in there kind of as a mop up anything I may have missed.
What have I not asked you about using psilocybin to alleviate TBI that maybe I should have asked you or that you think would be good to finish off this section on?
Well, I'm afraid we should really include some caveats, which if somebody has these growing in their lawn, they're not illegal.
But once you pick them with intent to ingest them, they are illegal and they're still considered a Schedule I forbidden drug in this country, much as cannabis is.
So we've got a combination of a very unconventional therapy, which if too much is taken,
is going to produce a psychedelic experience that the patient may not be prepared for on the one hand,
and on the other hand, something that potentially could get them in trouble with the law.
I feel it's my duty to impart knowledge about these things.
I think in the future, we're going to find approved medical indications for both of these sets of substances.
In the meantime, people need to be aware of them and perhaps help with the effort to see that proper research is done and see if we can learn enough to make these accessible to people who really need them.
Right on. Thank you, Ethan.
During our next set, we're going to talk about the research and trials that are happening now for both of these solutions.
But we're going to take our last break and be right back.
You're listening to Shaping Fire and my guest today is neurologist, Dr. Ethan Russo.
Businesses everywhere are constantly striving to reach out to people through advertising.
We all know, though, that trying to reach a cannabis audience with a quality message is pretty difficult.
That's why many people choose to advertise on the Shaping Fire podcast.
Advertising on this show allows us time to talk about your product, service, or brand in a way that really lets people know what sets your company apart from others.
Bold people who own companies know that getting in a relationship with their customers is essential.
That is what we offer.
We will explain your service or product and what sets it apart as desirable and help our audience get in contact with you.
It's pretty simple, really.
Advertising does not have to be all whiz-bang, smoke, and mirrors.
Nowadays, I find that people prefer just to be spoken to calmly, accurately, and with good intentions.
If you want to make your own commercial spot, you can do that, too.
Because the podcast is young but growing at an exceptionally fast rate,
if you become an advertiser on the Shaping Fire podcast now, you are going to pay a fraction of the cost we will be asking for in just a few months.
And yet everyone listening both now and to the back catalog of interviews later will hear about your company again and again for years.
It's a great deal for you.
Pay a small amount now because the show is new, but take advantage of the huge listening audience we will have forever.
Do yourself a solid and contact us today for rates on podcast and newsletter advertising.
Email hotspot at shapingfire.com to find out more.
Welcome back. You are listening to Shaping Fire.
I am your host, Shango Los, and our guest this week is neurologist and cannabinoid researcher, Dr. Ethan Russo.
So, during the last set, we talked a lot about how psilocybin can be used to alleviate traumatic brain injury.
And before that, we were talking about cannabis and the endocannabinoid system.
And as we were talking about in the last set, unfortunately, both of these treatments are still based on Schedule I drugs.
And, you know, possessing these, using them are still federally illegal.
But we do know that on rare occasions, the government will give research permission to folks who want to start looking for medical efficacy for these types of naturally occurring substances.
So that maybe the case can be made to remove it from the Schedule I, like people are discussing today for cannabis.
So, Ethan, my question for you is, you know, are there already research and trials happening now for psilocybin that there's anybody working on it?
Or is it just simply how you learned about it through anecdotal evidence speaking with, you know, your patients and really there's not much going on?
Well, I don't think it's getting the attention it deserves.
There have been some recent studies done with psilocybin and other psychedelic drugs, particularly at Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore and some in Switzerland that have looked at these agents,
particularly in relation to PTSD, adjustment to end of life situations, anxiety associated with cancer and things of this sort.
There really, to my knowledge, haven't been studies of these in post-traumatic syndromes, some in PTSD.
If people are interested in this, the place to always look to see what's going on is clinicaltrials.gov.
So clinicaltrials.gov.
That is a government website and it is a requirement now for companies doing this kind of investigation to put the information about their clinical trials that are planned or in process to put the information on that website.
And this is true around the world.
So people can get an idea of what might be going on and whether there's a possibility of them trying one of these substances in the context of a clinical trial.
There would be obvious advantages there in terms of the legality, being in a controlled situation with experienced clinicians and all the possible backup they might need if there were an emergency situation to arise.
I can imagine that the military would be probably looking into the psilocybin solution as well because I know they're already looking at using cannabidiol in the field because having it in your system before a concussion can actually help in your likelihood of getting over the TBI.
And those military folks, they've got a history with psychedelics.
So I can imagine that it'd be a short jump for them to be interested in psilocybin as well, especially with that interesting little bit that you added about how dripping it into the eye increases your ability to see at night.
Sure.
I can't honestly see them doing this anytime soon.
It just seems to be a leap of faith beyond which is really likely to occur in the near future.
But one can dream.
Right on.
So I know that with taking cannabinoids, you can have an overmedicated, uncomfortable experience that'll go away in a couple hours if you take too much THC.
So you can't die from it.
Is that also true with mushrooms that if someone is experimenting with microdosing that if they miss it, chances are they'll have a potentially uncomfortable but also very possibly nice psychedelic experience, but it's not like it works on the respiratory system or would stop the heart or anything like that?
Is psilocybin relatively safe to be working with as well?
Sure.
In terms of actual toxicity, as you mentioned, breathing sensation, problems with the heart, liver, etc. are actually quite safe.
The greatest danger is a bad trip, people freaking out.
But this is self-limited, meaning it will pass and responds generally to talking down, so-called.
But it certainly could lead to emergency room visits, particularly if the patient has no prior experience with this kind of substance.
It's a good time to mention that no one should ever do this alone.
They need a so-called guide, someone who is not partaking of the substance that can run interference for them, make sure that they're safe and reassured.
And that is the best safety measure of all.
Yeah, well said there.
And so for folks who are listening like I am and really wanting more of these studies on psilocybin and even the endocannabinoid system to be going on, as far as people taking some kind of action, does it do any good or is it even the right person to call your legislator and tell them that you want psilocybin approved for brain injury research?
Or is that kind of  is that an overbroad kind of activism?
Is there a particular somebody in the government who would be allowing this kind of research that we could pinpoint our calls or contacts?
Well, as it is now, some of these clinical trials are approved by the Food and Drug Administration and that can only happen if the applicant proves that the possible benefits outweigh the dangers.
And that has been done, both with cannabis and with some of the psychedelics.
If people are interested in this area, beyond getting involved in a clinical trial themselves, certainly I'd recommend that they join the Beckley Foundation and MAPS and make generous contributions because that is the reason behind these two organizations and is their basic mission.
Fantastic.
Thanks for being on the show, Ethan.
Your experience is really valuable and I know I'm not alone in appreciating your willingness to come out and share it with us.
Well, that's most gracious.
Thank you.
For more information, we have links to the links that Dr. Russo suggested on the podcast page for this episode at shapingfire.com.
You can also reach Dr. Russo at ethanrusso at comcast.net.
But also, please understand that Dr. Russo is nearly always traveling and it may take some time for him to respond.
You can find more episodes of the Shaping Fire podcast and subscribe to the show at shapingfire.com and on Apple iTunes, Stitcher, and Google Play.
If you enjoyed the show, we'd really appreciate it if you'd leave a positive review of the podcast wherever you download.
Your review will help others find the show so they can enjoy it too.
On the Shaping Fire website, you can also subscribe to the weekly newsletter for insights into the latest cannabis news and product reviews.
On the Shaping Fire website, you will also find transcripts of today's podcast as well.
For information on me and where I'll be speaking, you can check out shangolose.com.
Does your company want to reach our national audience of cannabis enthusiasts?
Email hotspot at shapingfire.com to find out how.
Thanks for listening to Shaping Fire. I've been your host, Shango Lose.
