Forever and ever, the cannabis plant was only grown outside under the sun. As it became
increasingly prohibited and then demonized totally for the convenience of some American
politicians, cannabis farmers had to move to more clandestine areas and then eventually
indoors under artificial light.
Indoor cannabis cultivators and renegade outdoor farmers kept the spirit of cannabis alive
during those dark years. They continued to study the botany of the plant, sustained its
medicinal traditions, and hybridized its traits to develop some really amazing genetics.
Now that cannabis has been able to come out of hiding, smart commercial growers are blending
the power of growing under the sun with the best practices of indoor growing resulting
in greenhouses of all sizes that incorporate light deprivation technique.
Frank Depp is a strategy that uses blackout material to cut off sunlight from the plants
in order to fool them into thinking that it's fall and they should start to flower. Even
though it's exceptionally common in many places now, the first you hear of the idea
as a grower, it's truly mind-blowing.
If you enjoy hearing frank discussions that dive deep into cannabis health, business,
and technique, I encourage you to subscribe to our newsletter. Every week you'll receive
a new podcast episode delivered right to your inbox along with commentary on a couple of
the most important news items from the week. Social media sites are becoming increasingly
unreliable in showing us everything we subscribe to, so sign up for the Shaping Fire newsletter
to make sure you don't miss an episode announcement.
Today's guest on Shaping Fire is Eric Brandstad, co-founder of Forever Flowering Greenhouses
based in the Emerald Triangle of Northern California. Eric is a long-time cultivator
and has become one of the most, if not the most, important voice in light-depth greenhouses.
Today we're going to talk to him about just that.
Welcome to the show, Eric.
Hey, Shango. Thanks for having me.
We're obviously going to talk about light-depth today, but let's start with the incredible
boom in cannabis greenhouses all over the country. I know that you're traveling all
over the place setting them up and consulting with folks. What are you seeing?
Well, I'm just seeing everybody trying to find their place right now, and it seems like
the shift is really, really going towards greenhouses more than ever. I guess 10, 11
years ago, I started with this company 10 years ago, and so it was really stuffing envelopes
and trying to show people what really light-depth greenhouses are to the point now where people
know what they are and they know what they want to get into. They just are fishing around
for which company at this point to go with. The green rush has always been happening in
my eyes, being on the front lines, answering phones and things like that, but it's not
quite been the same kind of rush. I guess it's always been the green idea for over
the years, but now it's the full-on green rush.
Yeah, actually, we had Dr. Dominic Corva on this show several weeks ago, and he said,
you know, everybody says that now that California has legalized that the green rush is coming
to California. He says, people don't understand. The green rush started in California in the
70s. It's never stopped.
He's right, and that dude knows what's up. I like him a lot, and I can agree with that
sentiment because California really, in my opinion, has been the mecca for outdoor cannabis
cultivation, being up in the Emerald Triangle and Humboldt County and things like that.
People have always been moving there or moving up to Northern California to get away from
something or just to get up north. A lot of people originally, when I moved up to Humboldt
in 1992, the majority of people that were there were either loggers or people that transplanted
from Southern California. It was still a lot of tight-knit California people, but it was
really a lot of ... Most people that had set up shop in Humboldt back in the early 90s
that had been there a while or that were fairly new to the area were mostly Southern California
people from what I found. Now it's to the point where people are coming from all over
the United States. I mean, I've even seen people from other countries that are in organizations
or belong to certain groups or families or have ties or whatever that are now trying
to be in the Emerald Triangle as well. It's not just the Emerald Triangle. It's the California
in general now too. As much as the green rush used to be Northern California, I think it's
safe to say that generally speaking, California is seeing the green rush all the way around.
Right on. Just so people don't pigeonhole you as just doing greenhouses in California,
where around the country have you been, let's say in the last six months, building out greenhouses?
I know that you're doing lots of work in the new medical states.
Yeah, definitely. I mean, we have greenhouses going up as far away from here as Maine. I
mean, that's pretty much ...
Coast to coast.
Yeah, it is. We have greenhouses going up in Arizona, Maine, a lot of the legal states
for the most part. I wouldn't say in all of them though. I mean, I'm still working on
some of the other states that went legal. There's other greenhouse companies to choose
from, so it's not just us. We have been advertising nationwide. I do trade shows as far away as
New York City. We'll do one in Boston this fall. I speak at a lot of those events. As
you know, you and I like to meet up at a lot of these events.
Actually, you're probably the number one cannabis keynote speaker in the country as far as I'm
concerned right now. I mean, I like your pitch anyway, but I mean the commonplace of you,
because people want to know about Light Depth. People are moving away from indoor and towards
light-assisted greenhouses or Light Depth. You're just a friendly dude who gives a good talk.
Everywhere I go, I already see that you're giving the keynote or something.
Yeah, yeah. It's been fun. I mean, I really like to, I guess,
speak about the Light Depth greenhouses and cannabis production first and foremost. Then
I've been doing it so long, I start to get on a rant about some of the topics or these things
going on, and I have a lot of passion behind it. It's fun. I don't mind getting up and talking.
I used to be pretty nervous. I still get really nervous about it. Let's put it that way. I mean,
I enjoy getting out there and getting the message across. I think people enjoy
hearing it sometimes because I come from a pretty authentic side of things rather than a textbook
possibility side. A lot of dreamers are going on out there and a lot of people just getting
into the industry. They do have some credentials, but I'm really speaking on a background of
10, 11 years of the business history. Then previous to that, I was a kid running around
in Humboldt and all these other places. It's turned into data in some way or another.
Yeah, yeah. Right on. Let's get into Light Depth. I've got a bunch of questions for you
about modern Light Depth greenhouses. Even though those of us who are already in the industry talk
about Light Depth all the time, there are still the majority of people don't understand the idea
behind Light Depth. Would you kind of like get a little old school and talk about the early
techniques for Light Depth so that when we talk about the greenhouses, people will see,
oh, I see how it used to be a cardboard box and now it's a whole building?
Yeah, yeah. No, and you're right. There's a lot of people that are into the industry,
getting into the industry in other states and places that just aren't familiar with what we're
talking about all the way. They might have heard the terminology, but they don't quite know what's
going on. Light Depth is basically, I sometimes like to compare it to indoor growing. A lot of
people understand indoor growing techniques. You can also look at outdoor growing of corn, let's
say. When you plant the seed, it doesn't automatically give you corn. You got to wait
till the end of the summer, which is the shorter days. When the days naturally get shorter,
cannabis plants and a lot of vegetable crops come into season. As fall comes into season,
we have the harvest time for a lot of different crops, but especially cannabis.
Years ago, people, if they didn't grow indoors, they had to wait till Mother Nature pulled the
trigger so that you could get the flowers and harvest at the end of the season. In order to
beat that cycle or to do that, indoor was one way to do it, but the other way to do it was to
cover up the greenhouses or cover up the garden in some way or another with a tarp. The earliest
methods were the cardboard box. They called it black boxing in 1992. When I lived up in the
Humboldt area, they'd actually take a big cardboard box that was the size of a refrigerator box or a
washer and dryer, and they would individually cover each plant. The idea was just to go out
in the evening time before it got dark and encouraged darkness. They were actually
forcing the darkness on the plants without waiting for Mother Nature to do it. By putting the plants
in the dark in June at 5.30 in the afternoon or whatever time it would be, the plants flowered,
and so people would actually be able to harvest before everyone else. At that time, the product
was terrible. It really was something that I don't think too many people were proud of. They
quick-dried it. It was just not the best product, even though it was available early when no one
else had anything. Now when we jump light years ahead into these greenhouses, one can be manually
pulled tarps over a hoop house or something, and two, the automated version, the real goal,
people are able to use these greenhouses and get up to five harvests a year using the sun
versus just being indoors using electricity, getting the same amount of harvest, but the
overhead's a little higher. Then also the outdoor grower that plants the seed or brings out the
clone, and it flowers when it flowers due to Mother Nature's forces. With that being said,
it doesn't take away indoor use. Indoor growers still exist with the light-dipped greenhouses
because in some cases you have to veg the plants. A lot of people that are new to cannabis in
general, too, plants grow with 18 hours of sunlight. They won't produce flowers or fruit
with that much sunlight or available light indoors or outdoors. It's only until you cut
the lighting back to 12 hours on and off, 12 hours of light, 12 hours of darkness,
that cannabis plants will flower. That's really easy to do indoors when you have a timer,
but it gets a little bit more tricky when you're outside dealing with the sun because if you don't
have enough money for an automated greenhouse, you got to pull some tarps or manually cover the
greenhouses or that outdoor garden. We've developed ways over the years to help make that easier.
A lot of people are still do-it-yourselfers. We also offer the automated greenhouses now that
you can set a timer, kind of like the indoor growers set a timer, but we're setting a timer
for our curtains to close because we can't turn off the sun, but we can choke it out with these
light-dipped curtains. One of the ways that I found out a lot of people were new to this whole
experience is I jumped on another social media site called Reddit recently and did a few posts.
It was amazing how many people had no idea or hadn't heard of it, didn't even believe it was
true. It was cool. It was fun to be around a lot of people that hadn't had the experience or
have known about it before because that's how small our community is within this big industry.
Yeah, for sure. You're talking about different levels of experience too. You got the people who
are all new to it who are, A, blown away by just the idea of it, and then they realize that they
can get more than one crop a year, which blows their mind when they start running the numbers.
Then you've got folks that have been doing light-depth, but they've been doing it the
backbreaking way where you're using tarps and you're hand-pulling tarps. That works and it's
smart, but that's a bitch. It is. That's the problem with pulling tarps is that it gets very
cumbersome and it gets difficult. What people tend to do is try to make gadgets and things and
make working smarter not harder happen, but there's always pros and cons to all that.
It's not something I can get into in seminars and presentations that I go over, but there's a lot of
people that are just not putting the layers together properly with these greenhouses,
especially in the summertime, that causes the product to either not come out how it's supposed
to or just isn't as manageable as people want it to. Then there comes this idea that the only way
to do it is with an automated greenhouse if you're going to get into it in a commercial style.
If people have that notion, sometimes they're not getting into it. I do recommend a lot of
times that people do get a basic hoop house that are just getting into this and get some of the
easier mechanisms that we offer to pull tarps. I'm not talking about everybody and all the
investors, but to get a good grower to know what they're doing and to really learn the craft,
it's not that big of a deal to pull some tarps for two months.
Totally. You can take some of the profits from that extra cycle that you did and upgrade your
material. Before we get into that, though, and what a modern light-depth greenhouse is going
to look like, let's go to our first commercial. You are listening to Shaping Fire, and my guest
today is Eric Brandstad, co-founder of Forever Flowering Greenhouses.
If you like podcasts like Shaping Fire, chances are that you'll like audiobooks, too.
Just like with podcasts, audiobooks speak to you, tell you stories, and teach you stuff.
Here's the thing. Audible.com has an offer that I want to tell you about. Right now,
they are offering a trial of their audiobook service for absolutely free. You can go to
shapingfire.com forward slash audible and you'll get a free audiobook straight up. You can listen
to it on your mobile device, computer, or download it and listen to it like anywhere.
It's really simple. Of course, they want you to subscribe to their service after the free trial
and enjoy audiobooks forever, but you don't have to. All you have to do to get the free audiobook
of your choice is to just check out the service for free. The service is pretty great. There are
whole sections on permaculture, sci-fi, history, biography. Hell, you can even listen to a book
about card counting and blackjack. Whatever. It's all pretty rad. So that's the deal. Your first
book is free. It's easy to sign up. It's easy to quit. Their online library of free books is
pretty incredible. So just check it out. Go to shapingfire.com forward slash audible to find out
more or just click on the link in this week's newsletter. Welcome back. You are listening to
Shaping Fire. I am your host, Shango Lose. And our guest this week is Eric Brandstad,
co-founder of Forever Flowering Greenhouses. So during the first set, we were talking about
the history of light depth and the fact that you can get more cycles per season if you're covering
up your crop for some of the time, kind of fooling the crop to think that winter is coming and it
needs to pop up those flowers all of a sudden. But most people are thinking about commercial
production and light depth now. And there's a real range of options. You can get a hoop
house and get some technology to pull a tarp or all the way up to having a super sexy custom
built greenhouse where everything is automated. Eric, would you kind of like give us an idea of
the range of solutions of light depth so that different folks can kind of consider what might
be the option for them? Yeah, yeah. No problem. And we do it. Yeah, there is ranges of ways to
do it. I mean, originally people were trying to do their outdoor gardens and so they were just
getting a cheap plastic and rigging up some kind of mechanism, wires or, you know, it became, that's
why hoops got popular for light depth because it was able to hold up a black tarp and keep it from,
you know, laying on the plants. And then it was like, oh, well, this hoop is kind of handy because
if it rains, I can put a piece of plastic over it and I'm not going to get my plants rained on. And
so for a long time, it was kind of like, you know, a lot of people were just wanting to do light depth,
but then up into the Emerald Triangle, we get a lot of rain towards the fall. And so you can get
rains that are a week before harvest, even that can be fairly devastating. And so at one point,
the greenhouses were popular for the weather part of it. And then people had the greenhouses and
were like, oh, well, I heard of this light depth thing. We could maybe pull some tarps or do
something like that. And so there became a whole range of people interested in light depth. And a
lot of it had to do with budget concerns, maybe the size of the plot of land that they had. And so
we have little hoop houses that are 16 feet wide and only 12 feet long that somebody could
essentially stand on a step ladder and pull a tarp over the outside of it without really too
many gimmicks or gadgets. That same greenhouse can be, you know, 144 feet long, and it gets a
little bit more difficult to pull that tarp over the outside, but we do offer some solutions to
make it easier. And there's other companies that make certain mechanisms that help pull the tarp
a little bit, but it's really tricky to get automated ones because a lot of the automated
options on the really low tech greenhouses become more expensive than the actual frame or the hoop
itself. So sometimes you're better off just trying to pull tarps and a lot of people go, well, I got
to have a life or I don't, you know, they have a lot of reasons why they can't do it. And so part of
the reasons are is because people imagine the times that they pull their curtains are much like an
indoor time would be. And what I mean by that is indoor growers typically like to run their lights
at nighttime. And so lights might come on at seven in the evening and turn off at seven in the morning
because the nighttime air is able to keep things cooler. Historically, it was also the time that
PG&E used to come around and read the meter. And so nobody wanted their meters spinning 100 miles
an hour when PG&E was looking with their binoculars from the driveway at your meter. And so running the
lights at night was always the way to do it. And so now we have people that pull their light depth
covers from seven in the evening and uncover at seven in the morning. The problem with that is
that you got to be there at seven every night, which isn't the hugest thing, but people have games
and kids and stuff to do. And then there's also the factor that you're suffocating those plants
for 12 hours under that tarp. People used to go out in the middle of the night and burp the
greenhouses by pulling up the fabric and letting the hot air kind of escape. But, you know, that
means you got to get up in the middle of the night and then you got to be up at seven in the morning
and historically when my doing this, you know, cannabis growers weren't always up at seven in
the morning. And so pull uncovering the tarps, it was just, there's, I'm not doing it, you know,
it became really aggravating and the product was very inferior as well, like I was saying in the
earlier segment. And so one of the things I learned along the way was that we can pull our tarps
according to how much sun is available in the morning and the evening. And so what I mean by
that is that when the sun comes up in the morning, the plants start to wake up at a different time
than when we see the light. So our eyes pick up color and things that the plants really don't
pick up. They don't have eyeballs like we do. And so when the plants actually wake up, it's a little
bit more light out than one would think. And so the best way to gauge that is to use a light meter.
And so by going out with a light meter, like a photographer uses to measure the lux, you can
actually sit out in the green, out by the garden and early in the morning before the sun, as the
sun is coming up. And when it registers from zero to whatever number it could be one or it might
jump to 15, you know that it's light and the plants are awake. And so at that point we know in 12 hours
at time, we need to cover those plants. And so a lot of times, you know, the first lumen at my
garden would be 525 in the morning. And so I had to be at my garden at 525 in the evening to cover
them up because it was 12 hours of light. And so a lot of people go, but it's still sunny out. It's
still, you know, but tough luck. It's 12 hours of light and I'm trying to get people to be able to
deal with this manual concept. And so the idea is to make sure that you cover them at 530 with a
white exterior cover or 525 PM. And the white exterior cover helps reduce the heat gain that
could be associated with a black tarp. A lot of people would use a black tarp because it's cheaper
and easier to find, but it encourages more solar gain. And that's the last thing we need when we're
covering up a cannabis garden in a greenhouse when it's 525 in the evening. But what that allows you
to do is uncover the plants the minute it's dark and you don't have to be out there again until 525
the next day. And so we're basically talking about covering the garden at dinner time and
uncovering at bedtime. And you can go out there and look when the last lumen disappears. Typically
that's before the sun actually goes down. And so I don't need a flashlight to go uncover my
greenhouse because it's not dark enough for me to see, but it's dark enough for the plants to be
asleep. And that's a tough pill for people to swallow, but it's the truth. And if you can go
by that regimen, a lot of people are fine. But the one thing I would say to that low tech method
and that idea, it's very affordable, but you need to use the greenhouse properly. And so backing up
to greenhouses, like we talked about a little bit in the other segment is that greenhouses were made
for winter time. And then if you think about that, that means, well, we don't want to use a
greenhouse in the summer. And that's partially true because greenhouses can actually trap too
much air, heat up, and it makes people have to do things like turn on fans and maybe want an air
conditioner and all these other things. And so a hoop house, in my opinion, it gets even more low
tech because we don't really need exhaust fans and all these things. We can actually make the
greenhouse more of a shelter rather than a greenhouse. And so I like to differentiate
summer mode and winter mode greenhouses as two different things, because the way we run them in
the winter is not how we run them in the summer. And so a simple hoop house doesn't need to have
end walls and doors or fans. It can merely just be an open tunnel. And then I like to have the
sidewalls up off the ground at least three to four feet. And at that point, we're really creating a
canopy or a shelter, so to speak, so that we avoid the solar gain in the greenhouse effect.
And then we also use the proper greenhouse cover, which is a diffused polywoven greenhouse cover.
And diffusion, high diffusion spreads the light uniformly so that it actually doesn't have hot
spots that causes the plants themselves to heat up because plant temp and air temp are two different
things. And so we can have high air temp and still keep the plant temps low through this method that
I'm talking about. And then when we pull our light depth cover at 530 in the evening, we don't see
the humidity spike like a lot of the other cases that we hear about because people have been
trapping air too much, using too clear of a cover, or even using the black ground cover and black grow
bags. All those things encourage more surface temps, which add more air temps to the greenhouse.
And so what we want to do is calm down all these things and use white ground cover, tan grow bags,
a diffused greenhouse cover, stop trapping air, and we're in a summer mode greenhouse. And cannabis
is going to go crazy. You're going to pull your light depth covers. You're not going to see the
humidity and condensation that everybody else, you know, the horror stories that people talk
about a lot of times because they're just not quite putting the layers together properly.
And the low-tech version can be very profitable for people and low overhead, and it actually
works for a lot of small craft farmers. And then when we go into the mid-tech greenhouses, we're
talking about the gothic-shaped greenhouses that can be manual sidewalls and ridge vent or
automated with an automated blackout option. It can be basic. It can be deluxe. You know, there's
a lot of ways to skin the cat in the gothic frames we have. And then, you know, the ultimate greenhouses,
the A-frame greenhouses that really, you know, when you're looking at them from the front, they
straight sidewalls to an A-frame peak, and they can be gutter connected. So they create a mega structure
and you've got all these different bays with, you know, vegging and flowering and, you know,
they're really, you know, commercial like full on, but they're very expensive and you got to have the
right property and permitting and all these things. Whereas some of these low-tech, mid-tech greenhouses
are fairly affordable at entry level. You can learn the craft. You can get a lot done. You can
pull the same type of product out of a low-tech, mid-tech, and high-tech as long as you follow some
of the procedures that I had talked about. And on the mid-tech greenhouses like the gothic, you
don't have to worry about stripping it down like we talked about in the hoop house because the
gothic frames allow you to have a roof vent on the top that it goes from one end to the other
that's four feet wide. And so you open that roof vent and then these gothics have six foot tall
sidewalls that you can roll up manual or automated. And so when you have a six foot sidewall rolled up
and a roof vent open, you can still leave the end walls on and the doors secure and you have a lot
more flexibility that way. And at that point, you also have a timer for your curtains and you can
basically throw away the idea that I taught you about manual light depth and go back to even the
seven to seven thing that your indoor growers might've been used to because you get so much sun
at your garden all the way till seven in the evening or whatever. Then you pull your curtains
and that way your curtains on these automated systems are breathable. We can have the
exhaust system with the light traps, we call them breathable walls over the exhaust fans and intakes.
And so even when the blackout's closed, the zone isn't going to heat up because we have all this
breathability and you can open the curtains again at seven in the morning when the greenhouse is
practically getting into full sun. And so there's the manual mode, I guess, or strategy to do it in
the summer strategy or the automated strategy to do it. But ultimately, the goal is the same,
to avoid the solar gain in the greenhouse, not have significant colors that are encouraged,
more surface temps, and make sure we use the right greenhouse cover and everything will be great.
I really like how you clarify or lay out rather the buffet of options, right? Because
at the very base level, you can just use your muscles and a tarp and boom, you are
decreasing the light and you are causing your plants to flower much earlier in the season. So
it's like, man, you are doing light depth. But then if you want to then upgrade and start thinking
about how much extra heat that you're keeping in your greenhouse and change the color of your pots
and what you're putting on the ground and allowing more ventilation, now you're doing
light depth, but you're also helping the plants because you can do all of these inexpensive
techniques just on color choice of what you purchase that's going to be helping you not
retain this too much heat during the summer so that you can still do your light depth in a
greenhouse in the summer without cooking your plants. And then if you've got serious investment
capital, well then yeah, you can step up and maybe get something custom built where now you've
got all the best practices worked out together. So it just depends on what your budget is and
what you want your experience to be. And also you can kind of work your way up, right? As you're
getting more cycles and being able to make more profit off of the new cycles that you're having,
you can take some of that money and reinvest it. And so in just a few cycles, now you've got a
totally sick year round greenhouse. You're absolutely right about that too, because a lot
of people call me and go, what should I do? Or how should we scale up? What's the best plan here?
You know, obviously the goal is the mega structure for a lot of these investors, but they got plants
that are, they've already got seeds popping right now and things like that, you know? And so it's
like, it's hard to get stuff and build it and have it ready to hand you the keys and the amount of
time it takes for some of these structures or some of these setups. Might even be that the
property's not ready and the grading has been done and all these other things that don't even have to
do with the manufacturing or the producing of the greenhouse. And so a lot of people are also
investing in a lot of properties right now that need fencing and they need power upgrades and
they need infrastructure and stuff to even support a greenhouse, a processing facility, drying rooms
and all this stuff. And so with that being said, it's pretty easy to get some of these hoop houses
and for a lack of better terms, bang them out real quick. And like you're saying, you can
encourage revenue while all this other master planning is going on. And so, yeah, you might
pull tarps for a round or two while the mid-tech or high-tech greenhouse is being built, but it's
better than just being sitting in the water, sitting dead in the water, not doing anything,
waiting for the megastructure to be built or permitted or whatever it takes. And so I see a
lot of people with wasted time and space and things go by because they are hung up by red tape
and the way that they see they want to do it. And a lot of times that's the automated, all the bells
and whistles where most growers are fine with the low-tech. There's always somebody around
that can pull some tarps or easy to hire someone that's strong and can do this type of stuff for a
couple of months or even a season. And that goes also to the equipment that we buy. I have a lot
of people, we went through a really harsh winter here in California particularly, and I think up
and down the West Coast for rains and snow and things like that. And one of the things I get a
lot of phone calls now that the sun's out, we went from zero to a hundred and people are needing
greenhouses yesterday and they keep asking me, well I need a heater. And by the time a lot of
people buy most of these greenhouses and actually get them installed, I doubt that they're going to
turn the heater on much because we're just trending towards spring. And so the other thing people
automatically by default want to buy are lights for the greenhouse. And at this point we're going
to be needing curtains more than we're going to need lights. You can maybe need lights for
vegging, but a lot of this equipment people buy and it stays turned off for four or five months
where they could have used that cash for something else because they're still growing in that
greenhouse and going to make some cash. Yeah, yeah. Hold that purchase off until the end of
October after you crop the natural summer crop and then buy that stuff with the revenue that
you've pulled from the three cycles that you already have done. Correct. And that's the thing.
We want our heating systems and our lights to be in the greenhouses and ready, let's say,
by Thanksgiving. I always say that's a good goal to have. And so if you can pop off around or two
before Thanksgiving and whatever it is, or even in the main greenhouse, you can still add the
lights and that heating system during harvest season for everyone else. And that's also kind
of the goal of LightDep is to make sure you're not harvesting when everybody else is. Yeah,
because if you're able to bring that product to market first, you're going to get a lot higher
price than everybody else who is bringing their product to market at the same time.
So, hey, I want to talk a lot more about transitioning to a LightDep situation,
but let's take another break. You are listening to Shaping Fire and my guest today is Eric
Branstad, co-founder of Forever Flowering Greenhouses. As a business owner, you are
incredibly busy. In reality, you are responsible for everything your company does. You have so many
responsibilities every single day that often you just don't have the time to really dig into
something as deeply as you'd like. You know there is more that you could do to reach out to new
customers and to encourage loyalty in the customers you already have, but you certainly don't have the
time and you're not ready to hire someone full-time for that role either. For you, I recommend blunt
branding. Blunt branding principles Kirsten Nelson and Anthony Garcia are focused on improving your
bottom line. You know, most marketing firms are excited to make your logo, packaging, and website
very pretty, but they leave responsibility for improving your bottom line up to you.
They don't want that kind of responsibility. But that is pretty much the most important part
of marketing, right? Kirsten and Anthony will help you engage new customers, funnel them to
your point of sale, and keep them coming back to you and telling their friends. No doubt, this is a
paid commercial spot, but that does not mean they bought my opinion. I've worked with blunt branding
on three projects now for various clients and every single time they have done more than they
have promised and over-delivered on results. I love how they generate new revenue and focus on
that as the goal instead of just making me a pretty logo. Similarly, every friend I've referred them
to has come back to thank me, and that just does not happen every day. So grab a pen and paper
because the website address is coming. If you want someone to implement marketing programs that feed
your bottom line, give blunt branding a call. They will share proven techniques to increase your
audience and generate sales while using cutting-edge technology in the background that make all of this
easy, automatic, and trackable. Go to shapingfire.com forward slash blunt branding to find out more.
You can also click the link in our weekly newsletter, Blunt Branding, Marketing That Makes
You Money. Welcome back. You are listening to Shaping Fire. I am your host, Shango Lose, and our
guest this week is Eric Branstad, co-founder of Forever Flowering Greenhouses. So in the first
set, we explain light depth and why it is totally badass to be able to add multiple cycles to your
year instead of just growing one outdoor. In the second set, we talked about the variety of
technological solutions from really simply pulling tarps all the way up to quarter million dollars
sexy, fully automatic greenhouses. So for a lot of people, we don't know what we don't know
in moving towards that. So Eric, my first question for you is because of prohibition, lots of people
have been indoors because they need to be both clandestine and also they want to control their
environment. But a lot of these indoor growers, they've kind of earned their master grower stripes
and now they're being hired by a commercial company who's going to use a greenhouse so
they can start using the sun more. What are some of the hints that you have for indoor growers that
are moving to a greenhouse? Well, it kind of falls back to our last segment of getting a low-tech
greenhouse and learning the craft because basically that's what's happening is that we have
really great and successful indoor farmers or growers that are put in the place of either
consulting or maybe even hired or their own businesses converting to greenhouses because
economics and that's just what's penciling in now for everybody is not to shut down the indoor per
se but to add greenhouses to it or even the outdoor isn't working out because we got rained on last
year. So either way, everybody's circling the wagons around greenhouses and what I find has
happened from prohibition, it's not just that everybody was indoors because of prohibition and
that's what we had to do. It's that a lot of books were also written on the craft of how to grow
cannabis indoors and so what's happened is if you think about it, most farmers and families
that have big commercial farms and things like that, it's a family operation and it's passed on
through generations or you're married into the family. Most of the people that you see growing
cannabis weren't pepper farmers originally. They didn't plan on growing anything and probably
weren't in farming business whatsoever but cannabis became into their life. Maybe it became
legal. Some of us pre-legal, we just liked cannabis and so one reason or another,
we grew something. Not a lot of people were green thumbs is all I'm saying and cannabis
made them become it and so when you become a green thumb specific for one crop and you grow
it specifically one way, you're probably going to read all the books about how to grow it the best
that way and become the great farmer or indoor grower that they become and it's not because they
read all the books also and that's just how they learned it. They read the books to quantify things
and made a lot of mistakes along the way and learned the craft overall but one of the things
that is the thread in all of that or a correlation in all of those things is that indoor growers
have parameters and these parameters are basically 75 degrees air temp and let's say 35%
humidity. That's kind of a standard parameter for an indoor grow room, especially a newbie.
If they were getting into it, you'd say this is the air temp and you want to keep your humidity low
to avoid PM and bud rot and all these things and so yeah, we're starting to talk about
a controlled environment and when we talk about a controlled environment, that's what we're talking
about. We're controlling the environment, the temperature and the humidity, how often we water,
the light levels, all these things to one mimic mother nature and two to control the plant
because if you don't control mother nature in that setting, let's say if you don't become mother
nature, you're going to lose control of the plant and how do you lose control of the plant? Well,
if it gets too hot, not enough water, too much light, all these little parameters change,
the plants get sick, they take on disease and pests and they die or you don't get your product.
So following the parameters has always been a safe bet for everybody along the way and so with that
correlation of those parameters, I guess you could say people go, okay, we're getting into greenhouses
now, we want to bring those parameters with us because that's how cannabis grows, right? They go,
this is how cannabis grows. The only way. Yeah, I have people that bring me the books, I have people
that email me the paragraph, I have people that come to me and say this is how it grows and I go,
yes, you're right, this is how it grows indoors, right? Indoors is the key word, it's not how
cannabis grows and so what we have to do is retrain these people to realize that there's
outdoor growers all over the United States or Northern California or whatever for a long time
that have been growing out in the full sun so they don't have the same parameters, you know what I
mean? You can't tell an outdoor grower in California in the summertime to turn the outdoor temperature
down to 75 degrees and lower that humidity in July. Yeah, those plants need to be way more
rough and tumble. That's probably where, I mean, that is where indoor plants, especially if they've
been super hybridized, get kind of a reputation for being wimps if you take them outdoors because
they've been babied like Olympians for so long. You move them outdoors where, oh man, we had an
especially cold night or oh man, we had a freaking hot day. Outdoor plants are burly,
rough and ready for that kind of stuff and so your parameters can get a lot wider and from what
you said in the second set, it sounds like the best solution for somebody transitioning from
indoor to maybe just having their veg indoor and doing a light depth cycles outdoors in the
greenhouse would be to start by just getting yourself a small hoop house and just pulling
that tarp with your arms and doing a cycle or two so you kind of like, you know, get it down because,
you know, a good indoor grower is going to understand the changes in the variables really
fast. You know, it's not like they're like starting over with cannabis. It's just that
they're expanding their scope of understanding of how she can grow and then after that,
essentially read as much as you can from other people that are successfully doing light depth
so that you could make sure that your greenhouse doesn't get too damn hot during the summer.
Yeah, correct because I mean a lot of people that are doing light depth aren't quite doing it right
in the sense that, you know, most of the people that I talk to, I'm actually, you know, when they
come here to or even call and ask me about greenhouses, you know, a lot of times they ask
me about a dehumidifier and a cooling system and so back in the day I used to just go into my regular
typical, well here's how we do it and this kind of thing and one of the reasons, one of the things
that I do now is I stop and I actually kind of interview these people a little bit more to get a
little more background in the sense that are you just familiar with indoor growing? Are you just
familiar with outdoor growing? Maybe it's both. Have you been in the light depth greenhouse before?
Maybe you have your own and maybe you've been to one before and a lot of times the common thread
is it gets really hot, it gets, you know, condensation drips and I have all these like
situations and so, you know, I need to get a dehumidifier, I need to get this cooling system
or backup and get all these defaults and it almost gets to be like the indoor idea in the sense that
we're trying to control this environment to the sense that we're getting it to these parameters
that might not be achievable in the greenhouse because we're outside and one of the reasons I
say that is because we don't have typical air conditioning systems for greenhouses. An HVAC
system really doesn't work in a greenhouse because mathematically they can't figure out the tonnage
when the sun is bearing down on something. If they, a lot of those real good AC guys tell you
put a shade over it or if you put a canopy, you know, put it in the shade I can try to
run some calcs but when the sun's beating down on a greenhouse that has a cover that
lets the sun inside that essentially has solar gain, they just can't do it and so even though
people try a lot of times, it's going to cost them a lot of money and remember we got into this
because we wanted a green house. We didn't want an energy house or, you know, back to the indoor
room. We got a greenhouse to go green and so let's not add a typical AC system to it because it's
just not going to work and cycle off and cost a lot of money and so then we talk about greenhouse
cooling systems. What's a greenhouse cooling system? It's evaporative cooling system or other
also known as a wet wall and basically that's when water trickles over a pad much like a swamp cooler
and fans are at the other end of the greenhouse and the only entry point is through that pad with
water trickling through it on the other end of the greenhouse and so instead of intake louvers,
you have water trickling over a pad. We still have the exhaust fans at the other end of the
greenhouse. Water's pulled through that pad or the air is pulled through that pad even though it's
got moisture, you know, the first set of plants are getting more humidity and more cooler air
than the plants at the other end of the greenhouse and the other thing about evaporative cooling
systems is they only work in places that are really hot and dry. So if you're in the Emerald
Triangle in some places in Oregon, you know, the coast areas, you know, upstate New York even or
the Midwest South, you know, the South, you're not going to be able to use an evaporative cooling
system and so the idea that you're going to get to these parameters just went out the window even
further and so a lot of people have a tough time swallowing these pills that I'm giving out
and saying that it's best to avoid the solar gain, use the right greenhouse cover and what I mean
avoid the solar gain, I mean don't trap air because if we trap air then we have to do something
about it and so like I said when people come here to meet with me, I usually ask them about their
greenhouse experiences from their friends or themselves and a lot of times I get down to the
nitty-gritty of okay you've been trapping air, you've been trying to do something about it like
use exhaust fans or things and it's not working, even evaporative cooling system in an area that's
got high relative humidity outside, they're not getting that temperature drop but it's getting way
more humid inside, they're using too clear of a cover and too clear of a cover means you get more
sun and then the leaf surface temperature rises. When plants heat up, not just the air temperature,
when the plants heat up, they have to sweat to keep cool and so you can get a plant temperature
that's higher than the air temperature or the same temp as the air temp which is a high air temp
and the plants are sweating to try to keep cool and so the greenhouse has become very humid and
so the default of the cooling system isn't working or not applicable and then the other default is to
get a dehumidifier and so those typically don't always work and some of the real big industrial
dehumidifiers that you can get are pretty expensive and need three-phase power and so that's why I try
to go back to saying look, you know, the person that's meeting with me or talking to me about
these things, we really got to look at what the plant needs, not what the environment needs because
we're out here like an outdoor grower, we're using a greenhouse that was invented for winter time
and we're trapping air. Greenhouses are ideally designed to trap air and have these clear covers
to have solar gain and heat up the plants and so I like to back up and go okay, we're cannabis
growers using these apparatuses in the summertime and so we don't want to trap air and we don't want
to have to use a bunch of electricity in order to mitigate everything and so the best policy like I
said about in the earlier segment is to avoid the solar gain and not trap air and so on hoop houses
we're leaving the ends off and maybe rolling up the sides quite a bit. On the gothic frames we're
having a ridge vent and rolling up the sidewalls and even in the megastructures we can have double
ridge vents and things like that to help avoid the solar gain and at that point we're also using
the proper greenhouse cover to spread the light uniformly, diffused covers and then we're also
not using those encouraging colors that we use and when people are here visiting me on site I use my
infrared thermometer and I have all these things set up on site and so if you've watched some of
my live feeds on Instagram and other things I'll actually go out in the greenhouse and I'll shoot
the leaf surface temperature of the plants, I'll open the door to the greenhouse and within 30
seconds you can see the leaf temperature drop dramatically and so we can really see firsthand
that air temp and plant temp are two different things. I'll shoot the black ground cover or black
you know swatches that I have in the greenhouse next to the white swatches and so the indoor
growers or a lot of the people that are trying to learn about the greenhouse craft that have the
parameters stuck in their mind and this is how cannabis grows really soften up a little bit and
start to understand that yeah there is outdoor growers and they do it outside in 100 degrees and
then there's this greenhouse thing over here and they're saying not to try to control the
environment but to support the environment. Supported is what I like to say by using the right
things that we've talked about in colors and so on to really support the plant so that we don't
have to control this environment. The environment becomes supporting enough that the plant can grow
to its fullest potential and not overheat and cause sweat and humidity and condensation that
everybody always sees with their other setups or their buddies or the greenhouses they got before
because if they haven't dealt with us they've dealt with another company that really doesn't
look out for cannabis first and foremost or they maybe know about cannabis and they're trying to
take shortcuts and not have people use ridge vents and cheap plastic that lets in too much sun
and at the end of the day they're just not getting it and so I really try to lay it out there so that
people really get what we're saying and laying down and it's amazing I just was on the phone
with a hydro shop owner that I've known for almost 10 years now and he has his own greenhouse and he
has really never heard what I'm saying as much as we've hung out as much content as I put out there
I was on the phone today and he we zeroed in on a couple things and he was just like
oh I get it I get what you're saying and it's one of those things that
I just keep trying to repeat myself in creative ways and I'm thankful to you Shango for having
me on this show to let me spread the same message. Right on, right on.
You know it reminds me hearing you talk about it it sounds a lot like when I talked to
Tad Hussey from Kiss Organics he's always talking about building living soil and his
point is like don't dump a whole bunch of NPK bottled salts into your soil thinking that
you're going to give your plant what you need. Build a microbe community in the soil so that
the soil can just be itself and will naturally give the plant what the plant wants. Similarly
you seem to be describing the same kind of environment where listen if your greenhouse
is an open system if you're letting the airflow naturally go if you're not retaining heat you
don't have to add you know an air conditioner and a dehumidifier and all this other stuff which is
like you know like dumping NPK into your soil. What you're suggesting is kind of like you know
probiotic soil but probiotic air you know. It's just like letting life be life in the greenhouse
by thinking about what the plant wants instead of trying to create a very thin specified
environment. It's a much more natural way to farm it's more affordable and you can produce
some of the most top shelf products that anybody's ever seen. A lot of people go well if you're
opening the sides or roof you're letting in bugs. Bugs don't want to go to this healthy system.
Bugs go to the plants that are yellowing with this nutrient lockout from too much transpiration.
A lot of people think in the fall it's the fade and it happens to be nutrient lockout.
I mean a lot of people have nutrient lockout you know even in light depth towards the end of the
cycle because the plants are using an extreme amount of water to support those flowers and at
the end of the day they've been trapping air and the plants really live they do okay in aabolic
stress plants you know cannabis plants especially are pretty tough but a lot of people go when I
pull my curtains or this happened or the fog rolled in or this cold night or this super hot
day all hell broke loose well that's because they were always making those plants right at the line
and when that one thing that fluctuation and farming happened they couldn't deal with it and
it was the nail in the coffin and so we just try to avoid riding that line so that when
farming fluctuations happen it doesn't become the nail in the coffin either.
Yeah yeah I hear that. Well hey Eric thank you so much for being on the show today I think that we
did a pretty solid job bringing people up to speed on how to think about modern light depth and and
how to get a little light depth in their life. I appreciate you having me on and if you wouldn't
mind I do want to plug something real quick. Yeah go right ahead. April 7th here in Grass Valley
California at our facility we are having an advanced soil workshop with Elaine Ingham here
and another guy from a company called Crescev Soil and what they're doing is Elaine's actually
here to learn she even even though she's the leader in the soil food web and living soil
thing that everybody's into nowadays this guy's one of their her advisors and he's been doing this
now for two years in cannabis specific only situations and he wanted to come host it here
because just like you saw Shango a lot of what I am saying about the greenhouses is kind of
symbiotic to what goes on with the soil and growing and some of this microbiology and so
we're gonna the three of us are coming together here to talk about greenhouses he's going to
present all the data and info and Elaine's here to kind of quantify and learn herself on all this
info that she hasn't been exposed to. Man that's gonna be a real great brain trust too because you
know I'm totally with you I believe that the future of cannabis is a probiotic living soil
techniques matched with light depth greenhouses and it just kind of pulls everything together in
a really healthy sustainable way that makes totally killer flower and yes that workshop
you've got all the experts in one place yeah and so April 7th the tickets are online at eventbrite
I have a link in my bio on Instagram forever flowering greenhouses one word and if you go to
the link in my bio you can get tickets the tickets are a little bit you know some people might think
they're a little pricey but this is two years of data that this dude is revealing and he's not just
giving it out it's kind of like a Frenchie cannoli workshop in the sense that we're having some food
we're all going to be hanging out we're going to be crunching some killer data with some killer
people and so I think it's worth every penny if you buy early you get a deal on the tickets and
if you wait the price goes up a little bit and we'd love to have you here shango too and I can
give you a little uh I can help you out on getting the press pass yeah there you go right on dude
well we'll have you back on the show here in a couple months to check in hear how that went and
find out what the latest is in modern light depth thanks a lot brother thank you eric brandstad is
co-founder of forever flowering greenhouses you can find out more at light depth.com that's light
dep.com and don't forget to check out the forever flowering greenhouses instagram feed it itself is
really great but especially when eric goes live and walks you around either his or somebody else's
greenhouses and just gives you great words of experience and best practices live they are
fantastic and I've learned some of my most important stuff from watching them you can find
more episodes of the shaping fire podcast and subscribe to the show at shapingfire.com and on
apple itunes stitcher and google play if you enjoyed the show we'd really appreciate it if
you'd leave a positive review of the podcast wherever you download your review will help
others find the show so they can enjoy it too on the shaping fire website you can also subscribe
to the weekly newsletter for insights into the latest cannabis news and product reviews
on the shaping fire website you will also find transcripts of today's podcast as well
for information on me and where i'll be speaking you can check out shango los.com does your company
want to reach our national audience of cannabis enthusiasts email hotspot at shapingfire.com to
find out how thanks for listening to shaping fire i've been your host shango los
