We all love our plants, and our cannabis plants play an important role in our lives.
When we as humans love something, give it importance, and strive to understand it, we
call that sacred.
If you want to learn about cannabis health, cultivation, and technique efficiently and
with good cheer, I encourage you to subscribe to our newsletter.
We'll send you new podcast episodes as they come out, delivered right to your inbox, along
with commentary on a couple of the most important news items from the week, and videos too.
Don't rely on social media to let you know when a new episode is published.
Sign up for the updates to make sure you don't miss an episode.
Also, we're giving away very cool prizes to folks who are signed up to receive the
newsletter.
There's nothing else you need to do to win except receive that newsletter, so go to shapingfire.com
to sign up for the newsletter and be entered into this month's and all future newsletter
prize drawings.
You are listening to Shaping Fire, and I'm your host, Shango Lose.
My guests today are Blair and Daniel Alclair.
Blair and Daniel Alclair are farmers of cannabis and food at Radical Herbs Farm in Kovalo,
California.
I'll point out that radical is spelled radical like the taproot, R-A-D-I-C-L-E.
Blair trained on biodynamic farms, first on Maui and then at Raphael Gardens in Sacramento,
located at what was then Rudolph Steiner College.
Daniel also started farming in Hawaii, before starting an apprenticeship at Live Power Community
Farm, a horse-powered biodynamic vegetable CSA located in Kovalo.
Their paths came together when they met at the farmer's market in Kovalo, and from
there they embarked on an agricultural endeavor together, getting married, and starting a
family.
In fact, Blair is expected to go into labor any day now, which explains why she sounds
a little out of breath in the interview.
They are now stewards for 60 acres, consisting of hay fields and about 2 acres under cultivation
of vegetables and cannabis production.
In 2018, they won the Regenerative Farm Award at the Emerald Cup with two other farms.
Radical Herbs is both Dragonfly Earth Medicine and Sun and Earth certified.
Blair and Daniel practice biodynamics on their farm Radical Herbs, and this year will be
featured in a documentary alongside Greensource Gardens and Briceland Forest Farm.
The film titled Tending the Garden is a journey through a year in the life of these three
family farms cultivating cannabis, food, and community in the pursuit of a regenerative
future.
Blair and Daniel practice a sort of farming that embraces both science and mysticism.
Today we are going to discuss biodynamics.
Special note that the internet isn't very robust out in Kovalo, and there are a few
minor audio drops in today's show.
Welcome to the show, Blair.
Welcome to the show, Daniel.
Hey, right on, Shango.
Thank you for having us.
Thanks so much for having us.
Happy to be here.
Right on.
So let's start by creating a bit of context for folk, because I bet there's a bunch of
folks like me who generally think that biodynamic growing is essentially organic growing plus
magic.
And that's a little vague, but it's also not that far off from what I'm gathering.
So please set the table for our discussion today by walking us through the philosophy
behind biodynamics and a bit about Rudolf Steiner, the father of the practice.
Sure.
That's a really great description of it.
And Steiner was known as the scientist of the invisible.
And so he had been working his whole life to establish a science that would be taken
as legitimately as the natural sciences, but one that studied spiritual phenomena as opposed
to or as it relates to the natural sciences.
He wanted there to be a science of the spirit to go alongside the science of matter, the
natural sciences.
And he devoted his life to that.
He was a part of the Theosophical Society back in the day with H.P. Blavatsky.
He wrote books, he lectured extensively, he established areas of research that changed
medicine, pedagogy, economics, architecture, the arts.
He had his hands in everything and was a very controversial figure actually in his time.
But before he left us, he was asked by farmers in Austria to give indications for a spiritual
renewal of agriculture.
And that's actually what the lectures were originally titled, the spiritual renewal of
agriculture.
Because these farmers, a lot of them, the lectures were given on a sugar beet estate.
They were noticing with the onset of chemical agriculture, they were seeing a decline in
soil health, a decline in seed germination.
And they really were concerned about this and wanted to know what they could do to combat
that.
So they gave a series of lectures to that end and that's where biodynamics has come
from.
And there was an experimental circle that was formed very soon after and that's what
we have been working with today.
There's a series of preparations that were given to use in the compost pile.
There's field sprays and just ideas of working with the rhythms of moon cycles.
And what could Blair say?
Yeah, I think that's a really good beginning introduction.
Those lectures were given in 1924.
And so this was kind of, some people see it as sort of the first kind of written organic
guidelines in a way, predating sort of what we know.
But we do know that too, you know, hundreds and centuries before that people have been
practicing agriculture and been doing regenerative practices.
And it was just sort of in this time that chemical agriculture started to make its way
in that there was really beginning to see a degradation in land.
One of the things that Steiner really looked at in looking at a farm was looking at it
as sort of this living organism that strives to be self-sustaining.
And so when you're looking at that, you're looking at, you know, one of the biggest things
is how do we reduce the off-farm inputs that we're bringing on into the farm?
And how do we create fertility on the farm?
And how do we create this organism that can function and be able to sustain itself without
having to bring a lot in?
And so, you know, we're looking at not only like growing cannabis, growing vegetables,
but how do we incorporate different parts into the farm as far as like bringing the
animal elements in?
You know, we have different types of livestock, but a way that you can bring the animal element
into the farm if you're just even in a backyard gardener is to plant some flowers, to grow
some perennials, grow some annuals.
And in that way, you're bringing in, you know, you're bringing in bees, you're bringing in
pollinators, those bring in birds, and all of a sudden you have this vibrant, thriving
animal aspect to the farm.
Also, part of bringing in biodiversity and creating a living organism is building fertility.
And there's different ways of doing that.
We build fertility by, you know, making compost, and we definitely still are lacking in our
closed-loop system and still bringing compost, bringing potting soil, but it's always sort
of like a, it's a constant goal that we're striving to get better at is closing those
loops.
And you don't always have to, it's not always about having that animal aspect of making
compost and for fertility, cover crops are like an amazing, excellent way to bring in
fertility to the farm, a great way to keep your soil covered in the wintertime and kind
of closing the loop in that respect.
And also, it just, it's a great way to also just bring in more plant diversity to your
farms.
You're not only just growing like in a cannabis bed, if you're, you know, has a tendency to
just, you know, people will grow cannabis and then in the wintertime, it'll just sit
there.
But if you're bringing a cover crop in and planting that on your cannabis beds, then
you're bringing in more diversity and soil, different soil roots and stuff to that farm.
Also as far as diversity, like wild places are really important too in creating this
farm organism in that even in the Denver De-Certification, you're required to have 10% of your farm at
least dedicated to wild areas.
And we know in those kinds of areas, you're bringing in a whole dynamic array of different
animals and organisms.
And I think the way that we try to treat our farm in even the places that we cultivate,
we're trying to mimic wild places as much as possible by having as much diversity of
crops, you know, making sure we have flowering plants and annuals, annuals with flowers and
perennials for flowers and ensuring that there's sort of this constant amount of vegetative
growth all the time to encourage a diversity of beneficial insects and pollinators and
birds and putting bird houses up and that sort of thing.
And then, let's see, as far as the biodynamic preparations, Daniel touched on a little bit
and we'll go into more detail later in the show, it's kind of one of the more well-known
parts of biodynamics is the biodynamic preparation, the horn manure.
And it does, one a little bit less known, its counterpart is horn silica.
And those two work together in sort of relation to the cycle of the year.
Whereas like horn manure is made from putting manure in a cow horn, buried in the winter
months and that's sprayed on the soil.
Whereas horn silica is also put in a horn but buried in the summertime and used as a
foliar spray as the plants are ripening and kind of trying to enforce, amplify the cosmic
forces that are influencing the plants.
And so, in a lot of biodynamics, you're kind of looking at that duality of aspects, not
only in the type of fertilization that we're doing as far as like the horn manure and the
horn silica, but looking at the rhythms of the year, how the plants and the earth are
affected by those rhythms.
And then also kind of like the cosmic aspects of the earth and the influences of the cosmos
on the earth and the plants.
And so the plants are really creatures that are much more influenced by the cosmos than
we are.
And so there's a whole planting calendar that people are familiar with that we'll kind of
go into a bit later in more detail.
But the plants are very influenced by, mainly by the moon.
Well, mainly by the sun first and then by the moon.
And then there's constellations and planets and all those things too.
Let's see. And then there's also there's the biodynamic compost preps.
And so the compost preps are sort of were indications that were given by Steiner in
his lectures. And they really look at kind of they're really seen as sort of like
homeopathic preparations that are used to bring a heightened vitality to the compost
pile. And those are created and made in order to bring different elements and to really
create a potentized compost that then can be used on on the land.
One of the things that I noticed right away is that this really does sound like like more
of a family farm environment, right, where where people are going to, I don't know, grow
humans alongside growing their crops.
Like when you're describing like, you know, 10 percent of a wild zone and lots of these
flowers and, you know, piles of sticks for birds to live in and hedgerows.
And like it sounds like a very biologically complex and abundant area, which which is
what I picture when I visit regenerative farms, you know, in northern California.
Whereas I don't picture this when I when I see some of the multi acreage farms that are
very, I don't know, more sterile, right.
They've got very long rows and you can see the high fences for protection and and you
can see the heavier tilling equipment.
And it's like like that seems like it would be the antithesis of what you are describing,
which is kind of like building an agricultural area or a or a home home place on the farm
where you can grow flowers and food and humans and animals and cannabis.
And it just seems a lot more like a traditional, abundant environment instead of more of a
mechanized, sterile growing environment.
Yeah, definitely.
And I would say, you know, like looking at growing cannabis, too, that, you know, and
plants in general, they're there absorbing their environment.
They can't go to other places to get things.
And so, you know, looking at like what's the type of cannabis you want to smoke?
What's the kind of food you want to eat?
Where that plant being is located and what it's absorbing has a lot of influence on that.
And so are you getting something that's absorbing salt fertilizers and that's what
you're smoking?
Or are you having something that's growing in living soil surrounded by other plants
and the communication of other plants under the soil and the mycelium?
And that's what the plant is absorbing and that's what you're ingesting and experiencing.
And so I think that that was like a really nice, a really beautiful picture that you
painted. And I think so much why we love living where we live and the communities that we
live in and the other farmers that we're surrounded by is really, you know, I think, you
know, not just the community that we're able to create on the farm with diversity, but
also, you know, so important to have a community in general with who we're relating
with and who we're, you know, in this whole process with, too.
Listening to you and Daniel describe the, you know, the embracing of nature and the
coaxing the most out of nature, inviting it to participate with you on your farm.
It actually sounds a lot like the messages that we're all sharing now in the regenerative
cannabis scene.
But it's interesting to note that this agriculture and life philosophy, you know, came
from the 1920s where they were about to run into agriculture, like industrial agriculture
and petroleum fertilizers and, you know, the mechanization of the farm.
And these folks were having an early reaction to being very unsure and unsettled about
that. Just like we are feeling, you know, we've got evidence now why they were right to
be unsure and unsettled because now we're at the far side of industrialized farming,
feeling like, OK, we've seen enough and we need to circle back to some of the important
aspects that we've lost.
Does that fit in for you with your picture?
Because I think that there's something more to it.
Like, obviously, there's the preps that we're going to talk about in set two or three.
But I really feel like, I mean, not to sound too woo-woo, but it actually sounds like
your farming and the ways that you go about it are kind of as much of ritual and prayer
as it is, you know, just trying to grow good crops.
Yeah. And I would say, you know, I think what modern agriculture has done is taken things
apart and separated and tried to create and compartmentalize things.
And that's not what nature does.
You know, nature works in rhythms and cycles and like, you know, taking the animal away
from the grass and then growing the feed over here.
And then all of a sudden you're having this complete imbalance where you're having to
put these chemical fertilizers on a field to grow something.
And then you have this overabundance of waste from the animals.
And it's just like completely out of balance where we're trying to bring as many things
together in one place to have them benefit each other and work together.
And then I think where biodynamics takes it another step is trying to create ways to
create pictures and imaginations for things that we can't necessarily see or that
regular science can't be able to quantitatively measure.
And in that respect, Steiner really was able to create some pictures and imaginations for
a whole level of spiritual, elemental things that happen on the farm and in nature that
we can maybe intuitively feel or try to imagine.
And so in that way, he kind of like took agriculture to a different level of, you know, how are
the planets influencing the plants?
How are the elemental beings working?
Like, what are the gnomes doing on the land and different things like that where we can
really not even, I feel like in a certain sense, begin to imagine the different
microscopic spiritual things that are happening in the plant world, in the natural world,
and just try to begin to imagine how all those things are happening.
Like Daniel was saying, only recently we've been able to talk at some point was saying
only recently being able to understand what mycelium is doing and how that's able to
create a communication with plants.
And I think that's one thing we try to do in our cannabis beds, too, and why we do so
much companion planting is I think really that there's this whole conversation happening
underground between the roots that is really important to have as much diversity as
possible.
And I don't personally know that.
And I think that scientists are just being able to somehow with their measurements, like
be able to have an idea that there is something going on.
But I think that like also back in the day in 1924, Steiner was able to understand that
there is this elaborate communication happening with plants that we can't really
grasp, but weren't able to grasp at that time.
There's an image that he shares of the farm being an image of a human standing on its
head, right, where the nerve sense and the thoughts of the plants are happening under
the ground and then above ground is the belly and the reproductive organs.
So there's like an inversion.
So to make sure that the nerve sense in the soil is active and alive is allowing for
more communication to be happening through the plants.
And it's a very fun image to work with as you're walking around the belly of the farm
and the soil being the diaphragm separating the two.
You were making me think of a thing where we want to science wants us to have way,
measure and count to be able to tell if something exists and it's real, whereas
anthroposophy and biodynamics wants to replace way, measure and count with levity,
rhythm and quality.
Oh, man, that's heavy duty, actually, because and actually to the I was like sitting
here struggling, right?
Because I'm like, OK, so is biodynamics more, you know, a strategy for farm upkeep or
is it a philosophy of living?
And I realize that it's kind of both those plus because so many of us, me included,
you know, we're feeling more disconnected from our communities and from nature and
from our families.
Everybody's so spread out.
And especially during these quarantine days, it's harder to see each other and
everything. And this entire way of thinking about agriculture continually comes back to
interconnectedness and, you know, kind of like a spiritual intent, like I'm going to do
my I'm going to do these things on the farm that I know that are good for the farm,
because in the end I need to produce food and cannabis so that I can feed my family.
But at the same time, I'm going to do it with a ritualistic intention that somehow makes
it more meaningful.
It's like it's like taking regular regenerative or natural farming and and turning it way
up with with ritual practices to give it spiritual meaning.
Do you think do you think that's a fair assessment?
I mean, I'm new to this, so I don't know what I'm talking about, but but you're
listening to you talk about it.
It makes me feel like it's it's all of our bases of natural farming turned up with
spiritual practices.
I think you hit the nail right on the head.
That's like a perfect summary.
And Steiner even has, you know, also like a lecture on festivals like he knew that like
this community sort of festival spirit celebration is also extremely important for us, I
think, for nature, for the world and being able to, you know, it's not it's not just
about making money on the farm.
It's so much more than that.
And how can we connect with with different parts of of of being and be more spiritual
creatures?
There's an element, a trend to want to say that nature will be fine if we just leave
it alone. We like humans need to remove themselves from the equation.
But anthroposophy is kind of a way of balancing that out to say, like, you cannot remove
the human element from from nature.
We are a part of it.
And he goes on to say that, like in the future, the seasons will happen less and less
unless until humans recognize their role in it.
Like we need to be a part and be co-creators with nature because nature needs us as much
as we need it.
And that puts us in a very delicate place of what is our motive?
Is it ego driven to dominate or are we wanting to be fair and equitable and and with each
other? And, you know, it's like there's a moral element that comes that comes out of
this, too.
It really illustrates how this variety of farming and I dare say the two of you, then,
as practitioners of this type of farming, you really have to you really have to lead
with your heart and with vulnerability.
Right. Because because I can imagine even though you get great results on your farm
and even though the preparations that we're going to talk about in the next two sets are
very real and they're about managing nutrients and such, I can imagine that a lot of
this really strikes people as woo woo.
And you have to be a little choosy about who you're going to be vulnerable with, about
like how you actually see your your farm, because you've you've really described, you
know, you use this term imaginations.
Right. And I'm sure that that's like a term of art from Rudolf Steiner.
But but the way that I take it myself is like you are you are intentionally using your
mind and your heart and storytelling and imagining and daydreaming and all of this
stuff to connect you with the animals and the foods and the and the natures of your
farm. And, you know, that that's not this.
It's not entirely popular right now.
Right. Where everyone's trying to sterilize everything and get everything down to that
that great quote that Daniel just said about like weights and measures and scales.
Right. Where where everybody is approaching.
Not everybody. I don't want to be unfair.
So much of farming is about bean counting now and it's spreadsheet farming where where
your kind of farming, you know, still gets the bountiful results.
But somehow it has more more human meaning and daydreaming in it.
And that's that's a pretty that's some radical stuff.
It feels VitaNymx feels so good because it is so unintellectual.
Right. Like there's a very like science is like dominating our culture right now with
this intellectuality.
VitaNymx is dirty.
It's unacademic, I feel.
And you're right. When we say the imaginations, Steiner had the three capital letter
I's imagination, intuition and inspiration are the three components to developing
oneself. I think Bob Marley was tuned into it.
Also, he had the I3s were his backup singers.
But it's yeah, it's very much.
I love I went got into the weeds there.
It is very much unintellectual.
And I think it just like creating a map like we talk about creating imaginations.
It's like Steiner did give like quite specific indications of types of meditations to
do. And actually at night, kind of as a sort of a meditate imagination and meditation to
go through your look at your day going backwards, like start just laying in bed.
You just start to think about like what you did that day and step by step go backwards
and then kind of bring it forwards and you take that into your into your dream world.
And to Steiner, to the dream world is also a very important place where we're able to
communicate with spiritual beings and the cosmos in a way that we can't necessarily do
during the day.
It sometimes seems like there is a turn off with by dynamics because there's a new
language that needs to be learned, like etheric bodies and astral bodies and living
warmth and dead warmth and all these kind of things.
But I would just push back against that and say that the language that we're using is
one that we had to learn at the beginning also.
And so when you take the time to to to get into why these words were chosen and whatnot,
like it it does bring a living quality to farming that for us, I guess, is continually
inspiring and allow puts us in a place of curiosity and always it it makes us take the
broadest view of what's happening as opposed to focusing on what's directly in front.
We have to see what's directly in front of us, but then use.
As much of our surroundings and open, open ones perspective or perspective to to gain
clarity as to what's happened, because everything is connected.
And so by dynamics for us is a really broadened, is a very broad way of seeing the world.
Right on. I really get that idea of the inspiring hearing you describe it.
You know, my my head goes to places with it.
The farm that as you describe it, it sounds like like a like a beautiful, beautiful place
that is that is rich with smells and animals and like a very highly expressive soil food
web. Right.
And it just it just it sounds beautiful.
It sounds like a beautiful like Hobbiton kind of place to go.
And it sounds like a great place.
And yet the other side of me is is all like, oh, it also sounds very inefficient.
And like that is your whole damn point.
Right. Is that those efficiencies is what kills human connection.
And you are intentionally reaching out to these imaginations and and intent when you're
making these preparations so that it builds connections.
Because like that's that's kind of at the core of the whole biodynamic thing, right, is
these connections.
Yeah, I mean, I mean, in many ways, I would say that we're all I wouldn't categorize as
us as inefficient, too.
I mean, as we talk about biodynamics and kind of, you know, talk about why we're into it
so much, we also like utilize a lot of different other agricultural practices, too, and
don't see biodynamics as like the only way.
Like, you know, as far as our vegetable farming, we're really into no till, biointensive
market gardening, which is really like an amazing practice and like all really focused on
efficiency and, you know, trying to grow vegetables with the least amount of disturbance
to the soil and and least amount of weeds and all this.
But we feel like that there then is, you know, and regenerative agriculture and and
different things. But I think that biodynamics just kind of to me, a lot of times
biodynamics is sort of just kind of also the icing on the cake.
And like we're able to do all these other things.
And then biodynamics, we're able to just take it that much further into another realm of
relating to and understanding nature and the natural systems around us.
I like that idea of infusing meaning into farming by adding these extra aspects like you
mean you are just farmers, right?
You've got your you've got your, you know, your these techniques and those techniques, but
you do it in a way that allows room for for spiritual connection as well.
And and you're right, like even even I, you know, some of the vocabulary I struggle with a
little bit because I'm like, I don't I don't know what these words mean.
And that doesn't mean that, you know, I should reject the ideas just because some of them
feel foreign to me.
You know, this is this is merely an introduction to biodynamics.
So just because I don't know the vocabulary, you know, it inspires me to learn more
instead of to, you know, reject it as as the other.
One more question before we go to break.
Well, we're we're when you're when when you consider your planning of your farm for the
season and we'll talk more about the calendar later, but that's not really what I'm
talking about. I'm talking like, like, do you have like like multiple layers of planning
for your farm where you're you're planning one layer, which is the the the germinating,
the planting and and and harvesting of the plants?
And then you have a second layer, which is the ritualistic spiritual practices that you
do in in in tandem with that.
How do you how do you plan a biodynamic farm when you're when you when you also want to
make sure that you have intention?
Because like like I forget to do important spiritual practices in my life just because
like I get busy or maybe I have too much caffeine and then and then I'm just like I'm
just doing my day.
It takes it takes effort to be reminded to do these these actual extra spiritual practices
that make us feel connected.
So so I guess my question to you, which I've kind of backed into is is how do you go
about reminding yourself to to incorporate the biodynamics more spiritual practices when
you're also trying to just do the day to day of a farm?
Yeah, that's a great question.
I think I think that's also why I feel like I kind of see biodynamics as the icing on
the cake of the farm, because, you know, we do have to you we have to continue running
the farm and managing the farm and making sure things are functioning.
I'd say also in a certain sense, those practices and kind of learning about it is done
in a biodynamic way in that it often it's it can be a bit things are kind of structured
in a seasonal way, like the preps are made at different different times of the season,
different times of the year.
But then also like the wintertime is a much more inward, slow time where we can kind of
like slow down and be able to do some reading and do kind of more of that inward, inward
work as opposed to just this, you know, being outside trying to get everything done.
And I also just wanted to touch on what you were saying about, you know, kind of the
accessibility of of the vocabulary and learning about biodynamics.
I wouldn't necessarily recommend somebody who knows nothing about Steiner and
Anthroposophy to like pick up the agriculture lectures because it can it's it's not an
easy thing to read.
And he did give the lectures to a group of people who already had kind of like understood
a lot of his other practices and things.
So there was a certain level of like.
Who he was delivering that to, but there is a really great book called Culture and
Horticulture that's by Wolf Stoll.
Is that her? Stoll?
Storl?
Wolf D. Storl.
It's called Culture and Agriculture, a Philosophy of Gardening and.
Culture and Horticulture.
Sorry, Culture and Horticulture.
And it really does an excellent job of like making the concepts really simple and
understandable to to understand and a really great introductory book to to biodynamics.
Fantastic.
Well, then I will look that up myself.
And and that is that is a good point that the, you know, some of these terms of art in
any advanced discipline is kind of like a secret language and not to let that be off
putting. So.
All right. So I think that I and you and everybody listening is very excited about
learning more about these spiritually enriched farming practices.
So.
So let's go ahead and go to our first commercial and we will be right back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire and my guests today are regenerative cannabis
farmers, Blair and Daniel O'Clair.
Once you've discovered the benefits of using cannabis, it's a very small step to start
making your own edibles, gummies, lotions, tinctures and concentrated oils at home.
Magical Butter has been helping cannabis consumers become self-sufficient for over a
decade. With the easy to use Magical Butter countertop botanical extractor, you can
create high quality cannabis products to your exact specifications at a fraction of the
cost of store bought edibles.
I talk a lot on this show about the importance of home growing so you don't have to rely
on others to feel healthy.
Well, the Magical Butter machine can empower your personal health by putting you in
control of how you use cannabis in your daily life.
I've been making my own butters and oils on the stove for years, and I much prefer the
ease of using the Magical Butter machine.
I just set it and walk away.
With the simple touch of a button, the Magical Butter machine grinds, heats, stirs,
and steeps your herbal extract all at the correct time interval and temperature for the
perfect infusion every time.
As a result, you achieve your desired infusion easily, safely and consistently.
Check out the Magical Butter Instagram to see the machine in action.
And don't feel like you have to go it alone.
There is a huge community on Facebook called Magical Butter Users United sharing recipes
and best practices so you can learn at your own pace from others who are already using
it and from others who are already doing it successfully.
Now is the time to get your own Magical Butter machine and save money while enjoying
cannabis. Use the discount code SHAPINGFIRE, one word, no caps, to get 10% off.
Visit MagicalButter.com today.
One of the challenges with buying autoflower seeds is that often you'll have as many
different phenos as you will have seeds in a pack.
That can be fun, sure, but so many varieties in one pack is a sign of an immature seed
line that hasn't been worked enough.
I prefer my autoflowers to be worked enough that each pheno in the pack really captures
the aspects that the breeder was intending.
This is why I recommend Gnome Automatics to my friends and listeners who grow automatic
flower and cannabis seeds.
Gnome Automatic seeds are not just crossed and released.
They are painstakingly sifted again and again, tested in a wide range of conditions, and
taken to a level of maturity that each plant will be recognizable by its traits.
Traits that were hard earned so that you can have your best growth cycle ever.
Gnome Automatics became a trusted and loved brand in cannabis over the last 10 years as
Mandalorian Genetics and recently changed their name to Gnome Automatics.
The only thing that has changed is the name.
Founder Dan Jimmy continues to pour his passion of breeding cannabis into every variety he
releases for you to grow.
Check out the Gnome Automatics Instagram at gnome underscore automatics to see the
impressive plants folks are growing.
You can score Gnome Automatic seeds in feminized or regular at your favorite seed
provider listed in the vendor section of their website.
Farms interested in bulk seeds of more than a thousand should reach out through the
website, too.
While on the website, be sure to check out the Gnome Automatics shirts and other merch
section. If you want reliable seeds, hand built from effort, expert selection and
experience, choose Gnome Automatics.
For decades, Americans have enjoyed cannabis flowers and joints and bongs and bowls.
And now, with the normalization of cannabis use increasing across the country, we have
the opportunity to enjoy smoking cannabis luxuries that simply were not attainable
before. North Coast hand rolls, blunts, cannons, rosin infused donuts and canegars
available in the state of Michigan.
North Coast focuses on flavor over everything else.
Instead of growing their own flower, North Coast goes out into the cultivation community
and creates relationships with the best growers, working with the best new cannabis
varieties available.
Surely, heavy THC is a factor, but North Coast focuses on aroma, complex terpene
profiles and taste that continues throughout the entire smoking experience.
The North Coast team curates flowers like others curate art.
They seek out the best talent, build relationships, helps them take their product to
the highest levels and then buys their well cured flowers in order to hand roll them
just for you.
I really like their hand blown glass tips.
And North Coast has branched out beyond canegars into rosin solventless THCA diamonds
and exceptional hash rosin carts for on the go cannabis connoisseurs too.
North Coast provides you with attainable luxury, offering you an ultra premium smoking
experience at a price that seems reasonable and repeatable.
To find out more about North Coast's line of cannabis products, visit their Instagram
at North Coast dot rolling.
That's North Coast dot rolling.
And when in Michigan, ask for North Coast at your favorite shop, North Coast.
Welcome back. You are listening to Shaping Fire.
I am your host, Shango Los, and my guests today are regenerative cannabis farmers Blair
and Daniel O'Claire.
So so let's segue into the biodynamics calendar, because for me, this is this was how I
first got turned on to biodynamics.
And I got to admit, I didn't have the most positive response to it right away.
I'm like, why am I, you know, germinating seeds with the moon cycle and stuff like, you
know, how I was brought up was much more mechanical farming.
And and, you know, now, of course, I understand the interplay between nature and and,
you know, friends have explained to me small parts of why we germinate, you know, at
certain times of the year, which I'm not going to try to explain because you're about to.
But but I'm excited to get to know more.
So, you know, normally when we think about, you know, farming with the calendar, we're
thinking about weather, right?
Just like is, you know, when's the last frost and and when does it get like the hottest
time of the year? And when do we have to be prepared for drought?
And and that's all true.
But in this idea that you presented during the first set of of kind of going beyond the
basics of farming to this embracing of nature being alive, there's this entire
biodynamics calendar that exists that is supposed to guide us for for most of the
attributes or most of the actions that we take during farming.
So so please dive right into that and give us an example of working through a calendar
year of the biodynamics calendar when it comes to cannabis.
Yeah, sure. So I think one of the you know, one of the biggest things I think you really
brought up just comparing like the biodynamic calendar to like farming with weather, like
we can you know, we can make those decisions of how we farm according to weather because
we have legs and we can walk outside or come inside.
But, you know, plants are very much like weather is weather all year round.
They are kind of like subject to to whatever is going on.
And and the same with as sort of and beings who are in the ground constantly having the
world and the Earth move around it and being affected by the by the planets and the
cosmic beings in in our solar system.
And so the biodynamic calendar, it originally wasn't something that Steiner did.
It was actually created by a woman, Maria Thun.
And so it wasn't indications given by Steiner, but she was definitely she was a German
biodynamic farmer and she did many experiments and trying to see sort of like the
qualities of of what the elements of the Earth and how that affects and the and the
constellations and the moon and the planets and how that affects plants.
So one of the things that it does, the way that it's sort of organized in many ways, is
by the constellations, by the zodiac and not in the way that we kind of look at it in
traditional sort of astrology where the constellations are divided evenly into like 30
degrees. The the constellations in the biodynamic calendar are divided by kind of their
width and distance that they have in the in the year.
And so they take up different amounts of time.
So it's not like like Aries takes up.
You know, a different amount of space than than Taurus and Gemini, and so the basis of how
those things are are indicated is more by the lunar cycle as the moon is passing through
these constellations within a month.
It passes through these constellations for different amounts of time.
And then each of those constellations are related to an an element, fire, earth, air,
water. And each of those elements are then related to different aspects of of the plant
and sort of which part of the plant you are looking to cultivate or looking to grow.
So like the fire element is related to fruit.
So if you're trying to grow a tomato, you would be looking at the calendar and seeing
how or where the moon is in an element of of a fire planet or a fire constellation, which
would be Aries, Leo and Sagittarius.
And so the same would be so if you're trying to cultivate a root plant, that would be the
earth element and that would be something like a radish or a potato or something that
you're trying to cultivate for root.
And so you would be looking at like where the moon is in those constellations.
And, you know, there's not like something you have to go in and figure out and discover.
There's calendars that are made that you can purchase.
Our favorite one is the Stellanatura calendar, but you can also get there is a Maria
Thun calendar as well.
And then the same.
So for cannabis, we would be looking more at the air elements.
And so that would be because that's related to flower.
And then if you're, say, growing lettuce or something or kale or leafy greens, that would
be related to the to the water element.
And so if you're looking at the calendar, it would tell you at different times of like
the moon, it's usually around like three to three to four days, depending on the length
and the size of the constellation as the moon is passing through it would be like, OK, you
know, on these days, the moon is passing through.
Let's say so. So for cannabis, the moon is passing through an air sign like Gemini.
For a couple of days, you may want to like that would be the time that hopefully it would
also relate to that would be the time that you would start, you know, that you would want to
do something with the cannabis.
That being said, that would be, I feel like, on the more like strict side of things that
you're constantly trying to do things when a certain.
When the moon is in a certain constellation reflecting that that energy for us as we as
we have practiced things, we have found that it's more in we look at more of the larger
cycles as far as like the moon, full moon and new moon and waxing and waning as far as
how we relate to to planting and growing.
And we find that it has it can have a tendency that was just like trying to run a farm and
trying to do the daily work of like managing things and doing stuff that like we don't
recommend really like trying to live your life by these planting calendars.
I think it more than anything, it also just like we've talked about creating imaginations
and visualizations of things and kind of like looking at, you know, the constellations
and the moons and the planets like they do have an effect on the plants.
And it kind of gives a picture and a guidance to like that that can have an effect.
But you're not going to like damage something or, you know, or do something like really
really poorly if you're not going to be like following the calendar strictly.
And so I think it's important always to have that context that I think that it can feel
a little bit like sometimes I feel like like you're following a textbook in a way.
Like you said, like it's kind of can be a turn off because it's like, oh, I got to do
this then or that then.
And it's kind of like a bit a bit restrictive.
And in my experience and and Daniel will talk about it, too.
I feel like it really helps to just create pictures for this like whole other level of
connection that the that the plants have to its environment and to the cosmos that we
can maybe only begin to imagine or understand.
And so I think for me, that's kind of like the the planting calendar.
And I, Daniel, I've both, you know, apprenticed on a few different biodynamic farms.
And as far as like our teachers, at least for me, my teachers, one teacher like to say
that there's the tunes and the untunes, like the people who are into Maria tunes and her
and her planting calendar and the ones who don't really abide by it.
And so I think as far as like that is usually the first thing that people are introduced
to in biodynamics.
And it's actually not even part of the Demeter certification to plant by the calendar.
So, yeah, that's kind of my summary of it.
Daniel, you have anything to add?
That was really awesome.
Like you were saying, the new moon and full moon cycle is kind of more what we kind of
go by. I will say, though, if there is a day where everything is just kind of like, oh,
my God, I need some direction.
Like, what should we do?
It is helpful to say, all right, where's the moon right now?
And like, oh, it's a root crop.
Let's go weed the carrots.
Let's go cultivate.
Like, and it does provide some kind of framework to work with.
But it seems like the for us, the, you know, sowing seeds as close to the new moon is
possible, especially coming into the new moon.
Definitely not like after the first quarter, like after when it's waxing.
But around that time is great for seed germination because it gives the seeds time to
get their radical out, get established in the soil.
And then by the time the moon is up and bright, the first cotyledons are able to absorb
that light. And that seems to work really well.
And then we also use the full moon as a time to, if weather permitting, to spray the
horn manure preparation, because at that point, the full moon, as we know, it affects
all the water, watery element of the earth.
And so it's a really good time to get that spray happening onto the soil so that it can
be utilized at that at that time.
And same with transplanting.
When the moon is dark, it's better for the seeds to get put, the transplants to get put
into the ground so they can establish their roots and not be too overstimulated at night.
So at first, you know, when you were describing it, I was thinking, oh, this is this is
really much more about of the ritual of the farm and to creating a context to give farming
more meaning. But then you just flip the script on me again and you're like, oh, well,
actually, you know, when you germinate is related to, you know, the additional
brightness of the moon and the I don't know, the swelling of the water being pulled up,
you know, and then with transplanting, you want it darker.
So it sounds to me like there's actually a combination of both.
There is this there is this kind of like belief framework that is connected to the
constellations, which for some farmers, it will give the entire dance of the season more
meaning. But also there are very real reasons behind much of it where the the
planetary bodies, which we know have effects on Earth, are actually going to be
influencing our crops.
Yeah, definitely.
And I think, you know, the.
Biggest influence, the biggest planetary body that is that the plants are influenced by
is the sun, right, that's like the larger kind of like everybody knows the sun is
influencing the plants and their growth cycle.
And then I would say the secondary one is the moon.
And that one often I feel like if you are sort of like really paying attention and
really in tune, you can you can you can definitely see what like a full moon and
spring and you're like, oh, those weeds were like an inch big and holy moly, they're
how are they five inches now and we got to get them out of here or something like that.
And so those I think those we can also we can definitely also visually see really when
you're really paying attention and then also just incorporating into like those
examples that Daniel was giving.
And then as far as like as far as like harvest goes to with cannabis, I think it's a
bit more challenging often, especially for an outdoor operation, because you're kind of
a bit more subject, I feel like at least where we are to weather and sort of timing,
just trying to to get things in because it takes such a long time to harvest and kind of
getting everything in on time and making sure there's not a frost or rain.
We're kind of a bit more like can't necessarily really follow the calendar in that
respect. But then, you know, the the sort of the the planetary kind of like
constellation influences are those much more imaginative and you could say kind of
clairvoyant aspects that Steiner was really, you know, he didn't develop this, but just
in general, that kind of philosophy of those ideas that we can't really yet see, but but
a picture to help understand and grasp them a little bit more.
For folks who are not familiar with the clairvoyant aspect, would you just explain that
a little bit? What is what is this experience of clairvoyance and how does it relate to
biodynamics?
Clairvoyant, I guess, is a seer, right?
Someone who can read the script, so to speak.
I don't we weren't saying we're clairvoyant, but Steiner certainly was.
And I guess he would maybe describe that as like reading the Akashic record, kind of
like the big the big movie reel in the sky, so to speak.
But he was able to.
That's where all these indications came from, the the speaking of elements as carriers of
spirit or that there's this interaction from the cosmos to the earthly realm that
that permeates all of biodynamics.
So am I more like what are we saying about clairvoyance?
Is that a good description?
Yeah, that works. That works just fine.
I like this idea that you said of the, you know, reading the big movie script in the
sky, right? It's the idea of of being aware that there is a storyline to life.
And a storyline to the seasons and being aware of that instead of just bean counting
and running the farm as a business.
So, yeah, I think that sounds like a great description.
So let's move on to the individual compost preparations.
And I know that a lot of the the natural farming people who are here for the
preparations, less so much the the philosophy, are probably glad that we're moving on to
this. And, you know, a lot of people claim to have fantastic results with both these
individual compost preparations and the spray preparations that we're going to be
talking about in the third set.
So so my my general understanding of how these work is that
biodynamics believes that you should be treating your compost piles with particular
preparations of a very specific group of of herbs.
And and they do they do they do a certain job on nutrients in the pile.
So so I'm not going to try to explain it myself since this is not my specialty.
But but why don't you take us down the path of these individual compost preparations, how
to make them and and and what their roles are on the biodynamic farm?
Yeah, so I'll start with the caveat first instead of going into details and ending with a
caveat at the end. But I would just wanted to say that, you know, we've been both been
practicing biodynamics for quite a while.
And this past year was the first year that we actually made all the preps on our farm.
And we've always done it in in community in community groups.
And it's not it's not an easy thing to do.
And it's not like it's not something that's like easily achievable.
And, you know, a big reason that we are at least for me like that, I kind of also fell in
love with this area of Northern California and stuff was because of the BDEC, the
Biodynamic Association of Northern California and the quarterly meetings that would
happen winter, spring, summer, fall, where we would make the biodynamic preparations
together. And then those would be kind of taken care of by one of the practitioners, one
of my my teacher, Harald Hoven.
And then you could buy the biodynamic preparations from the organization.
And there's other places to buy them.
There's a really strong biodynamic group in Oregon.
And I believe there's a strong one in Colorado and there's also a few on the East
Coast. And so like in us describing these, like I just don't want to feel like people
have to feel like, oh, that's too crazy.
That's too hard. I can't do that.
I think they're really made supposed to be done in community and and also that, you
know, they can be purchased from the Pfeiffer Center and different organizations, too,
that you don't have to make them on your own.
So that's just my first little thing I wanted to say.
And then Daniel can go ahead and explain the preps.
All right. That was really good.
Yeah. JPI, Josephine Porter Institute is another one.
Yeah.
So the preps are discussed in the third lecture and in that he starts off by wanting to
talk about nitrogen and nitrogen's role in farming.
And he brings up the what he calls the four siblings of nitrogen, which is carbon,
oxygen, hydrogen and sulfur, which is what makes up proteins.
And so like we had said early on, wanting to work with living chemistry, like being
able to bring living elements into the farm as opposed to working with synthetically
derived elements.
He brings up different plants that have certain relationships to certain elements.
And so starting from a place of recognizing an active interplay of spirit and form, spirit
manifesting in the earthly realm on a carbon framework.
There's the elements attach themselves to this carbon framework in different ways.
And so start wanting to make compost, which is a great thing that can be done on farm,
which alleviates a lot of issues with with plant diseases and whatnot by providing the
soil in the in the biome within the soil food, the compost being food for the microbiome.
We want to make certain elements available to the plants as best we can.
And there are people who are creating more preparations still out of their own
observations. But the ones that he starts off with is the the preps are the plants that
are used in the preparations are yarrow, chamomile, nettle, oak bark, valerian and
dandelion. And like Blair said, this being the first this past year, the first year that
we were able to make the element, the preparations on our farm.
That's not to say that we weren't growing all the plants on our farm.
And I think that that has been a really good teacher for us and a way of getting a real
good, authentic connection to these plants.
Like we have yarrow growing everywhere.
There's dandelion popping up all over.
Chamomile, we continue to make more beds of chamomile, even though they volunteer every
every year. So growing the plants and living amongst them and using them for teas and
whatnot to just gain an accustomed to them is a great way to start.
But what he's saying here is that by harvesting these plants and putting them in a
vessel and putting them in the earth to to absorb forces and to potentize them, then
become medicines that we can put into our compost pile to enliven the compost.
And so we can start with yarrow.
And these were given numbers when they came to the New World.
The story that I am familiar with is that it was said that the Americas would not take
these things seriously if they didn't have a number attached to them.
So forgive me if I don't know the numbers off the top of my head.
But to speak about yarrow, he says that the, you know, the nature spirits reach the
highest, the height of perfection in their use of sulfur with with yarrow.
And so there's the carbon framework that the plants are composed of.
And then you have these elements that attach to them in different degrees.
So the yarrow being put into the bladder of a deer, you enhance its inherent ability to
combine sulfur with other substances and sulfur being a really important part of plant
health. Chamomile is also has homeopathic amounts of sulfur, but it works on calcium
in addition to potash.
So that that is also a way of keeping plants healthy.
Chamomile goes into intestines.
So the way the vessels were chosen is very interesting.
Antlers are different than horns.
When we talk about the horns of a cow, which I'm getting off topic a little bit, but the
horn manure preparation, we see the manure going into a horn because the horns are a
way of reflecting energy back into the animal, whereas antlers on a deer have more of an
outstreaming force.
And there's a relationship to nitrogen there in its surrounding areas that has a
relationship to the bladder.
The nitrogen being a very present component of urine, he even says that a bladder is a
perfect description or image of the cosmos.
But yarrow being put into a bladder gets hung in a sunny spot all summer before getting
buried into the the earth over the winter.
Chamomile has a relationship to intestines, and we know this from just how chamomile tea
is great for digestion.
Nettle is one that does not have a vessel, although some people are experimenting with
putting it in the sheath of the heart, the pericardium.
So nettle being the greatest benefactor of plant growth, it too contains sulfur, assimilates
and incorporates the spirit.
But currents of potash and calcium are also present in nettle.
Iron is the one that we're after with the nettle preparation.
This one gets buried a whole year, and it is infusing intelligence for the soil.
Now, in order to... for wanting health on the farm, we need to have a very broad view
of interrelationships.
And calcium is a great medium for making those relationships.
You can almost never have too much calcium in your soils.
The oak bark is one that is put into the skull of a domestic animal.
And again, this is very important that we are choosing... in a situation like this,
we wouldn't want to use lime.
We want to use calcium from a living source.
Oak bark being a material very high in calcium.
Moving on to the dandelion preparation.
This is... like the language that he uses is really beautiful.
I would encourage people to try to read the lectures.
Dandelion is said to be a messenger from heaven that mediates the homeopathic distribution
of silica and the cosmos.
The dandelion goes into the mesentery, which is what the intestines are encased in, in
the animal.
And I don't really claim to understand all of this stuff.
Let me just say here that working with the preparations is a great practice of keeping
your mind in a question, like having more questions than answers.
I've said this before, but when you think you know all the answers to something, it's
a very dangerous place to be in, because there's a lot of different elements involved.
So when we work with these things, I'm constantly wondering what we're doing.
But that's a really great place to be, as you can receive insights that you wouldn't
expect.
Silica is a very important element in our practice.
And dandelion has a great relation to silicic acid, and is said to be able to attract silicic
acid from the atmosphere and make available to the plants.
Lastly, valerian is one that does not get a vessel, does not get buried, but is pressed
valerian flowers, which has a great way of stimulating phosphorus.
And so once these preparations are made, and they've gone through the proper burial and
process, they get added to the compost pile.
And the more we work with compost, and the layering of plant materials from our farm,
manures, straw, bedding, leaves, gathering, seaweeds, putting all these things together,
you're creating a raised, you're creating a living being, so to speak.
And you're forming chaos.
Within that compost pile, it's going to heat up, things break down, it becomes microbiologically
alive.
Adding these preparations is said to help to almost act as antenna to help bring form
to the chaos.
Chaos is a word for potential, it's not a bad word.
When things are in a state of chaos, they are open to influence, especially cosmic influence,
and adding these preparations is a way of helping to guide the compost pile to a healthy
decomposition, and bringing the different elements that we need for healthy plant growth and
soil biology to interact with each other.
So, each of these preparations sound like they take quite a long time.
Even the unvesseled ones sound like it can be time consuming.
Is the idea generally that you would make these compost preparations this year to apply
to next year's compost piles?
Or does it not really take as much time as it sounds, and you can actually use them same
year?
No, that is correct.
The work that you do one year is for the benefit of next year.
Some of them take longer than others, some take a full year, whereas others are just
buried over the winter.
So it is said that the earth is the most alive in the wintertime.
That can seem backwards, but it's an in-breath that's happening.
The crystalline forces are happening inside the earth at that time.
It is said that in the summertime, the earth is dreaming in plants.
The sun is actually putting the earth to sleep, and it is dreaming in plant life.
It has to.
The seeds have to germinate.
In the wintertime, the earth is within itself.
It gets a little complex with northern hemisphere, southern hemisphere.
That is discussed in some other lectures from the agriculture course.
It should be said, too, that the amounts that are used in the compost pile is very minute.
It almost can sometimes seem like you're not even...how can this little bit of preparation
make a difference in this compost pile?
So it is possible if you make...you can make more than one year's worth in the fall.
Does that make sense?
For sure.
So you're going to make them for this year, but you're going to make enough not only for
yourself for the next few years, but also to share because I get that whole community
vibe.
Trying to do all, let's see, one, two, three, four, five, six of those all by yourself on
your same farm.
That sounds very time consuming, but if you've got a bunch of farms that are doing this,
everybody can make them one season and then share them at the Grange Hall or wherever.
Then everybody's got enough to last them a few years.
That makes sense both on a nutrition stabilization level for the compost pile, but also for the
spiritual, everything that's alive in our community, connecting of humans and families
also.
For sure.
It also happens very close to harvest time.
So it can be very inconvenient to have to make the preparations.
And you need a cow.
So not very many people have a cow to butcher.
An expendable cow.
Yeah.
I can imagine the biodynamic supply store gets pretty weird sometimes.
So let's go ahead and take our second commercial and we'll be right back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire and my guest today are regenerative cannabis farmers, Blair
and Daniel Alclair.
We'll be right back.
For years, organic cultivators have been looking for a peat moss replacement.
Peat moss has long been the go-to soil amendment for water retention and container growing,
but organic growers are recognizing now that peat moss is an unsustainable resource and
the mining of peat bogs destroys wetland habitats and releases sequestered carbon.
But peat moss works so well that many have continued to use it.
Now there is finally a revolutionary replacement for peat moss that provides better benefits
while being a sustainable choice.
Pit moss sounds and acts like peat moss, but instead of being mined from fragile ecosystems,
is actually made from upcycled organic paper and cardboard headed for landfills.
Pit moss is excellent at retaining water in your substrate and creating air pockets and
tiny living environments for microbes.
Pit moss instantly increases aeration, nutrient absorption, and water conservation too.
Carefully and locally sourced, pit moss is the result of decades-long research into the
use of recycled paper fibers.
Pit moss is lightweight and easy to use, and pit moss is inert so it won't change
your pH.
Available in a range of preparations including a nutrient-enhanced blend and an organic soil
conditioner with no added nutrients, pit moss is also available as an animal bedding for
horses, chickens, and small animals.
You can save 15% with the discount code SHAPINGFIRE, one word, no caps, when shopping on pitmoss.com.
So go to pitmoss.com now to learn more.
That's P-I-T-T-M-O-S-S dot com.
Growing healthier, stronger, more sustainable plants.
Pit moss.
As cannabis regulations become more demanding and consumers become more educated, it is
increasingly important to avoid the use of chemical pesticides when cultivating cannabis.
Beneficial insects have been used for decades by the greenhouse vegetable and ornamental
plant industry, and today many cannabis cultivators are moving from sprays and chemicals to beneficial
insects.
Copert has the beneficial insects, mites and nematodes, microbials, sticky cards, and
air distribution units you need to partner with nature to defend your garden.
Whether you manage acres of canopy or have a simple grow tent in your home, Copert is
ready to help answer your questions and help you transition away from chemical sprays towards
clean and natural solutions.
Since 1967, Copert has assisted growers in identifying pests and devising reliable solutions
while providing healthy insects and mites that will protect your yield.
Since the 1990s, Copert has been a leader in cannabis pest and disease control worldwide
and have highly trained consultants to assist you in Canada and the United States from coast
to coast.
With their global network of grower support, Copert can help.
Visit copert.com, choose your country and get detailed information.
That's copert, K-O-P-P-E-R-T dot com.
For the most up-to-date cannabis-related biological control information, you can also check their
Instagram at copertcanada.
You know getting away from pesticides is good for health and good for business, and Copert
is ready to help.
Visit copert.com today.
One of the reasons why no-till cannabis growing is so valued by farmers is because the mycelium
networks in the soil remain established from year to year.
And we know these fungal networks are essential because they are the nutrient superhighways
that extend far and wide in the substrate to feed your plants.
The trouble with growing in new living soils or blended cocoa substrates is that it takes
most of the plant's life just to create these mycelium highways.
Dinomyco Endomycorrhizal Fungi Inoculant reduces that time and gets your plant eating
a wider array of nutrients faster.
And it's three times the concentration of the other popular brand in the US at 900 propagules
per gram of two fungal species selected specifically for cannabis cultivation.
Dinomyco is the result of 30 years of research and trials at the Volcani Agricultural Research
Institute in Israel.
It has also been vigorously trialed by cannabis and food growers across the US.
Dinomyco is now available at grow shops and on Amazon in the United States.
I love using Dinomyco to both speed up the growth of the mycelium networks in the soil,
but also as a biostimulant to make clone cuttings more virile.
You can see side-by-sides showing the comparative growth on their Instagram at Dinomyco.
If you demand reliable growing results and appreciate the importance of an active root
zone in creating a thriving plant, I encourage you to check out Dinomyco.com and use the
store locator to find out where you can get yours.
That's D-Y-N-O-M-Y-C-O dot com.
Shaping Fire listeners can get 10% off any size of Dinomyco on Amazon or Dinomyco.com
by using the discount code Shaping Fire, one word, no caps.
Whether you are starting with new beds or pots, or if you want to add some zing to tired
soil, choose Dinomyco to maximize your plant's potential.
Dinomyco, endomycorrhizal, inoculant.
Welcome back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire.
I am your host, Shango Lowe.
So my guests today are regenerative cannabis farmers, Blair and Daniel O'Clair.
All right, it's the big finish here with set three.
We're getting to the part that is probably almost as popular as the biodynamics calendar
when people talk about biodynamics, and that is the spray preparations.
And we're going to start specifically the one that people talk about the most, which
is the horn manure and the horn silica spray preparations.
This was the number one thing that I heard people talking about at Emerald Cup 2, I guess
it's probably been three years ago now.
In the regenerative area, the horn manure preparation demonstration is like, I probably
heard about that for like an entire year afterwards.
People talking about how interesting and engaged and how like, they're like, oh my God, there's
so many more aspects to learn.
And so I'm excited about learning this myself because I actually missed that presentation.
So let's start with that.
If you would, please explain the horn preparations and how to do them.
Sure thing.
Well, that's very interesting to hear.
I think that would have been us that was there given that presentation.
And the horn manure preparation is really one of the most fun aspects of biodynamics
for me, I feel like, and it's a really great way of engaging with your land.
In this thought, in the way biodynamics is presented, in the way we start to visualize
the farm, we have to understand that the plants that we see on the earth are said
to originate in the farthest reaches of the cosmos.
Plants only exist because of the earthly realm, and they are a mirror, so to speak.
The archetype of the plant is radiating out from the distant cosmos and manifesting on
the earth, being reflected back.
And so if you think of the... that gives us a periphery and center image.
And we want the plants to be able to fully express themselves and engage with the earth
and be earthbound as best they can.
So a way of doing that, of enlivening the soil to allow for that connection to take
place, there is a field spray that is done throughout the spring and in the wet part
of the year where there can be a... the water allowing for the soil to receive the spray.
But you're taking the manure from a cow and putting it into the horn of a cow.
And that image, if your imagination will allow you, paints a picture of opposite ends coming
together.
You have form on the one side with the horn, and you have formlessness, the manure from
the other end, being brought together.
Then that is put into the earth over the winter time to absorb the forces streaming down into
the earth from the cosmos throughout the winter and all the activity that's happening under
the ground.
So that way of taking two opposing ends and bringing them together is a reflection of
the opposing periphery and center of the archetype of the plant and the earth at the center.
So this preparation then being unearthed from the ground is... you'll see it teeming with
mycorrhizal and it comes out, if done long enough or buried at the right depth, it comes
out smelling delicious and is a very earthy smell, crumbly.
You can tell that it's potentized, that it's gone through a change.
This also being used in a homeopathic dose is then put into water.
It's like a tablespoon for like five gallons or so.
It's not very much.
We tend to put a little bit more in ours because we feel like the land needed it, needs it.
But this then goes through a stirring process.
This is something that will become individual for each person, but it feels like an hour
is a good amount of time.
You add this preparation into preferably rainwater and it is stirred in one direction to form
an organized vortex for a minute.
Then that is thrust back on itself and stirred in the opposite direction also for a minute.
This process is repeated, like I said, for about an hour.
In this process you will find a change in the water, one of more organization.
At first it splashes a lot.
You're going to get splashed in the face and it's not as organized.
As you begin to do it, the water seems to take on a more organized component.
It's sometimes referred to as the fifth phase of water.
This is then sprayed over the fields, over your cultivated areas and even beyond in very
minute doses.
I like to refer to it as micro-dosing.
This is done in the early mornings.
You want to be out there in the evening so that it is given time to evaporate.
You want to get it onto the land and then have time to be absorbed.
This is something that should be done on repeated intervals.
That process is somewhat up to you, but stick with it.
You want to do it after a rain, like I said before, when it's wet.
You want to utilize the full moon because the full moon, like we said before, has an
obvious effect on all the watery elements of the earth.
It can also help to propel what you are doing further.
You're spraying minute doses on the land, but then that full moon activating the water
is being able to penetrate more deeply.
With repeat sprays, the benefits are...
What Steiner says is, and it seems to suggest that he was aware of what mycelium was doing
before.
Mycelium was as studied as it was, but he says this will help bring in elements from
beyond the cultivated space.
It brings in elements...
Being that everything is connected under the ground, you're bringing in elements from your
woods, from your fields, from where the animals are grazing.
The horn manure preparation is helping bring the periphery down to the earth and allowing
the plants to receive that radiation that's coming to them from the archetype in the cosmos.
The cosmos not just being a place of stars and comets, but the home of spiritual beings.
That is a gravitational pull that you are providing the plant with the horn manure.
The horn silica is the counterpart to the gravitational pull, and it would be the levitational
pull.
This is finely ground quartz crystal that is made in the spring and is buried throughout
the summer... and winter?
Dug up in the fall.
This spray is then what you use to help the plant achieve its ripening, to allow it to
go through its fruit forming process, its flower forming process.
It's helping to allow what you are growing ripen in time and achieve the health that
it is capable of getting.
You are as well spraying using minute doses of finely ground quartz crystal in water,
going through the same stirring process as you did for the horn manure, and then spraying
this onto your plants in the early morning before sunrise, or just at sunrise, in that
dawn time.
It is helpful to use a backpack sprayer.
For this one, when you apply the horn manure, we use a combination of different things like
little hand-held brooms or cedar branches tied together, and you are kind of just flinging
the water all over the place.
I don't really like putting that mixture through a sprayer, just because of the pressure that
the water goes through, through the handle and through the whole process.
That doesn't feel as natural as just flinging it from a bucket with some cedar branches.
But the quartz spray, the horn silica, is much more conducive to being sprayed through
a backpack sprayer.
You're trying to cover, you want to kind of fill in the aura of the plant.
You're spraying above it, and you can see it just kind of misting and then falling and
mixing with the dew that's on the plants.
As the sun's coming, it's a really beautiful, fun process to go through.
The horn manure, you're spraying at the time in the spring to help get the roots established.
The quartz, the horn silica, you're spraying in the early summer.
Whenever, whatever you're growing, once you start to see the ripening fruits of what you're
doing, you want to start spraying the quartz, the horn silica then.
We often start our spray for the cannabis at the end of July, beginning of August.
That's what we have found is when anthesis begins on the plants.
And so from that point on, we're spraying every other week or three to four times throughout
the ripening season.
What have I missed?
I was just going to mention a little bit like why the cow horn.
I think in general in biodynamics, cow horns are really important.
In certification, you're not allowed to have cows without horns.
Unfortunately, it's a common practice to remove horns from cows.
The cow's horns are extremely important for the cows.
Their sinuses actually go up into the horns.
In there is part of the cow just in general is this very sort of meditative, very focused
on digestive animal.
When you see it, it ruminates.
That's where that whole word comes from.
It eats its food, but then after it does that, it'll then sit down and start ruminating.
The cow has four chamber stomach.
And that food that it eats gets moved around into these four chambers, actually comes back
into the mouth after it's been eaten.
They continue to chew it and then goes back down.
And all this process that happens within the stomach and the flavors and the tastes and
the digestion get circulated within the horns too.
It's kind of said that the horns have a bit of...
The cow is kind of like the guru, the meditative guru of the animal world.
It has sort of this connection, the horns to the cosmos.
The horns and the hooves kind of contain, are kind of the two ends of the animal that
kind of contains this digestive process and has much more of that solid sort of formative
process.
And, you know, like pyramids and cones and that sort of thing kind of have this very
kind of formative condensing shape as far as what they look like.
And so putting manure into this vessel really creates that sort of kind of what we're talking
about when you're stirring, kind of going from this chaos, this like very loose substance
manure and putting it into this highly, highly formed, very complex thing that is the cow horn.
And then you're also on top of a layer that goes on top of that is as you're stirring,
you are able to imbue your own forces into the mixture.
Like it's very important to be aware of your thoughts as you're doing that.
And it's amazing to see how your thoughts can travel within that hour.
But having an intention that you bring into what you're doing is, we feel, is definitely felt.
And I think that like two of these preparations can be purchased from different biodynamic
groups or the Josephine Porter Institute.
And I think that that's almost, in a way, more important than, making them is super
important, but it's not something you have to do.
But I'm so glad Daniel brought that up because it really is this meditative process that
happens within the stirring.
I think just in general, in biodynamics, your intention and your footprints and your presence
on the land is so important.
And I think that that spraying these preparations gives you a moment to pause and to focus more
on our sort of like mental, intentional ways that we are working with the land.
And part of me, as we're talking about this, I'm trying to think about what people might
be thinking about this.
And I will bring up and just be honest that it was difficult to, and still somewhat is,
it's something that I think about a lot, like how is it that we are taking this crystal
from the earth and smashing it up, smashing it to pieces and then spraying it on our fields.
Like there's an extractive element to that.
Steiner says that by doing this, we are freeing up elemental beings.
That the crystals are home of elemental beings.
They're an impression that the earth has felt over time that we are then able to release.
And this takes us down a really long rabbit hole of how, what is going on with the mineralization
of the earth and how we're transforming the mineral element of the earth.
The mineral realm is being transformed and not always with the best of intentions.
But it is one to meditate on like how this fits into that.
And I will just say that it feels, I have come to peace with it a bit.
When this process is done in a way that we hope is serving nature and the ecology that
surrounds us.
Because there is a destructive element it feels like.
That you're taking a quartz crystal, a really beautiful, symmetrical, divinely shaped thing
and then smashing it into pieces where the surface area is larger than the whole of the
plant.
There is a mentor that we engage with who gave a demonstration of quartz crystal showing
how he held the quartz and dropped it into his hand.
There's the gravity pull.
And then he crushed this thing up to a point, it was in his hand, he just blew on it and
it just lifted up into the air in this way of demonstrating levity.
So I just want to say that there is a tension that kind of exists in the horn silica prep.
Because manure is very available, you know, feed your cow and you'll get something out
of it.
But the harvesting of quartz crystal is something that is a bit more of a stretch.
So I just wanted to bring that up.
Right on.
So much of this preparation, I mean I recognize parts of it as foliar prep, right?
Just like things that I have done many times in different recipes.
But then there are these additions that are, you know, stir it clockwise for X amount of
time and then immediately stir it the other way.
So that you're getting some of that chaos and then it reorganizes itself.
And it's interesting because there really is a blending of organic practices that I
recognize that I'm like, oh, I've done something like that before.
And then suddenly you're talking about how the horn manure prep is an illustration of
the beginning and the ending and completion of nature.
Since the horn is on the head of the cow and the manure comes out the back end.
And I'm like, oh my gosh, I thought I was in the, you know, for a second there I thought
I was in the realm of scientific preparations that I know.
And then now suddenly I'm in the dreaming, you know?
And I'm doing an imaginative, energetic preparation that is causing me to sit down and reflect
and get manure on me and think about how it's not dirty.
Like suddenly it gets like really big.
A prep that sounds like something that I want to do to have my cannabis plants grow and
my farm to be abundant and healthy has suddenly turned into, you know, personal mysticism
and personal growth.
And I'm like, oh my God, there's so much here.
And it kind of makes biodynamics like, I don't know.
I guess I'll say a bit slippery and not in any disrespectful way.
It's kind of like biodynamics is kind of different for everybody where you learn biodynamics
and it's collection of philosophies and preparations.
And then after that, it's given to you and then each farmer will make it their own based
on their personal life experience.
And like I dare say what the farm tells them.
And if I would, you know, if I would just say that to most groups of cannabis people,
I think that I would get some eye rolls.
But hearing you talk about it, you know, it sounds less like an eye roll and more like
a spiritual practice that has meaning to each individual people, but maybe not in the
same way to a group.
And that's, you know, I find that to be a rare thing in cannabis.
And so what are your thoughts on that being as much of a spiritual practice as it is,
you know, fertilizer?
Well, we ask a lot of the land.
It doesn't feel comfortable for me to expect the land to continue to provide without any
sort of recapitulation.
And ever since learning about these ideas and these practices, it hasn't felt right
for me to not do them.
The land provides, it's abundant, but it needs to have something given back.
And this is a small part of that, but it does feel very important and it is very much a
spiritual practice.
One that helps to connect us to the land, us to the plants, dare I say the cosmos.
And I think I kind of somewhat of a famous quote from Steiner is that you can never have
a spirit without matter or matter without spirit.
And so I think that kind of sums up where he's coming from and that we can't ignore
the unseen, but I think try to recognize and embrace things that we can feel.
Yeah, I like that idea, things that we can feel.
Something that I just wanted to tag onto that when we were talking about the preparations,
I failed to bring nitrogen back into the equation.
We talked about the other siblings, carbon, oxygen, hydrogen, and sulfur, but nitrogen
never came back up.
And I was just reminded of it because he says that farmers should meditate and it's very
important for them to do so, but be aware of actually what we are doing when we meditate.
And he says that we are growing into an experience of the nitrogen that surrounds you.
Because we think of nitrogen as something that you need to feed to your plants in order
for them to grow, but the nitrogen is there, what he says, as a way of allowing the other
elements to work through the plant.
And so when we sit down and meditate, we are growing into the nitrogen in the atmosphere,
which there is a lot of, and then that is where we are able to get impressions from
the farm and from the land that we might not have had we not taken the time to do that.
And stirring 500 is a great meditative practice.
And so, yep, that's what I wanted to bring to that.
Right on.
So, I'm sure there are people that are listening who are considering the spiritual aspects,
but then they also actually want to do these preps.
And so much of what we're doing in regenerative and natural farming right now are a variety
of preps and fermentations, a lot of them coming from Korean natural farming.
How do these preps play with the others?
From what I'm hearing from them, it actually sounds like they're all in the same gang and
all these different preps can work together with the other natural farming preps that
we might be more familiar with.
But I better ask because there might be some part of the spiritual structure that makes
that not as applicable.
So how do these preps interact and play nice with other natural farming techniques?
I think they play great with each other.
I think that it's all...
I feel like we don't practice very much Korean natural farming, but we do do some other fermentations
with plants and stuff.
And so I don't think you...
I would never say you should do one or the other.
I don't believe that at all.
And I think that it's important to grasp on all different kinds of agriculture.
And I think things go wrong when you start to think you should only be farming a certain
way.
And that I think it's important to gather from all different types of practices and
utilize the ones that feel good to you.
And you're creating your farm individuality and creating the systems that work best for
you.
Right on.
So...
The horn manure is a way of...
It's almost like an IMO collection.
Oh, yeah.
It is kind of like an IMO for sure.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So a lot of them are sharing a lot of the same overall strategies, even though the form
and certainly in this case, the spiritual intent is certainly more involved.
So to kind of finish up this show with that, I guess, spiritual intent vibe, when I talked
to you all before our recording and read some of the Steiner stuff, everything seems to
be very future focused.
There seems to be a real awareness of inertia and that we know we're going to end up in
the future.
And so let's try to do something now so the future is better.
So would you both take us out with a couple words on this idea of biodynamics as a vehicle
towards the future?
Because honestly, we don't get a lot of that in a lot of the other farming traditions.
For sure.
And thank you for asking.
What really attracted me to biodynamics is that it does speak to us in a way that I had
not found in other literature and other philosophies.
And when we speak of the earth as a living being, that's something that can just kind
of get said and then we move on to the next thing.
But through familiarizing ourselves with Steiner's work, he is very much wanting to
drive home that we are living on a highly developed spiritual being.
And we are locked into this direction towards the future of which we need, we're here to
learn lessons of how to make that future happen.
And the plants are one of our first teachers in doing so.
And so when we work with the land, when we work with these imaginations that we find,
the imaginations that give us the ideas of making these preparations, of putting these
herbs into these vessels, when we work with these ideas, at first they can seem far out,
they are, but they start to bring up feelings that teach us lessons of where we're going.
And what is that?
What is the lessons that the plants are trying to teach us?
And what is being said is that when we learn to co-exist with each other, the way plants
co-exist with each other, we will be in a place receptive to feel the love that we
can freely give back to the Creator.
And so when we observe the way plants of different species grow next to each other and seem to
be good companions for each other, we think of what's happening under the soil with the
roots.
We think of the communication that's going on.
We feel, we see that there is this idea that one cannot be happy if the other is not happy.
And we learn how plants are able to help bring in nutrients from afar if someone, if a different
plant needs it.
We see this communication that is done out of the freely given, like a gift economy,
so to speak.
We do this as a way, as an offering.
And I believe that very wholeheartedly, that when we engage with the land, when we're farming,
we are not just farming to create like, substance for us to eat.
We are beautifying the surroundings that our senses will gain nourishment just as much
as we gain fuel to exist.
We need to eat, but we also need to absorb beauty and kindness.
And biodynamics is what awoke me to these ideas and these imaginations.
And it goes on from there.
Then once we exit the plant realm, we attain the animal consciousness where we learn to
feel into the other being.
And then we move on to, only will we be truly human when we are able to understand the ego
of another as we understand our own.
And it goes on from there.
But I do believe what biodynamics has to offer beyond other philosophies is this larger picture
that we're dealing with things more than just elements, more than just nutrients.
We're dealing with transformation, metamorphosis, and growth that will bring us into the next
stages of spiritual development and the next evolution of the earth that we are all caught
up in.
Well, certainly, I think that all of us who are regenerative farmers and I don't know,
probably all of us who participate in the very soul of the cannabis plant would share
this idea of embracing the interaction with spirit and with nature now and expressing
our love in ways that, I don't know, nurture and bless the future.
No matter the words that we use to express that idea, it can only be good.
And I'm grateful that biodynamics as a farming philosophy and as I'm learning is more of
a life philosophy as much as a farming philosophy, it's nice to have some of that importance
injected into our farming in a day and age where there are so many pressures to encourage
farmers to look at their farm as commodities and as purely as a food dispensing device.
So with that, I think that we will wrap up for today.
Thank you so much to both of you for sharing your time and your experience.
In this particular show, thank you very much for, I don't know, pulling aside the veil
and sharing some of the aspects of this biodynamic spirituality in your farming, which as you
said is not necessarily invited everywhere all the time that you talk about farming.
So thank you for being vulnerable.
That's the feeling I'm going for.
Thank you for your vulnerability and sharing with us that your heart behind your farm processes.
Thanks so much for having us, Shango.
It's a pleasure to talk to you and really appreciate what you're able to share on your
show and yeah, really appreciate what you do.
Yeah, thank you, Shango.
It's been a pleasure speaking with you and I really felt comfortable and it seems I feel
like you're a very important voice in the regenerative cannabis community.
So I appreciate all you do and appreciate you taking the time to invite us on here today.
Right on.
Thank you both so much.
So dear listener, if you want to learn more about biodynamic growing, but even more so
how these ideals can be expressed in your own cannabis cultivation, I encourage you
to follow the Radical Herbs Instagram.
And as I mentioned in the introduction, that's radical with not necessarily the spelling
that you would expect.
So it's radical like the taproot radical.
So it's R-A-D-I-C-L-E, herbs, H-E-R-B-S.
So it's Radical Herbs on Instagram and you can follow along with Blair and Daniel on
their farm and see examples and also see their fantastic herb that comes out of the
farm.
If you want to find out more about the farm itself, their website is also delightful and
has got information and that is also at radicalherbs.com.
You can find more episodes of the Shaping Fire podcast and subscribe to the show at
shapingfire.com and wherever you get your podcasts.
If you enjoyed the show, we'd really appreciate it if you would leave a positive review of
the podcast wherever you download.
Your review will help others find the show so they can enjoy it too.
On the Shaping Fire website, you can also subscribe to the newsletter for insights into
the latest cannabis news, exclusive videos and giveaways.
On the Shaping Fire website, you will also find transcripts of today's podcast as well.
Be sure to follow on Instagram for all original content not found on the podcast.
That's at shapingfire and at shangolos on Instagram.
Be sure to check out the Shaping Fire YouTube channel for exclusive interviews, farm tours
and cannabis lectures.
Does your company want to reach our national audience of cannabis enthusiasts?
Email hotspot at shapingfire.com to find out how.
Thanks for listening to Shaping Fire.
I've been your host, Shango Los.
