As more and more athletes come forward as using cannabis for training and recovery,
many regular folks who exercise to stay fit are considering adding it to their health plan as well.
Exercise and cannabis are not obvious friends, since many people assume that when you use cannabis,
you sit on the couch and eat all the snacks.
And while that's certainly a possibility, many more people are up and motivated,
hiking or working or surfing or reading or writing or even taking care of the kids.
The idea of the couch-locked stoner is really more of a stereotype than an actuality.
The inspiration for this episode came from the movie American Beauty.
In that film, the Kevin Spacey character is going through a midlife crisis
and he turns to cannabis, weightlifting and fantasy to get him through it.
He says that he's working out because he wants to look good naked.
And I think many of us identify with that.
It got me thinking about the relationship between cannabis and exercise.
I wanted to understand if cannabis and exercise were complementary.
I wanted to know if cannabis could help all of us look better naked.
If you want to learn about cannabis, health, business and technique efficiently and with good cheer,
I encourage you to subscribe to our newsletter.
We'll send you new podcast episodes as they come out,
delivered right to your inbox along with commentary on a couple of the most important news items from the week and videos too.
Don't rely on social media to let you know when a new episode is published.
Sign up for the updates to make sure you don't miss an episode.
Also, we're giving away pretty cool prizes to folks who are signed up to receive the newsletter.
There's nothing else you need to do to win except receive the newsletter.
So go to shapingfire.com to sign up for the newsletter and be entered into this month's and all future newsletter prize drawings.
You are listening to Shaping Fire and I'm your host, Shango Lose.
Today my guest is Greg Gerdeman.
Greg Gerdeman is a neurophysiologist with expertise in the endocannabinoid system.
He has received research support from the National Institute on Drug Abuse and the National Science Foundation.
And his articles have appeared in the journals such as Nature Neuroscience, Trends in Neuroscience and Neuropsychopharmacology.
His research, while an assistant professor of biology at Eckerd College,
included the molecular physiology of cannabinoid receptors and their evolution within neural systems.
Greg is presently chief scientific officer at Three Boys Farm in Florida.
Welcome to the show, Greg.
Thank you. Thanks for having me again, Shango.
Yeah, it's so great to have you back.
So let's start off with a quick summary of the endocannabinoid system for folks.
Because while certainly more people know that they have an endocannabinoid system than used to know,
it's still pretty new to a lot of folks.
And honestly, since you have got a history of being a professor, you're actually really darn good at teaching it.
So let's start there so that we can build on that throughout the show.
So will you summarize what the human endocannabinoid system is and how we want to work with it?
Yeah, of course. Thanks for the compliment.
And more people do know for sure, having talked about this for many years.
But the endocannabinoid system is really how the endocannabinoids work.
And this was discovered out of a quest, scientific quest, to understand how cannabis works in the body.
Of course, all of that was mostly biased towards how it's bad and hurt you and is wrong.
But even with that bias, we discovered the endocannabinoid system,
which is intrinsic to our body as a mechanism for resilience, I believe, and homeostasis.
The endocannabinoids as players in our body can be called sort of like the bodies on THC or cannabinoids.
They are, if you're familiar with molecules at all, they're lipid molecules.
They come from the membranes of cells, not just in the brain, but all over the tissues of the body,
and act at certain receptors in order to dampen excitation.
And they do many different things.
But on a basic level, we've got these endocannabinoids called anandamide and 2-AG.
They're molecules that act in many ways like THC.
They act at receptors that are on cells, and they include CB1 and CB2 cannabinoid receptors.
This is sort of the, I guess, traditional, if you will, endocannabinoid system.
Those endocannabinoids and the CB1 and CB2 receptors.
We now know it's quite a bit more complicated than that.
And this is a system that your body uses all the time to regulate metabolism, motivated behavior,
the synchrony and rhythms of your brain.
In fact, many people will know that when all of this was discovered,
it was hugely surprising to brain scientists, people like me who study receptors
and how drugs and hormones and neurotransmitters work,
because the CB1 cannabinoid receptor, when it was discovered way back in 89
and then more thoroughly in 1990,
we discovered that it's the most abundant receptor system in the brain by far.
So our brains are really highly, highly evolved to respond to cannabinoid signaling.
Of course, we evolved with the endocannabinoids in our body,
but the cannabinoids in cannabis has been with us a very long time as well.
So if we're looking at the endocannabinoid system as our body's master regulator,
constantly trying to bring us back to homeostasis, like you said,
or bring us back to balance,
if we're running hot in a category, it will help bring it down and bring us back to center.
If we're cool in a category or slow or stagnant in a category, well, it amps it up.
So no matter if you're high or low, it's bringing you back to best case scenario for your body.
Well, this makes a lot of sense then, right?
That this body master regulator would be impacted and be an active participant every time we exercise, right?
Because we've got breathing and blood flow and muscle sets and adrenaline
and all these other things that are playing a role in exercise.
They're also playing a role in the endocannabinoid system.
So how does cannabis help us work with the endocannabinoid system generally when we exercise?
What are we doing when we're interacting with the endocannabinoid system generally when we exercise?
Well, part of what I think is so exciting is how much we have yet to learn
and that now these kinds of questions are something we can ask out in the open and really explore it.
And with today's cannabis, that we're able to understand the diversity of it.
But from a starting point, what we've come to find out, and work that I did was part of this,
but many other groups have shown that when you exercise, your body elevates its endocannabinoid levels.
That's one of the kinds of activities that can increase circulating levels in the blood of anandamide, at least, as an endocannabinoid.
And so there's part of the benefit, the physiological benefit of aerobic exercise,
but it's also been seen with resistance training, anandamide levels go up.
And to the effect that there's sort of analgesic effect, a euphoric effect that may help to motivate behavior in the first place.
This is all just something that is intrinsic to how our exercise physiology evolved.
And you're right, the physiology of exercise is a really unique case.
I mean, skeletal muscle and fat tissues and depth of breathing.
So much goes on during exercise that is special compared to how our bodies normally work.
And that's because the human being and our hominid ancestors, we evolved out of a lineage that evolved to be exercisers.
And the endocannabinoid system, I believe, was a key part in what made that happen.
I'm really on this idea that endocannabinoids actually are part of the evolvability of these sorts of processes.
Let's dig a little deeper in that, because when we were chatting before, as we were setting up this interview today, I thought it was really interesting.
You're talking about the evolution of humans as a running animal, right?
As a running being.
And how essential and integral the endocannabinoid system is to that kind of long-distance running.
I mean, one of the reasons humans could get meat is that because over time, they would run down these animals that might be faster, but they didn't have the same stamina that we had, right?
So why don't you riff on that a little bit, because I think you've got some interesting stuff there.
Yeah. There are hunter-gatherer groups in Africa to this day that hunt with sort of persistence or exhaustion techniques.
Well, just like you said, a band of hunters can basically jog an antelope down to exhaustion.
But for that kind of behavior to evolve, it would have been a multi-step process over time.
You look back tens of thousands of years to when our hominid ancestors were largely in trees or near them, there was a big shrinking of the forests of East Africa and areas where Homo sapiens evolved.
So that you got the development of these big savanna grasslands.
And whether it's hunting to exhaustion or just foraging from place to place, it was adaptive.
So the field of biological anthropology believes – these aren't controversial things I'm talking about.
Those ancestors who were better at running were more successful, whether it was hunting or following a vulture to where something had been killed or just getting to a better place to forage.
Endurance running was adaptive.
And so traits that favored endurance running were adaptive.
And you see in humans skeletal muscular features like the length of the Achilles tendon and certain ways that the head and the hips sit in their sockets and the length of the femur that make running less energetically demanding.
Well, what would have motivated that behavior in the first place?
Because running intrinsically increases your risk of predators, of injury.
And the endocannabinoids fit in nicely as an explanation in that when you engage in the behavior and you get sort of a runner's joy out of it from increased circulating endocannabinoids, your sense of wellness improves.
The taste of the food you found is actually better because of the endocannabinoids.
This is all well-steeped in research and similar to how cannabis can affect you.
It would have promoted a behavior, a culture of behavior, and that is a positive feedback loop driving, we believe, the evolution of humans to be, you know, quote unquote, born to run, endurance runners.
And the endocannabinoids are really involved. They don't just get activated when you're from exercise, but the way they stimulate appetitive food seeking, they help to desire and promote feeding.
And that's something that goes way back to deep evolutionary time. Even very simple organisms like worms and hydra that are pre-jellyfish have an endocannabinoid system that seems to interact with the control of metabolism and feeding behavior.
That's where our endocannabinoid system evolved from. But in vertebrate animals that, of course, you know, include mammals, became mammals, became humans, at the base of the vertebrate family tree, what we call invertebrate chordates, that's when these CB1 and CB2 cannabinoid receptors seem to have evolved.
Only there do you start to see a DNA sequence that's like the CB1 cannabinoid receptor. And lo and behold, in the time span of evolutionary development, vertebrate animals have these systems.
What is special about a vertebrate animal? Well, an evolutionary biologist will identify, they have identified what we call vertebrate innovations that appear in our lineage and nowhere else. And they are including a peripheral nervous system, a very incredibly complex and large head and brain, an adaptive immune system that recognizes previous threats and risks.
And it responds and remembers them. These are things that the endocannabinoid system is all about regulating. The endocannabinoids and the CB1, CB2 receptors are master regulators of metabolism, inflammation, the immune response, and regulation of the complex brains and nervous signaling.
That's not cannabis culture talk. That's as mainstream as science gets, that the endocannabinoid system is the master regulator of physiology. And you don't see that talking in other literature. But I can go on about this connection.
Well, let me point you in a continued direction. Because I like what we're talking about. Because basing the endocannabinoid system in this long history of human evolution, I like how, A, it takes it out of drug culture and stoner culture, and even out of science.
Because science is often trying to – pure medical science is often very on a pedestal. But when you get to evolutionary science and anthropology, suddenly things get a lot more visceral and a lot less cherished.
So going back to what you were saying, I love the beauty of the idea of the endocannabinoid system appears in us as our DNA starts to become more human. And then part of that is that when we spark the endocannabinoid system, it creates a state in us that we enjoy food.
And we're also chasing our food. So not only is the endocannabinoid system modulating our running experience and giving us that runner's joy, but also we're chasing down our food so that we can get more complex fats to build our brain.
And, oh yeah, once you get there and you capture the animal and you eat it, your endocannabinoid system is already primed for a fantastic meal.
And how that comes together, it's just freaking beautiful, right? It's like, ah.
Oh, it's so beautiful.
It's like, hell yeah, nature.
It is beautiful.
It's beautiful because it teaches us more about who we are.
And that's something I like to say a lot, that the science of cannabis has taught us much more about how cannabis works.
It's taught us a great deal about the biology of who we are and what it means to be well.
But jumping into your scenario, yeah, you run.
There's a control of your metabolism and your repetitive drive.
But guess what has also been very cleanly and repeatedly shown in various animal research models.
The endocannabinoid system helps to stimulate neurogenesis.
You're not only collecting fats to feed your brain, you're stimulating mechanisms that promote the growth of the brain.
That help to create resilience to the anxieties of life by promoting healthy regeneration of nervous tissue, which we know does happen throughout life.
And there's been lots of studies showing that cannabinoids stimulate neurogenesis, including plant cannabinoids, including as a consequence of exercise.
And it doesn't happen if you block the CB1 cannabinoid receptor.
Even some underscited research that I really like by a group in Germany.
A friend of mine, Susanna Wolf, was the first author of one of these papers.
A difficult experiment to do, giving animals an enriched environment over a period of time.
A lot of listeners may be familiar with sort of this rat park literature about how a lot of animals are not housed in a good situation.
And in research, it's kind of deprived.
And when you give animals enriched environments, there are lots of measures of health benefits there.
For example, they're not as likely to be self-administering cocaine and that kind of thing.
But the point here is Susanna's work was that she did a very long controlled experiment that's hard to fund.
And found that enriched environments stimulated neurogenesis at greater rates in brain areas where it occurs, the hippocampus of the mouse brain.
And that this was blocked in animals that had CB1 receptors blocked.
Either genetically they didn't have it or they were blocking it with a chemical antagonist.
So back to the running thing.
We know that over the history of hominid evolution leading to homo sapiens ourselves,
as greater running mobility occurred in the fossil record and over the course of evolution,
as species became more mobile and better runners, their brain size also increased.
Their head size, their brain size.
And this makes sense from a natural selection perspective in that as an animal, a species is getting better at running,
your survival demands are different.
You're better at foraging, you're getting more metabolic support.
But the complexity of the environment moving, traveling farther, covering more different terrains at different rates,
your processing speeds, your need for processing speed is greater to be able to see changing environments,
remember your environment, have flexibility to new encounters that you're more likely to have.
And so the evolution of humans as were to be runners also included a growth in the brain.
And endocannabinoids we know are stimulated by running.
And we know that endocannabinoids are linked to neurotrophic factors and things that cause increased neurogenesis.
We see it, we know the mechanism.
So part of the fun about talking about evolution is it is always going to be speculative, right?
Because it's something that's happened in the past.
But, man, the pieces are really beautiful to make this perspective and support this perspective that the endocannabinoid system helped to support the evolution of who we are as runners and the metabolic activity that we have.
Some of the thinking on exercise and metabolism is that Western society is dealing with such issues related to metabolism, diabetes, obesity, sedentary lifestyles.
And we evolved not only to be runners, but our metabolism evolved with a running sort of set point.
We're kind of hard – plumbed to burn through calories like we're running.
And if we don't have exercise in our life, that extra calories that you want to intake because you're just set to that, it ends up going to inflammation.
And when we run an exercise, that's another thing.
Oh, by the way, the endocannabinoids clearly do.
They dampen down inflammation.
And so, yeah, I love the whole area.
And it does support how natural cannabis medicine as a complement to that physiology is.
But it's not just about cannabis.
It's about understanding ourselves and how an active mobile lifestyle is healthy.
It's how we evolved.
And it's a natural thing to do.
I work with patients a lot around the country.
And often I'll get people saying, I want to use cannabis because I have insomnia.
And we can talk all about using THC short term and CBD to make the sleep cycle better, all that.
But I always start with, are you drinking coffee in the morning?
Because if you're drinking coffee in the morning, the caffeine half-life means that when you go to sleep, you still have active caffeine in your body, even if you only had one cup.
And, of course, no one wants to hear that, right?
No one wants to give up their cup of coffee to get rid of their insomnia.
They want to keep their cup of coffee.
And then they want to take some kind of purple-flowered cannabis to help slow them down at night.
Similarly, to use your example, people are often, why do I have endocannabinoid deficiency or why is it so common?
And, of course, we go through the modern American things, stress, poor sleep, poor nutrition, too many pharmaceuticals, environmental toxins.
But really, it's that lack of mobility, right?
Our bodies are designed over generations and generations to be mobile, to do physical work, to take in calories, to burn them off.
And now we're driving our cars and sitting on the sofa.
And, I mean, hell, most of the time I'm working, I'm either standing up talking to people or I'm sitting at my computer or on a plane sitting at a computer, right?
And I'm one of those people.
We all need to get more mobile.
And I like what you said, how cannabis teaches us more or reminds us more where we came from, right?
Because it's showing that, okay, if modern life is not working for most everybody, what can we learn about how we used to live that can help us be healthier now?
Yeah, yeah.
And health and fitness is not all about endocannabinoids, as we can sometimes get into.
But endocannabinoids are a master regulator.
And I think it's legit to say that the endocannabinoid system has been under sort of a multi-pronged attack with the modern, that is to say, Western lifestyle, with all the things you're saying.
Sedentaryism and not having as many leafy greens that will support a healthy microbiome and probably healthy fatty acid balances that help to generate the endocannabinoids themselves.
We know chronic stress wears down the endocannabinoid system.
It just makes sense.
Endocannabinoids are a buffer against stress.
But when you beat up your buffers, you run dry.
And, you know, that's a metaphor.
But promoting health and well-being from an endocannabinoid perspective, I think, is an exciting direction.
I certainly like looking at it that way.
Right on.
So in our second set, we're going to start talking specifically about how cannabis can help us with different types of exercise and athleticism.
But before we go to the first commercial break, I want to go all the way back to where we started this set because you talked a little bit about how cannabis can help motivate us towards exercise.
Right.
And, you know, we've laid out this case that we do need movement.
And if we move, our endocannabinoid system will reward us with all of this increased health and thriving nature.
But I know I'm not the only one who, you know, I'm busy and I travel and I don't find the time for as much exercise as I want to, even though, you know, I continually am getting better at it.
I'm not there yet.
But I like what you said, though, that there are aspects of using cannabis that can help motivate us towards exercise when that is not the general belief.
Right.
And most people are thinking about, you know, lazy, sedentary stoners.
And certainly there are other factors that play a role in that.
But why don't you tell us a little bit about how cannabis can help move us closer to exercise and so that maybe, you know, some of us can get a little more motivated?
Yeah.
Well, I mean, I think that that's very true.
In my view, the way we're talking about it, because, of course, we can talk more later that there's a lot of talk about, you know, cannabinoids in terms of recovery because of anti-inflammatory values and having an anti-inflammatory a little on board ahead of time exercising a natural one may be beneficial.
But we're talking about motivation and we're talking about that kind of sort of affect.
I think we're probably talking about using it in low doses prior to exercise.
And maybe it's because you just learned that it helps you get in a zone, helps you less be less attached to other distractions so you can focus on it.
I certainly spoke.
I remember 20 years ago talking to someone when I was first getting into this research, a scientist I was with at Vanderbilt said, yeah, you know, I used to be with this running club out in Eugene, Oregon.
And we would all take edibles like half an hour before we ran.
And we'd all like, you know, we'd go on this like 12 mile run.
And he was like, it's totally helped me get in the zone.
And I've heard that many times now.
It's been much more popular as a lot of ultra athletes talking about that now.
But whether it's that or even, you know, not just a long distance zone where you need to sort of wear away the hours while you're exercising.
There may be just a way to sort of let loose of what's holding you back.
And, you know, I think about it in terms of weight room training and that kind of exercising where you might be self-conscious about form or what your performance is, how much something's weights are rattling.
And I think a judicious use of cannabis can maybe help you get past that, that your own what your own resistance is holding you back.
Like I related when I was talking to you earlier about hand drumming, which is something I love to do and have trained in.
And a lot of times what holds you back from making a great rhythm is yourself.
It's your inhibition from actually making the impact and with the drum and just feeling it.
And I think the same thing is getting in with the training.
I mean, it's like if you're if you're training and trying to get over a hurdle, there's a value to being coached through it.
And that's because it helps release sort of your your descending neural pathways that put a little safety check on your own actions.
You get coached through something you can you're able to push through a little harder.
I'm not trying to go too far about what I know that endocannabinoids or cannabis does or doesn't do.
But I like to think about the idea that having a little bit of cannabis on board can help you to get past your own resistance and sort of negative body type or whatever and just do it.
And then maybe maybe with experience, then going to the gym or your whatever your training situation is taking that little bitty.
And I am I do tend to say this would be what we'd call a micro dose, just a small little dose can even kind of be a conditioned experience like, yeah, OK, there's my exercise zone.
Let's get this. Yeah. Well said. You know, during the during the introduction, I talked about that great scene in the movie American Beauty where the Kevin Spacey character, you know, he's having, you know, all sorts of life problems.
Right. But but to kind of reclaim his life, one of the things he decides to do is he gets a he gets a weight bench and he's starting to smoke some weed again and he's putting on some of the music that energizes him.
And, you know, I get that, man. You know, I know that if I get too high, then then, you know, using resist by doing resistance training at the gym or something like being at the gym is too weird and bright.
And I just don't want to be there. But but if I just have like, you know, a little hit off my one hitter, right. Or for many people, that'd be a vape pen like nowadays.
Right. Just that little bit. It kind of loosens up the fact that I generally don't want to be there lifting weights.
And and suddenly I'm like, all right, I'm here and I'm in I'm in a much better mood than I was a couple of minutes ago. Let's get going.
And it kind of gets me over that initial hump of, oh, my God, I got these all these other things I should be doing. But, you know, cannabis for a lot of people makes you very, you know, emotionally present with where you are.
And I find that's really the only way that I can work out is if I forget the rest of my life that, you know, acts as a distraction, all the stuff I should be doing.
And, you know, you know, and most of the stuff we're talking we're going to be talking about today is going to be tincture based. But for me specifically with lifting, you know, a little a little inhaling, followed by some some weight training that that really works for me.
And I think it does for a lot of people.
Yeah, it works for me. I dig it. And I, I laugh a little bit about the American Beauty reference because my buddy Mike, who got me back into training a couple of years ago and I'm in the best shape that I've been since college and and I've been happy about that and doesn't always involve a little bit of cannabis, but it usually does.
And it's a he laughed at me and referred to that exact exact clip when I came to him a couple of years ago. It was just like, I'm not happy with how I look. And he jokes because that character, you know, was asked, like, why, what are you trying to hit? Were you trying to run certain, you know, eight miles or whatever? He's like, I just want to look good naked.
Yeah.
Who did an online survey amongst people using cannabis in legal states had something like 600 respondents. And the questioning was, do you endorse the use of your cannabis around exercise? And a large majority, I believe it was approaching around 80 percent of cannabis users associated it with helping them or endorsing it with exercise.
More of them were relating it to the recovery phase,
but a significant number,
I look forward to reading the actual paper,
a significant number did discuss it in just the way
that you and I are, that it helped to motivate them
or support their performance in some way.
And I was at a panel in the Emerald Cup in December
with some great athletes and they too were,
you know, across the field,
a lot of athletes do feel like there's a benefit
to whether it's flow state or something of that,
whatever you wanna call it.
You and I have just been talking about it in terms of,
all right, I'm there, I'm ready to go.
And I think these are all just fascinating topics
and moreover, they're topics that are all about
helping people feel better.
Yeah, damn straight.
So after the break, we are gonna come back
and we're gonna talk more about cannabis
and the actual physiology of exercise.
So stay with us.
You are listening to Shaping Fire
and my guest today is Greg Gerdeman,
Chief Scientific Officer at Three Boys Farms.
This message is for folks who grow cannabis.
I'm talking to home growers,
patients and commercial growers too.
I'm probably talking to you.
When you plan out your next growing cycle,
be sure to check out Humboldt CSI seeds at humboldtcsi.com.
Caleb Inspecta and his family have lived in Humboldt County
for over 100 years.
For the last 40 years, three generations of his family
have cultivated extraordinary Sensamea cannabis
in Humboldt, Mendocino and Trinity counties.
Because of his lineage and the hard earned experience
that comes from growing up, smoking and sifting
large populations of cannabis plants
in Northern California, the seeds you'll cop from CSI
will be winning genetics based on long time heavy hitters
and updated and re-sifted to bring out new
and exotic traits and better yields.
Go ahead and ask around.
Caleb, also known as Inspecta
and Pirates of the Emerald Triangle is a breeder's breeder.
He reaches way back and works with significant strains,
recreating them in new and interesting ways
that you'll love as a toker and a grower,
as well as offering you some surprises
that will delight serious seed traders and cultivators.
Humboldt CSI goes a further step
and selfs all these chemovars
so you know all the seeds will be female.
These are not experimental feminized seeds.
Humboldt CSI releases some of the best female seeds
available anywhere and it will show in your garden.
Folks grew quite a bit of CSI Humboldt GenX last year
here on Vashon Island and everyone was pleased.
The patients had beautiful female plants
and didn't have to cull half of their garden as males.
The folks growing for the fun of getting high
grew colorful flowers with exceptional bag appeal
and great highs.
And breeders had seven out of seven females in a pack,
which gave them a lot of phenotypic choices.
Take a moment right now and visit humboldtcsi.com.
You'll find an up-to-date menu of both feminized
and regular lines along with photos and descriptions.
That's humboldtcsi.com.
Now that the health benefits of terpenes
have become well known in the cannabis industry,
people everywhere are looking for the purest terpenes
without adulterants.
The problem with most terpene providers
is that they're not sourced naturally
and instead are made as a byproduct of refining petroleum.
And that's so sketchy.
The terpenes sold by True Terpenes are entirely different.
They are certified organic, non-GMO and food grade.
That means that they are extracted from real plant sources.
There are no solvents of any kind.
They are distilled only with steam.
That's right, only steam.
In fact, terpenes from True Terpenes are so pure
that you can eat them.
Not only that, but you can stack them
with better results too.
What I mean is, other companies' terpenes
have got a few percent of impurities.
And when you stack those terpenes to make your blend,
you're adding a variety of impurities
that degrade your final product.
True Terpenes also have strain-specific terpenes
for a wide range of cannabis strains
like Durban Poison, Sunset Sherbet and Granddaddy Purple.
True Terpenes has robust and supportive customer service,
so your questions will get answered fast and efficiently.
If you shop for terps before, you know how rare that is.
So whether you wanna cup your hands
to smell some beta-caryophyllene
to calm down after getting too high,
or if you wanna dab some pinene
so your lungs feel fabulous and your mind feels liberated,
True Terpenes will provide you
with a truly natural experience.
If you are a cannabis product developer,
these are the terps you wanna add to your oil
or edible or capsule or whatever.
True Terpenes are simply the best your money can buy.
Don't try and make a premium product
with substandard terps.
Choose True Terpenes for a top-shelf experience.
Go to shapingfire.com forward slash True Terpenes
to find out more or click on the link
in this week's newsletter.
Welcome back, you are listening to Shaping Fire.
I'm your host, Shane Golos,
and our guest this week is Gregg Gerdeman,
Chief Scientific Officer at Three Boys Farm.
So before the break, we were talking a lot
about the historical significance
of the endocannabinoid system
and how we evolved as mobile human beings.
And then a little bit about motivation
because as we all know,
getting motivated to exercise in the first place
is a challenge for a lot of people, including me.
So in this set, we're gonna talk more about the impact,
the interplay between the human endocannabinoid system,
cannabis and exercise and how they're working together
to, I don't know, build a better human.
So Gregg, why don't we start there?
Specifically, how does supplementing our body with cannabis
help us strengthen and build muscle?
Well, that's tough.
I mean, you know I'm a scientist,
so I'm always gonna back up and say,
well, we're not totally sure about that.
But there's the cannabinoid system
and working with cannabis in that it can help support
better metabolism and storage of fats may help.
And here's another piece that's pretty mysterious
is that we now know that there are cannabinoid receptors
actually on mitochondria that are the AP generating
powerhouses of the cell, right?
That's really weird that there's a neurotransmitter receptor
that's on the surface of neurons and all over the body
and it's also found on mitochondria.
That's part of what makes this receptor system so different.
It's literally a mechanism.
The endocannabinoid system is not just a system like,
here's a group of cannabinoid producing cells
and they project everywhere.
That's like the case if we're talking about dopamine.
I can point to every dopamine cell in the brain
and they project everywhere,
but there's the dopamine system right there.
The endocannabinoid system is more like
an endocannabinoid mechanism
that is a fundamental cellular mechanism.
It's all over the body.
When it comes to exercise
and you're talking about building muscle,
there's certain aspects that, well,
endocannabinoids may be involved in sort of
the healing of micro tears and that kind of thing
that is involved in building muscle mass.
But here's something I wanna go into
that you haven't heard from me yet.
It's a recent study that came out
that I'm really excited about
that looks at how endocannabinoids
and cannabinoid receptors work
at the neuromuscular junction.
So the neuromuscular junction is where,
you know, when you're doing any voluntary movement,
moving a hand, finger, or foot,
there are neurons that are coming
called motor neurons from your spinal cord.
Really it comes from your motor cortex
down to your spinal cord,
and then your spinal cord sends motor neurons to your muscle.
And the release of neurotransmitter called acetylcholine
at that neuromuscular junction
is what causes your muscles to contract and move.
So that's the neuromuscular junction.
And whereas we know that cannabinoid receptors
and endocannabinoids act at connections
between cells in the brain, synapses,
like practically every synapse in the entire human brain
is impacted in some way by endocannabinoids,
if not using it on the regular,
studies of the neuromuscular junction have been less obvious
but a study just came out recently.
It was in the journal Scientific Reports
just in the last couple months
showing that endocannabinoids are released
by contracting active muscles
and travel backwards and hit the neuromuscular junction
in this similar way that it does in the brain
that I helped to describe like 2001.
But in the brain, there's a key difference here.
In the brain, endocannabinoids traveling backwards
dampen the release of neurotransmitters
and kind of slow things down.
At the neuromuscular junction
where physical activity is stimulated,
the endocannabinoids actually increase
the level of neurotransmission.
And this was a study done in mice,
but there were some really key findings.
First of all, they showed a synthetic CB1 agonist
did this as well.
I wish they had used THC,
but such as big animal research, they didn't.
But nonetheless, they mimicked it
with a cannabinoid agonist activator
and it increased at a very, this is very heady research.
I mean, they're like counting vesicles
of neurotransmitter released basically.
They show that at that level, it's increased.
It's kind of the inverse of what happens in the brain,
but why would this be adaptive?
I mean, maybe this is an ability,
part of the ability of exercising muscle tissue
to overcome fatigue.
You just start increasing the release
of how effective the motor neuron is driving the muscle.
I mean, the cellular physiology of fatigue
and why it happens is not so obvious.
And maybe this is a breakthrough understanding
in that regard.
But secondly, they looked at a mouse model
of a disease called myasthenia gravis.
Are you familiar with this at all?
No, I'm not.
Myasthenia gravis is an autoimmune disorder
and it manifests with muscle weakness
and clumsiness related to that.
That's a short version.
You get muscle weakness because again,
it's autoimmune where the body is developing antibodies
to the receptors for acetylcholine
that respond to the neuromuscular junction.
Okay, so you develop antibodies,
they attack your own receptors
at your neuromuscular junction.
So the efficacy, the tightness of connection
between your spinal cord telling your muscles to move
is degraded by your own immune system.
It's one of these insidious ways that autoimmunity
fucks us up in people that have myasthenia gravis.
Well, it is something that is very easily modeled
in a mouse.
You can make a mouse basically allergic
to their own acetylcholine receptors.
It acts just like myasthenia gravis.
They get muscle weakness and progressive failures
because of that.
And they showed that giving the mouse a cannabinoid
helps to prevent and treat myasthenia gravis.
I mean, clinically, if you have this,
what you will be prescribed is a medicine
that helps to enhance the release of acetylcholine
or block its breakdown.
This new discovery is that cannabinoids
acting at CB1 receptors enhances the release
of acetylcholine at the neuromuscular junction.
Right there, here's another of the limitless examples
about cannabis.
I cannot stand up in front of a group of doctors
and talk about clinical data
and say that there's any proof whatsoever
that the use of cannabis, be it a tincture, a pill, a joint,
I cannot say that the use of cannabis
can be a treatment for myasthenia gravis.
I have literally zero clinical evidence for that.
But the biological underpinning
has now been elegantly described that it may be the case.
And I'm hoping that in this era
of new upstart cannabis companies that I am involved in,
these kinds of things can be dovetailed into studies.
If not really expensive clinical trials, patient outcomes.
Let's recruit people who are using it for myasthenia gravis
and find out, does it work?
That's observational study.
It's not as strong as the controlled clinical trial,
but they all start to justify one another.
Yeah, and if we move in that direction,
it'll be easier for us to fund
those increased in size studies.
And you know, this is interesting too,
because while I don't have a lot of experience
with that particular autoimmune disease,
I work with a lot of other folks with autoimmune disease,
most commonly usually lupus.
And you know, how these manifest for different patients
kind of is different from patient to patient.
But decreased mobility is incredibly common, right?
And so, and we find that high doses
of whole plant cannabinoids really work to help,
I've heard patients call it loosen the joints, right?
To make them feel less like they're rusting,
like the Tin Man in Wizard of Oz, right?
They feel like they're loosening.
And while I've never heard this explanation
that you just gave, it certainly seems to be more evidence
in that general direction that, you know,
adding cannabinoid supplementation to our body
from this plant acts like an oil can
on everything that's trying to stop our mobility.
It sure seems to act in a lot of places like that.
Yes, there's a redundancy of function
that helps to support these different directions
that would enhance mobility.
And you know, this piece I'm talking about,
if you could cannabinoids help to increase the function
of your neuromuscular junction on this subtle way,
but a way that could underlie it.
When people are talking about getting into a flow state,
maybe that's part of it.
Your neuromuscular connection is just getting set up
and more, you know, high fidelity and you feel it.
Then you've got the sense of wellness that comes
from the way the endocannabinoids are acting
in the limbic system of your brain.
You've got the sense of enhanced bronchodilation
that's happening from endocannabinoids
working on your upper airways.
It all fits together in some pretty fascinating ways,
doesn't it?
Yeah, it certainly does.
And as a matter of fact, I'm thinking to myself,
I'm like, my God, this is like a big commercial for yoga.
You know, like low impact muscle movement of that kind
creating, you know, an increase of endocannabinoids.
So let's circle this all the way back around
to the strengthening and building muscle
before we move on to different types of athleticism.
So, you know, I don't know a lot about sports physiology,
but my general understanding is that how we're building
muscle is that we rip the muscle.
And then as our body goes to repair that,
it repairs it, you know, bigger, if you will.
And so you're building muscle mass.
And then, so, you know, you rip it today,
you heal tomorrow, you rip it today.
So that's clearly something that is gonna be partially
regulated by the endocannabinoid system.
How will, you know, having the cannabis to help us
be present in the moment is good and to focus
so that we can lift more weight and have better form,
that's all good.
But at the muscular level, how will this support
our building and strengthening of muscles?
Well, I don't know that it will.
I mean, honestly, and you know, that ripping and tearing
is, you know, an intrinsic part of that
does include inflammation.
And I have talked to a sports physician who has expressed
to me that he thinks the anti-inflammatory actions
of the cannabinoids actually would be working against
bulking up and really, if you're weightlifting
to build mass, that that may be contrary.
I don't know.
I've got a little observation into my own little circles
on use of cannabis related to strength training.
And I don't, you know, I shouldn't even say.
I don't know that it does anything.
But at a molecular level, we don't really know.
And me talking about what happens at that neuromuscular
synapse is not really addressing how the tissue
is remodeling during the recovery that can help build mass.
Maybe there would be an interference.
I don't know how important inflammation is
to the actual mass building that goes on.
But it's an interesting question.
Because if we need some inflammation in the area,
maybe we don't need as much as we have.
Because you know, a lot of people love cannabis
for recovery, right?
And so maybe, okay, we rip up the muscles
and which causes its repair and inflammation.
But maybe if the cannabis is decreasing inflammation
X variable amount, maybe that's where we're getting
some of our ease of recovery from these sports.
Yes, I think so.
But you know, again, cannabis isn't just a,
the endocannabinoid system isn't just a master regulator
of inflammation.
It's so much broader than that.
And in many vascular beds,
endocannabinoids act as vasodilators.
Now that's may not happen all the time,
but vasodilation is something that is taken.
I mean, supplements that is that are for example,
nitric oxide donors are taken by weightlifters
to improve the amount of weight you can go,
circulation of oxygenated blood to the tissues is enhanced.
Maybe cannabis does that at a level that is not exaggerated,
but supportive of sustained muscle function during training.
And I mentioned cannabinoid receptors on mitochondria.
I mean, the other kind of supplement that is really used
to boast both performance and recovery
are supplements like creatine, phosphate,
and things that will support the regeneration of ATP.
If, and this is certainly conjecture on my part,
but if the cannabinoid receptors on mitochondria
are involved with making mitochondria more efficient,
maybe that has something to do with replenishing ATP.
That's a very testable question
that I don't think anybody has gotten to.
Yeah, well, I certainly haven't seen anything on it.
And that actually leads us right next to our other,
our next category of sports, which is endurance, right?
So if we've got receptors on the mitochondria,
we know that the efficiency of the creation
and burning of that energy is going to be some way related
to the endocannabinoid system.
Yeah. Right?
I mean, I guess it could be wrong.
Sorry, I didn't take that as a baton.
I wasn't sure exactly what-
So let's talk about running and swimming, right?
We clearly talked a lot about running
at the top of the show, but these,
by our using cannabis, how do you see that
for runners and swimmers to add
to their overall training regimen?
Well, I mean, I just think if it improves their experience
and their adherence to the discipline of their sport,
then it's going to have the benefits of sticking with it.
And it could be of great help.
Some of this could be this aspect of getting in the zone
or combating fatigue that cannabis can be involved with.
And like I'm saying, there's lots of cellular
molecular basis for that.
The metabolic benefits that may happen
with using a way of using cannabis
in your life around training may help to support
the kind of changes that again,
help to shift you to a different set point.
And my training partner and I,
we've talked about exercise as a vision of homeostasis.
I mean, you push yourself out of your zone
and part of the recurrence of training
to get your time better, to get your endurance better,
is you're kind of forcing a homeostasis
to a different set point.
I mean, my buddy used to talk about me hitting the red zone
because I'm telling you when I first started training
in the gym two years ago, again,
it's the first time in a long time,
I would work out with my buddy Mike for like 20 minutes
and I would be like, I would be redlining.
I felt terrible.
And the act of continuing to train
is really pushing your body into that zone,
which I do very much believe we evolved to get into,
but 20 years out of shape is 20 years out of shape.
And you have to sort of re-engage yourself
to be adaptive in that set point.
And there may be some consequence
where you don't feel so good
when you go weeks without training,
but that's another story.
You know, let me ask this question in a different way too,
because I was setting you up
because I thought you were gonna tell me
that there are ways that cannabis
can help the performance of swimming
and running the actual physicality of doing it.
And you went to mindset,
which makes me think that maybe my whole direction
I was coming, because I thought,
cannabis is considered a endurance sport enhancing drug.
And so it is banned in many sports areas,
but this actually creates this idea in me
that maybe it's banned, not necessarily
because it will make you a better swimmer
do the physical act of swimming,
but maybe the reason why it's sports enhancing
is just because it keeps your head in the game so much more
and your ability to ignore distractions,
you know, from the competitor in the next lane over,
maybe that's it.
And I was actually, I was going, yeah, huh.
That's interesting.
I do think so.
You know, and I know like the NCAA right now,
it views CBD as a banned substance,
of course, because it's-
Schedule one, yeah.
Unrightly, it's schedule one,
but, you know, even thinking cogently about it,
I've talked to a physician with the NCAA who's,
you know, saying, well, it's an anti-inflammatory
and that's performance enhancing because inflammation,
that's a wild story because we're gonna stop
letting people take ibuprofen beforehand.
But yeah, I mean, that anti-controlling inflammation
that may occur during the course of a distance sport
certainly could help to promote, you know,
sticking with the behavior.
But I think the mental focus, the letting go of grasping,
you know, there's a whole other dialogue out there
about cannabis and meditation, you know,
and I think there's a intersect there
in that both have a relationship to letting go
of your grasping, of your discursive mind.
And that helps with getting into a meditative place.
And it helps with possibly, like you said,
not thinking about the competitor,
not thinking about what you look like,
or even being able to forget the fact
that your ankle isn't feeling very well.
I mean, not like I'm trying to tell people
to push through pain that's there.
And that takes me to another little piece that,
you know, when we're talking about why cannabis
could be performance promoting,
whether it should be used in sports,
I was, I know we're not primarily talking about things
like head injury, but I was speaking at a conference
on traumatic brain injury a couple months ago.
And I spoke to a woman, I mean, a fellow who's a doctor,
he's a sports physician at a NCAA school,
works with football players.
And he was talking about the use of cannabis in sports.
And I won't go down this whole wormhole,
but my feeling is that whether or not cannabis
or CBD even on the sideline of games
would be preventing people from serious brain injury,
and I think it could,
I think it's more a question of our athletes,
especially in contact sports,
our athletes should have a absolute right
to be medicating with this medicine,
because we should be concerned
not with just getting them back on the field,
but with their longevity as human beings.
And I think CBD and full spectrum cannabis products
should be allowed and supported by professional athletics,
because it helps to promote the longevity
and health and well-being of the athletes.
And the question of whether they can get back
on the field real quickly, you know,
earn their paycheck is not the one
that the medical profession should be focused on as much.
Yeah, that's a big cultural shift,
to shift our view of sports players
from entertainers to humans,
and have some kind of interest in their longevity.
Right. Yeah, totally.
And like being aware of them as a human instead of.
Yeah. Yeah.
We hang out with a group of 55 year old NFL players,
they're nearly near the end of their natural life,
if they were like on the offensive line.
Those guys don't have a long life expectancy.
And a lot of times, even with a lot of wealth,
it's not very happy.
And I don't wanna roll this up
in a whole different conversation,
but that is something I feel powerfully about.
Right on, fair enough.
So let's talk about the last of the three categories.
We talked about strengthening and building muscles,
endurance sports like swimming and running.
For myself, I play racquetball.
And I absolutely know that I play differently
with a little bit of THC in my body.
If I smoked it, it may actually decrease my breath
a little bit, cause I happen to have asthma.
But I swear, I've got like a sixth sense
of where the ball is gonna go.
I see the physics better.
I attempt and succeed more aggressive shots.
And so what's your take on that?
Is it just, am I getting more creative?
Am I just more less averse to risk?
Like what about these dexterity and mobility-based sports
where you have to visualize where a sport action
is gonna take place, and then you have to go and do it?
The fun part about all of this is that
because the endocannabinoids and the receptors
that cannabis works on are so everywhere in the brain,
then you can just think about the neuroscience
of performance and think, well, cannabis
could totally influence that.
All the ways you're talking about,
whether it influences you with greater risk-taking
or sort of sensory motor visual performance.
That said, I certainly do have a way to consider this
in that the neural circuits in our brain
and spinal cord that are involved
with executing motor behavior are where some
of the greatest expressions of cannabinoid receptors are.
And we know that the learning and unlearning
of behavioral habits involve endocannabinoid signaling.
And for example, I look at the cerebellum.
The cerebellum is part of the brain that sits in the back.
Actually, the name means little brain.
It is, anybody who studied brain function knows
that the cerebellum is involved with coordination and timing.
And in clinical symptoms of ataxia,
various forms of ataxia,
discoordinated symptoms are related to cerebellar damage.
The cerebellum, what it does
on a neural circuit level simplified
is it's constantly processing where your body is in space,
like what's actually happening with your body
using input from what we call proprioceptors.
If you close your eyes and raise your hand,
you can feel very much where your body is
because the proprioceptive input is telling your brain
and it's going through the cerebellum to do so.
The cerebellum is not only constantly measuring
what your body's actually doing,
but it is comparing it with what you intend to do
and what you expect to happen.
And all of these things, like the angle of the racket ball,
the angle of the ball coming back off the wall,
how you integrate that with the weight,
the velocity with which you saw it hitting the wall,
you know how hard your opponent hit it,
you heard the sound of it,
you saw where it hit,
you've got a memory of how your opponent
throws a wicked spin on it.
All of those kinds of things build a projection
in your mind of where that ball's gonna go.
And to get there, you have to coordinate
what your body's actually doing with what you're expecting
and what's going on in real time.
And again, the neuroscience of this is very,
of course it's fascinating and it's very mainstream
to think that our heads and our brains evolved
to make these kinds of computations.
And the endocannabinoids are really involved with that.
In the cerebellar cortex,
where a lot of the circuitry is involved,
every single synapse is regulated by endocannabinoids.
So in that route, it's not surprising
that much of the research has looked at,
hey, how does weed impair you?
It's not surprising that high doses of THC
will gum up your coordination.
You know, there's absolutely a way to overdo it
and take so much that it's gonna impact
your game negatively.
But if a judicious, you know,
more micro sort of dosing of cannabis
helps you get in your game and feel that,
there's all kinds of biological rationale
for why that would be the case.
And there are forms of very laboratory controlled
cerebellar learning in animals
that are dependent on cannabinoid receptors to happen.
It doesn't happen as well
when you don't have the CB1 receptor.
And, you know, that's part of the,
I guess to step back from that a little bit,
to segue into what would be like a broader
sort of gestalt of this conversation,
and other conversations.
I speculate a lot about how cannabis
could enhance performance,
because I think the underlying neurobiology
and physiology is there.
But also because there aren't very many people in the world
who worked with these genetic knockouts earlier than I did.
I'm talking about mice that don't have
can CB1 cannabinoid receptors.
I've been studying that sort of genetic study system.
I mean, I'm not in the lab 24 seven now,
but it's not about my experience.
The point is the data show us over and over again,
lots of different labs that animals,
mammals that don't have CB1 cannabinoid receptors,
live lives that are shorter, more inflammation prone,
more seizure prone, more metabolically messed up.
And again, they're prone to early deaths,
all of these kinds of things.
And they run less.
We know this too.
CB1 knockout mice are less prone
to running on an exercise wheel.
So it's part of how our brains evolve
for endocannabinoids to be master tuners
of the rhythms of our brain.
Endocannabinoids help to tune them.
And when and where and how the compounds in cannabis
might improve that in a beneficial way,
that has to shake out empirically.
And if you're an N of one and using cannabis a little bit
helps you improve your game,
I think that is every bit as believable and justifiable,
explainable as it is to say that Louis Armstrong
was better playing trumpet when he was a little bit high.
For sure.
It's these kinds of things.
And not to speak for a past revered musician
who we know used cannabis,
but I've been around a lot of musicians in my life
who, again, you can overdo it,
but that it also can play a role
in your motor performance, your dexterity.
And we don't have any clinical data
to say you're gonna be a better guitar player
or racquetball player by microdosing cannabis first.
But this science does help us understand better who we are.
And one thing I've learned from healers of all stripes,
whether they are accepted by the medical establishment
or not, is that the story we tell ourselves matters.
Our perspectives on healing matters,
our perspective on optimum performance matters.
There are systems of our body that help to promote that,
that we can access,
the endocannabinoid system being a master player among them.
And there's a plant that helps us interact
with that endocannabinoid system.
And there's a reason why it has been revered
across human culture since before human language.
Beautiful.
That's a great wrap up.
So let's pause there and go to our last commercial break.
And then when we come back,
we'll talk about a whole bunch of variables to this.
You are listening to Shaping Fire.
And my guest today is Greg Gerdeman,
Chief Scientific Officer at Three Boys Farm.
As a listener of Shaping Fire,
you already understand the importance of living soil
when growing cannabis.
When you have active microbe communities in your substrate,
you go way beyond simply fertilizing
with nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium.
Having active microorganisms in your substrate
supports vigorous plant growth
throughout the plant's root zone,
making for higher yields and thriving flowers.
Mammoth pea is the first organically derived
microbial inoculant that focuses
on your plant's nutrient cycling processes
to release soil phosphorus and other micronutrients
from their bound forms,
making them more available to the plant.
Increased levels of phosphorus
will also keep inner nodes shorter
and focus your plant's energy on bud production.
Not only that, but the microbes act as a defense shield
for the plant's rhizosphere
by outcompeting potentially harmful pathogenic microbes.
Pretty cool, right?
Mammoth pea not only unlocks the nutrients in your soil,
but it also helps protect your plant from disease.
Mammoth pea's beneficial bacteria
act like microbioreactors,
continually producing enzymes that release nutrients.
Mammoth pea was developed at a US university
and has been extensively tested
by Colorado growers and independent laboratories.
Mammoth pea is proven to increase growth
and enhance blooming.
One of the great things about supplementing
with microorganisms is that they won't compete
with whatever fertilizer program you're already running.
Simply dose on top of your fertilizer schedule
for increased benefits.
To learn more and to find out
where you can buy mammoth pea near you,
check out their website at www.mammothmicrobes.com.
Partner with microorganisms
to create beautiful, thriving cannabis, mammoth pea.
Did you know that Shaping Fire
has a fabulous YouTube channel
with content not found on the podcast?
When I attend conventions or speak or moderate panels,
I always record them
and bring the content home for you to watch.
The Shango Los YouTube channel has world-class speakers,
including Kevin Jodry of Wonderland Nursery,
talking about breeding cannabis
for the best terpene profile.
Nicholas Mahmood on regenerative
and polyculture cannabis growing.
Dr. Sunil Agarwal on the history
of cannabis medicine around the world.
Ben Cassidy of True Terpenes
on using terpenes for health in your everyday life.
Reggie Godino of Steep Hill on the cannabis genome.
And Jeff Lowenfels on the soil food web.
There are several presentations
from Dr. Ethan Russo on terpenes
and the endocannabinoid system.
And even my own presentation
on how to approach finding your dream job in cannabis
and why we choose cannabis business
even though the risks are so high.
As of today, there are over 100 videos
that you can check out for absolutely free.
Go to youtube.com forward slash shangolos
or click on the link in this week's newsletter.
Welcome back, you are listening to Shaping Fire.
I'm your host, Shango Los.
And our guest this week is Greg Gerdeman,
Chief Scientific Officer at Three Boys Farm.
So Greg, let's take a step back
from the specifics of sports physiology
and let's talk about cardiovascular health.
Because even people who are not actively working out
or playing a particular sport,
they wanna have, they wanna be heart healthy,
if you will, right?
And it's weird, I've been a toker
pretty much my whole life.
I've also been a fan of the Beastie Boys
pretty much my entire life.
And they've got this one song called Heart Attack Man.
And they're talking about this guy
and he does a lot of stuff that I don't do, right?
Like he's into, he's drinking a lot
and he's going to fast food.
But the part that I always remember
is they talk about him getting high
and then playing basketball
and they're waiting for him to drop dead on the court, right?
And so somewhere that got put in my brain
that whenever I'm working out,
and more endurance stuff
and my heart starts pounding and I'm high,
I always just kind of in the back of my mind
think I'm just gonna like drop over dead.
And I don't have any evidence for it.
And I've been to my doctor and she's all like,
no, you're not at risk, like you're fine.
And no, she won't approve a stress test for me
so I can make sure.
But she's like, there's no reason for you
to be concerned about this.
And I'm like, but the Beastie Boys.
And that doesn't get me anywhere.
So let's talk about cardiovascular health
because that's like one of the worst things
in the United States.
How can our use of cannabis help us to have healthy hearts
that won't crap out on us?
Well, I mean, if it helps to,
in the ways we've been talking about to promote exercise,
there's a indirect thing.
But I certainly don't wanna come across
like cannabis being a magic pill
towards better heart health.
There's good measures, I think public health outcomes
from survey basis that cannabis users are in general
tend towards better health.
But there are concerns around cardiovascular issues.
I mean, it could be that cannabis,
this is a weird thing.
I stutter because this is a place
where the human observation in what I've talked about,
like with better body mass index, for example,
doesn't exactly line up with some of the concerns
that have been raised in animal research
that there's greater fat deposition, for example,
that part of what the CB1 cannabinoid receptor does
is not only promote feeding behavior,
but it helps promote the storage of fats.
And if the storage of fats helps to create metabolic
or cardiovascular risk,
well then maybe that would be some indication
against ICHC for chronic use.
But we don't really know.
There hasn't been, in my view,
big red flags about cardiac risk
or long-term cardiac improvement.
I'd like to see more stuff
about breaking down cannabis users and controlled studies
and looking at real cardiovascular performance profiles,
whether it's heart rate variability
or ejection fraction and under stress, that kind of thing.
I do know that, again, it is animal research,
but a study that was published very prominently
a few years ago out of Germany showed that in mice,
which do get atherosclerosis,
and that's like the hardening of the arteries
that is sort of the primary risk factor
and predictor of larger cardiovascular disease,
in mice, especially if fed a Western diet,
atherosclerosis absolutely happens.
And in mice that were fed daily, really low doses of THC,
the severity of atherosclerosis
and plaque formation related to it was significantly reduced.
I mean, this was like published in Nature,
a top scientific journal in the world.
And it was very low dose.
It was something like 0.01 milligrams per kilogram,
which is very low for an animal study.
And it showed reduced atherosclerosis.
Does that mean like a low dose sort of wellness level,
like regular cannabis consumption
could help limit atherosclerosis,
which leads to coronary vascular disease, number one killer?
It might, it might, whether you smoke it
or ingest it in some other way.
And I should speak,
if we're talking about cardiovascular health,
about the worry for adverse outcomes
in that smoking cannabis, taking THC does lead
to a increased heart rate.
And clinically we'll call it tachycardia.
There's a transient tachycardia increased heart rate
that happens.
And it's part of what supports panic attacks
when people have taken more than they were expecting
or knew how to expect.
When that edible starts kicking in in the second hour
and you took way too much and your heart starts racing,
that as can create a negative spiral.
Again, it is transient.
And even within sort of low dose sessions,
you adjust to that.
But people who have emergent cardiovascular disease
and or maybe at a high risk of stroke, for example,
because they've already, they know they've got
the potential for clots,
if they're taking medicines for that,
then they should be cautious around going too high with T
because there are people who can suffer a stroke
or a cardiac incident simply from having
an increased heart rate.
And then that is a side effect.
It's something for people I can ask.
Even when we first published our exercise study
showing that the runner's joy is related
to endocannabinoid signaling, maybe it was you.
I'd certainly talked to people who asked me,
all right, so somebody wanting to get back to exercise
can be happy about it.
I'm like, yeah, but if you're someone
who's recovering from a heart attack
and you are not used to jogging,
you don't wanna just boost that with a hit off a joint
and then go run without taking some consideration.
Even that said, I mean, there's not strong clinical data
that people are at increased risks of heart attacks,
but there have been some studies to suggest
that patients who, there have been some clinical findings
of patient with stroke, with a heart attack
who had been smoking beforehand and that cause and effect
in those incidences may be related.
So it's always been my understanding or belief, I guess,
cause I don't have a lot of evidence for this,
is that the reason why the heart rate increases
with smoking THC, or I guess if you're taking enough edible,
but the point is, is that it drops my blood pressure,
which causes the heart have to pump faster
to make up for the dropping of the blood pressure.
And so is that scientifically accurate
or is that just a myth that I grabbed onto?
No, that makes sense in that it can,
because it vasodilates, it can drop your blood pressure
and that can create exactly that
with lower blood returning to the heart,
it will compensate by increasing the rate.
But it also works in the autonomic control
of the heartbeat itself and can create
a transient increase in heart rate,
even if you're sitting down,
which shouldn't really be accompanied
with too much problems from blood pressure.
Right on, some people do take THC-based tinctures
to lower their blood pressure.
Do you think that to get that lowering of the blood pressure
it necessitates also having the increase of heart rate?
I kind of, you know, I was under the general idea
that the pounding of the heart rate
was more related to particular terpene profiles
and the excitement of the adrenals,
but then also I know about this other decreasing
of the blood pressure aspect of it as well.
So I'm not really sure how that dynamic works.
Yeah, well, I think if somebody said
they were sure about it, they'd be pulling your leg.
This is complex.
That's fair enough, yeah.
There's a lot that hasn't been studied.
I like, I mean, you're bringing in the adrenals
and the release of epinephrine from there,
that could be part of it.
But no, I don't think anybody really knows.
And I too, you know, there hasn't been
a real well-controlled study that I know of
just looking at changes in resting blood pressure
in people who might be, you know,
sort of baseline hypertensive.
But I have, again, with just these clinical anecdotal
findings of people who have found success,
I've talked to many people over the years
who are like, I started using cannabis for X, Y, Z,
and my physician came back to me and said,
your blood pressure's great.
What are you doing?
Keep it up.
You know, and is that clinical evidence?
Well, you know, not at the standard
that we tend to operate when we're talking about medicines
and improving medicines,
but it's a clinical outcome that I've seen,
I've heard discussed, you know, in a repeated way.
And I'd love to know if cannabis use
can increase and lower the blood pressure
of someone who's running high.
I'd sure love to help find out
who benefits in that way and when.
And if there are variations in terpene constituents
that play a role in that, that's perfectly conceivable.
But even, you know, there you get into that whole new angle
of terpenes and all of their mechanisms of function
are far from clear in the most part.
That's judiciously said.
Yeah, it is.
Things are effective at exquisitely low concentrations
a lot of times.
And, you know, people say things like,
oh, mercine helps THC cross the blood brain barrier.
But this is speculation.
There's not good data to show those things.
So, so far today, we've talked about using cannabis
in a lot of different ways to help your human body
in a bunch of different ways.
Similarly, cannabis can be ingested
by different methods, right?
There's combustion smoking or a vape pen
or my favorite, tincture.
What are your thoughts on, you know,
the best mode to ingest cannabinoids
based on the different goals we've been talking about today?
I mean, the bottom line is always gonna be
that it depends on the person
and how things respond and work well for them.
But if you are, if you're wanting a rapid mode of action,
you know, that maybe it's,
certainly if you're talking about
breakthrough symptom control, you know,
we're talking about medicine,
but today we're trying to talk about performance.
And again, you know, back to our earlier talk, you know,
if you wanna sort of find a place
that you become familiar with,
that's a good zone for your fitness,
then a fast onset like a vape,
or vaping oil, vaping flour, taking a hit,
that may be what is most effective for you.
And if you're not scared of cannabis,
it may be the kind of thing to suggest first
because you can get a better sense of,
yeah, this is how quickly this works.
But tinctures and sublingual application
can certainly come on pretty fast too.
And I'm a big fan, like you said,
of tinctures and sublingual oils.
I mean, in both for, even, I mean,
I'm a growing fan of, you know, the decarboxylated,
I mean, the raw acids.
I think they're highly underestimated
and that people could be popping those in tinctures
to great health benefit.
Whether it would improve performance, not sure,
but it is a quick mode of action.
And then when you've got, again,
thinking back about performance and mobility,
back to my story of a buddy who long ago told me
that they would eat edibles and go on a run,
people who have the kind of sport that involves endurance,
some sort of edible product might be what they find works
to help prolong their zone,
their flow state if they get there,
and maybe through the mechanism I mentioned earlier,
maybe there's a way to help prevent muscle fatigue
or promote muscle function.
So, you know, it does come down
to what people empirically find works for them.
And at this point anyway, and I'd love to see a day
where we've got some stronger repeatability
and I can give more recommendations to the naive user,
but right now I would be cautious about it.
Right on.
We talk a lot about individualized medicine on this show.
And I would say that this feels a lot like the same way.
It's like, okay, for me, I may like to use
a one-to-one THC and CBD tincture
for overall endocannabinoid health
and after workout healing from running into the wall
or the racquetball court and all.
But when I'm gonna go lift
and I really wanna be in the moment,
well, then I'm gonna take a small hit off my one hitter,
you know, of a little bubble hat or something.
And I guess that really is it.
I guess the point here is to encourage folks
to not assume that all of these solutions
are going to be inhaled-based
and make sure that you consider the range of modalities
that we've got now,
which is the most anybody's ever had in human history.
And so don't feel like it has to be smoking.
Just like when you explain to patients
that they don't have to smoke only,
kind of blows their mind a little bit for the first time.
Right, I mean, we haven't even talked about topicals
in this performance piece,
because that is, I do tend to think more
in terms of very local inflammation,
but there are different, all kinds of different modes.
I mean, when we're talking about sublingual oils,
I mean, some dissolvable strip
might be very effective as well.
But, you know, it's,
I'm not gonna go out proselytizing to people
about that bringing cannabis into their life
is gonna make everything or make it all better,
but a lot of people are using and enjoy
and feel like cannabis increases their quality of life.
And if you wanna bring that into
supporting a physical fitness routine,
yeah, do that, because it might help.
And it's so safe to experiment with.
Think about, don't think that you're just limited
to taking a hit off a joint before you do it,
but try a tincture 15 minutes
before you start working out and see.
You may, don't gauge whether it's working
by whether you feel high.
Gauge whether it's working with whether it,
you worked out well, you feel good about it.
Yeah, absolutely.
It doesn't take anything away from us
to put value on the medicine, you know,
by saying, oh, the medicine helped me.
It doesn't take anything.
You helped yourself by using a plant product
that works with how you evolved, you know.
Again, the story that we tell each other ourselves matters.
Yeah, there's a video that I recently put on
the Shaping Fire YouTube channel.
There's a, I'm running a series there right now.
The second Shaping Fire sessions I did was with Ethan Russo.
The first one was with Kevin Jodry.
Ethan is very adamant that there is a great deal
of cannabis efficacy below the intoxication mark.
And so many people think that you need to get high
to get the benefits,
but anti-inflammatory is a great example.
Serious anti-inflammatory patients
will take 2.5 milligrams every three to four hours
throughout the day and be at work.
And they've got active cannabinoids,
including THC in their bloodstream all day long,
and yet they don't feel anything.
Yeah, absolutely.
It's right on.
I've learned a lot from Ethan in that regard.
And I parrot him quite a lot here in Florida
where we've got, you know, medical cannabis landscape.
And let me tell you,
it's hard to go to a dispensary as they exist in Florida
and find those low dose.
I mean, to be able to take something really easy
at a 2.5 milligram level repeatedly,
the companies that play in Florida
are more interested in higher dose products.
And, you know, I'm not dismissing high dose
and that that's valuable medicine for the kind of-
It's got its place too, exactly.
Yeah, but, no, exactly.
You don't have to titrate to feeling high,
but to improvement,
whether you're talking about symptom management
or in this case,
we're taking it to a different level
of wellness performance, you know,
improving functionality and mobility
and helping us live our best selves, you know?
What do you think about these CBD isolate vape pens
that we're starting to see, you know,
sports people hitting on during press conferences and stuff?
I mean, I know that generally
you're a whole plant guy like I am, right?
We wanna use the whole plant, but they're so in vogue.
And I know that there are people
who are listening to the show
because they're like, oh, cannabis and exercise.
And then their sports heroes are like pushing
or being coming attached to these CBD isolate pens.
But for me, I think that isolate, you know,
unless you're getting your whole plant somewhere else
and you're just spiking your regular daily use
with some extra CBD isolate,
using CBD isolate on its own
doesn't sound like a great idea to me,
but what are your thoughts?
You know, I'm not interested.
I'm just not.
It's, see, there's, I don't wanna disparage
any athletes stepping out and supporting CBD in any way.
And I've really enjoyed meeting some great athletes
in the cannabis space.
And I praise them for coming out and helping normalize it
because nobody helps to normalize the conversation
better than these athletes that we really,
as a society, tend to worship, you know?
And it's great.
And CBD is a great compound, you know?
It's amazing how things have shifted,
but it's up for us to be dismissing CBD in any way, right?
Because CBD is great.
It's part of the medicine.
But yeah, the isolate, eh,
that's not what I wanna be involved in developing.
It's not ever gonna be my first choice as a product.
And it's gotta be cut with other agents
because CBD, and by that I mean diluted,
there's something else in a vape pen than CBD
because CBD doesn't stay in solution very well.
You know, you talk to people in the business
and they might say something like it sugars out
or it crystals up or what,
meaning it comes out of solution.
And CBD does that very well.
And so there will be something else added
to help it dissolve.
And that's something you're breathing in.
And I'm cautious about that stuff.
Again, I'm not trying to dismiss any athletes,
but I also know that the CBD market is booming
because it's cheap,
there's huge interest going into the production.
And a subset of athletes, I mean,
companies seek them out
to give them these endorsement opportunities.
And, you know, again,
that sounds like I'm speaking negatively about them.
I am not, but CBD isolate pen as a product,
not interested.
Right on, I hear that.
And that makes sense.
And I think that the only reason that CBD isolate
it got so hot in the first place
is because it's an artificial market, right?
We've got, we still have got federal prohibition
of whole plant.
And for the moment, you know,
CBD isolate is only being selectively enforced
by the federal government based on the claims
that you're making from it, right?
So even though it's schedule one,
they're not actually going around the country
and busting people.
What they're busting people is for saying,
you cannot say that CBD will solve your,
whatever your issue is.
So they're like, you can't say that,
but they're not busting people for having it.
If we have federal whole plant legal everywhere,
CBD isolate would just disappear
because whole plant was so much more effective,
but there's artificial prohibitions on it.
And therefore thus CBD isolate world, you know?
Right, right.
I think so.
And there's so much cannabis, you know,
so call them type three cannabis varieties,
hemp varieties, whatever that are CBD producers.
As you know very well,
there's so much growing now in North America
and part of the boom in that CBD isolate
is because it's been imported in mass in huge volumes,
not as hemp flower, but as, you know,
this first extract sludge that comes in
from so many different places
and gets then refined and distilled down into CBD.
And there's a, for all these market reasons, it exists.
And now we're living in a space where, you know,
grocery stores and health food stores
are talking about selling CBD products.
It's in CVS.
I think Urban Outfitters is the last one I read today
is gonna start carrying CBD oils.
And I hope that they are oils.
I hope there's so much growing now
and a market to support farmers that are, you know,
growing and having a good farming life
that whole spectrum are fuller, less processed oils
that isn't taken down to the powder
and sold around as a molecular commodity.
Let's keep, you know, let's keep cannabis flower
and cannabis extract oils as the health and wellness
and supplement commodity
and not just boiling it down to molecules.
And I think, you know, I'm as classically trained
molecular pharmacology guy as you get,
but that's where I stand with it.
Yeah, I totally agree with you.
And I think that this is another great place
for us to plug home growing, right?
Like, you know, find a chemo bar that you like,
grow it in your backyard over the summer,
make your own tincture or smoke it yourself
and know exactly what you have.
I'm never gonna speak against home grow.
Sometimes I've been paid by entrants,
by entities that, you know,
want to have more of a market control,
but whether it's a medicine or, you know,
I just, I think we have the human right to access this plant
and nothing makes it more accessible
than having a plant that you tend and learning from it.
So yeah, I'm not against that.
Right on.
Well, Greg, thank you so much
for sharing your vast experience with us.
It was really great because, you know,
you've got this unique combination where, you know,
all these years teaching anatomy and physiology,
but then also your, you know, endocannabinoid research,
you provided a great entree to this,
this nexus of ideas.
So thank you so much for taking your time
and joining us and being on the show.
It's my pleasure.
Thanks for putting me on.
Fantastic, brother.
So if you want to connect with Greg Gerdeman
or actually just to follow along with what he's up to,
the best way to do that is to go to his Instagram
and that's Ganjanesh.
So that's at G-A-N-J-A-N-E-S-H.
And also while you're at it,
if you want to hear more interesting insights from Greg,
go ahead and go back to Shaping Fire episode 14,
all about synthetic cannabinoids.
And Greg breaks down what the heck these things are
and why they are not naturally occurring cannabinoids
and why they are so much more dangerous for the human body
compared to naturally occurring cannabinoids,
which are not dangerous at all.
You can find more episodes of the Shaping Fire podcast
and subscribe to the show at shapingfire.com
and on Apple iTunes, Stitcher, and Google Play.
If you enjoyed the show, we'd really appreciate it
if you'd leave a positive review of the podcast
wherever you download.
Your review will help others find the show
so they can enjoy it too.
On the Shaping Fire website,
you can also subscribe to the weekly newsletter
for insights into the latest cannabis news
and product reviews.
On the Shaping Fire website,
you will also find transcripts of today's podcast as well.
For information on me and where I'll be speaking,
you can check out shangolose.com.
Does your company wanna reach our national audience
of cannabis enthusiasts?
Email hotspot at shapingfire.com to find out how.
Thanks for listening to Shaping Fire.
I've been your host, Shango Lose.
