There is no doubt that after sheer curiosity,
the most common reason people become interested
in cannabis is pain.
Pain is terrible.
It interrupts our lives, occupies our minds and emotions,
and becomes the boss of everything.
Pain takes the last of our will to do things,
limits our activities, and is emotionally crushing
as it repeats incessantly that things are out
of our control and that we are living in a broken body.
All the drugs commonly prescribed by Western doctors
offer little help, cost a great deal,
and in the end, often leave us craving
and addicted physically, which just adds
to our feeling of powerlessness.
It doesn't matter if you have carpal tunnel,
a broken back, an incurable disease,
or are just too sore from working in the garden.
Pain limits us and weighs on us emotionally.
But prior to prohibition, the American pharmacopeia
was filled with uses for cannabis
to fight a variety of pain.
Humans have been using cannabis for pain
and discomfort for generations, and it worked.
But now that prohibition is unraveling,
we have access to cannabis medicine like never before.
It is incredibly safe, far safer than prescriptions,
and can be grown and prepared at home.
If you wanna learn about cannabis health,
business, and technique efficiently and with good cheer,
I encourage you to subscribe to our newsletter.
We'll send you new podcast episodes as they come out,
delivered right to your inbox, along with commentary
on a couple of the most important news items
from the week and videos too.
Don't rely on social media to let you know
when a new episode is published.
Sign up for the updates to make sure
you don't miss an episode.
Also, we give away very cool prizes to folks
who are signed up to receive the newsletter.
There's nothing else you need to do to win
except receive that newsletter.
So go to shapingfire.com to sign up for the newsletter
and be entered into this month's
and all future newsletter prize drawings.
If your company budgeted thousands of dollars
for cannabis conventions in 2020, which are all canceled now,
I invite you to consider moving your marketing investment
to Shaping Fire.
For only a fraction of what it would cost you
to attend just one convention, you can advertise
for nearly a year on Shaping Fire.
It has been a busy few weeks as other companies
have reached out to Shaping Fire because their whole year
of customer outreach events were just canceled
and they are scrambling for new ways
to reach their customers.
The audience for Shaping Fire is made up
of curious cannabis enthusiasts,
entrepreneurs, and home growers,
and you can reach them for less than the price
of a postcard each.
Email hotspot at shapingfire.com to find out more.
You are listening to Shaping Fire
and I'm your host, Shango Lose.
Today my guest is cannabis pharmacologist, Aidy Ray.
Dr. Ray, PhD, is a National Institutes
of Health-funded neuroscientist
who has been studying cannabis, opioids,
and their interaction for her entire career.
She has a strong publication record in chronic pain,
addiction, and harm reduction.
Dr. Ray is currently an assistant scientist
at Legacy Research Institute in Portland, Oregon,
and holds a joint faculty appointment
at Washington State University.
She is also co-founder of Smart Cannabis,
a data-driven cannabis consultancy focused
on connecting all humans with the best cannabis
for their needs.
They also produce one of America's most respected
cannabis competitions and education events,
the Cultivation Classic in Portland, Oregon.
Today we're gonna talk about transitioning
from using opioids to cannabis for treating pain.
Welcome to the show, Aidy.
Thank you, Shango.
It's so great to be here.
I really appreciate you sharing
some of your valuable time with us.
I know that even during a pandemic,
you are busy, busy, busy.
So thank you so much for joining us.
You bet.
So let's get right into it.
You know, since we're gonna be talking a lot
about how opiates and cannabis moderate
the experience of pain,
I think we should probably get all on the same page
about what pain is and how we experience it biologically.
So let's start with that.
What's going on physically in the brain that senses pain?
Sure.
Pain is a very useful phenomenon.
It is a feedback system that our body uses
to keep us alive.
If we didn't have pain,
we wouldn't know that we were encountering things
in our environment that are potentially hazardous
to our tissue and to our lives.
So a great example of this is people
who have a congenital insensitivity to pain.
So that is, you know, they can walk over coals
and they can break their arm and they can burn their hands
and have absolutely no idea.
And these individuals end up living very short lives
because we actually need that feedback from our environment
to protect our tissue and our lives.
So pain is the phenomenon where our central nervous system,
our brain, registers noxious information
from our environment.
Now that's all well and good,
but there are a lot of conditions
under which that system goes haywire.
So for instance, you know,
if you have an individual with an amputee,
that individual can often end up developing
phantom limb pain.
That is, they have pain in the absence
of that biological thing that the pain is trying to protect.
So that example tells us that there's something more
than just you have nerves out in your fingertips
and in your arms and in your skin,
which are transferring information about the environment
into the spinal cord.
And that signal is being sent up to the brain
and the brain is putting together a picture
of what the environment is like.
So it's more complex than, you know,
merely a sensory system
that is integrating information inside of our brain.
The brain really has a powerful role
in constructing what the environment
and what the body is going through.
So pain, although it is a useful thing,
it also can really go haywire
and a lot of those things that go wrong
happen at the level of the brain,
not necessarily at the level of the tissue.
That phantom limb example that you gave,
I find extraordinarily interesting.
It has been explained to me before
that pain takes place in the brain.
And, you know, I normally find that
to be kind of a semantic difference
that's not incredibly helpful to patients,
but it is very interesting when talking about
secession of pain with opiates and cannabis.
And yet, occasionally I'll come across
a healthcare worker who says,
no, describing that pain is in the brain
is very helpful for patients
because it allows them to have an understanding
that they can manage their pain
with thought and perspective and with drugs
instead of they are a victim to their hip or whatever.
Right, yes.
It's a really complex thing.
It really is, and you're absolutely true
that pain does take place in the brain.
And we have a whole network of brain structures
that are involved in constructing that picture for us.
And when I was an early postdoc,
my first year as a postdoc in Sydney,
I went to a talk that was given by a number of folks
who were involved in clinical pain work.
And at the time, Australia was really cutting edge
in their view of pain because they actually gave
chronic pain its own disease category.
Like pain is a disease, chronic pain is a disease.
And that still doesn't really have, you know,
chronic pain doesn't have that kind of recognition
here in North America.
And so I'm at this talk as, you know,
a budding pharmacologist and physiologist.
You know, my job was to measure neurotransmitter release
that was being released from neurons in brain slices.
Hard, hardcore physiology and pharmacology,
you know, drugs interacting with the brain receptors
and then, you know, changes happening in neuron activity.
And I'm watching this talk and I'm seeing these patients
and I'm hearing them describe their lives
and how they're able to have these
absolutely debilitating injuries.
And yet they wake up every day and they say,
yeah, you know, my pain's at about an eight today,
you know, sitting here in front of you in this chair.
And you're like, what?
How can you be physically registering
so much bodily sensation and yet totally nonplussed,
just completely fine with it?
And, you know, from this talk,
I really began to understand
that the cognitive component of coping with pain,
walking with pain, living beside pain,
that ability resides wholly in our brain.
That is totally within our control.
And it really is, you know,
a testament to the power of our thought,
the power of our cognition and our attention.
What we pay attention to grows and magnifies.
And it's not that you necessarily turn your attention
away from the pain,
although, you know, that is one coping strategy.
It's more shifting your attention to something else.
So, you know, and as a pharmacologist, I'm like,
well, what the heck am I doing?
You know, what is my,
here I am trying to like make better pain therapies
and make better drugs.
And, you know, all we need is meditation
and coping strategies and cognitive behavioral therapy
and biofeedback.
Okay, I quit.
So you're absolutely right.
You know, pain lives in the brain
and we have an enormous amount of power and control over it
if we can learn the tools to harness it.
You know, we'll talk a lot more about cannabis
as a distractant later on,
but I wanna double down on your experience
with the powerful mental capabilities of pain patients.
You know, I'm very grateful
that I haven't had a lot of pain in my life,
except when I had an injury and rotated my L5
and was in like a hysterical amount of pain
more than I'd ever been in my life
where I was just like squirming on the doctor's table
because my mind was just all, was all bright.
And when I meet patients through, you know,
teaching about cannabis medicine
and traveling for it and everything,
and I meet these folks and like you said,
they are having an eight day,
but they are presenting themselves as calm, cool,
and collected at the talk or whatever.
And then, you know, we get together kind of like on the side
and we sit next to each other and we talk
and I'm trying to understand the nature of their pain
so I can make some sort of recommendation to them
because that's what they're there for.
And the more we talk about it,
it brings them mentally away from their,
I don't know, let's say meditative life
where they're just, they're focusing on the doingness of life
and intentionally distracting themselves from the pain.
But as they describe it more in detail,
you can see the defenses coming down.
And, you know, very often by the time we're done
understanding the nature of their pain,
they are shaking and in tears.
And the only thing that's changed
is that part of us doing, you know,
what we were there to do was they needed
to let down their guard and be vulnerable for a moment.
And when they let down their guard,
I got to truly see the pain expressed through them.
And, you know, it's very difficult
as somebody who's trying to help somebody
to not get like sucked into that experience
of compassion with them and start crying too, right?
I got to tell you, working with pain patients
and getting to know them and being one for a while
in a small way really has given me huge respect
for people who deal with chronic pain every day.
Absolutely.
There's a couple of things in there that I want to unpack.
One of which is that attention, right?
So when you're paying attention
and you're really digging in and looking at it
and describing it and putting words to it,
I'm gonna talk about that.
And then I also, let's start there.
So in that attention,
I worked with a fibromyalgia patient once who told me,
you know, I noticed that on my worst pain days,
those were the days I was taking my opioids.
And I couldn't tell if, you know,
I was taking the opioids because it was my worst pain day
or if my pain was worse because I was spending so much time
thinking about should I take a half a pill
or should I take a whole pill today?
So just the body scan, the physical body scan
of looking for the pain,
that's what makes the pain real, right?
So she was going through her process
of waking up in the morning and doing her body scan
and just by paying attention to it,
that's what fed the need for her pain relievers.
Gosh, that makes total sense.
And that's so sad too.
Yeah, and I mean, could you think about like
how many individuals are doing that this morning, right?
Waking up and going, oh boy,
what kind of day is it gonna be today?
And really going in and looking for it
and digging into those things, you know?
And if you're over 35,
you can find that within your body if you really want to.
There's some spot that ails all of us
because that's what it's like to have a body.
But the other component that you talk about
is that emotional component of pain.
So my colleagues and I at Wash U in St. Louis,
we put out a paper in the journal Neuron last year
and it was in mice and some of it was in rats,
but what we demonstrated is that the physical,
the bodily sensation of pain
and the emotional or affective component of pain
are inseparable.
They are two symptoms of the same phenomenon
that are being driven by this little network in the brain.
So, you know, we have been going about treating pain
from the bodily, you know, sensation of it for many decades.
You know, that's the whole reason that opioids exist
is we've been trying to anesthetize
the physical sensations of pain with this drug.
But our work demonstrates that you can't just ignore
the emotional component of pain
because it is literally wrapped up
in the exact same brain areas
and the exact same mechanisms that are happening
with the bodily sensations of pain.
And we see this, you know,
roughly 80 plus percent of patients with chronic pain
also experience some kind of mood disorder
like anxiety, depression, or both.
So it's no surprise that, you know,
people who are in chronic pain also have depression
because that is literally the manifestation of chronic pain.
It has both a bodily component and an emotional component.
So whatever we do to treat pain, chronic pain,
we have to think of the organism holistically.
We have to think of the emotional wellbeing
as well as the physical wellbeing of the body.
Well, I really like the fact that you focus so much
on the vocabulary of pain as well.
And it's interesting, people who are new to their pain,
they often struggle to describe it
because, you know, luckily up to this point in their life,
they haven't had to describe it.
Whereas people who have had lifelong pain, you know,
they can describe it on a number chart
and they've got all these different flavors of it.
It's like, they've got like a Crayola box, you know,
of descriptors.
So let's talk about that for a moment
because so often people who are coming to cannabis for pain,
one of the challenges that they have
is delineating between the types of pain,
either for themselves like in their pain journal
or to the doctor.
And we know that there are different types of pain, right?
There's a big difference between the sharp and stabby pain
from a fresh fracture versus the kind of like
mind boggling everywhere experience
when you're having a flare up of rheumatoid arthritis, right?
So I don't actually know anything about
this part of the process.
What do you use as I guess a range of how to describe pain?
Well, you know, you're right in that no one's pain
is like anyone else's, right?
So it seems important to think about like,
is this throbbing?
Is it stabbing?
And in the clinic, those kinds of things are really useful
from a diagnosis perspective,
because you can say, ah, aha,
this is these kinds of descriptors
would indicate an inflammatory condition,
which means we need to treat it in this way
versus, oh, those kinds of descriptors
indicate some kind of neuropathy.
So some kind of damage to the nerves
or some kind of problem with the transmission
of the nerve signals.
So those kinds of pain are better treated
with these modalities.
So that kind of vocabulary is really important
in the clinic for diagnosing a path forward for treatment.
However, on the other hand,
I tend to make the argument that,
once you've gotten past that initial diagnosis stage
and you know what kind of pain you're dealing with,
then it doesn't really matter because it's all subjective.
It's all only happening to you inside of your own brain
from your perspective.
And no one's pain is similar.
You can have two individuals who have the exact same injury,
like a rib fracture, right?
Same rib, same spot,
and yet their descriptions of the pain,
how much the pain bothers them,
how that pain interferes with their life,
it's all totally different.
And so, yes, on the one hand,
being able to have words for your experience
is really helpful.
And it's also, when you're in a community setting
and you're getting support from other people
who have the same kind of ailment that you do,
it's really validating to hear,
oh, yes, that's exactly what I feel.
And it's so comforting to know
that another human being feels what I feel.
But on the other hand,
it's totally subjective and irrelevant
because all that matters is how you feel.
And so if you're feeling bad in any way,
whatever those bad words are,
then that's a starting point
for how can we start feeling better?
How can we shift the attention, the conversation,
the treatment, the therapy, your day?
How can we shift all of that
so that whatever descriptors you're using,
you start to feel better?
Let's follow up on that because it is so common.
I like your example of the same dislocated rib
in the same place,
and two people will have different experiences of pain.
It is so incredibly common
that the person who's experiencing more pain,
whereas other people experience less pain,
are written off as being a wuss.
Like they can't handle it.
They're immature.
They're being a baby about it.
And I always think that invalidating somebody else's pain
is not legitimate.
And certainly there are situations
where we want to encourage someone
to not focus on their pain, which is a different thing.
But invalidating a patient having their pain invalidated
by friends, family, or even a health practitioner
is just wrong.
And I just wanna hear what you have to say about that.
I mean, to me, the perfect example
is the hysterical woman, right?
For how many hundreds of years,
women do experience more chronic pain,
and women have more painful things
that are associated with childbirth and reproduction,
hormonal imbalance.
And for many hundreds of years,
that was completely invalidated,
and we were seen as the weaker sex,
and we were shunned by psychotherapists.
And that to me is like the most extreme example
of totally invalidating someone else's experience.
And I feel very grateful that now we live in a time
where we are slowly being able to recognize
that each individual's reality has as much value
as anyone else's reality.
I'm really inspired by my undergrad students
who come through the laboratory,
and these are privileged white kids
who go to a private school,
and yet at the same time, they go,
oh, I'm sorry, I can't talk about that.
That's a trigger for me.
And everyone respects that.
They're like, wow, this is a next evolution in humanity
we're talking about here.
So I'm really encouraged by this idea
that we're all coming to accept
that if this is real for you, then it's real for you.
Right on.
So I imagine that in a chronic pain textbook in the school,
there's a chapter on the different types of pain.
And there's a section on inflammation,
and there's a section on nerve damage.
And you study chronic pain intensely and for years.
And so will you give us a general understanding
of the different categories of chronic pain?
Yeah, certainly.
For me, they fall into three big buckets,
which two of which you mentioned already,
the inflammatory pain, the neuropathic pain.
So that is some kind of damage or dysfunction
in the nervous system that is causing pain.
And then we have this other weird one,
which is like this mysterious sort of central pain,
something like fibromyalgia,
where you can't really pin down exactly what's going wrong
with any particular part of the physical biology
of the organism.
And yet the organism is still reporting
that they're in severe pain.
So those are the three broad categories,
the inflammatory, the neuropathic,
and then the centralized pain.
And there can be a lot of transition
from either inflammatory pain to central pain
or neuropathic pain to central pain.
For instance, where you have an injury
that totally resolves,
there's some kind of car accident or work-related injury,
the injury is totally resolved,
and yet the brain for potentially the rest of its life
is still keeps registering some kind of discomfort.
So there can be a transition from one of those two types
to centralized pain.
There is also, there tends to be an inflammatory component
to even neuropathic pain,
especially in the early days
of the development of neuropathic pain.
So for instance, chemotherapy-induced neuropathy.
So people who often survive cancer will,
they'll beat their cancer,
but they'll be stuck with this neuropathic pain
that was induced by the chemotherapeutic drugs
attacking the central nervous system,
or the peripheral nervous system.
So when I say peripheral,
that's everything outside of the brain and spinal cord,
and central nervous system
is the brain and spinal cord itself.
So chemo drugs will attack the nerves throughout the body
and leave the cancer survivor with this lifelong pain.
But in the very early days
of the development of chemotherapy-induced neuropathy,
there is an inflammatory component, right?
Those chemotherapeutic drugs
pull in the brain's immune system,
or I'm sorry, the body's immune system,
and all of our processes
that we have for fighting off pathogens,
and it recruits our inflammatory processes
to start the damage to the nerves.
So although, yes, you can sort of put things roughly
into these buckets of inflammatory pain
where you have all of these,
the body recruits certain molecules
to draw blood and draw attention
to some invading process or pathogen.
You get swelling, edema, redness, soreness.
There's more fluid in joints, for instance.
So there's all of those,
like that's a very molecular process
where there's just a whole lot of molecules
flying around, going crazy, doing their jobs,
hustling and bustling to try and keep this organism alive
to the extent that it is somewhat maladaptive.
We have so much of the body trying to protect itself
that it is actually really painful
for the person who has the body.
So although you can put inflammation in its own bucket,
there is largely an inflammatory component
to neuropathic pain,
and then either one of those things
can develop into a central pain
once the inflammation has gone away,
once the nerve has totally regenerated
or whatever other neuropathic thing might have happened.
All right, good.
So I'm gonna, let's change directions a little bit.
Now that we have established
what playing field we are on with pain
and that pain is experienced in the brain,
let's talk about opioids themselves.
And so we're not gonna spend a whole lot of time
talking about the pharmacology of opioids
because that's not really what we're about.
I think anybody who's here and listening
has already made the decision
that they already wanna move away from opioids.
So however, if we're talking about
replacing opioids with cannabis,
we certainly need to have an understanding
of what opioids do, what their method of action is,
so that later on in the show,
we can compare that to cannabis.
So would you give us an understanding
of what opioids are doing
and why there is a belief that that decreases pain?
Yeah, you bet.
I think that you're right that
a lot of your listeners are here
and a lot of Americans and Canadians
and people all over the world are interested in cannabis
because it is so obvious that
opioids are nasty drugs.
And that is true.
We clearly have a huge overdose epidemic on our hands.
However, opioids are really good drugs
under very few conditions.
The whole reason they exist is because
they are profoundly good at turning off
the bodily sensations of pain.
They are profoundly good at somewhat anesthetizing
the body and not allowing it to experience
the physical sensations of pain.
So they are really good at that
because they act in the brain itself
to shut off the sensations of pain
that are coming in through the spinal cord.
So if you can imagine, all of your nerves
are like little tiny highways of information
and all those highways are headed in one direction
and that is into the spinal cord.
And that spinal cord becomes like this central hub,
like that's the main highway
and all of the information coming through
those tiny little arteries are coming through
this central highway of information
and then going into the headquarters, which is the brain.
And so opioids shut off the sensation of pain
at the headquarters.
And so my academic work has always been focused
on one particular brain area called the periaqueductal gray
and this really is the brain's pain headquarters
because it is, if you put an opioid
directly into the periaqueductal gray or the PAG,
if you put an opioid there, you shut off pain
throughout the entire body.
And if you put opioids everywhere else
but you block them only in this brain area,
then you don't get any pain relief at all.
And so we know that this is a critical component
in the controlling or modulating the sensation of pain
throughout the entire organism,
this tiny little brain area, it's fascinating.
What's really interesting about this brain area also
is that it's where the body or the brain develops
tolerance to opioids as well.
So again, if you repeatedly give the brain
just this PAG region, if you repeatedly give it opioids,
it will develop tolerance.
But if you block opioids here
but continue to give the whole rest of the body opioids,
the organism never develops tolerance.
So this is a really critical brain region
and we'll talk more about it
when we get to the cannabinoid control over pain.
But opioids bind to receptors in this brain region.
So you can think of it as a lock and a key.
So these locks, these receptors
are studying the outside of our neurons.
They're just little padlocks,
waiting for their keys to come floating by.
And those keys, the drugs, the opioids themselves
come and they float along and they lock into
the binding sites on these proteins
and they turn on certain intracellular signaling cascades.
So these are molecules that once they become activated
by the binding of the opioids to these proteins,
they go off and they do some other job.
They control neurotransmitter release,
they turn on genes, they control other proteins.
It's a whole very sophisticated set of intracellular
and between cellular communications.
So the sum total of all of those,
like hundreds of thousands of millions
of little protein-protein interactions,
the sum total of that is the organism not experiencing pain
because it has been shut off at the level
of the brain itself.
Wow, Adi, that was awesome.
That was the best explanation I have ever heard.
I don't know if you, I mean, I know you've got a PhD
and at some point you probably had to teach classes.
You were probably an awesome teacher.
Oh, thank you.
I really enjoy being in the classroom.
I feel like conversations like ours
where we get to talk to the lay person,
I think that's equally important.
Yeah, well, that explanation was a very nice balance
of using accurate scientific, let's say,
how it actually works while also using vocabulary
that we're all familiar with
so that you don't sound like a textbook.
So that's great.
So let's use me for a straw man for a minute
because at your description,
opioids actually sound like they'd be really effective.
Like listening to your description, I'm like,
well, hell, maybe these actually work.
Is this all this trash I've been talking about opioids
not justified and the problem is actually more the abuse
than the fact that they don't work.
But in my own personal experience,
and like I said earlier,
I haven't had a lot of experience with pain,
but after I had my ACL surgery after a skiing accident,
they gave me opioids to help with the pain.
And I'm like, as a psychonaut, I'm like,
oh, I'm gonna get to try something new.
And so I used it and my experience was,
is it really did not do anything to help with the pain,
but it made me feel like the pain
was maybe down the hallway.
And so it kind of distanced me from the pain a little bit.
And I certainly found it to be a bit of a fun distractant.
Like it was a novel mind state that was interesting.
But after the first day, I'm like,
it's not helping, right?
And mostly it made me stupid
for everything else I wanted to do.
So is my experience typical
or is my experience more fringe?
I think that it might be a little bit of both.
So when you asked the question like,
hey, 80, you made this sound phenomenal
and these are really powerful drugs.
Yes, that's true.
However, you have to keep in mind that the PAG
is not the only place where these opioid receptors live.
They live on lots of other brain structures
and they live in lots of other important places
in our bodies.
For instance, in the brain stem,
the area that's like our old evolutionary lizard brain,
the thing that keeps us ticking automatically,
keeps our breathing going.
That's the area where you also have opioid receptors.
And if they get hit over the head too hard,
they will shut down your breathing
and that's how people die.
So respiratory depression is essentially
what happens in an overdose.
People's breathing rate slows down so much
that it stops entirely.
And that process is controlled by the brain stem,
by the same receptors.
So the same receptors that are in your PAG,
turning off pain for your whole body
are also in your brain stem controlling
your breathing rate.
And so it's not only those two areas,
but like you said, I stopped taking these drugs
after my ACL tear because I felt stupid.
They were making me dumb.
And the reason for that is these receptors
are also in your prefrontal cortex.
All of your brain regions that are used
for making decisions and like being a functional human.
If you turn off all the brain activity
at the level of the opioid receptor there,
then of course you're gonna get some cognitive impairment.
And this is something that we unfortunately
don't talk enough about with opioids.
I was testifying in the state house
in Jefferson City in Missouri one time.
And one of the chairman was asking me,
well what about all the cognitive impairment
that comes from cannabis and people driving while high
and all of this stuff that they were worried about.
I'm like, well no one ever talks about
how many people in this courtroom right now
took an opioid before they got in their car
and drove 60 miles to get here.
This element of cognitive impairment
that you're talking about is a very real
side effect of opioids.
So opioids would be great drugs
if they only acted on the descending pain pathway,
but they have all of these other unintended consequences,
constipation, respiratory depression,
cognitive impairment, addiction,
because they're binding to receptors
that are not just in the brain's pain pathway,
but they're binding to the receptors indiscriminately.
So especially that last component, the addiction component,
opioids are better than any other substance
at totally hijacking the brain regions
that are involved in reward and reinforcement.
So those are very fundamental brain processes
where if something activates this circuitry,
this reward circuitry,
the perception at the level of the organism
is ooh, that was good, I should do that again.
Right, so that's the reward,
and the reinforcement is continuing to engage
in that behavior because of the reward.
So opioids are particularly good
at hijacking those processes
so that the opioids feel better
and over time become more important
than anything else that activates that system naturally.
The opioids become more important than food.
Opioids become more important than lasting relationships.
Opioids become more important
than what your neighbors think of you.
Opioids become more important than your job.
So that's where all of these unintended consequences happen
from pain control is that the opioids
aren't just binding to the brain's pain receptors,
they're binding to all the receptors
that control all of these other very important processes.
Now you've totally unraveled all the impressiveness
I had earlier for it
because now it just sounds like a messy drug.
Totally, it is, it's a super messy drug.
So before we go to our first commercial break,
people started turning against opioids,
or at least publicly in the media,
when people started getting an understanding
of the level of abuse in our country
and how quickly people were moving from pharmaceuticals
to street drugs because they were more affordable
and in many places more accessible
since you don't need a prescription.
And so people realize that our country
has got a chronic addiction problem with opiates,
but then that seems to have created an environment
where some in the medical establishment
have finally kind of taken the risk of saying,
oh yeah, and they don't really work.
And you really have to dig for that.
It's not usually something that's in the first paragraph
or the first couple paragraphs of an article.
It's like down in like paragraph 10, right?
And they said, oh, and by the way, you know.
Is it true that the medical establishment
is starting to kind of turn away
from the efficacy of opioids?
I think finally, yes.
I think for a very, very, very long time,
there were like us fringe weirdos,
scientists on the side saying,
hey, opioids cause hyperalgesia.
That means they make pain worse.
Hey, opioids actually,
like all of these other negative side effects,
they outweigh the benefits.
But like our little fringe voices
that are clearly based on the evidence
that we've been collecting for a long time,
our voices don't matter much
in the face of really hot pharmaceutical reps
and like lobbyists with a lot of money
and doctors who don't have the time
to devote to being skeptical
and digging through the literature themselves.
And they're relying on the standard of practice
from their clinic and the recommendations
of the American Pain Society.
And they're relying on these pharmaceutical reps
to give them the best tools to do their job
in the shortest amount of time possible
because they only have an average
of 13 minutes with each patient.
So yeah, I think that for a long time,
we knew that opioids weren't effective over the long term,
that their side effects outweighed their benefits.
We knew that there were some fundamental
pharmacological problems with them.
You know, the basic neuroscientists knew
that oxycodone at the molecular level
is no different than heroin.
And yet, it took a crisis of this magnitude
to wake everybody up to the reality
that it doesn't matter if you're using heroin
or if you're using oxycodone, the results are the same.
Your body becomes physically dependent
and you have to have some other strategy
if you want to have a sustainable
and healthy management of chronic pain over the long term.
Well, that sounds like a perfect place
to end our first set.
Thank you, Adi.
So we're gonna take a short break and be right back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire
and my guest today is cannabis pharmacologist, Adi Ray.
In times like these, when so many cannabis companies
are growing their flower in gigantic warehouses
and fields using synthetic nutrients,
it is good to know that there are authentic
California heritage growers
using natural farming techniques and sunshine
to cultivate cannabis flowers for you.
California has produced the best cannabis
in the world for generations
and the idea that massively scaled
industrial cannabis production
could produce the same quality as small batch,
lovingly cultivated flowers is just silly.
Moon Time Medicinals is located in Humboldt County
on the lush South Fork of the Eel River watershed
in the epicenter of the American cannabis heartland.
Moon Time Medicinals grows under bright California sun
in greenhouses using only natural farming techniques
like hugelkultur, compost teas, whole food fertilizers
and fermented plant juices.
Every part of their growing process
plays its own part in nature
and nothing synthetic is injected into the process.
The result is big, beautiful cannabis flowers
with wide ranging terpene profiles
that taste like great cannabis should.
If you live in California,
ask your bud tender for Moon Time Medicinals
and visit Moon Time Medicinals on the web and Instagram.
Moon Time Medicinals is also available
as part of the Redwood Roots family.
Moon Time's whole flowers appear
in Redwood Roots curated joint packs
alongside other heritage cannabis cultivators
like Lady Sativa Farm, Ridgeline Farms,
Humboldt Redwood Healing and others.
Moon Time Medicinals, top shelf cannabis
grown in harmony with nature.
There are lots of good seed makers out there.
Every once in a while, someone becomes legendary.
The Mendocino, California cannabis breeder
called Mandelbrot is one of these people.
Mandelbrot was also known as Ras Truth
and his cultivars are known as the foundation
for the Emerald Triangle's world famous
gasoline scented terpene profile.
Back in the day when it was really hard
to find quality genetics in education,
Mandelbrot was advocating for organic growing techniques
and providing exceptional seeds that would sell out
as soon as they hit the shelves.
Mandelbrot lived too short a life, dying in 2015.
But while he was with us,
he created several connoisseur level cannabis masterpieces
like Oil Spill, The Truth and Royal Kush.
No matter if you approach growing cannabis
more as a toker or a breeder,
you will find something that delights you
in Mandelbrot's selections.
Because while some strains are better to grow or to smoke,
Mandelbrot's creations excel in every category.
And that's why people keep talking about them even today.
Emerald Mountain Legacy continues the Ras Truth tradition
by preserving these coveted genetics for future generations
unchanged as they were originally created in the mid 2000s.
Emerald Mountain Legacy also creates tasteful modern crosses
to Mandelbrot's classics.
These lines worked by Mandelbrot's brother Ben
furthers their family's genetics
in a spirit that Mandelbrot himself would approve of.
Check out the Emerald Mountain Legacy Instagram and website
to see photos of these plants
and learn more about Mandelbrot and his infamous strains.
Emerald Mountain Legacy seeds are available online
from seed banks and distributors,
including Labyrinth Seed Company,
The Regenerative Seed Company and Pure Sativa.
Emerald Mountain Legacy, keeping Mandelbrot's legacy alive.
For 20 years, Humboldt Seed Company has been family owned
and providing reliable, high yielding seeds
originating in Northern California.
While the current trend is to slap one super male
into a line of hype strains,
Humboldt Seed Company continues to breed
with precision and care by doing large sifts and back crosses
to emphasize the absolute best traits
that a line has to offer.
This kind of breeding takes time, talent and space to work.
No matter what kind of aroma you are particularly into,
Humboldt Seed will likely have something you'll love.
If you love fruit, you can choose from banana,
mango, apricot, papaya, blueberry,
blood orange, melon and lemons
across their various strains.
They have all gas, glue and classic sour diesel lines as well.
Of course, there are the Heritage California strains
like OG Kush, Jack Herr and Headband
and their award winning blueberry muffin
is one that delights just about everybody's palate,
especially when concentrated.
Humboldt Seed Company is proud to bring to market
the infamous freak show cultivar two,
which has a great THC high,
but looks so much like a fern
that some folks can't even identify it as cannabis.
It's a plant that really needs to be seen to be believed.
If you're looking for well balanced CBD seeds,
Humboldt Seed Company can turn you on to CBD strains
that actually have flavor like the dill and pepper terpenes
of Willie G's Lebanese land race.
Whether you are looking for regular,
feminized or auto flowers,
Humboldt Seed Company has the gear to make this
your best growing cycle ever.
Visit humboldtseedcompany.com today
to check out their line of vigorous genetics,
download their catalog
and find out where you can pick them up.
You can also check out their Instagram
at the humboldtseedcompany
to check out their gorgeous flowers
and the extraordinary freak show plant.
Humboldt Seed Company, let them know Shango sent ya.
Welcome back, you are listening to Shaping Fire.
I'm your host, Shango Lose.
And our guest this week is cannabis pharmacologist,
Aidy Ray.
So during the first set,
we made sure that we were all on the same page
about what pain is, how it functions in the body
and what opiates are attempting to do
in providing some relief.
But we're all here because we want options
other than opioids.
And so that's what we're gonna go to in this set.
So Aidy, I know that you have an expertise
in how cannabinoids
function in the brain
and specifically decreasing the experience of pain.
And so I think that I just wanna start
just by kind of like tossing you the mic, if you will,
and saying, what are the main methods
or modes of operations that some of the cannabinoids
that we are familiar with at this point
are acting in the brain to provide relief
in different ways than opioids?
Yeah, you bet.
So let's start with how they're similar.
Before the break, we talked about the mechanisms
by which opioids relieve pain.
So they bind to this area of the brain
that I've focused on my entire career,
the PAG, periaqueductal gray.
So opioids float along and they bind to their receptors
like locks fitting or keys fitting into their locks.
And cannabinoids work, especially Delta-9-THC.
THC works in the exact same way.
THC floats along into the PAG
and binds to its receptors,
studded along the outside of these neurons.
And what's really fascinating
is that the mu opioid receptor,
which is the primary pain-relieving target,
and the CB1 cannabinoid receptor, they are cousins.
They're both G-protein coupled receptors.
That's the kind of protein they are.
They have an extremely similar structure
and an almost identical function.
So they're both coupled.
The inside of the cell,
they talk to the same sets of messengers, G-I, G-O proteins.
So both of these, you can imagine,
on the left hand and the right hand,
you have the mu opioid and the CB1 cannabinoid receptor
both sitting there like locks,
waiting for their keys to come along.
When those keys bind, the locks change shape a little bit
and then release their messengers.
And those messengers are identical.
Isn't that fascinating?
Yeah, that's totally cool.
I had no idea, yeah.
Same brain region, same kind of protein,
same second messaging system,
and the result is also the same.
You have a change in neurotransmitter release
and a change in the descending control of pain.
And that's really the primary way
that Delta 9 THC relieves pain.
It's acting in the exact same place
by the exact same way that opioids are working.
The difference is everything else.
So we talked about how the opioid receptors
don't just live in the PAG.
They live in lots of other brain areas
and in the brainstem and inside the viscera,
inside your internal organ cavity.
And CB1 cannabinoid receptors are also everywhere else.
But what's really fascinating is that somehow
by activating the CB1 receptor with Delta 9 THC,
yes, you still get some activation of the reward pathway,
just like the opioids.
You have this, that's what causes mirth and euphoria.
That's what is rewarding and reinforcing about cannabis.
It's Delta 9 THC binding to CB1 receptors
in the brain's reward pathway.
However, the difference is that it doesn't hijack
the brain's reward pathway in the way that opioids do.
It doesn't prioritize cannabis or THC
over everything else in life.
It also doesn't bind to those receptors in the brainstem
which control respiration.
That's why you can't have a lethal overdose
from respiratory depression from THC
is because that's just not how it works.
It doesn't have anything to do with respiration.
So yeah, the mechanisms fundamentally are identical
to how opioids work in terms of turning off the pain signal
at the level of the PAG, the brain's pain headquarters.
But the differences lie in everything else.
The other really interesting thing
about the CB1 receptor in particular,
it is that it is the most ubiquitously expressed G protein
in the entire brain.
What I mean by that is if you were to dye
all of these receptors green and then zoom in
and try and find where they are,
they look like stars in the sky.
They're literally everywhere.
It's almost impossible to find a brain tissue
that doesn't have some level of expression
of the CB1 receptor.
And that says less about what the brain is doing
in response to THC, but it says more about
how important the CB1 receptor is in evolution.
If it's on every single neuron in our brain pretty much,
what is it doing there?
Why is it there?
And so the role that that receptor plays
in our everyday function is huge.
We have endogenous cannabinoids like 2AG and anandamide
and a whole set of cousins that are similar.
And those little molecules have very important jobs
in regulating our brain activity,
which regulates all of our homeostatic processes,
all of the processes that keep us alive,
our metabolism, our circadian rhythm,
our responses to stress,
our ability to relieve our own pain.
So the CB1 receptor has an incredibly important role
in all of those homeostatic processes.
So for whatever reason, evolution has set it up
to where if you stimulate the mu-opioid receptor,
you end up with some pretty gnarly consequences.
And if you stimulate the CB1 receptor,
you end up with kind of a balance
of what could potentially be some risky things,
but mostly innocuous things like relieving pain
and experiencing mirth and euphoria.
Well, first of all, it's so nice to hear somebody
actually use the word mirth.
I haven't heard that word in a long time.
I probably only read it.
So I like that.
So it's remarkable how many of the same plays,
I'll say, that Delta 9 THC has
that's in common with the opioids.
And somehow it's also equally as messy and not as targeted.
But it's the fact that when Delta 9 THC is being messy,
it's not causing all these other fricking problems
that opioids do.
And so it's more benignly messy.
Yeah, and you know what's even crazier about that, Shingo,
is it gets even messier.
And because it gets even messier, it becomes even safer.
So what I mean by that is,
we are capable of ingesting Delta 9 THC by itself,
and that ends up not to be a very enjoyable process
unless you're like a daily dabber, and that's your thing.
Great.
But that's very few people who really enjoy
totally overloading their brains solely with Delta 9 THC.
For most human beings, if they consume THC by itself,
especially once you get up and over a certain dose,
it ends up not being super fun.
And so part of the safety
and part of the tolerability of cannabis
is that Delta 9 THC isn't acting alone.
It's being consumed with scores
of other biologically active molecules,
like cannabidiol and all of the terpenes
and all of these flavonoids and alcohol,
or sorry, aldehydes, esters,
all of these other molecules that are all working together
to make a really messy thing,
that because you have all of these molecules
which are competing for binding sites,
some of them are activating processes
while others are simultaneously turning things down,
what you end up with is a really buffered effect.
So if you could imagine,
I love music and I think about the world
from the perspective of audition mostly.
And if you think about, if you have a tone, a pure tone,
I want you to imagine like,
bee, that gets really old really fast
and it's not particularly pleasant.
And that's like literally a one trick pony, right?
It has one job, it does one thing.
And that's what an opioid does
or that's what Delta 9 THC does by itself.
It does just one note.
But then if you start adding in all these other tones
and layering it with all these other things,
what you end up with is white noise,
which is what we use to put babies to sleep, right?
So that buffered effect,
when you have that principal component in there
doing its job, very important job, relieving pain,
activating CB1 receptors in the PAG,
but you add in all these other molecules
which are also promiscuous,
then you end up with this really buffered effect.
And the sum total of all of those different molecules
doing their jobs at the same time
is that you have a very tolerable experience.
So, Ethan Russo very frequently has championed
the idea of the entourage effect or the ensemble effect,
which is that these molecules work better together
than they do in isolation.
And from my perspective,
the principal component driving the entourage effect
is just tolerability.
You are able to reap the medical benefits of cannabis
because it is simply more tolerable.
Not necessarily that it's more effective,
but that it is more tolerable.
And that tolerability comes from this buffered effect
of all of these molecules acting at once.
That's great.
All right.
So, let's circle around
and go back to the top of the slide again.
So, you just took us on this explanatory trip
of Delta 9-THC and how it works on pain.
But as I often tell patients,
we have to start over now and talk about cannabidiol
because it's not just that cannabis helps pain,
it's that cannabis helps pain in multiple different ways
and we really have to treat them independently.
So, let's go back to the top of the slide
and would you go through the same process
with cannabidiol CBD?
Sure.
So, CBD is a lot more complicated.
So, there are at least 14 plus known mechanisms of action
of CBD in the central nervous system.
So, Delta 9, it's pretty straightforward.
It is a partial agonist at the CB1 receptor
and that's largely it.
But cannabidiol, especially at a range of doses,
does lots of different things.
It's actually a partial allosteric modulator, a PAM,
at both the mu and Delta opioid receptors.
So, what that does is it puts the receptor in a position
where it is more receptive
to the endogenous opioids that are there.
So, just like our body produces an andamide into AG,
our body also produces endorphins and keflins
and lots of other peptides that naturally act
at our body's opioid receptors.
So, cannabidiol binds to the mu opioid receptor,
the primary pain relieving target in the brain,
to make it more receptive and activatable
by its endogenous peptides, like the endogenous opioids.
So, that's at least one mechanism of action
that CBD could potentially be having
in the central nervous system.
However, I think that the more profound and direct effect
that CBD is having is it is a profoundly
anti-inflammatory agent, as is THC,
as are lots of the other molecules
that are found in the cannabis plant.
So, this is especially why when we have patients
who are suffering from some kind of inflammatory condition,
cannabidiol alone or in combination,
especially in combination with these other molecules
from the plant, it's profoundly effective
because it is directly acting
at those anti-inflammatory pathways.
So, I myself have seen the knuckles of patients
with rheumatoid arthritis and literally their only thing
that they engage in is putting a topical on their knuckles
every couple of hours, every single day.
And you don't have to be a rheumatologist
to look at someone's hands and go,
oh wow, yeah, you look better.
So, I think that especially for patients
who have an inflammatory component to their pain,
and we talked earlier about how even neuropathic patients,
people with neuropathic pain,
often there is an inflammatory component
to neuropathic pain.
So, wherever you have any kind of inflammatory thing
going on, cannabidiol is going to be an ally,
especially if you're consuming it
in a whole plant preparation.
I tend to refer to type three and hemp cannabis
as nature's multivitamin for inflammation.
It truly is so much better to take 12 active ingredients
that are fighting inflammation from 12 different pathways
than just one ibuprofen that does anti-inflammation
from one pathway alone.
Because just in inflammation,
there are lots of different kinds of processes
and lots of different kinds of molecules involved.
So, if you imagine a construction site,
you have all of these people who are buzzing around,
and from a 30,000 foot view,
you have a bunch of construction workers.
But when you really dive down in there,
you've got the welding guy, you've got the plumber,
you've got the electrician, you've got the concrete person,
you have the engineer.
And so all of these people, yeah, they have different roles,
but they're all contributing to this main effect.
So it's the same thing with inflammation.
Yeah, the main effect is inflammation,
but there are all these different molecules
involved in that process.
And so if you're able to knock out every one of those roles
that's contributing to inflammation,
then you're clearly going to have a better outcome
than if you're only going after the electrician.
All right, let's talk about a minute
about how fast this CBD works,
because there are two different ways
of thinking about CBD helping pain.
The first is that, you know,
I've got a whole plant CBD tincture in front of me,
and I take it, and what will the cannabinoids do for me
right now in this moment,
and, you know, lasting for the next three hours,
shall we say, which is usual efficacy for CBD
or any cannabinoid.
But then there's the second mode,
which is people are taking CBD
to simply supplement their endocannabinoid system
and strengthen it,
because a properly functioning endocannabinoid system itself
turns down the volume of pain
and, you know, helps with the homeostasis
of all these different key body functions
that when they come back into balance,
our experience and likelihood of pain is decreased.
But that's something, you know,
the building up of an endocannabinoid system
is something where you need to be taking whole plant CBD
for a few weeks before it's really starting to work
on the endocannabinoid system as a whole.
So would you tease out the differences
in the patient experience of taking CBD
about whether or not the patient can take whole plant CBD now
and get benefits now versus taking CBD now,
but taking it every day
for the benefit of my endocannabinoid system
in the future to decrease my pain?
Oh man, Shingo, we're gonna need another 90 minutes.
This is like, this is a whole lot of stuff.
First of all, I wanna say that I really like
to have evidence-based conversations
and frankly, there's very little evidence
that CBD does anything acutely,
especially at the common doses that people typically take.
You know, they're like, oh, I have my, you know,
like whatever, five milligrams in my soda
in the morning every day.
That probably does nothing except make someone feel better
via the placebo effect or the expectation
that it's going to do something,
which I am not at all knocking.
I love a drug that does absolutely nothing
except make you feel better.
So there's that component.
We are taking this thing, empowering ourselves,
taking our health into our own hands,
expecting it to help us,
expecting it to make us feel better,
and lo and behold, it does.
That's because our brain is profoundly powerful
at creating that experience for ourselves.
So I think that that's probably the most immediate benefit
that someone could get acutely
from taking any dose of cannabidiol
is that the knowing that they're taking care of themselves
and, you know, there could be some underlying pharmacology
that is actually doing that,
especially, you know, within a certain dose range
or after, you know, taking it via a certain,
you know, inhalation route particularly.
But the reality is that we don't have the clinical studies
to tell us what are the acute pain relieving
or any other, you know, medical benefits of cannabidiol.
We definitely have evidence to suggest that over time,
there is some bioaccumulation of CBD
in the brain and in the body.
Cannabinoids are very lipophilic,
so they're stored in the tissue,
in our fat tissue really well.
And, you know, it does,
after a certain level of accumulation,
it ends up with like this slow release.
So, you know, we see this with the Dravet patients,
with, you know, Epidiolex is CBD,
and, you know, with the FDA clinical trials,
we see that, you know, there is a profound benefit,
medical benefit of, you know, daily consumption of,
you know, pretty high doses of CBD.
You know, the doses that are given to these kids
are pretty whopping, and it would be quite expensive
to try and recapitulate that on your own.
And there are definitely more efficient
and cost-effective ways to go about it.
But yes, I think that that latter part of your hypothesis
that maintaining a healthy endocannabinoid system
is by far the best way to set yourself up for success
for any health condition, pain included.
The other thing that, you know, we didn't mention
was, again, going back to this affective component of pain.
So CBD is psychoactive.
So you hear all the time like,
oh, CBD is not psychoactive.
Anything that changes the brain chemistry
and the physiology of the brain is psychoactive.
So we know that CBD is psychoactive
because it shuts off seizures.
It acts in the brain to change the physiology of the brain
to create a beneficial effect.
So CBD is psychoactive in that aspect.
And one of its other psychoactive properties
is that, again, under certain conditions at certain doses,
it relieves anxiety.
It provides positive, affective, positive emotional support.
We also see this in the opioid world
because there's a researcher at Mount Sinai in New York,
Yasmin Hurd, who's been studying CBD for a very long time.
And her work demonstrates that in people,
CBD profoundly reduces anxiety
and that that reduction in anxiety
is also associated with a reduction in craving for opioids.
So addiction, one of the primary drivers
for drug-seeking behavior when someone is in recovery,
when they have been physically dependent on a substance
and they're trying to come out of it,
one of the primary drug-seeking,
craving triggers is negative emotions.
You feel crappy and that feeling
is a trigger for seeking drugs.
So the affective or emotional support
that comes from chronically ingesting CBD,
I don't think we can underestimate.
I think it's going to be very difficult to measure,
but given what we know from these little bits and pieces
from the literature that we do have,
I think that it is wise to say
that having a rich endocannabinoid system,
a supplemented endocannabinoid system,
if that's what you need,
that will provide both that bodily sensation support
that you need as well as the affective support that you need.
That's great.
I think it's important to hit this one more time
because I really was caught off guard
and pleased that you said that taking CBD now
does not have an acute effect,
meaning it will help you now.
And actually, your example of taking five milligrams of CBD
in your morning soda cracked me up
because I'm often telling people,
you know, you gotta be really careful
about how you're taking your cannabinoids
because your CBD gummies filled with crap sugar
and artificial coloring is probably doing worse for you
than the CBD that you're trying to get through it.
But I think that it's important for us to understand
that taking cannabidiol is a long-term commitment
and that if you wanna get relief from it,
you've gotta, you know, you can't just take it
when you're feeling bad.
It's important to take it every day on a regular schedule.
And heck, if you can take it every day,
small doses, two or three times a day,
that's even better because you will metabolize more of it.
But the overall idea that, yes, take cannabidiol
to help your endocannabinoid system,
but also don't forget that you should be doing
the lifestyle changes that are necessary
so that you ease off the trauma
that you're giving your endocannabinoid system
so that you don't have to take CBD forever.
You know, a lot of people, they start taking CBD
and they get these great effects
and then they're like, oh, I'm feeling so much better
and then they get off of it
and then they feel like crap again
and they're like, oh my God,
am I gonna have to take CBD the rest of my life?
And I say, you know, you don't necessarily have to,
but you're probably gonna have to start exercising
and getting proper sleep and not drinking coffee.
You know?
Totally.
And then they're all like, screw that, I'll buy CBD.
You know?
Right, right.
You're absolutely right in that, you know,
CBD is far more like a micronutrient than it is a drug.
So, you know, we think of taking a drug,
I'm gonna take this and I'm gonna feel better, right?
And especially in America, that is our expectation.
That is why we have a healthcare system
built around commerce.
Give me the thing, make me feel better now.
That is our culture of medicine.
And that is not how CBD works.
CBD works more like, you know, Omega-3s.
And it's actually not that dissimilar
from Omega-3s structurally.
So, you know, we don't take fish oil
when we have a headache, right?
So we're not expecting fish oil
to like miraculously make us feel better
in 30 to 90 minutes.
It's a nutrient and it's a part of our lifestyle
where if we're deficient in some way,
if we don't have the diet or we don't have the lifestyle
to provide us that kind of nutrient by some other means,
we have to supplement it by taking fish oil.
It's the exact same thing with cannabidiol.
If you're not stimulating your own
endogenous cannabinoid system through, like you said,
exercise, sleep, a balanced diet, acupuncture,
all of these other things that mimic
the endocannabinoid system, support the endocannabinoid
system without the plant-derived cannabinoids.
If you're not doing those things, then clearly, yeah,
you've got to make up for it by taking CBD
as a micronutrient on a very regular basis.
And if you're going to be taking it on a regular basis,
it's going to be expensive.
So you might as well find out how to take it
in a way that's economical.
So, you know, there's tons of products out there
that are orally ingested, you know,
like you can eat something or drink something
that has cannabidiol in it.
And the sad fact is that only about 5% of what you swallow
ends up making it into your bloodstream.
CBD has terrible oral bioavailability.
That means if you put it in your mouth and you swallow it,
hardly any of it is getting to your brain
and the rest to your body.
Something like the lungs, you know,
you've got about 50% bioavailability.
So if you look at, you know, how much does it cost you
to, you know, vaporize a kilo of hemp flour
versus how much does it cost you to, you know,
ingest 300 milligrams or rather 300 grams of CBD,
if we're talking like a 30%, you know, cannabinoid content,
you know, like that's a lot of oil, that's really expensive.
So, you know, thinking about more efficient ways
to utilize that micronutrient
to support your endocannabinoid system, you know,
is a good thing, unless you are also using it
in combination with all these lifestyle factors.
And then like you said, you won't need to use it forever.
Let's tease out one bit about using CBD orally
because I agree with you up to a point.
And the point is, you know, a lot of these oral solutions,
and we'll talk more about this during the third set,
but a lot of these oral solutions like capsules
and various edibles that have got CBD added to them,
you eat them and for that CBD to become accessible
to the human, they have to go through your gut
and eventually through your liver.
And, you know, it takes time,
plus you're getting all the other, you know,
random sugars along the way.
So, you know, it's a long road to go.
In contrast, I find that patients get good results
with a whole plant ethanol extracted tincture
because when they are putting it in their mouth,
whether sublingually or not,
the ethanol acts as such an effective carrier
for cannabinoids that the CBD is actually making the jump
through the mucosal membranes and the tongue
and the cheek and the esophagus.
And by the time, you know, any remaining fluid
of the tincture gets down to the small intestine,
it's already been soaked in other places.
So what do you think about that delineation?
Shango, thank you.
Thank you, thank you so much
because there are so many products out there
that are labeled as a tincture, which are, you know,
is a cannabinoid, which is an oil in an oil.
And that's not the same thing
as a cannabinoid suspended in a solvent like ethanol.
And you're absolutely right.
If you have some kind of oil in order,
or if you have two bottles of tincture, let's say,
one of them is oil and one of them is ethanol,
either way, your best bet at getting those cannabinoids
into your blood is right in your mouth.
And so if you're gonna use an oil-based,
you know, quote unquote tincture,
then you have to use it more like a topical.
You have to put it under your tongue
and you have to use your tongue to rub it in.
You have to rub it in under your gums, into your cheeks.
You have to actually, it really is more of a topical
than it is a, you know, orally ingested product.
And you're right that with the ethanol,
there might be some chance of enhanced permeability
right there in the buccal tissue,
the tissue on the side of your cheek,
right in the sublingual tissue.
You've got a ton of blood vessels in there.
Wouldn't it be great if you could just take the cannabinoids
and shove them right into all those blood vessels
inside your mouth?
Yeah, that's the idea.
So oral bioavailability typically refers
to when a drug is swallowed.
That's, you know, clinically what we talk about
when we're looking at an oral preparation.
That's a preparation that's swallowed,
which is kind of different than a preparation
that is absorbed in the mouth,
which is, you know, a far more efficient way
to take cannabidiol.
Fantastic.
All right, so we will pick up that topic again
in the third set when we was talking about dosing
and methods, but there's one more thing I wanna hit on
before we go to our second commercial break.
And I know that you are very evidence-based,
and so you may not have a lot to say about cannabidiol,
but I do wanna talk about CBG,
because I was lucky enough to get my hands
on a high CBG, no THC plant material
about a year and a half ago
that was part of a R&D seed grow in Oregon.
And-
Oh, is that Seth's type four, Seth Crawford?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
All right, well, we might as well.
I wasn't gonna out him, but yeah,
this is the stuff developed by Seth and Eric Crawford
at Oregon CBD there in Oregon.
It's fantastic stuff.
So I was able to get some of this
because they know that I work a lot with patients
and that I run a lot of dosing trials,
because I think that one of the biggest challenges
with patients using cannabinoids
is that everyone's using totally uncontrolled dosing
and they're just taking some, right?
And one of the things that is important
about any kind of medicine is repeatable results.
Anyway, so I got this material
and I did ethanol extractions
and we made a bunch of tinctures and I'll say RSO,
so people know what I'm talking about,
but really we're talking about full extract cannabis oil.
And so we did a bunch of dosing trials
here on Vashon Island with pain patients.
And because it was said in some casual early stages
CBG studies that it was really great
for neuromuscular pain.
And I'm like, all right, well,
CBG is gonna be the hot novel cannabinoid.
Let's find out how to actually take this stuff
so that when I talk to people,
I actually have my own firsthand knowledge.
Great.
So I make this questionnaire
and I take the tinctures and the RSO
and we cap a bunch of it up
and we give it to a lot of patients.
And absolutely we got positive response
from people regarding their pain.
And it tends to act like a non-intoxicating Delta 9 THC
as far as the patient experience.
But where I'm going with it is this next part.
The part that was really startling
was that everyone said that it put them in a better mood.
And so I teased that out with folks
and it was decreasing people's anxiety
about having pain at all.
And when you tease that out more,
this is how I explain it now to folks
is that people turn to cannabis for anxiety and pain,
but THC tends to slather.
I mean, I understand that generally
we're looking for doses of THC
that you don't actually feel, right?
That don't cause intoxication.
But at this point, few people take it that way, right?
Most people think if you're not a little high,
it doesn't work.
So based on people's actual experiences,
Delta 9 THC slathers a little bit of intoxication
over your anxiety and pain
and does decrease your pain and acts as a distractant,
but involves some intoxication.
And then the CBD, it doesn't work for today,
but it's gonna work for next month
if you take it for every day for the next month.
CBG is a different category.
It actually makes the patients feel
like they are capable of handling their day or their pain
with the resources and abilities they have in front of them.
And the patient said,
like my pain is the same as yesterday,
but I feel like I can just fricking handle it more
because of the change in attitude.
And so they're all like,
I think that I'm having some pain relief,
but I can tell you one thing,
I can cope with my pain a lot better.
And I love CBG for pain relief.
And then with that,
we kind of did a secondary trial of people
who had extreme daily background anxiety
and performance anxiety,
and they took to it like a duck to water.
They were like, oh my gosh, this stops my ruminating
and fear of social situations and these things.
This is all a big setup to ask you,
as somebody who studies the pharmacological aspect
of these cannabinoids,
have you seen any either legitimate peer reviewed evidence
for what I'm describing
or even some significant anecdotal
or heck since you know how these mechanisms work,
I could imagine you might go,
oh, there aren't any studies,
but from what you described,
I bet you ABC is happening.
So I'm just gonna hand that whole explanation
to you on a big platter and say, what do you think?
Yeah, so we'll start with the evidence that we do have,
which is preclinical.
So in Petri dishes and animals and CBG is,
kind of like cannabidiol,
it is non intoxicating and it is psychoactive.
It is very similar to CBD.
It is not nearly as deeply studied as cannabidiol.
So we don't know exactly all the mechanisms of action,
which proteins it's interacting with,
but in general, it is anti oxidative and anti inflammatory.
It looks like it's doing good things
and not bad things to the brain.
So at a very fundamental molecular level,
there does seem to be some kind of basis
that this could be a profoundly therapeutic molecule
because it looks like it does a lot of good things
without causing impairment.
With that said, the anecdote that you just told me
is the deepest and most wide anecdote
that I have ever heard about CBG
because to date it has been nigh impossible
to get enough of it to actually give to a human being
at a dose that would do something.
So this is changing now because I think now we have,
this year will be really the first time
that we have large commercial operations,
which are growing type four CBG dominant cultivars
and we'll have the opportunity to do this
sort of real world scientific experiment
of putting this stuff in our bodies
and watching what happens.
So I do think that there is some fundamental basis
for it to be a profoundly therapeutic molecule,
but we also, again, we don't have any evidence
to look at either the acute or the chronic effects
for either affective support or pain relief.
The other thing I will say,
and I always lean on this because it's so true
and I don't lean on it in a negative way
to downplay the power of pharmacology.
I clearly am a cannabis pharmacologist.
I believe in these molecules,
but I also equally believe in the power of the brain
and what we know about all drugs, any drug,
is the newer it is, the more profound the placebo effect is.
So your small test cases that you do
with your patients on Vashon,
do they know what they're getting?
Do they know that it contains CBG?
Well, they knew at the beginning of the study
that it was a new novel cannabinoid called CBG,
but they did not know what the effects were supposed to be.
Yeah.
So, you know, so I-
And I certainly didn't prime them for this anxiety stuff,
which I wasn't even looking for myself, right?
Totally.
But I also think about, you know,
like what ails people generally.
And if you're a chronic pain patient,
it's both about that bodily sensation of pain as well as,
you know, like we talked about earlier,
that affective component of pain,
which is inseparable from the bodily suffering.
So, you know, I approach this, you know,
from, like you said, you know,
I really appreciate the evidence
and wouldn't it be lovely if we could do, you know,
double-blind placebo-controlled crossover clinical trials
with this stuff?
Yeah, that'd be great.
Totally.
As a matter of fact, you know,
Dr. Ethan Russo happens to live on the same island
that I do, and I actually told him what I was doing
and I described it to him.
And he kind of raised his eyebrow because he's, you know,
he's not like, well, that,
he says, you're using this term study.
He says, this isn't really a study, you know?
You're just kind of giving it to people
and asking them questions.
And I'm like, yeah, a study.
And so, you know, yeah, there was no,
there was no double-blindedness
or peer-reviewedness to this, right?
But I totally understand, you know,
dosing protocols I want to recommend to people now,
which was the actual point.
For sure.
And I also want to say that everything we know
about cannabis started from anecdotes.
You know, 20 years ago,
patients were coming into their doctor's offices
and saying, hey doc, when I smoke a joint before bed,
I don't need to use my Dilaudid.
Or, you know, like I've noticed
that since I started smoking cannabis,
I use half as many opioids.
And those anecdotes all collected
into community-defined evidence.
And that community-defined evidence grew to a point
where we were able to, you know,
do more closely controlled experimental trials.
And so all of this stuff has value,
heuristic value, if nothing else,
in that it allows us to go down a line of questioning.
Well, huh, isn't that interesting
that, you know, these chronic pain patients
who experience anxiety have this, you know,
what looks to be a very profound therapeutic effect.
Why don't we dig into that a little deeper?
So I think there's a ton of value in this, you know,
both from a, you know, cellular molecular level,
there's rationale there,
and there's definitely rationale to listen to the people
when what they're saying is real
and it's worth looking into.
A lot of my scientist friends,
when I talk with them,
say we're at Emerald Cup or something,
and which pulls cannabis researchers and scientists,
doctors from all over the world, and we get together,
you know, a lot of them talk a lot of trash
about citizen scientists, right?
Essentially what I'm doing.
And they're all like, yeah,
we understand what you're doing,
but there doesn't have a lot of value to it.
And I'm actually a big proponent for citizen science,
let's all work at home on our own,
and especially since cannabis is federally illegal
and getting the research approved is so difficult,
let's start doing this research on our own.
And then as it becomes more commonplace in the population,
when legit research scientists go to divine their studies,
they'll be like, well, you know,
I've heard this thing anecdotally,
let's go ahead up and fire up the funding machine
and get the university to do this study.
But that wouldn't have necessarily been indicated
without regular nobodies doing it on their own first.
For sure, and the other component to that is that,
you know, when we do clinical trials,
we have a very long list of exclusion criteria.
You know, you have to be pretty neurotypical
and you have to have a pretty narrow range of conditions
and you can't have abused drugs in the past
and you can't have this and you have to be this
and you have to be a certain age.
So we have a very lengthy list of exclusion criteria,
which means that we're self-selecting.
Yeah, that drug might work in this population
that you have, you know,
developed a rigorous exclusion criteria for
and it only works for them.
But what about everybody else?
What about all these other people
who lie all over the place on the neurotypical spectrum,
you know, and who have all of these other comorbidities
and who have all of these, you know, traumatic childhoods?
You know, so that's also a really great thing about,
you know, a large but messy data set
is that if you do have an effect, which is profound,
you're gonna detect it in both populations.
You know, if a drug really works,
it should work for everybody,
no matter what their, you know, neurotype or background
or underlying conditions,
rather than, you know, some drug that only works
for this very narrowly defined, you know,
like population of people.
I wanna hit on one other thing about, you know,
you mentioned that last summer was the first summer
that cannabigerol was in commercial,
you know, acres and acres of it were grown
with those Oregon CBD seeds all over the country.
And I was very excited because while I got my sample
for these tests almost two years ago now,
I was all like, all right, great, I'll do this stuff now.
And then at the end of the summer, 2019,
there'll be all these whole plant oils coming to market
and I can send people to purchase them
and it'll be like this new arrow in the quiver.
And I'll be damned, I was very disappointed to see
that the vast majority of the people who grew CBG,
they ended up making single molecule isolate out of it
and using it to spike edibles and things like that.
And as you've mentioned several times
during this episode so far, you know,
these cannabinoids, especially the novel ones are,
they work their best in the presence of other cannabinoids.
And so I feel like, you know,
that CBG grown in volume at acres was made,
it was extracted into isolate for the monetary value
and ease of integrating into the products.
And yet again, patients lose out
because what they really needed to do
was turn all that stuff into a whole plant,
full extract ethanol oil, put it in capsules
and give it to people so that it was actually effective.
Yeah, and I mean, like you're right,
but you're also like fighting economic,
you're fighting commercial, you know, success.
This is not new for me or this show, Adi.
You know, like commerce is and commerce does.
And you know, like what is best for the patients
is not necessarily the same, you know,
but I am encouraged because, you know,
this is, you know, one more frontier that we get to go down.
What happens when we have that full cannabis extract?
What happens when we have it, you know,
in large doses and capsules?
What happens if we, you know,
can somehow vaporize that flower?
You know, I don't know a lot about the phenotype
of that flower.
I've never had a chance to encounter it myself
or even look at a certificate of analysis.
But, you know, I could imagine how it could potentially be,
at least right now and in this stage,
a relatively low yielding plant in terms of, you know,
what is the cannabinoid per gram?
But I don't know.
So maybe that's the thing too.
Maybe we need to get it, you know,
hybridized into these like really oil rich, you know,
rather than just biomass producing plants,
these oil producing plants.
Maybe that'll help, you know, popularize it.
So I'm excited because I do think that this is a really
interesting molecule and we have a long way to go with it.
Very good.
So last thing before we go to commercial,
are there any other cannabinoids or constituents
of cannabis that you see coming down the line
that we should look out for, for dealing with pain?
I mean, there's a slew of cannabinoids,
but there's almost no research on the vast majority of them.
But what do you, anything you want to flag for us
to make sure that we keep an eye out for the future?
Yeah, I think there are two big ones.
And, you know, if you are a nerd for the literature,
like I am, they've been there all along
and it shouldn't be a huge surprise,
but the evidence is like profound.
Like beta-carotene is a full agonist at the CB2 receptor.
So it's not a cannabinoid per se,
but it is a cannabinoid in that it is a full agonist
at a cannabinoid receptor.
So beta-carotene, you know, is profoundly anti-inflammatory,
has tons of therapeutic potential.
And it's abundant.
So I think that, you know, this one in particular
could be playing a really important role in pain relief,
especially because of the mechanisms of pain
and inflammation in particular.
So at basal conditions,
when you have a normal healthy organism,
the CB2 receptor is pretty silent.
There's not much of it around,
so much so that for a long time,
even at the International Cannabinoid Research Society, ICRS,
and that's the main professional scientific society
in the cannabis and cannabinoid sphere,
ICRS, you know, still to this day,
there's a little bit of debate about,
is the CB2 receptor even present in the brain?
And that's because under normal conditions, no,
it's not, there's no need for it.
But when you have chronic drug exposure,
chronic stress, chronic inflammation, you know,
any kind of insults to the organism,
these things bloom like crazy.
The expression of the CB2 receptor goes up, you know,
under any kind of, you know, insult or injury.
And so particularly in those conditions,
if you have all those receptors sitting around,
waiting for their, you know, little key
to come float in and activate it,
maybe beta-caryotheline could be a good,
you know, component to introduce.
So it's not a particularly sexy one,
because it's everywhere, but it is, you know,
it has a lot of promise.
The other one that there's some preclinical evidence for
is tetrahydrocannabinobarin, THCV.
So that one, especially in combination
with other cannabinoids,
does look like there's a large amount of promise.
I think it's a few years behind cannabijerol.
And I definitely don't know anyone who's, you know,
trying to cultivate THCV dominant plants,
but certainly there's some like semi-synthetic folks
out there working with yeast
who are trying to produce this, you know, at scale.
And I think THCV has a lot of promise as well.
I also think, and again, this one's like not super sexy
because it's so obvious, THCA.
So, you know, the acid form,
the non-decarboxylated version of THC.
This thing's profoundly anti-inflammatory.
But again, it goes back to that sort of
micronutrient territory,
where if you have, you know, low but consistent ingestion
or somehow, you know, putting the non-intoxicating THC
into your body and supporting the endocannabinoid system,
you know, that way as from a micronutrient perspective,
that also has a lot of promise.
You know, there are tons of patient stories out there
of people who have been, you know,
preparing their own non-intoxicating
sort of cannabinoid rich, you know,
hemp seed elixirs for many years.
And, you know, it seems to be at least anecdotally
that, you know, that has worked for them
to manage, you know, chronic diseases.
So those are some of the big ones, you know,
the acid form of THC, the non-decarboxylated form,
beta-carophyline and THCV.
Fantastic, thank you, Adi.
We're gonna go ahead and take that last short break
and be right back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire
and my guest today is cannabis pharmacologist, Adi Ray.
Pre-rolls have come a long way
since the early days of normalization.
When you choose Saints Joints,
you are smoking all-flour, top-shelf pre-rolls
with terpenes that will sculpt your high
in a way that dry, old pre-rolls just can't.
Whereas most brands release pre-rolls as an afterthought,
for the last five years, Saints Joints
has focused on their line of exotic, curated joints.
And while some companies just chase the hype strains,
Saints Joints goes deeper,
searching out hard-to-find strains, unexpected crosses,
and nearly forgotten land races and classics,
and some hype ones too.
Not only does a joint from Saints smoke incredibly well,
they have fine-tuned every step of the process
so you don't get runs in the paper,
the joint is just the right density to have a nice pull,
and the joint stays lit, even if you get a bit chatty.
Saints Joints boxes are works of art
and will spark conversation
when you pull them out at a party.
Saints award-winning boxes change with every release,
feature edgy outsider art,
and often raise awareness of important issues
like equal rights.
Saints boxes are so desired that many collect them
and display them in their homes.
Ask your bud tender for Saints Joints
and have a premium joint experience.
Now, if you are a licensed cannabis cultivator,
I have an extra message for you.
Saints is looking for partners in legal cannabis states
to expand the availability of the Saints Joints brand.
Do you grow exceptional cannabis flower
but are less excited about all the effort, cost,
and risk of launching your own brand?
Saints Joints may be just the partner you are looking for.
Already established in California, Washington, and Oklahoma,
and recognized by Entrepreneur Magazine
and Green Entrepreneur as a cannabis industry leader,
the Saints Joints brand will set you apart
in your home market.
The best thing I can recommend
is for you to visit their Instagram at Saints Joints
and look at their patented drawer design boxes.
Become that brand everyone is talking about
without having to build it from scratch.
Check out the Instagram at Saints Joints
and then visit saintsjoints.com to find out more.
This message is for folks who grow cannabis.
I'm talking to home growers, patients,
and commercial growers too.
I'm probably talking to you.
When you plan out your next growing cycle,
be sure to check out Humboldt CSI seeds at humboldtcsi.com.
Caleb Inspecta and his family have lived in Humboldt County
for over 100 years.
For the last 40 years, three generations of his family
have cultivated extraordinary Sensemia cannabis
in Humboldt, Mendocino, and Trinity counties.
Because of his lineage and the hard-earned experience
that comes from growing up, smoking, and sifting
large populations of cannabis plants
in Northern California,
the seeds you'll cop from CSI will be winning genetics
based on long-time heavy hitters
and updated and re-sifted to bring out new
and exotic traits and better yields.
Go ahead and ask around.
Caleb, also known as Inspecta
and Pirates of the Emerald Triangle, is a breeder's breeder.
He reaches way back and works with significant strains,
recreating them in new and interesting ways
that you'll love as a toker and a grower,
as well as offering you some surprises
that will delight serious seed traders and cultivators.
Humboldt CSI goes a further step
and selfs all these chemovars
so you know all the seeds will be female.
These are not experimental feminized seeds.
Humboldt CSI releases some of the best female seeds
available anywhere, and it will show in your garden.
Folks grew quite a bit of CSI Humboldt GenX last year
here on Vashon Island, and everyone was pleased.
The patients had beautiful female plants
and didn't have to cull half of their garden as males.
The folks growing for the fun of getting high
grew colorful flowers with exceptional bag appeal
and great highs.
And breeders had seven out of seven females in a pack,
which gave them a lot of phenotypic choices.
Take a moment right now and visit humboldtcsi.com.
You'll find an up-to-date menu of both feminized
and regular lines, along with photos and descriptions.
That's humboldtcsi.com.
Did you know that Shaping Fire
has a fabulous YouTube channel
with content not found on the podcast?
When I attend conventions or speak or moderate panels,
I always record them and bring the content home
for you to watch.
The Shango Lowe's YouTube channel
has world-class speakers,
including Kevin Jodry of Wonderland Nursery,
talking about breeding cannabis
for the best terpene profile,
Nicholas Mahmood on regenerative
and polyculture cannabis growing,
Dr. Sunil Agarwal on the history of cannabis medicine
around the world,
Ben Cassidy of True Terpenes on using terpenes
for health in your everyday life,
Reggie Godino of Steep Hill on the cannabis genome,
and Jeff Lowenfels on the soil food web.
There are several presentations from Dr. Ethan Russo
on terpenes and the endocannabinoid system,
and even my own presentation
on how to approach finding your dream job in cannabis
and why we choose cannabis business
even though the risks are so high.
As of today, there are over 100 videos
that you can check out for absolutely free.
Go to youtube.com forward slash shangolowes
or click on the link in this week's newsletter.
Welcome back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire.
I'm your host, Shango Lowe's,
and our guest this week is cannabis pharmacologist,
Ady Ray.
So here we are in the third set
and we want to go through dosing
and methods of taking in your cannabinoids
because now that you perhaps have these ideas
that you might wanna replace your opiates with cannabis,
one of the hardest things is figuring out
what the hell to do next.
So we're gonna go through a couple
of the different common methods for ingesting
or taking in cannabinoids,
and we'll kinda riff on each of those
so that we can all kinda learn together.
So Ady, I know from watching your other presentations
that you are not particularly a fan of smoking.
And I mean, for medicinal, right?
We all love to smoke,
but actually as far as it being medicinally effective,
would you explain why that's what you teach?
Yeah, so I mean, the basis for that
is purely from polyaromatic hydrocarbons,
from things that are potential carcinogens.
Putting burnt plant material inside of your body
is less healthy than not putting burnt plant material
inside your body.
However, that being said,
I've always been a firm believer
that the best kind of medicine is the one you will take.
So if smoking cannabis feels like medicine to you
and it is the path of least resistance
to getting medicine into your body,
then you're better off with the medicine than without it.
For a lot of people,
smoking simply doesn't feel like medicine.
It was never part of their culture.
It was always frowned upon.
There's some fear and shame,
and there's a lot of war on drugs stuff happening there.
And smoking simply is not going to work for them.
The benefits of smoking are really the benefits
of inhalation, which is an immediate onset.
Here you have an activated molecule,
and delta-9-THC in particular has to be decarboxylated.
It has to be converted from its acid inactive form
to its decarboxylated active form.
So THCA has to be converted into THC.
So to do that, you have to apply heat.
And the easiest way for thousands of years
to apply heat to the cannabis plant is to set it on fire.
So the benefit of smoking is that you have an activated THC
which goes directly into your freshly oxygenated
blood supply, which goes directly up to your brain,
which is exactly why it has an immediate effect.
And for someone who is experiencing, for instance,
breakthrough cancer pain,
nothing is going to help better
than to have an immediate relief of that pain.
So anything that can literally instantaneously
shut off the pain, that's amazing.
And so if smoking does that for you, great.
There are other ways of inhaling the cannabinoids
that don't involve the burnt plant material
that can potentially cause other health effects.
And when I say other health effects,
there are known side effects of smoking cannabis.
Although we have yet to see any sort of cancer
or lung cancer come out of chronically smoking cannabis,
like we see with chronic tobacco smoking
clearly causes cancer, that's gnarly.
But what we do see are COPD,
chronic inflammatory respiratory issues.
We see coughing, we see phlegm production.
So it's not to say that smoking is totally unsafe,
but it's also not totally safe.
So there's still other ways of reaping the benefits
of inhaled cannabinoids without exposing yourselves
to all of those, the toxins and the irritants
that lead to all of those other inflammatory conditions.
I'll go ahead and add to that too,
that for a lot of people,
I mean, your example of cancer-related pain
and the immediate succession of pain is spot on.
And yet there are a lot of patients
who are taking either THC for other types of pain
or maybe they're looking for CBD.
Where smoking it has that very fast effect,
it fills your lungs, it's instantly in your brain
and you go up fast.
That's not necessarily what everybody who is fighting,
say for example, inflammatory pain is looking for.
Taking say a tincture or something or a topical
where the cannabinoids enter the body at a slower rate.
So instead of going up and getting this peak
and then slowly coming down,
you instead have this slow pathway up
and then the slow pathway down,
it'll tend to last for longer
and allow you to be more productive.
Because so many pain patients,
they still have got to go to work
and it's hard to titrate or control your dosage
when you're smoking.
And so people are like, oh, I'm gonna smoke
and then they're like, shit, now I can't go to work
because I'm fricking baked.
You know?
And so for those folks,
they should definitely be aware that
in addition to not scorching your lungs,
some of these other options that we're gonna talk about
may be better for you
because they are gonna be less intoxicating.
Right.
And so I think that for all of these methods
of administration,
there are really three major components
that we can talk about, right?
Where you're managing impairment,
you're also talking about the onset of the effect,
how quickly it works,
as well as the duration of the effect,
how long it works.
So one other element of pain relief
is a lot of chronic pain patients
have a lot of trouble sleeping.
They have a difficulty falling asleep
because they're in pain.
They have difficulty staying asleep
because their pain wakes them up in the middle of the night.
And so just from a sleep management perspective,
smoking is probably not the best idea
because the peak, the onset might be almost immediate,
but the duration of that effect is really not very much,
you know, two to three hours if you're lucky.
So you really do for something like, you know,
where you need a long-term effect,
you know, something that's gonna get you
through a good six hours,
smoking isn't gonna be the best for you
because you need something with a longer duration.
You know, just as a little side note,
one of these days,
somebody is gonna figure out a good way
to do time-released whole plant capsules,
and they're just gonna crush the market
because, you know, I mean,
some people use, you know, enteric capsules,
which help a little bit,
but most of the time to make something time-released,
you have to over-process to the point
that it's not whole plant anymore.
But your description is point, right on point,
because so many pain patients,
they will take whatever cannabis
they're gonna take in the evening,
and then by, you know, two, 2.30 in the morning,
their pain is waking them back up again.
And so they have to have strategies
to have a second dose on their nightstand,
which then occasionally in some people
with some cultivars,
make them feel a little groggy in the morning.
But at some point-
Or worse, sometimes too,
it can cause tachycardia, right?
So, you know, what I mean by that is a racing heart.
So ironically, you're trying to go to sleep,
and yet you, you know,
inadvertently consume a little bit too much THC,
causes this like sympathetic nervous system reaction
where your brain interprets, you know,
a fast-paced heartbeat as paranoia and anxiety.
Yeah, I hate that.
And also, I guess it's worthwhile to point out,
at least my understanding is that the tachycardia
is actually most likely attributed
to a particular terpene in the plant,
and not THC directly.
And so if you use cannabis,
and you do get the racing heart,
which is something that I hate,
there are, you need to try enough to find out
what the terpene is for you in those plants,
and then avoid those plants.
And I would say that this is kind of the cutting edge
of understanding, you know, using whole flower,
and there's not a lot of research on it,
but I think there will be soon.
I think you're right too,
but I do think that, you know,
the patients who use dronabinol,
which is the synthetic form of THC,
they also experience this.
So I think that there probably is some interaction
between, you know, just like all of our cannabinoids
and terpenes, there's clearly something going on there
where, you know, you've got to,
for any product that you're using
and ingesting it by any means,
you've got to find that personal therapeutic window, right?
You've got to take enough of the stuff
to get your good effect,
without taking so much that you get a bad effect.
Yeah, I totally agree with you.
All right, so that's smoking.
Let's talk, well, we've already talked
quite a bit about tincture,
but let's talk about tincture.
So, you know, a lot of people like tinctures
because they feel much more in control, right?
With smoking, you know, it's really hard to control
how much you're actually gonna take.
And with, you know, things like capsules,
you're kind of beholden to whatever they put in the capsule.
But with tinctures,
this is very much individualized medicine.
You're able to say, okay, you know,
this lab tested tincture, I know the potency of it.
And so I'm gonna slowly increase my dosage
over the next few days,
and then I'm gonna find my sweet spot.
And then I know it's gonna be, you know,
X amount of a dropper or X amount of, you know,
drops themselves so that you can get repeatable results.
And for me, that's why I generally, you know,
recommend tinctures for people
because of the patient control.
Yeah, I love tinctures for several reasons.
One of them is that, you know, like you said,
it does feel like medicine to people.
You know, like for a lot of people, my grandparents age,
you know, I'm lucky enough
that my grandmother is still alive.
And, you know, like there's absolutely no way,
like she would even use something
that looked like a inhaler to inhale cannabinoids.
But a tincture, like that feels like medicine to her,
so she'll actually use it.
And, you know, you can't benefit from a medicine
that you are opposed to using.
So there's that component, the easily titratable,
easily dosable, reliable results, those are all amazing.
The other thing that I like about some of these tinctures
is that, you know, depending on the formulation,
it can act as somewhat of a hybrid
between a product that's available
both immediately in your mouth,
and if you swallow some of it
and it does get all the way through the liver,
then you have, you know, like a two for one
where you have the immediate onset, you know,
from some of the THC to, you know, produce some sedation,
whereas you have that sort of slow release effect
from the liver and the, you know,
converting delta-9 into other, you know, metabolites
that gives you this more prolonged slow release effect.
So you have both immediate onset and a long duration,
which is, you know, really not achievable
through any other product.
One of the things that I find very liberating
about tinctures is that even though there are certainly,
you know, artisan and craft ways
to make a good ethanol tincture
that is gonna be potentially better
than, you know, a novice tincture maker,
I like the fact that it is a process
that's available to everyone, right?
Anybody can grow their own cannabis plants in their yard,
they can take the flower,
they can pour, you know, ever clear ethanol over the top,
you know, shake it for 90 seconds,
strain it through a coffee filter,
and guess what?
You just made your own tincture.
And sure, there's, you know,
there's fancier ways to go about it
by like freezing everything first
and all that kind of stuff.
But essentially, if you just pour ethanol over your flower
and strain it, you have made tincture.
And depending on what state you live in,
many state cannabis labs will allow patients
to get things tested.
And so you can find out how strong what you made is as well.
And I think that that kind of, I don't know,
I guess I'll call it egalitarian pharmacology
is something that's, it's very attractive to me
because I do not support the ivory tower medicine idea
I mean, I guess we already established that
with the whole citizen scientist thing.
But tinctures are great
because you can have control of your own health
by growing your own plant, making your own tincture,
and now you are self-sufficient
and it's wildly less expensive
than purchasing it either licensed or unlicensed.
Totally.
And I, the word that I use for this is empowerment.
And I think that, you know,
it's beyond just the not being reliant upon someone else,
but there's like, when you see a project through
from beginning to end,
and I see this with my trainees and my students all the time,
you have investment in it.
When you, you know, pop that seed,
when you drop that clone in the soil,
when you are tending to that plant,
when you are, you know, looking for signs of maturity,
when you are harvesting it with your own hands,
you know, you have a lot invested in yourself.
And all of those, you know,
that whole process is supportive of your health, you know,
like that is you taking your own health into your hands.
And, you know, we see this all the time in the pain clinic,
you know, those people who are able to, you know,
take control of their own lives
and decide I am going to do this for myself,
those aren't the people we see in the pain clinic
because they don't have any pain
because they have figured it out for themselves.
So, you know, like this, you know,
being invested in it has sort of a holistic support,
you know, from a human level,
in addition to you also as a byproduct
are not reliant upon some, you know,
like commerce or pharmaceutical company or something.
So yeah, I love that idea
of this pharmaceutical egalitarianism.
Okay, let's talk about edibles
because a lot of people use edibles
and swear by them for their pain.
And pretty much, you know,
will express that they can't live without them,
but edibles are a complex medicine
and they've got pros and cons.
So let's start there.
What are your general impressions
of the efficacy of edibles?
And when you do recommend edibles,
what do you recommend people try?
Yeah, so let's start with the pros.
So clearly we have something that's really easily dosable,
just like we have with tinctures, you know,
it's pretty easy, even if you have something
that is, you know, more than the dose that you would prefer,
it can often be really easy to divide that dose.
You know, I am not a five milligram gummy person,
like two and a half is just fine, thank you.
So, you know, that's the benefit
is that you have something that is easily dosable,
which means that a patient knows what to expect.
There's some consistency in that effect, which is huge.
So I love that about edibles is that it's easy to dose
and easy to divide doses.
The other thing that I really like is the duration,
you know, because we're putting the cannabinoids
through the liver, you are, you know,
recruiting the liver to prolong the effects of the medicine.
And often that can be extremely therapeutic.
If you've got to get all the way through a workday,
if you've got to get all the way through a night of sleep,
you need a slow release formula, you know,
something that wears off in two to three hours
is not gonna work for you.
So I like it for the ability to dose
and the ability to last for a long time.
And that I could see why patients
would totally swear by that,
because those are really important components of medicine.
And also, you know, we talked about earlier
about the smoking.
While certainly the power of edibles
is not to be scoffed at,
it's nice because you don't go up as fast
as you do with smoking.
And so if you're looking for pain relief
and the anti-inflammation without the stony aspect of it,
edibles can often be a good choice.
They can as long as you stay
within your own therapeutic window.
So, you know, we talked briefly about that before,
how you've got to take enough of it to feel something,
but you can't take so much
that you start to experience negative effects.
And unfortunately with edibles,
the likelihood of experiencing a negative effect,
it can be pretty high.
So if we look at the data that came out of Colorado,
you know, when legalization first came around,
we saw that the vast majority of people
who came into the emergency departments
after ingesting cannabis, you know,
they're having an acute psychotic episode
or they think they're gonna die.
There's, you know, some kind of THC overdose.
The vast majority of those cases are edibles.
And part of the reason for that is that
when you ingest cannabis, Delta-9 is converted,
you know, Delta-9 THC is converted into 11-hydroxy-THC,
which is far more potent.
And it lasts for a very long time.
So, you know, inhaling five milligrams of THC
is not at all the same thing
as swallowing five milligrams of THC
because your liver converts it into something
that's more powerful and lasts longer.
The other thing about the liver is that, you know,
everyone's liver is different.
You know, the different effects of edibles
say far more about the differences in our livers
than they do about the difference in manufacturing processes
or the differences in the products themselves.
You know, the enzymes within our liver that, you know,
metabolize drugs and dump things into our bloodstream
and protect us from toxins,
all of those enzymes are proteins
and those proteins are encoded by our DNA
and our DNA is different.
You know, drug metabolism is affected
by other drugs that you're taking,
other medications that you're taking.
It's affected by your diet.
It's affected by your exercise
and your other lifestyle components.
So, you know, for all of those reasons, you know,
the effects of an edible are not only, you know,
variable between people,
but also variable within one person.
So, although yes, it might be really easy to dose
and it might last a long time,
there's also some degree of risk there
because you're allowing your liver
to produce a very potent molecule
and you could experience different effects, you know,
from day to day because of the other, you know,
sort of lifestyle factors.
And this is such a challenge for pain patients
who are new to cannabis because, you know,
what we're kind of teasing apart
is actually a really complex situation, right?
Where the patient wants the cannabinoids
and so they take an edible because they're approachable
and they're pretty easy to get in legal states anyway.
But then if you take it and you take too much,
your, we'll call it over-medicated self,
not only is it way more intense
because it's become 11-hydroxy,
but because your body is processing it more slowly,
your bad experience lasts longer too, right?
Like if you smoke too much pot,
it's like, oh, all right, well, you know,
I'm gonna go and sit in nature
and I'll be pretty good in about 45 minutes.
I know it's gonna go away.
And while you know it's gonna go away with an edible too,
that could easily be two and a half hours.
And you're like, damn.
And so that will often scare people away
from cannabis medicine when it really had nothing to do
with the inherent value of cannabis medicine.
It had to do with using edibles properly for pain,
takes some pre-education
and then an awareness to start at a low amount.
Absolutely, and this adage, the start low and go slow,
applies absolutely the most to any product
that is ingested, swallowed.
So, it is incredibly important to start really, really low.
And when we're working with our chronic pain patients
in Philadelphia, I have a collaboration
with Thomas Jefferson University
and the Rothman Orthopedic Institute.
When we're working with our chronic pain patients,
we're advising them if they're gonna use an edible product,
a swallowed product to start at one milligram of THC
because there really are some individuals out there
who are hypersensitive to THC.
There's a lot of variability.
Some people can tolerate an entire 100 milligram edible
to themselves and other people spin out
into total paranoia and psychosis at one milligram.
So, it's far more conservative
and it's better to not take enough
than it is to take too much
because you can always take more,
but you can never take less, especially with an edible.
And while we're talking about liberation medicine,
let's talk about ego and being cool.
I wanna make sure I point out to patients
that there's a certain vibe within the cannabis scene
that taking more THC is cool.
And if you take less, you are somehow less than
a cat or a wuss or have got baby lungs.
There's a lot of different ways that people
with high tolerances can kind of diss people
who take a small amount.
But I wanna encourage folks to,
if taking 2.5 milligrams of THC,
which most people don't feel it at 2.5 milligrams,
it's a nice, steady, three times a day,
anti-inflammatory dose, but you don't get intoxicated.
And I'll mention sometimes, 2.5 milligrams
and someone in the group I'm talking with
will totally scoff and they're like,
oh, I take 25 milligrams six times a day.
And I'm like, I'm glad that you found something
that worked for you, but there are a lot of people,
myself included, if I took 25 milligrams,
I'm gonna have a bad day.
You know?
Like, I'm gonna, I don't know if I can call it
so far as psychosis, but I need to go lay down
and I'm going to be scared for a few hours and I hate it.
And so, like, you know, individualized medicine
is very modern and it's important for pain patients
to remember that you need to start low
and you need to increase it slowly.
And comparing your dosage to anybody else
should not matter at all.
You've got different number of, you know,
cannabinoid receivers in your body.
You, your body is gonna process it at a different rate.
There really is not, you know, any kind of hard
and fast comparisons, patients to patients.
You might be able to get guidance from other patients,
but understand that guidance and then start at one milligram.
Right.
So I love that you're bringing this up.
And I don't know, at least for my patients
that I'm working with, you know, like we are seeing
a whole lot of people that are entirely cannabis naive.
So luckily, you know, they're not bringing
that kind of thinking or that kind of,
for lack of a better word, machismo to the table.
You know, it's entirely novel for them
and they're just looking to their doctors for help.
So, you know, fortunately, you know,
we can start working with people
with all of those factors that you mentioned,
you know, your individual experience.
And the beautiful thing about this plant
is that it is dynamic enough that there is something
for pretty much everyone.
And I love the idea of we're all unified in our process,
but not necessarily in our dose or our amount.
So our process is always the same.
We start somewhere and we either have a good time
and we can keep going, or we have a bad time
and we have to back off.
And the magnitude at which we increase
or the magnitude at which we decrease our consumption
or our frequency may vary, but that's the process, right?
And this is something that we don't talk about
in, you know, all of the rest of allopathic medicine
very much, you know, that this is true
for lots of other drugs that people go to the doctors for,
you know, like some people go for anxiety medication
or a tricyclic antidepressant
and the doctor tries you on one thing and it didn't work.
So you switch to a different drug
and then you have to up the dose and then it was too much.
So then you back down the dose.
But the difference between allopathic pharmaceuticals
and cannabis is that instead of your doctor telling you
you're having a bad time, let's do something different.
You have to pay attention to yourself
and look at your journal and say, that didn't work for me.
I need to do something different,
which for some people can be incredibly empowering
and it can make all the difference in the world
in their health.
But for other people who are really accustomed
to having their hands, you know,
truly held by a healthcare professional
and putting all of their trust
and getting all 100% of their guidance about their health
from, you know, a person in a white coat,
that can be really intimidating to have to say like,
oh, geez, I have to like figure out
all of this stuff by myself.
Like this is really overwhelming.
And I feel for that person, it is absolutely true.
It is work to try and find a place to start
and then, you know, fine tune your own process
in accordance to your own body
and your own lifestyle needs.
So it can be a process,
but it can also be an incredibly rewarding process.
And bully for anybody in the audience
who's new to cannabis, who's trying to, you know,
transition from opioids to cannabis,
who is saying, okay,
I need to get a good education first, right?
Because it's sad how much of the licensed market
cannabis packaging and marketing
is intended to confuse the buyer of what it actually is.
Maybe trying to sound like a product of higher quality
than it is, or making claims that are untrue.
And so when you take your health into your own hands
and you do your research in advance,
you are really doing yourself a service.
For sure.
And that can be really hard, you know,
like it's very difficult to know who to trust, you know,
like this is on the label that it relieves pain
and that it improves cognition or whatever it is,
whatever it's on the label.
Oh, it was formulated by a PhD,
therefore it's a good product, you know,
like that all of those things can be kind of deceiving.
And it's, I do feel for people who are, you know,
just embarking on this journey
because it is a lot of homework
and it is a lot of time that not a lot of people,
you know, have the luxury of navigating.
I've heard you use the term science washing before
and I got a chuckle out of that.
And you're comparing it to like greenwashing, right?
Things that are faking being environmental, right?
Exactly, yes.
And there's so much,
like there's so many cannabis products that are faking,
having a scientific basis to them,
not cannabis itself, which has a scientific basis,
but that particular method
may not like be in line with the science.
Exactly, like if you have a vaporizer pen
that has, you know, sleep in its branding or its effects,
you know, like I think that your listeners
are would benefit from, you know,
applying some scientific thinking to that, you know,
how do you know that it's good for sleep?
Where did you get your information?
How many people tried it?
For how many people did it work?
You know, like how, where did the formula come from?
So, you know, like I love the idea
of everyone being a little bit more skeptical, you know,
and especially when it comes to this kind of stuff,
you know, we have been relying on the pharmaceutical industry
to, you know, we trusted them to provide us
with safe medicine for a long time,
and it didn't happen.
You know, like we were extremely misled
by the pharmaceutical industry when it came to the opioids.
And I think it would behoove all of us
to think a little bit more critically and skeptically
about, you know, any kind of claim
that appears on some packaging.
So I realize we've kind of set ourself up, right?
We've just spent this show recommending
that people try cannabis instead of opioids,
and now we just said, you know,
the market is full of lies
and you can't trust what's on the shelves.
And the damn thing is is that they're both true.
And the best thing that I recommend to people
is, you know, do your research on, you know,
the dosing protocol that you wanna do for yourself,
and then do some research beyond just talking
to a bud tender on the product that you're gonna buy.
But then also, you know, humans have been using cannabis
and, you know, smoking it and making cannabis tinctures
for thousands and thousands of years.
The new cool, hot, fancy thing is not necessarily better.
And if you're just starting out
and you don't have a very good bullshit detector
when it comes to cannabis products,
I would always recommend to start with something
that is more simple than more fancy.
You know, everybody was all excited
when water-soluble CBD became available.
And they're like, oh, we can put in all these beverages.
And I'm like, what use does water-soluble isolate have?
Because I don't think it's healthy to take isolate.
And you have to over-process it even more
to make it water-soluble.
And so, you know, maybe that makes me, you know,
less cool.
It certainly got rid of any soda advertisers
I would have gotten on the show.
But I think that sometimes it's, you know,
better if you stick with the basics.
Yeah, and you know, I, many times before I have said
that, you know, we did phase one clinical trials
on cannabis 5,000 years ago in China.
It's safe for most people, you know?
And now the question is, is it effective?
And I do think that we have a lot of evidence
to demonstrate that, you know,
cannabis is both a safe and effective pain reliever
for most people with chronic pain.
We can't say that about opioids.
We do know that it does work for some people,
you know, a very small proportion of people.
It works over the long-term.
There are people who have been on, you know,
opioids for decades and it, you know,
it's effective for them.
But it's far, the risk of, you know,
physical dependence and the risk of overdose
and the risk of, you know, constipation,
cognitive impairment, and all these other things,
it's greater than the, you know, pain relief
that results from engaging with opioids.
Where these two start to interact is largely at a point
where, you know, patients often get to a point
where their opioids are becoming more difficult to obtain.
And when you have a person who's physically dependent
upon an opioid, they're kind of stuck.
They need something to be introduced into their body
to feel normal.
And so a lot of people have been using cannabis
in combination with their opioids, especially initially.
And, you know, my work in academia has been supporting
this approach for a very long time because we know,
you know, at a very fundamental mammalian level,
when you have these compounds in your body at the same time,
they produce synergistic pain relief.
That means a greater than additive effect.
It's not two plus two equals four.
It's two plus two equals four.
It's two plus two equals four.
So when you have something like that,
when you have a seven instead of a four,
then you can back off on the doses
of each of those components so that you can achieve
the same level of pain relief you had before
at a much smaller dose.
Anything, anything we can do to reduce the dose
of an opioid required to elicit pain relief,
that is a really good thing.
And, you know, nothing, no other, no single other drug,
no other law, no prescription drug monitoring program,
no abuse deterrent formulation of a pharmaceutical,
no other intervention has reduced the number
of opioid overdose deaths as much as legalizing cannabis
has reduced opioid deaths.
So, you know, we're about to go into the how to
of actually doing the transition
because I know you've given this a lot of thought,
but before we go there, there's one more thing
I wanna hit on the edibles tip.
And that is, you and I mentioned in passing
that many folks, they just stop at 2.5 milligrams
because that takes care of their pain.
And maybe if they wanna feel like a little jocular with it,
they'll go up to five milligrams.
And so they're getting some of the other attributes
of pain relief as well.
But then you've got these people
who have got long-term chronic pain
and they're taking a hundred milligram brownies
and they're both pain patients.
Like I know there's several different variables at play.
So I'll just toss it to you like that and say like,
what's up with that?
Well, one of the fundamental things there is tolerance,
which is, you know, both a tool and a hindrance.
So in order to reap the benefits of THC and cannabis,
you do have to have some degree of tolerance
so that you can widen your own personal therapeutic window.
You can widen the dose range at which you feel something,
but you can still fall below the threshold
of feeling bad things.
So staying in that therapeutic window is easier
if you have some tolerance to THC.
It's more tolerable.
You have a wider window of good effects.
The problem comes in, and this is something that,
we would be wise not to repeat with the opioids, right?
With opioids, no doctor ever told their patient,
hey, this stuff can produce physical dependence.
To manage your physical dependence,
you should monitor your tolerance.
If you find yourself taking more or more frequently,
take a break, switch to something else for a couple of days,
allow your body to reset and come back to it.
That could have saved thousands of people's lives,
but we never had that conversation
with our opioid-consuming patients.
This is one thing that we can,
we have the opportunity to do right with cannabis.
We can have that exact conversation.
This is a substance that you can develop
physical dependence.
It's rewarding.
You could develop some kind of cannabis use disorder
or hyperemesis or some other dysregulation
in your endocannabinoid system.
It's prudent to take a break from time to time,
not only to allow your body to resensitize,
but if you are able to take those periodic tolerance breaks,
you're able to resensitize to a point
where you don't need 100 milligrams
in order to feel that effect that you felt on Friday night.
It is a far more economical approach
to take tolerance breaks,
reduce the amount that is required
to elicit that same effect.
For pain patients who have pain every day
and who have transitioned to cannabis,
what do you tell them to do on those tolerance break days?
Because so many of the pain patients I talk to,
the idea of taking a tolerance break
and experiencing 48 hours of their pain straight
just makes them cry.
And they wanna avoid that at all costs.
Yeah, I mean, to be quite frank,
I don't tell them anything
because people are very resourceful
in figuring out what's gonna work best for them.
A lot of people turn to other kinds of pain therapies,
anti-inflammatories, the non-steroidal ones.
Some of them might take an opioid for a couple of days
because I mean, the risk with opioids is over the long term
where they increase risk and where they lose their efficacy
is when you take them chronically.
But if you're only taking opioids for two days,
that's exactly what they were designed for, short-term use.
Some of them switch back to opioids.
Some of them just rely on meditation
and cognitive sort of techniques.
There are in fact digital health technologies
and apps that people can download
to sort of go through practices daily
to cognitively manage their pain.
Fortunately, I don't need to have those conversations,
frankly, at all because people are very resourceful
in figuring out how can I just get through a couple of days?
And it's different for everyone.
It just makes me sad when they don't wanna go back
to the opiate because maybe they had a challenge
with it before and then they are on cannabis
and they know they need to take the break.
So either A, they resist taking a tolerance break
because they are afraid of those days off
or as I see so common, they just turn to alcohol.
And so they're sloshed for two days and then they come back.
And I just wish there were more options.
I do too.
And you know what?
I feel like this is going to be,
I would hope that as this chronic pain management
with cannabis becomes more mainstream,
that we will have more of our best and brightest minds
in clinical practice and in scientific development
that we will have some answers for people.
All right, so let's get down to the brass tacks
of actually transitioning.
So going cold turkey on opioids
can be not only difficult but dangerous.
And there are definitely advantages
of doing kind of like a measured transition.
But I know you've developed this out in detail.
So why don't you tell us your recommendations, Adie,
for the actual transition time, the process?
Yeah, and again, this is very different for every patient.
And also just because you're on an opioid
doesn't mean that you're on the same opioid
as anyone else who is going to the same pain clinic.
So there are short acting opioid drugs
and longer acting opioid drugs,
which all have their different profiles
in terms of how rapidly you can taper off of them.
So again, this is where the personalized component
is critical.
We've been attempting to develop
a formal opioid tapering protocol for a number of years.
And we make some observations,
one of which is if we tell a patient absolutely nothing,
by the three month mark,
they have just sort of figured out
how to take half as many opioids
or get off of them entirely on their own.
So again, this kind of comes back
to the self-empowering component
where people are perfectly capable
of figuring things out for themselves.
You know, like if you need some strategies
specifically for doing that,
what we found is that a lot of patients
just start by eliminating one of their daily doses.
So a really common one that people eliminate
is the one right before bed.
So if they switch to some kind of ingested
or swallowed preparation of cannabis right before bed,
they no longer need their overnight dose of their opioids.
So that's probably the most common one,
to skip the dose of the opioid
that's taken right before bed.
And then often a lot of patients wake up feeling refreshed,
having slept through the whole night
without having that heavy sort of sedation
and almost a hangover from the heavier narcotics.
And just that cognitive state alone
is able to get them through the day
so that they're able to walk beside their pain
and live in the presence of the pain
rather than trying to totally numb it
with their next dose of their opioid.
So those are my practical ones.
And then I would also, you know, again,
advocate for the personalized component,
which is do what is right for you.
You know, a lot of patients will do just fine
on, you know, like one or two doses
of their opioid every day.
A lot of people can, you know, decide
that they don't wanna be reliant on this anymore
and they're willing to, you know, have a little bit,
because the thing about cannabis
is that it doesn't profoundly eliminate the pain
the way that an opioid does,
but it certainly profoundly improves the quality of life.
So for some people, the physical sensation of the pain
is so intense that they just can't ever get away from it.
They're always going to be consuming an opioids
and that's fine.
If that's what your body needs
in order for you to have a high quality of life,
then shoot for that.
But that's really what it boils down to
is figuring out what your own personal priorities are
and utilizing cannabis in combination with,
and eventually, you know, for some people,
potentially in substitution for the opioids.
I think that patients who are going through that transition,
they really need to, they really should,
or I'm doing need and should.
I'm like, oh, these are not good words.
It is described to me often by patients
that they think it's going to be worse than it is
and that the transition becomes easier
for even very simple things like, you know,
part of taking Delta 9 THC is it can cause,
you know, a little bit of cascading forgetfulness.
The kind of thing where we joke as cannabis people,
like, oh, forgot where my car keys were, right?
Just basic stuff like that.
And so many patients,
they're so used to taking their opioids on a schedule
and that if they aren't on their schedule,
they're afraid that their pain will flare up,
but then they start incorporating cannabis
alongside the opioids
and a little bit of the pain relief kicks in.
That's natural, but also a little bit of that,
that forgetfulness comes involved as well.
And they actually forget that they're in pain
or they forget to take their dose
and they realized, oh my gosh,
you know, I've naturally started replacing the opioids
just because of the nature of cannabis.
Yeah, that's absolutely true.
I think that that's been reflected
in some of our anecdotes that we hear in the clinic,
you know, and again, like this is like to each their own,
you know, for a lot of our patients,
you know, more than half of our patients
don't experience any impairment whatsoever.
And for those that do experience some impairment,
they, it either doesn't affect their day
or they're more willing to deal with the impairment
than they are to deal with their opioid side effects.
Well, this is all fantastic.
Aidy, thank you so much for taking your time to,
well, actually a lot more time than we had planned on.
We actually got on a roll.
This was a lot of really great information,
but thank you so much for sharing, you know,
the caring that you have for patients
and your in-depth scientific research,
because I think that, you know,
there's so much in our scene,
which is, you know, anecdotal evidence
and people sharing only what worked for them.
And then a whole bunch of kind of like myth and taboo
left over from the reefer madness days.
And I think that, you know,
people like you doing the real research
and then, you know, interacting with patients
and then coming out and sharing the reality
of what they can do to save themselves is really important.
Well, Shango, it's an honor and a privilege
to do this work.
And I feel very strongly about sharing the work
as widely as possible.
So thank you so much for the opportunity
to share it with your audience.
Wonderful.
So if you wanna find out more about Aidy,
there's a couple of different ways to do it.
First of all, I recommend that if you like
the kind of information we talked about today
and you would like to hear it with pictures,
I recommend that you go to the YouTube channel
for Cultivation Classic.
It's a fantastic event in the Portland area.
And on the Cultivation Classic YouTube channel,
there is a recording of Aidy's 2017 presentation
on Beyond Opioids.
And so you'll hear a lot of the stuff
that you learned today over again,
but there's also a bunch of stuff she covered there
that we did not cover and it's got pictures.
So that's great.
Also, Aidy did a great talk at the Cato Institute
on harm reduction for opioids.
And you can find that on the Cato Institute website
at cato.org.
That's C-A-T-O dot O-R-G.
And then finally, if you wanna reach out
to Aidy Rae herself or find out more about her work
and her company, you can go to smartcannabis.life.
So that would be www.smartcannabis.life.
And you can reach out if you want to or just learn more.
Find more episodes of the Shaping Fire podcast
and subscribe to the show at shapingfire.com
and on Apple iTunes, Stitcher, and Google Play.
If you enjoyed the show, we'd really appreciate it
if you'd leave a positive review of the podcast
wherever you download.
Your review will help others find the show
so they can enjoy it too.
On the Shaping Fire website, you can also subscribe
to the weekly newsletter for insights
into the latest cannabis news and product reviews.
On the Shaping Fire website, you will also find transcripts
of today's podcast as well.
For information on me and where I'll be speaking,
you can check out shangolose.com.
Does your company wanna reach our national audience
of cannabis enthusiasts?
Email hotspot at shapingfire.com to find out how.
Thanks for listening to Shaping Fire.
I've been your host, Shango Lose.
