For pretty much everybody in cannabis except seed makers, male cannabis plants are a scourge.
For breeders, male cannabis plants are a joyful thing, and essential to the advancement of
cannabis genetics and the creation of regular seed.
But for nearly all hobby, medical, and commercial growers, males are a pain in the ass.
If you find a male in your garden too late, he will pollinate your entire crop and decrease
its potency and ease of smoking because the flowers will all be full of seeds.
Feminized seeds play an important role in cannabis nowadays.
Feminized means that just about every seed will produce a female plant.
For home growers, it means less room wasted on plants that will eventually show that they
are male, and for commercial growers, it means less risk of pollen in their fields.
If you want to learn about cannabis health, business, and technique efficiently and with
good cheer, I encourage you to subscribe to our newsletter.
We'll send you new podcast episodes as they come out, delivered right to your inbox, along
with commentary on a couple of the most important news items from the week, and videos too.
Don't rely on social media to let you know when a new episode is published.
Sign up for the updates to make sure you don't miss an episode.
Also, we're giving away very cool prizes to folks who are signed up to receive the
newsletter.
There's nothing else you need to do to win except receive that newsletter, so go to shapingfire.com
to sign up for the newsletter and be entered into this month's and all future newsletter
prize drawings.
You are listening to Shaping Fire, and I'm your host, Shango Lose.
Today my guest is Caleb Inspecta from CSI Humboldt.
Caleb and his family have lived in Humboldt County for over 100 years.
For the last 40 years, three generations of his family have cultivated extraordinary Sensimia
cannabis in Humboldt, Mendocino, and Trinity counties.
Caleb reaches way back and works with significant strains, recreating them in new and interesting
ways.
Today we're going to talk with him about modern feminized seeds.
Welcome to the show, Caleb.
Good to be here.
Right on, man.
Let's start by getting a little better understanding of the terminology we're going to use today.
When most people are talking about the kinds of seeds we're going to talk about today,
a lot of people just use the words feminized.
The more I study it and the more I listen to people who actually breed feminized seeds,
more of them use the term selfed.
People are talking about S1 seeds, their first generation of fems.
On your seed packets, they say S1.
Would you get us all on the same page by talking about the difference in terminology between
feminized seeds and selfed seeds and what that all means?
Basically, selfed only refers to S1s, which is a plant crossed to itself.
Feminized seeds generally encompasses selfed as well, but it also covers all the feminized
hybrids.
Say, for example, you reverse one female and you cross it to X, Y, and Z female.
Those are all feminized hybrids.
You don't refer to the hybrids as selfed or S1s, obviously.
You only refer to the individual plant that was selfed onto itself as selfed.
I see.
A cross for a selfed seed would be, for example, chem dog by chem dog versus whatever else
you're going to cross it with.
Yep.
I see.
S1s or selfs are actually a subset of this bigger tent that is feminized seeds.
Mm-hmm.
Mm-hmm.
All right.
Go ahead.
To add to that, feminized seeds got a bad rep early on because the selfed, while they
might be the closest, best example of a particular plant just crossing it to itself, there's
a lot of inbreeding going on in that.
Anywhere from 40% to 60% of those seeds, generally I just say 50%, are going to be inbred and
just kind of throwaway plants.
Whereas with the hybrids, you get the same hybrid vigor from a feminized hybrid as you
do from a normal hybrid.
People kind of misconstrued the whole self thing with feminized seeds in general when
that wasn't even a fact.
Right on.
Cool.
I want to talk more about the early days of feminized and the bad reputation, but before
we leave S1s and selfed seeds, when you self a seed or when you self a plant, you're doing
that to one expression of one pheno of that line.
Will the seeds produced by selfing a plant give you snapshots of all the phenos available
in that line or would they all be that exact pheno of the plant you're selfing?
You will rarely get the exact plant.
It's basically going to encompass all the genetics contained in the DNA of that plant.
Depending on how stable that plant is, it can be fairly tight to extremely broad.
A lot of people think they're going to get an exact replica of the mother and that's
not true at all.
You're going to get everything from the absolute worst inbred genetic that that DNA contains
in the recessive traits to the absolute best, which oftentimes in S1s you find stuff that's
way better than the mother plant that was selfed in the first place.
Wow, right on.
So what I'm gathering from that is that when you buy a pack of S1s, that's really a pack
for somebody who is planning on digging, breeding, or looking for phenos.
It's not necessarily a stabilized pack that somebody would buy because they want to know
what they're going to get.
With S1s, you really don't know what you're going to get.
If you're going to buy a pack of seven or 10 seeds, you may have seven or 10 different
expressions of the line.
Absolutely, yes.
Right on.
Okay, good.
All right, so then let's jump back to the bad reputation that feminized seeds have had
for a long time.
Because I work so much with patients, I realized early on how useful feminized seeds can be
for patients because it's so sad to see a patient pop 10 seeds.
If you're going to pop 100 or more seeds, you're probably going to generally see 50,
50 male and female.
But at such a small number of 10, you could get any ratio statistically.
And occasionally you'll find 10 seeds and you'll get like six or seven males.
For a breeder, that would be fun.
But for a patient, they're like, oh my God, all my resources and all this soil and all
this space I just used for these six or seven males that I'm going to call.
And so when I realized that, oh my God, we could just get these people into feminized
seeds and all 10 will be females, I'm like, hell yeah, I want this.
But as I told people I was getting into this, folks were like, oh man, feminized seeds suck
and they don't have the vigor and they herm on me and all this kind of stuff.
But then if you ask them, if you really kind of drill down, you find out that either A,
they haven't tried a feminized seed in years or B, they heard it from their bro.
And so give us a little context, if you will, about how feminized seeds have gotten better
since they started showing up in the scene and what your thoughts are on today's fem
seeds versus the stuff that people were originally popping.
I think a lot of people were really focused on just the S1s early on.
And so they had a lot of those recessive inbred genetics coming out.
And so when you popped your fems, you ended up with, like I said, about 50% just weak
inbred plants.
Well, when folks started realizing, well, wait, you need to make hybrids of it, then
you get that vigor back.
And then, of course, the herm thing, it's definitely valid.
And unfortunately, in today's cannabis landscape, most of the popular stuff is a result of no
selection and just hermaphrodite plant onto hermaphrodite plant, and so on and so on.
And so you definitely will get a certain percentage of hermaphrodites in feminized
seeds, but that also depends on their environment.
Indoors it's going to be higher.
Outdoors most of the times it's going to be non-existent, unless you really, really stress
something out or the genetics that the fem seeds were based on were really prone to hermaphroditing.
So what's the variable between indoor and outdoor that causes the herming more indoors?
You know, I don't know.
I honestly, you know, I mean, indoors we're putting such extreme stress on a plant, taking
it out of its natural environment, exposing it to this, that, the other.
A lot of times light leaks.
I mean, not everybody has just light tight rooms.
So something as simple as that, easy to stress something out.
And I would also think that, you know, since so much of this reputation is built on forum
posts, you know, when you're indoors, you are stressing a plant, you know, like an Olympian,
you know, it's healthy and thriving, but it is under stress even at its best, right?
At the best run room.
And you know, the majority of people are not running, you know, like put together rooms.
And so just about everybody is taking a plant that is already stressed and then stressing
it out more by, you know, changing their inputs or, you know, their power goes out
or whatever, whatever.
And so, so you've got that, that added challenge indoors as well.
Yeah.
And you know, honestly I've always, I've always thought that the roots are kind of the core
to, you know, whether a plant will hermaphrodite or not.
And indoors, you're, most people are generally using smaller pots, you know, three gallons,
five gallons, whatever, you know, compared to, you know, outdoors where you're using
20, 100, 200 galloners.
And when you keep the roots happy, you know, the whole plant is happy.
I think that's true with everything, right?
Yeah.
You know, so, um, indoors, you know, you got the small root balls.
It's easy to just, you know, tilt them one way or the other to make them unhappy.
I mean, too dry, too wet, too much nutrient, too little nutrient, you know, anything like
that, you know, too cold, too hot.
It goes on and on.
But any of those extremes, you know, are going to, you know, change, change that plant's,
you know.
Yeah.
How it's going to express itself.
Because, you know, you piss off that rhizosphere and suddenly it's sending all these different
messages up the plant.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So, so the other thing too you mentioned is like, you know, a lot of people are just looking
to, well, all right, I guess that's not fair.
I was going to say a lot of people are just looking to make money in seeds.
And that's certainly true.
But there's also people who are in it who are just rookies, right?
And, and, and they don't really have maybe the space or the experience to do the kind
of sifts that you do.
I mean, we all see like the, the way people put out seeds right now where they're like,
okay, I got, I got one male and I'm going to hit it to the 10 hot strains in my area
and I'm just going to rush that stuff out.
And you know, that stuff, you know, has not been sifted properly and probably not even
tested, right?
So you're just running them out the door while it's hot.
And so to that degree, I think that what you're saying probably applies to fem seeds the same
way it applies to reg seeds where, Hey man, there's good fems on the market and there's,
you know, sketchy fems on the market.
So know your fricking breeder.
Oh, absolutely.
Absolutely.
Not only know your breeder, but know your genetics, you know, because I mean, you can,
you can give a dozen different breeders the same exact cut and they're going to be playing
with the same exact, you know, potential, that same variability, that same, you know,
you know, possibility of everything that comes out of that cut is going to be a hermaphrodite,
you know?
Yeah.
And that's, that's where the bad reputation comes from and really ruins your run.
Yeah.
So you mentioned a little bit earlier about how the, you know, the, the, the fems have
got the same vigor as, as a reg version of it is.
And you know, I often hear people kind of get confused who, who don't know a lot about
the breeding side because they get them kind of confused with autos, right?
Because with, with autos, which I'm also a fan of, you get these, you know, you get whatever
the, let's take like a, an auto Girl Scout cookies, for example.
All right.
So, so people go, all right, well, that's not really like Girl Scout cookies anymore.
That's actually a new chemo var.
That's Girl Scout cookies crossed with a Ruderalis plant from Siberia, right?
And so you, you are definitely taking a step away from the original phenotypical package
of any particular chemo var.
But if I, you know, the way I understand it, that is not the case with fems because you're
not, you know, you, you, you will either get the, the full package of an S1 of that one
plant, or if, if you're going to hybridize it to another one, you're going to get, you
know, the essentially clean phenos of, of those two plants together.
But there isn't a third plant added to the mix, like an autos, which is bringing in all
these like, kind of wild, rooty genetics from Russia.
And so, so, so fems really should be just like you would expect the, the reg version
to be.
Mm hmm.
Mm hmm.
Yeah.
So, so let's, let's get to the heart of that, you know, that query, because most people
don't understand where fems come from, period, right?
And that's where a lot of the confusion comes from.
So would you kind of go through how feminized seeds are made?
You know, people, you know, you ask a lot of people and they'll give you one of two
answers.
They'll either say, oh, don't you like dump colloidal silver on them?
And then the other folks, you know, refer to Matt Riott's FemSpray, right?
And so, so this is the part of it that I'm least familiar with as well.
So will you kind of just talk about the, the various ways of getting to feminized seeds?
Well, basically I've always used STS, so silver thiosulfate.
And you know, what a lot of people don't realize, this might be a little bit of a tangent, but
what a lot of people don't realize is it's not that easy.
I mean, I've got buddies who have tried to reverse, you know, 20, 30 plants and have
never had a successful reversal where they got seeds, you know, or let alone even pollen
from their reverse plants.
Why is that?
I mean, what's the failure point?
You know, if I knew I'd share, I mean, I'm good buddies with, with Matt Riott and I mean,
you know, we, we, we, we chat about this same topic quite often and you know, it's
not unusual for me to have a failed reversal run.
It's not unusual for him, you know, to have a failed one.
And I mean, I've used his spray.
I've all generally, I've always used my spray, but I've, you know, tried his spray and I've
also tried my other buddy, Hybe, his Hybertex spray.
And it's really variable on what works, when it works and you know, how well it works.
Yeah.
It's not an exact science.
That's for, that's for sure.
Right on.
So do you, do you think that, you know, and I know, I know that I'm asking you to guess
here cause you already said you don't know for sure, but do you think that, do you think
that it probably has more to do with how a particular plant's genetics accepts it?
Or do you think it's about method and people are just not doing it right?
It definitely has a lot to do with the individual plants.
Certain people, absolutely it's gotta be method because you know, if you can't reverse, you
know, 20 plus plants, there's something going on that's not quite right in their method,
I'd imagine.
But you know, I've, I've, I've successfully done, you know, plenty of reversals and sometimes
you get tons of pollen, tons of seeds, blah, blah, blah.
And other times you get no pollen and sometimes you get loads of pollen and almost no seed.
So you know, it's just like, huh, I don't get this.
But you know, I don't claim to be an expert, but I'm a very active student.
Right on, right on.
And an artisan as well.
So I'm going to ask, I'm going to want to go more into the STS, but before we like go
past it, will you address the colloidal silver thing?
Is this just an outmoded method?
Okay, so I'm more of a, I'm, I'm fairly busy.
Let's put it that way.
And with colloidal silver, that reversal method, you essentially have to spray and spray and
spray.
I think you have to spray every day.
And honestly, that just doesn't work with, you know, my style or my workload.
And so I need something where, you know, I only have to spray it, you know, one time,
maybe twice and I'm good.
So that's, you know, why I go with the STS and, you know, lately I've just been spraying
the one time, you know, when I trigger that reversal plant.
If I was using colloidal, I'd have to spray every single day that plant and that's a lot
of spraying.
Yeah, for sure.
It will.
So what do you think about its reliability?
So let's say that, you know, we've got a home grower who wants to make, you know, some
reversed, who wants to reverse their plant, but they only have four plants they need to
worry about and spraying every day is easy.
You know, do, does it have the same quality of results or likelihood of success as using
STS if you've got that time?
If you've got that time, I know plenty of people who have, you know, had good success
with that.
You know, it's a lot of, you know, hobbyist type work.
You know, you gotta, oftentimes, you've gotta kind of make it yourself, right?
Basically just from raw silver and yeah, I've never entertained that much time.
Right on.
Fair enough, fair enough.
So what I'd like to do right now is would you take us through step by step?
You know, you don't have to be overly elaborate, but, you know, would you walk us through what
you're doing with the STS spray that causes the feminize seeds?
If you could just break it down to steps so that people who really want to picture it
in their head, what it looks like, or maybe they're actually looking for actionable information
because they want to go and try this.
Just break it out for us, would you?
I'll do my best.
All right, thank you.
Basically you're spraying some form of silver on your plants, whether it's colloidal silver
or silver thiosulfate, and you spray it on your target female and the silver acts as
a ethylene inhibitor and the ethylene is what makes your plant female.
So by inhibiting the ethylene production, you are essentially changing the hormone balance,
I guess, in the plant to exhibit a male.
And if all goes well with your spray and your timing and everything, then your reversed
female male plant will give you pollen roughly in four to six weeks from the time you first
spray.
So this plant that we just sprayed with the STS, our goal with that plant is just to get
male flowers to be produced.
And then we will collect that pollen and then hit that to a second plant.
So the idea isn't necessarily that, oh, we want the plant to have both male and female
flowers and then self-pollinate.
No, we're talking about we want to force this female plant to make pollen so we can take
her and hit something else.
Oh yeah.
Right.
Although some people do individual branch spraying on a plant and then they can take,
it'll only reverse the one branch and it'll pollinate, you know, you can pollinate the
rest of the plant that hasn't been sprayed.
Yeah, that's the only way I've ever seen it actually.
And so the idea of doing a whole plant and collecting a pollen sounds like it'd be a
hell of a lot easier than going branch by branch.
I mean, me personally, when I do my reversals, I'm generally reversing four to eight plants
that are, they generally finish out at about three to five feet tall and, you know, two
to three feet around.
So I'm reversing some pretty big plants, but I'm also pollinating, you know, good sized
rooms as well.
So I need a lot of pollen and a lot of people don't know, but you do not get even remotely
close to as much pollen from a reverse plant as you do a regular male plant.
So that's why you need the, you definitely need them.
Because like normally a male pollen, a male plant giving off pollen, there's a hell of
a lot of pollen in there.
And so that's why you have to do multiple.
So if you're going to be doing four or six of these, are you doing your best to make
sure that these females are either, you know, from the same pheno of seed or are you taking
one primary mother, making clones of her so they are all the same pheno and then reversing
that?
The majority of plants I reverse are all just heirloom cuts, you know, so yeah, they're
all the same cuttings.
And one other thing I do is I stagger them because early on I had plenty of failed runs
and when I'm trying to reverse and pollinate a room and half the time it was because the
reversal plant either dropped pollen too early and missed the window or it dropped
pollen too late and missed the window and I'd get, you know, a 10% seeded room, which
that doesn't really help me or anybody out, you know.
And so nowadays what I do is I'll pollinate, I'll reverse a female, you know, a week or
two in advance of flowering the rest of the room out.
Then I'll do, you know, a couple more at the trigger date and then, you know, and I'll
also use different STS products, different STS concentrations, etc., etc.
So you're trying a variety so that somewhere in the mean of this, somewhere in the middle,
everybody will get the particular combination it needs since everybody's so finicky.
Yeah, it's just, you know, trying to circumvent failure.
Yeah, yeah, better your odds a little bit.
So clearly if these reversed plants produce less pollen and everybody in the room is more
finicky, this of course increases the value of each bit of pollen and, you know, storing
pollen can really be a bitch and it goes bad so easily.
Do you find, you know, in your process, are you collecting the pollen and saving it or
are you all like, you know, oh no, I'm just going to put you all in the same room and
it's going to happen live without any saving of the pollen?
I always do it live.
I would love to, you know, have faith in saving it but just like you said, you know, I don't
have trust for saving the pollen.
So it would be pretty miserable to be like, I got this room and, you know, throw a ton
of pollen out there and you get 17 seeds, you know?
Yeah, totally.
And where I was going with that is that it was, do you have a pollen storage technique
that you trust?
And I'm thinking the answer is no.
I've never even bothered to store pollen.
Yeah.
Right on, right on.
So I should, I should.
But you know, it's just, it's one of the things that I haven't gotten into.
Right on.
And like you said earlier, like it's something that you can do with all that extra time you've
got.
Right, right.
I wish, right?
Right, right.
All right, cool.
Well, with that, let's go ahead and take our first commercial break.
You were listening to Shaping Fire and my guest today is Caleb Inspecta from CSI Humboldt.
As a listener of Shaping Fire, you already understand the importance of living soil when
growing cannabis.
When you have active microbe communities in your substrate, you go way beyond simply fertilizing
with nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium.
Having active microorganisms in your substrate supports vigorous plant growth throughout
the plant's root zone, making for higher yields and thriving flowers.
Mammoth pea is the first organically derived microbial inoculant that focuses on your plant's
nutrient cycling processes to release soil phosphorus and other micronutrients from their
bound forms, making them more available to the plant.
Increased levels of phosphorus will also keep inner nodes shorter and focus your plant's
energy on bud production.
Not only that, but the microbes act as a defense shield for the plant's rhizosphere by outcompeting
potentially harmful pathogenic microbes.
Pretty cool, right?
Mammoth pea not only unlocks the nutrients in your soil, but it also helps protect your
plant from disease.
Mammoth pea's beneficial bacteria act like microbioreactors, continually producing enzymes
that release nutrients.
Mammoth pea was developed at a US university and has been extensively tested by Colorado
growers and independent laboratories.
Mammoth pea is proven to increase growth and enhance blooming.
One of the great things about supplementing with microorganisms is that they won't compete
with whatever fertilizer program you're already running.
Simply dose on top of your fertilizer schedule for increased benefits.
To learn more and to find out where you can buy mammoth pea near you, check out their
website at www.mammothmicrobes.com.
Partner with microorganisms to create beautiful, thriving cannabis.
Mammoth pea.
Growing cannabis in greenhouses is taking over the cannabis industry.
An efficient and effective blend of sunshine-grown terpene profiles and the controlled environment
of indoor, greenhouses can be the best of both worlds.
For many greenhouse operators, though, building their greenhouse before gaining insight into
how cannabis greenhouses differ from ornamental crops can be the start of a world of hurt.
Eric Brandstad and his team at Greenhouse Advisory Group have the experience and technical
know-how to help you avoid these pitfalls.
Eric Brandstad has been helping cannabis growers find locations, design, build, and equip their
greenhouses for over a decade, first starting in Northern California, but expanding over
the last five years to helping clients throughout the world.
He has an impeccable reputation for both depth of knowledge and kindness in communication.
You can hear Eric explain some of the challenges facing cannabis greenhouses and how to overcome
them in episode number 41 of the Shaping Fire podcast.
No matter where I go in the country, good people with smart backgrounds still are making
the mistake of building without knowing cannabis, and it causes them to burn through capital
and time fast.
Everyone has their own failure point.
For some, it is improper ventilation planning.
For others, it is surface temperatures of the building or the plant's leaves or both.
Some folks that build their greenhouse from scratch make really basic errors like placement
of the greenhouse on the property or not understanding the natural environment where the greenhouse
sits.
Some have even built a decent greenhouse but are inefficient in their deployment of light
deprivation techniques and never really hit their target yields.
It's great when you learn from your mistakes, but it's even better when you learn from
the mistakes of others.
When you bring on Greenhouse Advisory Group, you will learn from the mistakes of their
many clients and you'll take advantage of the best practices developed by Eric Branstad
over his years of working with clients just like you.
From location development to choosing a builder and tricking out your new greenhouse or retrofitting
or rescuing your failing greenhouse, Eric will help you through it.
Visit GreenhouseAdvisoryGroup.com to learn more and connect with Eric and his team.
That's Greenhouse Advisory Group.
Welcome back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire.
I'm your host, Shango Lose, and our guest this week is Caleb Inspecta from CSI Humboldt.
So during the first set, we talked a lot generally about feminized seeds and what they are and
what they aren't.
But during the second set, Caleb, I want to talk more about your particular approach to
building feminized seeds.
The great interview that you did with Kevin Jodry at Wonderland Nursery during the Wonderland
Seed Series, Kevin definitely made the suggestion that you do significant seed sifts.
You are very active in popping a lot of seeds and you put a lot of thought into your choices,
which I wish a lot more people were doing that.
To give people an idea of how to sift and what a sift looks like, would you just kind
of walk us through what you typically do when you're hunting for the keepers?
So generally, from every reversal, I'll usually sprout anywhere from 200 to 500 seeds.
A lot of them are just feminized hybrids.
I'll also run out the S1s as well.
The S1s I usually do separate and those are usually in 100 lots or 200 lots.
But for the feminized ones, I just like to get a good idea of everything that's contained
in the seeds I sell and just see how things combine.
Usually the funnest part is watching them all grow, selecting out your favorite terpenes
and all your favorite plants out of them.
Then of course at the end, you got to go through and sample and figure out really which
ones make it from your favorite growing plants to your favorite smoking plants.
It's a big process.
Let's talk about what your call points are.
The first call probably happens naturally.
The ones that just straight up don't germinate, you're like, okay, those genetics are not
going to be part of it.
Then I'm assuming that you probably do another call just for mediocre plants that aren't
really thriving.
When do you start?
What's your first call for plants that are not obviously failing?
The ones that fail, they're out of the mix.
How soon do you start saying, that plant doesn't look or isn't expressing itself in a way that
I want to keep?
This is something that a lot of people do, I think.
For one, I usually have a pretty high germ rate.
I usually have between 98 and 99% germ.
I'm not having a big call as far as seeds that don't sprout.
I rarely kill a plant.
I like to see every single plant go start to finish, no matter how small of a runt it
is, no matter how weak it looks.
Honestly, some of the best plants I've ever come across have been these little weak, runty,
weirdo plants.
Are they going to be great for breeding?
Probably not.
Obviously you're not going to afford them, but I still like to give them a chance and
see what they have.
I've seen tons of breeders who think that they can cull at the seedling stage, or think
they can cull in early veg.
They're mostly making their decisions on structure and vigor, which for certain things, that's
great.
For a final finished product, that has nothing to do with that.
You know what I mean?
Yeah, totally.
There could totally be something in one of these runts.
Let's say that it's a runt, but you're like, oh my gosh, it's got this terpene profile
that's out of the world.
If you would have culled it early, you wouldn't have smelled that.
Now you know to look for it elsewhere in the sift.
Also, if it's an attribute that you particularly think is badass, maybe you're like, okay,
I'm going to take that plant and do something with it to maybe help it not express as a
runt, but also keep that terpene or whatever variable.
Right, right.
Exactly.
You know, to grow out that many plants, that's a lot of freaking space.
Do you run them in one gallons or shorter?
Oh, no, no, no.
I predominantly just use raised beds.
My beds are four foot by four foot by about one foot deep.
I'll generally run anywhere from 16 plants in a bed to 81 plants.
That's really close.
Yeah, yeah.
I mean, I just did a little last year, I did a run where I had either 72 or 81 chem dog
hybrids in every single bed.
I had probably less than a 10% drown out.
Most everything in those beds finished up just perfectly fine, didn't get drowned out.
I got a sizable sample of each one to make my assessments and judgments on.
When you run them that close, are you doing a lot of de-leafing or are you leaving them
just as the seed intended so you can actually find the ones that are leafier and less leafier?
It definitely varies, but I have no problems kind of taking off the fan leaves.
I don't like overdoing it, but I won't let them overlap and just completely overload
a bed with leaves.
Definitely a lot of cleanup on the underneaths.
And also, I don't know if this is the right part to throw this in, but I always make sure
about two weeks into flower, two to two and a half weeks, let's put it that way, I'll
clean up all the lowers.
I won't clean them up early just because I want to see what type of herm expressions
the plants put on and you won't see that until two to three weeks into flower.
I leave all that undergrowth on them until that time and then I clean them all up and
I check every single plant and you'll be able to see any herm troubles.
A lot of times, these plants will have maybe one ball here or just a couple balls per plant.
Most of them generally don't have any and then very few are really bad herms.
I usually see a really bad herm indoors, maybe one or two per hundred plants.
And when they are herming like that indoors, obviously you are checking them constantly,
right?
Because this is what you do, but are they a threat to the rest of your crop?
Not generally.
I mean, basically, I'm not checking them constantly at all.
I check them in that window of two to two and a half weeks into flower and that's going
to be the window where they will be visible, they'll be expressing, but they won't be dropping
pollen and sabotaging your room.
And so as long as you check your plants at that time, it doesn't matter if you're doing
reg seeds, if you're doing feminized seeds, hell, it doesn't even matter if you're doing
clones from the dispensary or whatever.
I mean, it should be a prerequisite that you check your plants in that window and make
sure, otherwise you get what you get.
Yeah.
All right.
So you're doing this sift of a few hundred plants and you are looking for the particular
traits that you want for that run.
And I know you grow a lot of different types of plants for different expressions and honestly
how you express your craft too, right?
You have a pretty wide variety, the kinds of seeds that you like to make.
So let's say that, so you've gone through the sift.
Are you trying to find, you know, your two favorites that you think will have create
the best seeds among those two?
Or are you going to do this cycle several times and cross and recross so that you can
pull out multiple traits that you want?
Like, do you have to commit to two at this point or are you actually going to commit
to four to six and then work with those and bring those down to your final pair that you're
going to bring to the market?
Honestly, I make selections, but I rarely end up keeping them for very long just because
I grow so many different things out.
And I always just, you know, for me personally, I always save the mother stock versus any
hybrids.
So most of the time the hybrids, even if they're just absolutely amazing, you know, they
end up going by the wayside just to make sure my mother stock is, you know, happy and
healthy and has plenty of room.
The predominant sifting I do for keepers is in the S1 stock where that's actually going
to be the second phase of my company because I don't remake any of these hybrids in
general. I'm only reversing them and making the seeds.
So I have S1 stock to go through and refine the S1s, you know, into, you know, exactly
the direction I want to go in.
And so the second phase of my company is going to be to make all these S2 lines.
And then from there, you know, I think I'll go to S3.
S3 might be the limit.
I think that's where you're just going to get too much inbreeding past that.
But you'll be able to have, you know, as refined as you need for like future hybrids.
You're like, so by going to S2 and S3, you're essentially making a very stable,
librariable seed stock that you can put on ice and know if you want to call on that, you
know, that genetic line again in, you know, six or 10 or 12 years that you've got it
encapsulated from this work.
Absolutely. But also that stock, say I have 10 different things that are in that S2, S3
form. Well, I can start making true feminized F1s, you know, because each when each
line is, you know, just rock solid and stable, then you combine those together and
you're going to have something completely different than, you know, that original F1
where it's just, you know, say a Mendo purple times a purple Urkel.
You know, if you work both those lines, you know, for multiple generations on their own
and then, you know, create stable on both sides and they cross them together, it's going to
create something way different than just that original mother times mother, you know.
Yeah. Talking about that, that S1 variability, you know, I can imagine that a hobby
grower who wants to get, you know, a bunch of plants that are similar, you know, all
right, phenotypically different, but reliable, you know, they wouldn't want an S1
because there's so much noise in the line.
But I would think that as, you know, for those of us who are canvas plant nerds, right,
who just love to see all her expressions, right, that packing popping S1s, even though
there'll be losers in there, you know, a lot of them, I think that that would be really
fun just for the joy of like getting all these what the fuck plants, like, oh my God, what
is this?
Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah.
No, I love S1s.
S1s are, I don't think there's a single S1 line I've run yet that hasn't just been a
pleasure, you know?
Well, that's a good recommendation.
So while we're talking about all the weirdness of it and the things that are in the
hidden recesses of these genetic lines, you know, you and I are both fans of feminized
seeds. And yet sometimes, you know, some of these ultra purists will say that they're
not down with feminized seeds because they're unnatural.
And anything that comes from stressing or forcing the plant is, you know, an
abomination, right?
They may be useful, but it's not what nature intended.
And I just like to hear what your thoughts are on the potential unnaturalness of
feminized seeds.
I'd like to ask these same people, have they ever seen land races grown out and have
they ever seen a land race that isn't a hardcore hermaphrodite?
Most land races that come from source, whether it's Afghanistan, Pakistan, Thailand,
Colombia, wherever, you know, there are huge populations of hermaphrodites.
So you can almost guarantee that you're going to your little land race seeds you're
getting are going to be part feminized and part regular and everything in between, you
know? So and, you know, one thing a lot of people don't even realize is there's tons
of male hermaphrodites and most breeders, most anyone it seems, doesn't really
realize that.
And males can produce seeds themselves when they're hermaphrodites.
And what happens when a male produces its own seed is you get a portion that are pure
male, you get a portion that are hermaphrodites, and you get a portion that are
pure females.
And that's a whole nother topic.
I like I like your response, though.
They're like for the people who think that that all of this, all the all the noise in
the seed is unnatural.
Like you want really messy go to actual nature.
Exactly.
You know, nature is as messy as it gets.
Thank you. And you're welcome.
Yeah, yeah. Right on.
So, you know, one of the things that, you know, attracted me to your seeds when I was
first getting turned on to you and your work was that you you're you forging your own
path, right?
You you choose good genetics to start with.
And then you have a vision of what you're looking for and you go for it.
And so you don't necessarily I mean, certainly you you work with a lot of people
hot, sexy named stuff, right?
That's true. But but you don't really seem to care first about what is popular.
You are you are following your art and your craft based on what is exciting you
personally next.
And so I'm curious what you look for when you are looking for starter genetics that
tells you that this might be good for a Feminized seed breeding run.
I mean, honestly, most everything up until, you know, up until recently anyway, that,
you know, I've worked with for the Feminized is just all old heirloom stock that I've
held, you know, for years.
And the people before me have held for years.
I mean, you got, you know, Urkel.
I mean, I've had that cut for we're getting close to 20 years with it.
You know, a snow.
I've had that cut for 20 years, you know, you know, the chem dog.
I've had that for going on 15 years.
And, you know, that makes dates back all the way to, you know, 1991.
The triangle cush, you know, it dates back to the early 90s as well.
The triangle cush, you know, it dates back to the early 90s as well, you know.
So I'm just working with stuff that I've held for a long, long time, minimum a
decade, oftentimes, you know, multiple decades.
And, you know, things that have been around, you know, you know, for the long
stretch, I haven't, I haven't really worked with anything that is, you know,
just popular for its own thing.
Um, if I've worked with stuff that's popular, uh, it's just, you know, it's
just a stood the test of time.
That's all that is.
Is the reason why you're not necessarily working with the, the, the, the hot
trending stuff right now, simply because you like the older genetics that are,
you know, they're, they're, they're more refraught, more refront, more refined
than a land race, but they've been worked a little bit to be stable without being
boring.
I think, um, it's just a, a little bit of a personal issue with me too, though,
where I, I'm, I know the history of the genetics and I've watched how genetics
have, have moved over the last, you know, 30 years.
And then I also know, you know, the history of the genetics, you know, going
back further.
And so everything that's really come out in the last 10, 15 years, I mean, I have
pretty much all the building blocks or most of the building blocks that created
all these things.
I mean, you know, your girl scout cookies, you know, it's, it's just an OG
Kush crossed with, yeah, probably not derb, you know?
Yeah.
Uh, but you know, I mean, a perfect example is when we ran out the triangle
Kush S1s, there were green phenotypes of essentially cookies in those plants.
So basically all cookies is, is an expression of, of that green OG Kush
triangle Kush, um, plant crossed with a certain dominant purple strain.
And honestly, the only plant that I've really ever seen that does the certain
purpling that, you know, the, the common form cut of cookies does it's, it's deep
chunk, you know?
Yeah.
I mean, so the, these, these guys, I mean, cookies was founded in Mendocino
County and the guys who are responsible for it, yay, cookies fam go.
Um, they, they, they aren't, you know, the most honest individuals when it
comes to genetics and history.
Right.
So I mean, but you know, uh, weed nerds like myself, you know, obviously
care a little bit more about that stuff.
Yeah.
Because you're not, you're, you're not worried primarily for marketing and IP
or intellectual property, right?
You actually want to get to the truth of the matter.
It's a, it's a different goal.
Exactly.
Exactly.
While we're, while we're talking about, um, uh, you know, uh, strain histories
and stuff and, and how you like to use, uh, local heirlooms, um, you know, I, I
read a lot of, and listened to a lot of your other interviews, uh, to prepare
for our interview today and, uh, do I remember correctly that the, that the
Humboldt snow that you use is a, uh, is a purple Cush came of our,
okay.
So the Humboldt snow is a kind of a tricky one that I'm still, um, working
on tracking down, um, the, the full story on it.
Um, for one, we, we do know it came out of Eugene back in the mid nineties.
Um, there were, uh, there were stories I heard, you know, around Humboldt
talking about blah, blah, blah.
But then I know a handful of cats who actually brought it down from Eugene
in like 95, 96, something like that.
And I got the cut in, I think 99.
Um, well, there's a story up in Eugene, how it was.
Um, just a selection of four way, but you know, some of the, some, some of my boys
have been talking to the cats kind of involved up there with that.
And some of those who are really in the know seem to think or see, you know,
that they claim that it actually came, uh, to Eugene from Florida.
So basically we're still backtracking that one, you know?
Um, and I almost wonder if it's not just one of those old hash plants that were
popular in the early nineties out of Florida, because hash plant, you know,
it had a heyday back, back in the early, you know, late, late eighties, early
nineties in Florida.
So I'm, I'm just wondering if, you know, and, and, you know, I never, I never
pretend like humble or where I'm from is the source of, you know, everything
wonderful.
I think there's so many hot pockets everywhere.
You know, I, I, I'm, I'm, I'm a fan of, you know, whatever quality genetics and
where they came from, you know, I'm, I'm not blind to, you know, Oh, you know,
we're the best.
Right on.
Right.
And that's also, you know, and I'm gonna make a judgment, but I also would guess
that that's one of the reasons why, you know, you tend to be, you know, one of
the more polite and play nice with everybody breeders out there because you
want to have relationships with these other pockets around the country and you
don't get access to other people's networks by being an asshole.
Right.
Right.
True.
Yeah.
So, so the reason why I asked about the Humboldt snow as it was, was to, as an
example was because you, you've done a lot of crosses with the Humboldt snow.
And so and I also know that you are hella choosy with what you're going to cross
with.
So what was it about the expressions of Humboldt snow that you saw that made you
want to, to, to make it a, a major player, you know, in your lines for a couple
years.
And the reason why I'm asking to kind of inform your answer is there are people
who are listening, who are going to want to, who want to do this.
Right.
And so, so they, they may model their decision-making process kind on how you
thought through the challenge as well.
So, so kind of tell us a little bit about how you decided to choose that particular
chemo bar.
You know, honestly it probably has to do with, I've just had it for so long.
I mean, when I got it back in 1999 we, we actually traded the, this, this cat are,
are, are pretty much this cut called Uriah.
It was, it was a, it was an inherited cut from my dad and we traded Uriah for the
snow.
And the very first time I ran the snow out it only ended up being like, I don't
know, six inches tall or something.
And it produced, produced four grams, but it was the widest stuff I'd ever seen at
the time.
I mean, it was, and we actually got it a snow cap and it looked like a little snow
cap mountain, you know.
But you know, anyways, the, the, the last time I grew it, like a full light of it, I
think I did like two and three quarter pounds from a bed.
So its yields are definitely, you know, have potential over that four gram initial
trial run.
But I, I just really learned how to grow it really well back in the early 2000s.
And just growing that cut taught me a lot.
I grew a lot of it indoors and then I grew a lot more of it outdoors.
And it was just, you know, a really solid, you know, quality plant.
High potency, you know, great bag, bag appeal.
Just a hashy kind of a old school, a little bit of pine, a little bit of, you
know, this and that, but a little bit of pepper, I think.
But just, just kind of an old school, you know, solid plant.
One of the things that's interesting that you pulled out, because I thought you were
just going to go for, you know, typical variables.
Like, you know, I liked the terpene profile and the structure and the yield, you know,
just your basic stuff.
But you went right to, I had a relationship with that plant.
Yeah.
And I'm like, oh wow, that's a different idea.
You're like, you're like, I know her, I know how to grow her.
I can do a successful run with her.
And also, you know, she's, she's very resinous, right?
And then, and then, and then, you know, eventually is also a good yielder too.
I like that idea too, because that's a really different kind of growing than what
we're seeing commercially right now, where people are just hitting lines with, with
their male of the day.
Right.
Yeah.
Then again, you know, very few people are, are sitting on mothers, you know, cuts from
15 years ago either.
So yeah, that's one of the advantages you have, you know, not only living where you
live in the Emerald Triangle, but also having a lineage like you do where, you know,
multiple generations of your family have been growing there for, for ages.
That's a, that's a pretty good network for, for attracting genetics your way.
Oh yeah.
Oh yeah.
And, you know, honestly you know, I got, I got into the whole you know, internet
forums and everything, you know, in the early two thousands and that, you know,
really, you know, helped to create access to, you know, a lot of really high quality,
you know, fellow growers and breeders and aficionados of just cannabis in general.
Yeah.
Right.
I mean, bless the internet, even for all the things that it annoys us today.
Everybody being able to get into contact with each other and connect and share
genetics, photos, and you know, education.
God, it, I mean, it was, it changed everything, right?
Right.
Yeah.
So, all right, cool.
Well, let's go ahead and take our second commercial break.
When we come back I want to talk to you about the naming of your, your strains
because your, your names, your, your, the names you choose are great.
So, you are listening to Shaping Fire.
We're going to take a short break.
My guest today is Caleb Inspecta from CSI Humble.
Did you know that Shaping Fire has a fabulous YouTube channel with
content not found on the podcast?
When I attend conventions or speak or moderate panels, I always record them
and bring the content home for you to watch.
The Shango Los YouTube channel has world-class speakers, including Kevin
of Wonderland Nursery, talking about breeding cannabis for the best terpene
profile, Nicholas Mahmood on regenerative and polyculture cannabis growing.
Dr.
Sunil Agarwal on the history of cannabis medicine around the world.
Ben Cassidy of True Terpenes on using terpenes for health in your everyday life.
Reggie Godino of Steep Hill on the cannabis genome and Jeff
Lowenfels on the soil food web.
There are several presentations from Dr.
Ethan Russo on terpenes and the endocannabinoid system.
And even my own presentation on how to approach finding your dream job in
cannabis and why we choose cannabis business, even though the risks are so high.
As of today, there are over 100 videos that you can check out for absolutely free.
Go to youtube.com forward slash shango Los or click on the link in this week's newsletter.
Now that the health benefits of terpenes have become well-known in the cannabis
industry, people everywhere are looking for the purest terpenes and custom terpene blends.
True terpenes, isolated terpenes and terpene blends are tested to the most
demanding worldwide safety and stability standards.
Terpenes from True Terpenes are third-party tested, non-GMO and food grade.
They're triple distilled, making them the purest terpenes available in the world.
With over a thousand terpene isolates, strain profiles, and terp flavors, you
can be sure that True Terpenes will have the perfect aromatics for your manufacturing goals.
True Terpenes also offers custom blending so that you can match your company's
marquee strains across all your product categories.
While you can certainly simply just order terpenes and go right to manufacturing,
True Terpenes also offers a wealth of manufacturing insight, best practices,
and a willingness to help you break new ground with your product formulations.
True Terpenes has robust and supportive customer service too, so your questions
will get answered fast and efficiently.
If you've shopped for terps before, you know how rare that is.
If you are a cannabis product developer, these are the terps that you want to add
to your oil or edible or capsule or beverage.
True Terpenes are simply the best your money can buy.
Don't try and make a premium product with substandard terps.
Choose True Terpenes for a top shelf experience.
Go to shapingfire.com forward slash True Terpenes to find out more or click
on the link in this week's newsletter.
Welcome back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire.
I'm your host, Shango Lose.
And our guest this week is Caleb Inspecta from CSI Humboldt.
So Caleb, you know, one of the things I enjoy about your packs is, um, is the,
the, the names that you choose.
And, you know, a lot of people in the modern, more commercial market are just,
um, taking names that have nothing to do with the lineage, right?
They're just, you know, they'll, they'll, they'll make A and they'll cross it to B
instead of the, the final name being AB.
They're like, it's called L now.
And you're like, all right, well, I can tell nothing about the, the, about the,
the, the strain based on the name.
And, you know, I've always thought that's one of the cool things is that it's, it's
like a, um, it's like a verbal puzzle, right?
It's like, okay, what, what in this name conjures other, um, you know, other
chimaverses, like, you know, the word, you know, blue or dream, right?
You know, like you can, you know, in the, in the, in the early blue dream cross
days, like you could tell where it came from.
And, and, and there is a certain artistry in naming those things because, you know,
very often the, the, the strain names don't naturally fit together easy.
They're, they're pretty unrelated.
And so you have to kind of come up with a poetic way to put those together.
And I think that's great.
And a lot of the scene is moving away from it.
And, and so many of your chimaver names are so playful.
I think that you must enjoy doing that.
Well, like, what's your story on how you name your strains?
Oh, I got to give credit where, you know, credits do.
I mean, my, my names early on, eh, they were okay, but they weren't nothing special.
Um, but when I started doing name games on Instagram, um, I would, you know, I'll
have a thousand people chiming in, you know, with just to name one single strain.
And you get so much, just, you know, so many options and just all kinds of clever names.
I mean, that's the Instagram community is, is where all, all of my best names come
from and by having, by having contests, it allows people to, you know, participate.
And, you know, um, uh, I, I think it's win, win for me, win, win for them.
And, you know, everybody who, uh, you know, ends up winning, you know, the, the
contest, you know, gets the very first freeze, you know, free seeds of whatever
they named.
And, and it's also as somebody who loves to read those threads, it's, it's just fun
to read, you know, like 300 people's ideas, even if they're not going to be the
one, you know, it's, it's usually a whole bunch of fun and a lot of laughs.
Oh yeah, no, it's, it's great.
And, you know, the, the way I do it is, you know, I'll, I'll break it down.
I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll write out, you know, my 20 favorites out of the, out of
the, you know, the thousand or whatever.
And then, you know, I'll have those written down and I always, you know, have
who, whoever suggested it, you know, at that time, you know, and sometimes I'll
go back and I'm like, you know, even if I'm not having a competition, I'll go
back and, you know, I still love this name.
Ooh, I could use it for this.
And so I hit that person up and I'm like, Hey, you know, I'm going to use your name
for this.
You want free packs of this?
And you know, I haven't had anybody.
Yeah.
The answer is always yes.
Nobody's been disappointed, you know?
Yeah.
So yeah, I mean, it's, it's, it's, it's a lot of fun for everybody.
It's a lot of fun for me.
And, you know,
and it also, you know, really takes a lot of, you know, weight off of you to come up
and be like uber brilliant.
So like, so like for some of your, some of your strains I'm just going to pick three
that I particularly like on your stuff that you put out for, for this summer.
So like, so one of my favorite named is the mozzarella, right?
And that's UK cheese and chem dog 91.
And I'm, and it's like, like, how much fun is that?
Right.
Like that's cool.
And then, um, and then, uh, girl's best friend is also, I thought pretty creative.
So that's girl scout cookies and chem dog 91.
And there's so much poetry in that girl's best friend.
It's her dog, girl scout cookies.
And it just feels, you know, it feels good, right?
It does.
It does.
I like it.
And then, and then one that I'm excited to grow this summer.
Uh, I've always wanted to grow the big Sur Holy weed and, and, and have
never had access to the genetics.
But then you put out sacred snow, which is the big Sur Holy
weed cross with the Humboldt snow.
And so I don't know what she's like yet, but, um, it's, it's, it's not
only cool to be able to play with something that's part big Sur Holy
weed, but I like the fact that you chose a name that, that really focused
on the, the Holy weed, sacred snow kind of Baja, you know, vibe where it came from.
Oh, absolutely.
And, you know, um, that, that, that's one of the things, uh, you know, I really
appreciate when people, um, go for, cause not a whole lot of people, you know,
get like the big Sur Holy weed hybrids.
They, it's not popular people.
Most people don't care, but every time I run out a big Sur Holy weed hybrid,
they're the fucking best, excuse my language, the best plants in the room.
You know, I mean, it, it produces some of the nicest plants.
It doesn't matter.
The hybrid, the, the, the sacred snow, they were amazing.
Uh, the chem dog, you know, times, uh, big Sur Holy weed.
I don't even think I've even released those ones yet, but
those things were beasts, you know?
Um, it's just, it's one of those things though, that it's some of the most
impressive plants and just, you know, gorgeous overall plants.
And yet, you know, uh, something popular is just going to outsell it.
You know, a thousand to one.
For sure.
I mean, like you, you really have to come across, uh, some of the, the lineage
stories, right, written in a magazine about big Sur Holy weed or like, like I
didn't even get turned onto it from cannabis.
I got turned onto it, um, by listening to a, an interview with a poet from
the big Sur region talking about it.
And I'm like, my God, I'm learning about a, you know, a new
strain from a poet at a college.
And so I went backtracked and I, and I found out about it, but, um, because
it's not a trending thing, um, you're right.
It's going to get out sold all the time, but, but clearly you've got a depth of
experience and you're clearly excited about it and which just makes me
more excited to grow it this summer.
I'm actually concerned though, because, um, you know, I think it's going to go
longer than the first or second week of October and which means that it's going
to have to be in a, in a tent where I live in on Vashon Island in Washington
because we get the rains here and everything I've heard about it is that
she's tall, she's a big plant and she's just, she's just going to crush my, you
know, you know, my seven, eight foot ceilings on my, on a basic tent.
So I'm gonna have to figure out something special for her for this year.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, there, there's a plant and plant for every place.
Um, she'll be a big one.
Yeah.
Well, that's, well, that's one of the reasons why I've been so hot on auto
flowers recently.
Not only do I like them because, you know, I'm always selecting for patients, right?
Helping them like get their, their home grows up, but also, uh, you don't have to
worry about them growing into the lights.
Yeah.
So that I've, I've never personally played with auto flowers.
Um, but my buddy Hybe, um, he, uh, he, he's been breeding auto flowers for, I
don't know, 15 or 20 years.
And, uh, I'm actually, uh, gonna be, uh, selling, uh, his, his auto flower seeds
on my Humboldt CSI site here pretty soon.
Um, but I, I definitely see the value and I will never hate on an auto flower
because, you know, just, just like we said, you know, a time and a place for
all, all the plants.
Yeah.
Yeah, absolutely.
Well, if we're going to, if we're going to do that, let's, let, let's hit on
your, your Australian bastard.
So, so it's, it's funny.
Uh, it actually, where was I recently that it came up?
Um, oh, that's right.
It was at the regenerative, uh, agriculture conference that, uh, Joshua
Rutherford, uh, Dutch blooms took across the country.
I was in Michigan and they put up.
Wait a minute.
No, that's not where it was.
Sorry.
It was, it was just a couple of weeks ago.
It was, uh, Jeff Lohenfels, uh, the, the picture that you put on Instagram of the
Australian bastard, he he's got in his, uh, in his slides to, as an example of the
wide ranging variety that the cannabis plant has that we haven't even accessed
yet.
Oh, I, I liked Jeff.
He, he stopped by at the Emerald cup and sat down for a good, probably half hour.
Just amazed at that Australian bastard.
He was like, wow.
So yeah, well he, he, he remains excited about it.
I definitely love his enthusiasm.
He's a, he's a good intelligent fellow.
That's for damn sure.
Yeah.
I think, I think that, uh, between this summer and next summer, it's going to be
the, the real coming to prominence of auto flowers.
I mean, certainly the quality of the seeds have gotten a lot better recently.
Uh, but also, you know, uh, Jeff Lohenfels has got his book on auto flowers coming
out in October and, and, um, and, and I, you know, I personally got turned on to
him.
So I have done like a whole year of auto flower content.
Like, you know, I'm in, I I'm interviewing, well, just had Jeff here on
island to do an auto flower presentation.
And then I'm doing an auto flower panel at a cultivation classic in Portland.
But, you know, I'm all like, well, if this is what everybody's going to want to learn
about, let's try to get them good information to start instead of have to
unteach all the rumor that usually comes with something new.
Right.
Right.
Right.
Right.
All right.
So let's circle back around to names.
So I wanted to get your thoughts on this.
And, um, so, you know, there's a lot of people usually kind of green rusher, new
business types who, uh, advocate for the, for the simplifying of, of strain names.
They, they're all like, you know, you need to know too much history to, to, to, to,
to know these names and unpack them.
And, you know, I understand how people new to seeds and breeding and purchasing
cannabis, they want to simplify it so that they can kind of dumb it down so they can
sell the most of the most people.
But I personally think that feels like some culture vulture shit, because, you
know, I think one of the beautiful things about cannabis culture is the creation of
these names, whether or not you're making them at your home or you're getting them
from like wonderful crowd, um, crowd, uh, uh, crowdsourcing, you know, on Instagram.
I think that's a really important aspect that we need to aggressively
preserve in our culture.
What do you think?
Oh, um, I, I agree.
I mean, there's definitely pros and cons to the whole name game.
Um, you know, I mean, the names have definitely gotten a little out of hand,
but then on the flip side, I mean, you, you, you, you really can't, um, just keep
calling something, you know, especially generation after generation after
generation, blank times, blank times, blank times, blank times blank.
If you use just the original strain names, that's going to end up,
you know, getting a little long.
So yeah, you need original, you know, unique names to describe and define.
And I like how you put it, you know, where, uh, a lot of these names don't
have anything to do with, you know, the plants they're trying to describe.
I think that's almost imperative.
Um, that the name has something to do with the genetics that comes from.
Yeah.
I mean, personally, I think, I think so.
I think it helps everybody involved, the, the consumer, the breeder.
And, and certainly it's a, you know, it's just a valuable thing of our scene, right?
It's another way for us to express ourselves.
And, and certainly there, you know, some names can get us in trouble, like,
you know, you know, like Gorilla Glue and Girl Scout cookies specifically.
I mean, it's dumb that that stuff ended up getting litigated, but,
but, you know, all of us in the scene need to be aware of that.
And then, you know, even, even you have got some, uh, strain names that, you
know, will probably never become popularized in magazines simply because
it's called Coked Out Girl Scout, right?
You know, I mean, I like when I, you know, that's Girl Scout cookies and Humboldt
Snow, when I first saw that I just started howling, right?
Cause it, it's funny.
It's an inside joke, but, but, you know, you're not going to hear Coked Out Girl
Scout in any crossover magazines.
And, and, and just, just for the record, um, just for the record, um, I don't use
any drugs whatsoever, except for cannabis, maybe an Advil once in a great while.
But that's it.
Right.
I guess, I guess that's good to clarify.
I just liked the name and you know, that, that name itself is a perfect example
because there's a lot of people are like, oh, that's terrible.
You named it that I'm like, you know what?
Have a little bit of sense of humor and don't take it so serious and it's all right.
And no, it's not going to be on the magazine.
It's not going to be on the dispensary shelf.
Girl's best friend that was named so it can end up on a dispensary shelf.
Coked Out Girl Scout.
Hey, that's just for fun right there.
Yeah.
Right on.
And you know, and, and, and even though it's, uh, you know, it's a, it's a bold
title, it still actually fits the cross, right?
Girl Scout cookies and Humboldt Snow.
It's, it fits.
It fits.
It does.
So right on.
All right, cool.
Well, I think that's probably enough on naming.
I love that, that whole topic though.
So, um, all right, so next question, um, as far as, you know, a lot of people
say that you should not breed with a feminized, a mother from a feminized seed.
Uh, what are your thoughts on that?
Uh, complete nonsense.
And I'll shut those people down every single time.
I'm like, if you breed with a sour diesel, a chem dog, an OG Kush, an X, a Y, or a Z,
you're already breeding with a feminized seed.
So if you want to breed with anything popular and I'm including Girl Scout
cookies, cherry pies, this, that, the other, everything that stems from any of
those, if you're going to sit on that high horse and be like, oh, you can't do that.
I'm like, yeah, well you can't do that.
So where are you?
What are you breeding with?
And, and, and, and I already, I already hit the whole land race thing where you
don't know what exactly those seeds are that you're, you're, you're growing.
So, um, yeah.
All right.
All right.
Good.
Good.
Um, so, um, uh, just, uh, just a couple more things before we wrap up here, you
know, um, for, for folks who are, um, long time multi-generational growers,
probably everywhere, but I I've run into it most in the Emerald Triangle area.
You know, it's said sometimes by, by long time growers that certain strains
that they've got are kept close and not shared.
And I was just curious as somebody who did not grow up in Humboldt, I can
only guess why those are not shared.
Um, and so, you know, so, you know, they, they don't want it to get in the
hands and be belittled by pollen chuckers maybe, or maybe it's like a
family secret special sauce for their, for their seeds, like, but, but you
live there and you grew up and you probably have some of these.
So, so what, what do locals, what's the motivation that locals have to
hold cuts close and not share them?
Well, it's easy economics.
I mean, supply and demand.
If the supply is small, you know, I mean, you know, you're going to fetch it,
you know, uh, a high dollar.
So it's, it's essentially always been about the money on that tip.
Um, that's the only reason really to hoard anything, you know?
I mean, when everybody has it, um, a perfect example is say, uh, a purple
Urkel when I first got purple Urkel back around 2001, 2002, um, not a
whole lot of people had it, you know?
And the people who had it were, you know, if you, if you were, you know,
you had that trust and everything, they'd be like, you know, here, have a
cut, but don't go giving it out to, you know, a bunch of people, you know,
fast forward, you know, four or five years from there, you know, it
essentially, or it eventually, uh, got out and, you know, got popular.
Tons of people had it.
And, you know, then the price started dropping on it.
And, um, a lot of people, you know, aren't really quality growers.
They don't really have a love for their craft and they're just trying to pump
out something with the name and not given to shits, you know?
And so, you know, they watered down for everybody else and eventually, you know,
but you know, if, if you hold something tight and you keep it tight, you know,
that demand is never going to ebb, you know?
Yeah.
And you can put it out itself.
You can do crosses with it.
And, and so, you know, it, it may not be the level of popular that something
gets to be when everybody's growing it for a little while, but you essentially
have got, you know, a monopoly on that, on that intellectual property, if you will.
And it's something that, and, you know, I would say that we're probably in that
arc right now with, uh, Capulators Mac one, right.
Where, where, you know, uh, at, at the beginning people lost their fricking
minds and, and, you know, uh, it w it was, you know, barely available and just
through like whispers and friends around, you know, the, where you near where you
live and then like the first flowers, you know, were like wildly overpriced in the
market.
Um, but now we've got to the point now much later that, that, you know, the lot,
lots of people have got the cut, gotten the cut one way or another, probably by,
by breaking caps, uh, rules around it.
Right.
Yeah, exactly.
And, and now every, you know, everybody's hitting it with their, you
know, hitting it with everything.
And so, you know, we are probably on the far side of that arc, which is why, you
know, even probably Cap himself, you know, he's moved on to his, his next
projects and his crosses with it.
And, but, um, it's interesting though, that to watch that, that arc from
nobody's got it and it's a rumor and then there's just pictures and then, and then
it's becomes kind of available at an insane price and then it kind of gets washed out.
You, you know, you bring up a, a, a, a, a perfect, uh, example too.
Um, so, uh, I get asked, you know, from time to time, um, you know, um, friends,
that friends of mine are like, we got to hold this tight, you know, um, we can't
let it get out, you know, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
When people get it, you know, then it won't be worth nothing.
I'm like, why are we worried about that?
I mean, you know, I'm working on 10 projects that are probably going to be
better than that, you know, in a year or two, you know?
And so, you know, I think it's, it's fear-based.
Um, you know, people get stuck with, you know, thinking, oh, they only have one
little thing of value and they got to hold that tight.
I'm like, man, I got so many things of value.
I don't even care.
Right.
It's the people acting on a scarcity mentality.
Right.
Yeah.
And, and honestly, that's how I feel about popping my seeds.
Like I have lots of respect for people who collect seeds.
I get it.
It's a, it's a, it's a thing.
And I'm not really a seed collector.
I like to get my hands on good seeds and then I grow them, you know?
That's the point.
And, you know, you know, certainly, you know, people who are breeding, they want
to sit on stock for, you know, they're, they're building their palette of colors
for a future breeding program.
Right.
But, but, but since that's not my shtick, I just like to grow plants.
I'm all like, well, hell I'm going to, well, like even your seeds, you know,
that are, they're sitting in front of me.
I'm looking forward to popping all this stuff this summer.
And, and because you know what, you're going to, you're going to put more
stuff in the market next year, you know?
And so, you know so long as there are people like you who are doing the work.
Of, of, of selecting and sifting.
So I don't have to.
Um, I don't have to do that myself.
And there's certainly no question that, that you're going to keep on, you
know, putting out quality things.
So, so there's no reason to have that scarcity mentality.
If you got seeds, pop them and grow them.
Oh, absolutely.
My, my, my boy is a underrated and Garth cultivator.
Uh, they got this new rap album coming out this weekend.
Um, they have a track on there called grow your own.
It's my absolute favorite track on the whole album.
Um, if you like rap, you know, it's cool if you don't, is that the one that you
posted a snippets of on your Instagram?
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's a good track.
And actually the video is pretty fun too.
It's, it's got, it's, it's stylishly done and it's all in the fricking Redwoods.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Um, I was actually just out yesterday, uh, with a big schmo and, uh, Garth
cultivator underrated Eddie Lep was even there, you know, shoot, shooting their
latest video.
Um, and, uh, um, I mean that, that grow your own track, they haven't, you know,
released that yet.
Um, but it's on the album.
I mean, that is my favorite track of the album because that's, that's, that's what
I like to see.
I like to see people just grow on their own, you know?
I mean, and you know, that's, that's the whole, you know, uh, message of that, of
that track.
I think they teamed up with Mendo dope on that track too.
So, you know, yeah.
Well, we're big fans here at everybody, you know, liberating the plant, everybody
becoming a gardener, you know, it's like, you know, uh, uh, there, there, there's a
lot of truth to it, you know, like there's no reason why everybody shouldn't have a
few plants in their yard every summer.
It's super easy to grow.
The sunshine is free.
It gives you an emotional connection to the plant.
You know, nothing tastes as good and as emotionally as awesome as the stuff that
you grew yourself, uh, versus the, you know, the stuff that you're going to pick up at
a dispensary.
And, uh, and that doesn't mean that it's going to hurt the cannabis market either
because like, you know, I grow my patient grow and then I also go to the store.
It's both.
It's like tomatoes, right?
I grow tomatoes every store.
I grow tomatoes every summer, but you also know I'm buying them at the store too.
Oh yeah.
Ooh.
And, and that's, that's, that's a perfect one too, though.
Um, that's the whole reason people ask, uh, a lot on Instagram, like what's the
point of, you know, growing or working with this Australian bastard cannabis.
And just to, you mentioned earlier, you said, you know, your Australian
bastard cannabis, it's not mine.
Um, the kid who sourced it, um, uh, you know, painted forest farms, painted
forest organics, um, that is his, and I'm just working with him.
Just to clarify that.
But, but the Australia bastard cannabis, it is something that people
will not recognize as cannabis.
So you can grow it in your backyard.
You can grow it, you know, now the way it is right now, it's unrefined.
It's like, uh, the root Rallis that created the, you know, auto
flowers before it got hybridized and, you know, bred for quality.
So it is in its bare bones building blocks and we're giving people the
opportunity to breed it themselves.
Or to, you know, work from the starting point of quality hybrids to breed it.
So when, when you say that it's not recognizable, clearly the plant itself
visually does not look like cannabis.
It looks like a fern or something.
It's weird.
But, but, but you've had the flower I'm assuming at this point when you do the,
do the flowers look like cannabis?
Nugs do they?
All right.
So, so when you, if you got a bag of it, you'd be like, okay, this is weed, even
though the plant does not look like it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Everybody recognizes weed or cannabis by its leaf, you know?
I mean, if it doesn't have that canvas leaf, whether it's an indica leaf or
sativa leaf, it does not look like cannabis.
You can walk by a fully flowered out plant of Australian bastard and be like,
oh, that kind of looks like, nah, it don't have the leaf.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It looks like a shrub, you know, it's a really strange plant.
So right on.
Well, on that, on that fun note, let's wrap it up.
So Caleb, it's been a real joy to talk to you, to, to be able to chat with you
about this and to, you know, really you know, break down feminize seeds for
people to kind of get everybody on the same page and also to be able to enjoy a
whole bunch of your stories from being down in the trenches and doing this for
so long.
So, so thanks for sharing some of your valuable time with us so that we could
get to know, you know, you and feminize, feminize seeds better.
It's been a pleasure.
Right on.
Thank you, brother.
So if you want to find out more about CSI humbled and Caleb there's a couple
different ways that you can do that.
I definitely recommend that you follow his Instagram.
It is enjoyable and educational at the same time.
So, so his Instagram is CSI underscore humbled and don't get confused.
There is another old CSI humbled Instagram profile that comes up, but you don't want
the one with hardly any followers.
His, his, the one that he keeps updated is, is, you know, 200,000 followers or
more, and you want to follow that because you'll be able to watch the progress of
this Australian bastard plant as well, which you can see pictures of there.
Now, if you want to get yourself, get your hands on some of Caleb's seeds you want to
go through his distribution website and that's you flip the name around.
That's at a humble CSI.
So he, you know, he, he breeds as CSI humbled, but the distributor is called
humble CSI, so that's at humble CSI.com.
And that's got not only his feminized lines, but also his reg lines and probably
eventually the Australian bastard lines and, and your buddy hives, auto flowers
are going to be there soon.
So, so so definitely check out humble CSI.com.
And the last thing is actually how I got turned on to Caleb, which is a great
interview that Kevin Jodry did with him at the Wonderland nursery seed series.
Back, I don't know, maybe two years ago.
It was actually the first thing that shaping fire sponsored, the first
event that we sponsored.
So that was pretty cool.
And you can find links to all that stuff on the shapingfire.com website.
So check that all out.
You can find more episodes of the shaping fire podcast and subscribe to the show
at shapingfire.com and on Apple iTunes, Stitcher and Google play.
If you enjoyed the show, we'd really appreciate it.
If you'd leave a positive review of the podcast, wherever you download, your
review will help others find the show so they can enjoy it too.
On the shaping fire website, you can also subscribe to the weekly newsletter for
insights into the latest cannabis news and product reviews on the shaping fire
website.
You will also find transcripts of today's podcast as well for information on me and
where I'll be speaking.
You can check out shango, Lowe's.com.
Does your company want to reach our national audience of cannabis enthusiasts?
Email hotspot at shaping fire.com to find out how.
Thanks for listening to shaping fire.
I've been your host shango.
Lowe's.
