Know Your Dealer has been a drug culture safety standard forever.
As cannabis migrates towards whatever potential legalization the future holds, one of the
few but important advantages of the licensed cannabis market is the availability of analytics.
It is very helpful to know which cannabinoids are dominant in cannabis products, how potent
they are, what terpenes are present, and that they are devoid of dangerous pesticides, molds,
and heavy metals.
This is a modern equivalent of Know Your Dealer.
We could do a whole episode on gaming cannabis analytics to cheat, but on the whole, having
cannabis analytics available to us is an important modern win for cannabis patients and enthusiasts
alike.
Psychedelic mushrooms are following in the footsteps of cannabis in so many ways.
And because cannabis has already laid the groundwork for mushroom legalization, many
states are rushing to develop legal frameworks, healthcare standards, and manufacturing rules.
Similarly, we have begun to recognize the importance of analytical labs for mushrooms
too.
All mushrooms are not created equal, and as patients, enthusiasts, and product developers
all have increased access to psilocybin mushrooms, the importance of knowing what we are ingesting
becomes hugely important.
If you want to learn about cannabis health, cultivation, and technique efficiently and
with good cheer, I encourage you to subscribe to our newsletter.
We'll send you new podcast episodes as they come out, delivered right to your inbox, along
with commentary on a couple of the most important news items from the week and videos too.
Don't rely on social media to let you know when a new episode is published.
Sign up for the updates to make sure you don't miss an episode.
Also we're giving away very cool prizes to folks who are signed up to receive the
newsletter.
There's nothing else you need to do to win except receive that newsletter, so go to shapingfire.com
to sign up for the newsletter and be entered into this month's and all future newsletter
prize drawings.
You are listening to Shaping Fire and I'm your host, Shango Lose.
My guest today is Dr. George Selhorn.
George Selhorn, PhD, is founder and principal scientist at Flourish Labs in Portland, Oregon.
Flourish is one of the first labs in the US to provide analysis of psilocybin mushrooms.
He has also been lab director at Rose City Labs, a cannabis and environmental analytics
lab.
George has 22 years of experience with liquid chromatography, both preparative and analytical.
He's worked in HIV vaccine development as well as cancer and autoimmune disorder drug
development.
His PhD in molecular plant sciences with an emphasis in biochemistry is from Washington
State University.
On today's episode, we're going to get up to speed on psilocybin analytical labs
because they are about to become incredibly relevant, just like cannabis labs have.
During set one, we will look closely at the components of mushrooms and get a better understanding
of what we are looking for specifically.
During the second set, we will talk about prevention of bad actors gaming the system
and trying to cheat like folks do in cannabis labs, along with some of the mechanics of
mushroom sampling.
During this third set, we're going to talk about mushroom storage at home and specific
varieties of potent mushrooms.
Welcome to Shaping Fire, George.
Thank you very much, Shango.
I'm super excited to be here.
Right on.
Thank you for bringing your rare skill set to us because we're excited to talk about
it.
By now, most of us understand that with cannabis analytics, we are looking for potency of a
range of cannabinoids and terpenes to help us understand the potency of our flower.
What we're curious to start with is what are the constituents of psilocybin mushrooms that
we want to measure?
Yeah, it is very similar.
We are looking at a potency measure when we're looking at the biomass of mushrooms or an
extract for example.
There are alkaloids in mushrooms, in the psilocybin mushrooms that are our target as opposed to
the cannabinoids and terpenoids in cannabis.
There are five primary ones.
There's two that most people know about, which are psilocin and psilocybin.
Then there's three additional ones, norsilicin, biosysteine, and norbiosysteine.
These are the five primary ones that people look for.
There's also an additional sixth analyte called arginase, which can also be found in the psilocybin
mushrooms.
That's actually six total, but five that people mostly look at.
I have a feeling people are going to be more interested in arginase going forward.
I've heard a couple people talk about a hypothesis that they think that might be responsible
for some of the woodlover mushroom issues.
There's toxins from woodlover mushrooms that can make people sick.
That's actually a pretty good segue into why we're doing this.
The main reason is safety.
That's why I'm interested in doing this.
These molecules are quite powerful and have the ability to influence the way people think
quite substantially.
With this being introduced to a whole new group of people with the legalization of psilocybin
in Oregon, we want to make sure people are safe.
These other metabolites, I feel actually quite rookie about this because I'm familiar with
psilocin and psilocybin, but the other four that you mentioned, I've never heard of any
of them.
You mentioned one of them that can be toxic.
I'm guessing that that would be-
I don't know for sure if it's toxic, but I've heard a couple people mention that they think
that might be involved.
Yeah, I don't know for sure.
Okay, cool.
Thank you for the correction.
I don't want to put words in your mouth.
For sure.
There's a lot of unknowns here in this industry and in this topic.
It's been in the dark for so long, being a Schedule 1 substance, that people weren't allowed
to do this research for a very long time.
Thanks to organizations like MAPS and people like Rick Doblin, they've opened up the ability
for us to start looking at these things again, which actually happened way back in the 60s.
These other constituents, other than psilocin and psilocybin, are those four all things
that we are trying to analyze and get potency for because we want to encourage them?
We think that they are perhaps helper molecules for psilocybin or something, or are the other
four really more things that we want to track for potential negative reasons?
For the norsilicin, biosysteine, and norbiosysteine, I know that people are definitely interested
in them as psychedelic molecules.
I do not believe there's major toxicity associated with those in larger doses.
There are more minor alkaloids in the mushroom compared to psilocybin and psilocin.
They're not found in every species either.
I've definitely seen biosysteine and norbiosysteine in some samples from customers, but I have
yet to see norsilicin show up.
Some of these molecules convert into each other.
Norsilicin converts into psilocin.
All of these molecules are very similarly related structurally.
It reminds me right away of the entourage effect in cannabis.
Indeed.
Oh, good.
That's what I'm curious about.
Do you think that, and again, I know we're very early in this research, but do you think
we're going to find that these different constituents are working together, or do you think that
they just happen to sometimes co-occur?
Yeah, I'd be hard-pressed to believe that they don't have some sort of synergy or interaction
with each other because you can make the analogy to cannabis where you look at CBD and THC,
for example.
They don't bind to the same receptors.
That's why they have different effects in the body.
While we know the target for psilocin and psilocybin, we may not know all the target
receptors for the other constituents.
We might not even know if psilocin and psilocybin touch other receptors either.
The experiments that are done in order to figure this stuff out are pretty complicated
and involve binding kinetics with the analyte and the receptor.
It takes a great deal of work to figure out.
Then, also, when you have lower affinity, or what I mean by that is the interaction between
the receptor and the molecule is not very high.
It's really low.
Those can be actually hard to discover that they're binding to in the cell or on the cells.
It takes even more extensive work to discover the minor receptors that they might interact
with.
Wow, that's really interesting.
All right.
I know for me, the four that you mentioned other than psilocin and psilocybin were all
new to me.
To people who are studying at your level and understand these mushrooms intimately, are
you expecting there to be some or many more constituents of the mushrooms that we discover
and find out are things that we do want to analyze?
Yeah.
The number of things we were going to be looking for in these assays is expanding as we learn
more.
Exactly.
There is some work going on in Israel where they have a very advanced lab where they use
a different technique than we use in Flourish to look at these analytes.
They're using a mass spectrometry.
With a liquid chromatography coupled with a mass spectrometer, you can identify molecules
that are super low abundance and maybe a thousand fold more sensitive than the HPLC-UV that
I'm using to do these quantitative analytics.
I know that they've discovered a host of new molecules in psilocybin mushrooms that is
in the literature and just really isn't well known at all.
What you need to do then is single out these molecules and then do experiments with each
of them.
This is a very massive effort.
One of the biggest deficiencies I have right now in this field is the time to dive really
deep into the literature of basic research.
Most of my work right now is involved with researching method development because I'm
setting up additional tests outside of psilocybin mushrooms, which we can talk about later if
you're interested or maybe next time.
Most of my time is spent developing new tests for the lab, so I'm a little bit deficient
on the newest alkaloids coming out of these mushrooms.
That's actually something we could probably talk about in a single episode if you're ever
interested in the future.
It's really interesting to experience how much opportunity that there is in mushrooms
right now.
Absolutely.
For somebody who sees themselves as an organic chemist or naturalist scientist, the idea
that there's all these species to discover and then there's all these species to then
do experimentation within the lab, and then of course how they're interacting with the
human, what a time to be somebody early career who is interested in this.
Absolutely.
Actually, I have two answers to that question.
First of all, you said additional species.
Right now I've been talking mostly about the psilocybin mushrooms.
One thing that I thought was really interesting too is I've even seen a reference where people
have found bufotinin in the mushrooms.
That's the same one found in the toad.
That's a really powerful DMT molecule.
That's another reference I'd need to follow up and verify, but I thought that was super
interesting.
For other species, there are like Gymnopolis and Foliota.
There are these molecules called Bisnoragonin, Hispidin, and then in Amanita there's Muscamole,
Ibotenic Acid, and Muscazone.
There's a host of other molecules that can be looked into as well.
Just narrowing down on the psilocybin mushrooms is super interesting, but there's also a lot
more out there.
To be honest, when we're talking about the fungal kingdom, there is so much we don't
know.
I mean, unbelievable amount of information out there to be mined by people to figure
out what's going on with these absolutely incredible organisms.
I know that the few labs that there are for mushrooms in the United States, they look
different, and they're run different, but I'm going to ask you a real general question
from your experience just kind of about all labs in general, which is, do you think that
mostly labs are being set up at this point just for psilocybin, or do you think that
both part of their business model to be able to have a more variety of customers, but also
the direction that interest is going, would you say that most labs are setting themselves
up for that Amanita and all these other mushrooms that are coming into popularity again?
Yeah.
Well, first of all, most people are going to be handcuffed by their laws, so it's only
legal to mess with any of these in very few places in the country, the state of Oregon,
Denver, Oakland, and maybe I have heard of a lab in Michigan, but I don't know if they're
just doing it without having the laws changed yet.
There's a couple levels of this answer here.
To set up the testing for psilocybin and psilocin, it's not that difficult.
There's information out there in the literature.
You don't need a tremendous amount of equipment, $20,000, $30,000 investment, and you could
get going.
Now having the ability to do analytical method development and develop methods for things
that there might not be a lot of information out there is going to be a real challenge
for anyone that doesn't have a massive amount of experience in chromatography method development
with HPLC or LC-MS.
What I've noticed is several of the labs that are up and running, well several, there's
only a few, most of the people doing it are very young scientists, and by young I don't
mean their physiological age, but the amount of experience they have with this type of
work.
The less experience you have doing this, the more difficult it is to expand into different
species or different tests.
Me, I've been doing chromatography method development for 20 years.
I just recently announced that I can test for cordycepin, and I got some cordyceps mushrooms
from a guy on Instagram, he gave me some material to help develop my method.
I had this guy's mushroom in an extract for, gosh, it must have been two months, and I've
just been so busy in my day job and all the other things involved.
I'm a parent, I'm a father, I'm a husband, and I just didn't have time to get to it.
And then this last weekend, I developed a method for cordyceps in two days.
A lot of people are not going to have the base knowledge to do something like that so
quickly, and then validating the method and making sure it's correct, it takes a lot more
work after you develop it to make sure that it's correct.
We can have really challenging issues where two different molecules have what's called
the same retention time.
What that means is when you have a complex molecule, say I do an extraction of a mushroom,
and I put it through my machine, we use a column that is packed with a bed of what's
called resin, which is basically a bed of a bead that has a chemical functional group
or a chemistry interactive group on the surface of a molecule.
We take our complex mixture of mushrooms and we pass it through that column, and all the
molecules in the mixture interact with the surface of that column resin in a different
way.
This is how they start to separate out and resolve from each other.
And so when you put a sample on a column, you can have stuff come out within a couple
minutes, 5, 10, 15, maybe even 20 minutes, even longer depending on how fast the flow
is and how much interaction occurs between the molecule of interest and the resin bed
of the column.
So these retention times is how you distinguish which molecule is which, because if you do
everything the exact same way every time, they should come out to the same retention
time within .05 minutes of each other, within seconds.
It should be very reproducible.
Now if we have two molecules that are almost identical, for example, psilocin and psilocybin,
it's a very subtle change where psilocybin loses a phosphate group, which is a phosphorus
and four oxygens.
And when you do that, you actually get a pretty big change in the physiological behavior or
the chemical behavior of the molecule, and then you get these to separate very easily.
And then with cordyceps, you're actually looking at molecules where it's a subtle of a change
of a hydrogen and an OH group, so a hydroxyl to a hydrogen, and everything else on the
molecule is identical.
So separating those when there's such a subtle change is critical, right?
Because you don't want to tell people you're testing cordycepin, but it's actually that
peak also has either adenosine or 2-deoxyadenosine, right?
You'll be giving them the wrong information.
So you have to make sure that with your method development, that you have all your controls
in place and all your standards separating at what is called a baseline resolution so
that you can actually quantitate or give people the concentration of these analytes in their
mushrooms.
Right on.
That was a very clear explanation.
And I've talked about this before when I was talking to Dr. Miyabi Shields on this show,
but I really like the artisan approach whereby by creating these lab processes, you're kind
of inventing your own tools.
My grandpa and my uncles, they were all carpenters.
And I remember when I was a kid the first time that I realized that they needed to do
something in carpentry.
And so they actually developed and made a tool because that tool didn't exist.
And the idea that you could invent tools was fascinating to me as a kid.
It still is cool to me.
And that's essentially what you're describing is that, all right, we've got this new box
of information called mushrooms, and we need to come up with tools to be able to open this
box uniquely.
And I get pretty jazzed by that.
Let's talk about terpenes.
I've only really understood that there have been terpenes in mushrooms for about three
years after it came up unexpectedly during an interview.
And so since that time, I have been trying to learn everything I can about mushroom terpenes.
They seem to be incredibly subtle.
They certainly don't play as big of a role to humans as an aroma attractant as they do
in our favorite plant, cannabis.
But all of the mushroom research I'm talking about, they're like, these terpenes are going
to be a bigger deal than we take them for now.
And so I would like to hear what you have to say about the terpene.
Are you testing for mushroom terpenes?
Are there a few that are particularly common?
And in your conversations with your customers, do you have any status quo of where we're
at as far as understanding the role that terpenes play in these mushrooms?
Your last question is the easiest one to answer.
And the role that these terpenes are playing, for the most part, we have no clue.
This is a brand new area of research.
I mean, there might be a couple labs around the world that would disagree with me and
say they know more, and they probably do.
But these are kind of obscure, and I don't really know too much about them.
I'm definitely not an expert in mushroom terpenes because they're so new.
And one thing I'd like to say is they're very different from the cannabinoid terpenes.
As you said, cannabinoid terpenes are typically associated with odor and providing us with
that beautiful profile that we get from all the diversity in the cannabis plants.
The terpenes found in mushrooms are generally called triterpenes, so they're much larger
and they're more complex often than the ones we know about in cannabis.
And they do not have odors associated with them because they're not as volatile, if they're
volatile at all.
And they're found in some species and not others.
For example, the reishi mushroom has a large group of triterpenes that people are very
interested in.
And they're much more complicated to test for right now.
First of all, getting standards for them can be a challenge.
Most people that are going to be looking at terpenes are going to be using mass spectrometry,
which these machines are very expensive.
And Flourish is definitely planning on buying one in the near future so that I can expand
into these more lower abundant molecules and ones that you might not be able to find authentic
reference standards for.
Because using a mass spectrometer, you don't always need a reference standard.
Well, you don't need a reference standard to identify things.
There's these databases that you can pay enormous amounts of money to have access to.
And you can basically find just about any molecule that we know exists that way.
If you want to use a mass spectrometer to quantitate, then you definitely need reference
standards.
But I have a feeling that these terpenes, these triterpenes from mushrooms are going
to be really important.
I have a feeling that they're going to be critical in the bioactivity and the medicinal
properties of these mushrooms.
I believe there's also some found in turkey tail and definitely in lion's mane as well.
And some of these other mushrooms, they also have these unique compounds associated with
them that aren't found in other species like these aeronacines and...
What's the name of the other group of compound?
Aeronacines and hersonones from lion's mane.
There are these incredibly unique diterpenoids from the mycelium of lion's mane.
And also, ones in the mycelium, I believe that's the aeronacine.
And I believe the hersonones are more abundant in the fruiting body.
And Paul Stamets has talked about these quite a bit on various podcasts he's been on.
These are responsible for neurogenesis.
I don't know that I should say that.
I know there's a very strong hypothesis that these things are helping in vivo, in humans.
There's definitely in vitro work showing that these lion's mane compounds actually initiate
neurogenesis.
And if Paul Stamets has also referred to other work that shows when you combine psilocybin
and lion's mane, you can actually get neurogenesis.
And also, another thing that he's...
Oh, sorry, I just hit the mic.
Another thing that he led onto on one of the Joe Rogan podcasts years ago is the combination
of these two molecules and then you add in niacin, or vitamin B3.
And what niacin is a vasodilator, and it can dilate the very...
Well, it dilates all blood vessels, right?
But if you think about where you need these molecules to work, if someone is dealing with
neuropathy from diabetes or from some traumatic injury, and we want to get the psilocybin
and the lion's mane molecules to the absolute depths of the periphery of our circulatory
system.
All the ventral areas, all the deep parts of our brain, where the neurogenesis is needed,
where the neurodegradation has occurred.
And by combining all these together, you're going to get a stronger response by the combination
of the aronasins and hersonones with the psilocybin.
And then using something like niacin to push these molecules to the absolute end of the
circulatory system where they're most needed.
So I think that's just absolutely fascinating.
What actually precipitated the beginning of Flourish Labs was I was thinking about making
a supplement with lion's mane and niacin, and then letting people get their own psilocybin.
But then all these laws changed, and I thought about making this as a product.
And then I had a couple friends say, oh, I think you should make a testing lab, which
I need to shout out both of those people.
A couple of really good friends, one's been my friend since college.
Jeffrey, thank you so much for pushing me towards this lab.
And then another guy that he's worked with and I've become friends with, a guy named
Drew.
And I want to thank both of those guys a lot, because without them, I probably wouldn't
be here right now.
I would have missed the boat.
So let's come at the mushroom from a different direction.
Oh, before we do that, I wanted to just jump on the niacin bit.
We've talked about niacin and microdosing on the show here a couple times, and you're
the first person to explain why niacin is in the stack.
So thank you for explaining that.
That's really valuable insight.
There's actually something really interesting about that as well.
Niacin, if you take too much, you can get what's called a niacin flush.
I have done this.
It's not fun, not super dangerous, but not fun.
And so one of the cool things about using niacin in this context is you can prevent
people from taking a whole bunch of, not that you don't want to be the psilocybin police,
but by putting niacin in the microdose, you're not going to take too many because you're
going to get a niacin flush way before you start tripping.
If you want to have a macrodose, just grab five grams of some good mushrooms and go for
it.
I see what you're saying.
So that once they are on store shelves, it decreases the likelihood that people are going
to take their whole bottle of microdose at the same time.
For jurisdictions that are worried about this, that are more conservative, it might be a
really good thing because there are molecules you could add in there that will dilate your
blood vessels without the niacin flush.
There's some peptides and some other molecules, small molecules that'll do that.
So let's talk about adulterants.
So again, most of us have got cannabis analytics as our framework in our head.
In addition to the cannabinoids and the terpenes that we want, we're also, especially in the
licensed system, looking at molds and heavy metals and chemicals from Eagle 20 and things
like this.
Mushrooms are not grown the same way as plants, of course.
So from your perspective, what substances might we be searching for in mushrooms in
the lab that would suggest that they were perhaps grown incorrectly or in an unclean
environment which would cause us to reject batches of mushrooms?
I don't know what that would be, but I'm assuming there are.
I'm not a mushroom grower.
I never have grown mushrooms, so I'm a little bit uneducated here.
The cool thing about mushrooms, if you screw it up, my understanding is a lot of times
you don't get anything.
If you get a contamination, a lot of times the contamination will outrun the mushrooms
that you're growing, so you basically just have to throw it out.
I'm sure there are situations where people are growing with maybe substrates that might
have heavy metals in them or substrates that might be contaminated with some sort of organism
that would be unhealthy for us.
And so I absolutely plan on instituting this type of testing at Flourish Labs as well.
I believe when it comes time for the regulated legal testing under 109, you will be looking
for contaminants like heavy metals and bacteria or other fungi that could be dangerous to
humans that might be slow growing.
And we'll use a PCR genetic test to determine these things, which is really pretty straightforward,
not difficult to do, and going to be critical.
Because you're basically making a food or a medicine for somebody that they're going
to ingest in their body and it has to be clean.
Right on.
So let's get back to the analytics.
I understand that one of the things that are interesting about mushrooms is that not only
do they have common constituents that are just used and applied in novel ways in fungus,
but also there are some constituents that don't occur very often except in mushrooms.
And the type of labs that we're almost familiar with, they're using chemical standards for
these constituents and then using the technology compare against the standard to then figure
out how much of it is in any particular mushroom.
I'm guessing that since the Pselosophy mushroom is still a Schedule 1 at the federal level,
that some of these standards might actually be challenging to get your hands on.
But I'm willing to be open to the fact that maybe they all already exist and it's just
been accessed to them for years and years.
So tell us a little bit about how difficult standards are to be able to obtain to do the
work.
Yes, this is one of the most common questions I get from people.
And you'd be surprised how easy it is.
So there's a philosophy here that is pretty straightforward.
So these molecules, you have to take a certain dose, right?
And so in order to get the standards, you contact these chemical companies and they
basically have 1 milligram per milliliter solutions that you can buy.
They're DEA exempt because you're paying anywhere from $70 to a few hundred dollars
for a single milligram.
Nobody's going to be abusing these things.
You can go down the street and find them for way cheaper, right?
So they're DEA exempt when it's a milligram or less.
And they're often in solvents you would never put in your body.
So it's too much of a hassle to try to get these and abuse them.
It's super expensive and no one would ever do it.
That's why they're DEA exempt.
Now if you go try to buy 5 grams or you're trying to buy a powder, then you need a DEA
license.
But just for a single milligram, 1 mg per ml reference standards, all you need is a
legitimate laboratory.
And by legitimate laboratory, when you start a company like this or you have a laboratory
you're starting in a non-profit or in a university, the companies vet your location.
You can't have a mail service.
You need a legitimate commercial laboratory location for them to even send them to you.
So that's where the level of regulation comes in by the actual chemical companies.
They won't just sell them to anybody also.
Right on, cool.
So let's talk about sampling.
As we all know, people game the system all the time in cannabis by which flowers they
choose to send to the lab.
Maybe they're just sending colas or maybe they'll roll the flower in key first or whatever
they're going to do.
It's not a representative sample, which scientifically is actually quite a process of having and
having and having a large lot all the way down to a small lot.
But when you're done, mathematically it's representative of the entire lot.
When it comes to mushrooms though, I don't know what a sampling process is like.
And so does it matter which mushrooms you pick?
Can you game the system by sending a larger or a smaller one?
Tell us a little bit about that.
So one of the most interesting things about these mushrooms to me is the variability of
the alkaloid content from flush to flush, from mushroom to mushroom, and also within
the mushrooms themselves.
I believe it's going to be a lot harder to adulterate them than with cannabis for a couple
reasons and we can get to that in a moment.
I had a customer interested in looking at the various structural aspects of the mushroom.
So when the mushrooms are growing, the way that they grow, the cap and the stem appear
fused for a really long time.
Some mushrooms have a veil, which is like a little skirt around the cap that attaches
to the stalk.
And then when that opens, the spores are able to drop from the mushroom cap.
Now I've been told by growers and also seeing research in the literature, where most likely
the most potent time to harvest is just before the caps open and the veils open, so everything
is closed up.
However, if you look even more carefully, I had a customer section the mushroom from
the bottom of the stem up to the tip of the cap.
When we looked at the lower part of the stem, when we looked at the junction of the stem
and the cap right there, so he took about a half a centimeter to the right of the stalk
side and about a half a centimeter to the left of the cap and he sliced that.
And then he took the top of the cap.
And when we looked at that, that centerpiece where the veil connected to the stalk and
the cap was by far the most potent part of the mushroom.
That's interesting.
Yeah, like two-fold more potent than the cap and maybe like two and a half to three times
more potent than the stem.
That's a really funny answer because everybody argues about whether or not stems or caps
are the most potent, but actually it's where they join.
Well, in that instance, definitely, because I've also seen just recently a guy on Instagram
showed that the stalk was more potent than the cap.
And so this opens up a whole host of questions around mushroom cultivation, right?
So we've learned a ton about steering plants to produce molecules, cannabis with THC or
CBD, other plants to produce compounds of interest for pharmaceutical or industrial
purposes.
I'm really interested to see if we can do this with fungi.
And once these growers get out of the basements and closets and start making these commercial
facilities and they're able to control their environments with really high level...
Man, I'm missing a lot of words today.
I totally apologize.
It's all good.
You know, high fidelity control of their environment.
They can tune it up or down a couple degrees, a couple percent humidity.
They control CO2, oxygen levels, light, dark.
When the mushroom growers get these tools, are they going to be able to produce highly
consistent batches?
They might.
Well, they might not also because maybe the mushrooms control this in a way we don't understand.
I did briefly read an abstract of a paper last night where they claimed that they could
influence the alkaloids in the mushrooms by growth conditions.
So it's definitely possible.
It's just going to take a massive effort of research and development on the mushroom growers'
parts to normalize cultivation so that people that are producing products can grab a batch
from the same grower every time and know more or less that their product is going to come
out the way they expect.
Now, if this is not the case, it's really good news for labs like myself because if
they have a consistent batch every time, you don't necessarily have to test every batch
of raw material before you make a product, right?
But if you're varying more than 10% of your raw material batches, they're going to have
to test every batch so they know how to make their product.
So then I would be able to be testing pre-product formation and then I would be testing their
products as well.
So for the growers and the producers and people making product, I hope that they can normalize
to grow and get consistent batches.
It will just help them save a lot of money.
In the testing, we're going to be there.
We're going to be required to test everything before it hits the shelves.
If there ever is retail or before it hits the clinic, before it's given to patients.
So our niche is there, but we're definitely available to help if that is the case where
they need pre and post testing.
All right, Dom.
So let's go ahead and take a short break and when we come back, we're going to continue
down the same vein and talk about testing mushrooms that have been dried or fresh.
You are listening to Shaping Fire and my guest today is biochemist, George Sellhorn.
And without these advertisers, Shaping Fire would not happen.
So please support them and let them know you heard them on Shaping Fire.
There are a lot of good people launching new businesses in cannabis, psilocybin and other
psychedelics.
And it's a very strange time for us.
In the same moment that psilocybin mushrooms are illegal at the federal level, they are
becoming increasingly legal in states across the country.
These businesses leading the way into the future of plant medicines require specialized
legal representation by attorneys who have depth not only in litigation, mergers and
acquisitions, but also in psychedelic and other plant medicines.
Green Light Law Group has been empowering cannabis businesses since 2014.
And as the market has diversified into psilocybin and other plant medicines, Green Light has
been right there evolving with their diverse clients to provide legal expertise with a
high level of legal acumen, creative strategy and precision that comes with an intimate
and specific understanding of both business law and plant medicine.
If you are a business owner trying to navigate the layered local and national drug laws on
your own, you are at risk of fumbling.
These confusing and quickly changing laws complicate everything.
Green Light Law Group is ready to help you when hit with a lawsuit, or because you were
shafted by a vendor or business partner, or simply because you want to stay legal and
could use some preventative guidance before cultivating a controlled substance as an entrepreneur.
Green Light Law Group is a collection of folks who care profoundly about their work, and
I know this is true because I know the folks from Green Light.
There is a huge difference between a big legal firm who has decided to start representing
a few drug companies, versus working with a collection of high integrity, passionate
lawyers who are personally interested in new plant medicines and firmly believe in
their power to heal.
Contact Green Light Law Group today and learn more about the services they can offer your
industry leading cannabis or psychedelics company.
That's Green Light Law Group at GreenLightLawGroup.com
Once you've discovered the benefits of using cannabis, it's a very small step to start
making your own edibles, gummies, lotions, tinctures, and concentrated oils at home.
Magical Butter has been helping cannabis consumers become self-sufficient for over a decade.
With the easy to use Magical Butter countertop botanical extractor, you can create high quality
cannabis products to your exact specifications at a fraction of the cost of store bought
edibles.
I talk a lot on this show about the importance of home growing so you don't have to rely
on others to feel healthy.
The Magical Butter machine can empower your personal health by putting you in control
of how you use cannabis in your daily life.
I've been making my own butters and oils on the stove for years and I much prefer the
ease of using the Magical Butter machine.
I just set it and walk away.
With the simple touch of a button, the Magical Butter machine grinds, heats, stirs, and steeps
your herbal extract all at the correct time interval and temperature for the perfect infusion
every time.
As a result, you achieve your desired infusion easily, safely, and consistently.
Check out the Magical Butter Instagram to see the machine in action.
And don't feel like you have to go it alone.
There is a huge community on Facebook called Magical Butter Users United sharing recipes
and best practices so you can learn at your own pace from others who are already doing
it successfully.
Now is the time to get your own Magical Butter machine and save money while enjoying cannabis.
Use the discount code SHAPINGFIRE, one word, no caps, to get 10% off.
Visit MagicalButter.com today.
There are so many seed banks nowadays that you really have options in who to choose.
Not only that, if you pick the wrong seed bank, you could be in for a really sketchy
ride.
And that's only one of the reasons I recommend Hembra Genetics Collection to my friends and
listeners who are looking for a seed bank.
That's Hembra, spelled H-E-M-B-R-A.
Hembra is not just another seed bank.
Hembra is a woman-operated boutique cannabis genetics provider that only sells thoughtfully
curated seeds from the top names in cannabis breeding.
With over 50 breeders and over 500 strains to choose from, you will certainly find something
you'll love.
Hembra Genetics has something for everyone with over 350 feminized strains, 200 regular
varieties, and over 100 auto flowers to choose from.
Names you know you can trust like Humboldt Seed Company, Night Owl, Canerato, In-House
Genetics, Fast Buds, and Gnome Automatics.
We both know that there are other seed banks who will take your money but have no customer
service.
I invited Hembra to advertise on Shaping Fire after hearing so many good stories about them
from my friends.
They have A-plus customer service with lightning fast response times.
In most cases, Helene and Kaitlyn will get your order out the same day you place it,
and you'll usually receive your seeds in just a few days.
Most seed banks are simply not this organized or interested in getting your seeds to you
this fast.
But Hembra cares.
You even get free seeds with every order.
Helene and Kaitlyn get it.
They have been in the cannabis growing scene for over a decade.
So save a few bucks by using this discount code too.
Use the code SHAPINGFIRE all one word at checkout to save 10% off your order.
Buy seeds from good folks who will get you great seeds reliably every time.
Visit HembraGenetics.com today.
That's Hembra Genetics.
Welcome back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire.
I am your host, Shango Lose.
My guest today is biochemist George Selhorn.
During the first set, we talked a lot about what is actually in mushrooms in general,
but specific psilocybe that we want to test for.
And then we talked a bunch about the things that might be in mushrooms that we don't,
that mean that we want to test for, that we don't want to have in there.
Let's talk a little bit more about the mushroom itself and getting it prepped for the analytics.
Do mushrooms always have to be dried first to test or can we test them fresh?
Can we only compare fresh tests against fresh tests or can we compare fresh tests against
dry tests because the water aspect doesn't matter?
Yes, we can absolutely test wet or dry mushrooms.
Dry mushrooms are a little easier to homogenize than a wet mushroom, but it's totally possible.
We control for moisture.
We do dry weight measurements in the end.
So basically if I were to get a dried mushroom from a batch and a wet mushroom from a batch,
what I would do is homogenize both individually and then you weigh out a sample and then you
extract it and you do the HPLC and you get your numbers.
And then I always ask for a little bit extra.
You need a portion of mushroom to do the analytics on and you need a portion of the mushroom
to dehydrate so you can get the true dry weight.
So even when I get a dried mushroom from a customer, I will take a small bit of it and
I basically have a little dehydrating oven that will completely dry it out.
I use 104 degrees so it's not too hot.
And it doesn't matter because I'm not actually testing the part that you dehydrate.
You pull out a sample first to do the testing so it doesn't get any heat treatment, light
or oxidative degradation.
And just at the end, all you do is a math adjustment to adjust for the loss of water
just like in cannabis.
So it doesn't matter what the water content is.
You can compare any mushroom as long as you fully dehydrate a sample and calculate the
dry weight percentage.
Typically, how much of a sample in dry weight, because I'm figuring dry is almost 100% of
what everybody's using.
But how big of a sample do you think a lab is going to request most of the time?
Because same thing in cannabis, having a little bit extra is helpful especially if something
comes up and-
Yeah, exactly.
So what do sample volumes or sizes look like for mushrooms?
So for me, I prefer two grams.
Two grams is plenty for me.
I've seen other labs ask for three, four and five grams, which in my humble opinion is
a little bit excessive.
But for the way I do it is I get two grams from a customer and typically most people
are fully dehydrating these things themselves.
I would say an average air dried mushroom has about 10% moisture, but most of the ones
that I'm getting from people only have about 1% moisture.
So they're fully dehydrating before I get them.
So I usually make a very small dry weight adjustment.
But yeah, two grams is plenty for me.
I keep one gram for the dehydration step and I keep one gram for analytics.
For the analytics, I use about 250 to 350 milligrams.
So that gives me at least two tests, two extractions that if I had to extract their sample twice,
then I have plenty for the extractions and plenty for the dehydration.
One of the challenges that was very common with labs at the beginning of licensed cannabis
was testing edibles because it's so much more difficult to target in on the cannabinoids
when you've got God knows what else is in this brownie.
Is it uniquely more difficult to find mushroom metabolites in chocolate or other edibles?
Because chocolates and honeys and gummies seem to be the three ways that mushroom edibles
are first coming to market.
Right.
So there's an interesting chemistry problem here and it's both in cannabis and in mushroom
stuff.
So real quickly on cannabis, we know that the cannabinoids are fat soluble.
They're hydrophobic molecules, which is why it's really easy to make a chocolate bar with
cannabis because it has a bunch of fat in it.
Whereas it's way more difficult to make a consistent gummy because you're putting a
hydrophobic molecule into a water-based product, a gummy.
Now we flip this when we go to the mushrooms.
It's super easy to make really consistent gummies.
All the gummies that I've tested from people have been really consistent.
And then flip that, the chocolate bar, now you're trying to put a water soluble molecule
into a fat soluble product.
So the consistency in the chocolate bar is more challenging with an alkaloid than a terpene
from cannabis.
I test for both.
I have methods for edibles, extracts, and fruiting bodies.
So I can do all of those things.
I think this is the only lab in the country doing edibles, but I'm not positive.
I haven't seen advertisements for anybody else doing edibles.
That certainly explains why I'm seeing the growth in mushroom gummies and gelatin-based
stuff.
Traditionally, chocolates have been incredibly popular, but if the homogenization is a problem,
that's a big deal breaker as far as consistency.
As we all know from-
Especially with a psychedelic.
Yeah, right.
Yeah, exactly.
As we know, during the transition from the heritage market to the medicinal market, the
semi-legal medicinal market, and then a licensed market in cannabis, that the biggest reason
to go in that direction is for consistency for patients.
We're climbing that same mountain now with mushrooms, trying to figure out what's the
best way to create repeatable results for patients.
That's the only reason for legalization in my- or not legalization, but licensing.
I don't really believe that the state should be involved with licensing or taxing this
at all.
But I do like the idea of there being consistency in the products, because in the end, my number
one priority is patients.
That makes some sense as to why the gummies are everywhere now.
Yeah.
There's a downside to these edible things, too.
Sugar is such a huge problem in this Western culture.
Everybody wants to put it in this sweet candy.
It's not the best route for medicine, in my opinion.
Yeah, I'm with you on that.
That's why I've pushed tinctures as a great primary thing, because with capsules, you're
going to have a whole bunch that are exactly the same, and there's no variability from
day to day.
And then all these people are eating all these 10 milligram cookies, and that's not necessarily
great for patients either.
Right.
With mushrooms, it's great, because it's water-soluble.
We could make teas and beverages without sugar.
You could even make a concentrate into a few milliliters.
You could make a shot size and just boom, right there.
It's so easy to get these alkaloids into water.
They're water-soluble.
There's actually a really interesting thing I'd like to add here, something that I've
discovered over the last six months since I started this company.
A one milligram dose in a gummy is not the same as a one milligram dose in a fruiting
body.
So my hypothesis, which is supported by the types of molecules that make up the fungal
biomass, mushrooms are essentially a time release pill.
We do not have enzymes in our gut to digest chitin, which is the cell wall of fungal biomass.
So all of the degradation that takes place in the stomach and the gut is through the
acidity of our stomach.
The acid in our gut is going to break the mushroom down slowly and slowly release the
alkaloid content of the mushroom over a period of time.
Whereas you take a gummy and it has one milligram in it because it's been tested and we know
it has one milligram of psilocin in it, or say 1.3 milligrams of psilocybin because there's
a conversion factor there, you can feel one milligram in a gummy.
You will not feel one milligram in an average potent mushroom.
So it comes on a lot faster too.
Yes, you're basically getting all of the alkaloid dissolving immediately.
You get this full milligram going into your bloodstream all at the same time.
It's going to hit your receptors and cause an effect.
So what I'm saying is for people out there, if they start getting a hold of gummies, go
easy first.
Your mileage may vary.
Yeah, your mileage may vary.
Take less than more initially and if it's been lab tested, that will give you a really
good metric for your dosing yourself.
I think with cannabis, that's been one of the coolest things is people are like, okay,
I know what one milligram, five milligrams, ten milligrams is going to do to me now.
So let's talk about what's in that gummy, right?
Not the actual gummy and the sugar itself.
But if what's in the gummy is not pulverized and powdered mushroom, it means that there
is an extraction happening first and then the result of that extraction is what's going
into the gelatin process.
What is that extraction?
It can vary.
So a lot of people are using 100% ethanol or grain alcohol because for one, you're allowed
to consume it.
And for number two, it's easy to evaporate off.
So this is something I've actually been helping a lot of people with their product development.
I've been kind of doing consulting for people, which I'm definitely open to doing if anybody's
interested.
But because I have tons of extraction experience both in cannabis and in mushrooms and in plant
material in general because I've done that my whole life in the lab and as a recreational
cannabis user, you can extract with water.
You can extract with acidified water, add citrus juice or something.
You can extract with methanol, ethanol, acetic acid.
However, you want to be able to...
Obviously people don't use methanol when they're doing products, like you're making anything
to be consumed.
I use methanol in the lab because it's the best one for extraction for quantitation.
I would say the best solvent to use for extracting mushrooms is 100% ethanol.
So grain alcohol, you don't want to use lab 100% ethanol because these are cut with really
nasty adulterants to remove the last bit of water.
So Everclear is the best if you're at home and you're not sure what to use.
The great thing about alcohol, especially 100% alcohol, is with very mild heat you can
boil that off.
So say you have an ounce of mushroom material that you want to extract as much as the psilocyanin
and psilocybin out as alkaloids.
So you will do a mechanical extraction.
You grind it up, you can put it in a vessel, you can just shake it with a shaker, you can
use a vortex, you can use a more powerful method like ultrasonication or some way to
get the alkaloids out of the mushroom.
Then you filter your biomass out and you have this liquid with your mushroom extract.
Fortunately, the alkaloids are pretty good, well resistant to mild heat.
So you can add 80, 90, 100 degree Fahrenheit heat to this alcohol extract and boil it off
until it's reduced to whatever volume you want.
And then you would add a little bit of water and then you boil off the rest of the ethanol
and you have all of your alkaloids in distilled water.
And then you have a clean extract.
No harmful compounds unless there's something in the mushrooms you didn't know about, unless
there's something in your solvent you didn't know about.
But that's the cleanest way to produce a psilocybin extract.
And that also gives you control over concentration as well.
I was just going to say, and if that's how they are doing it often when they're making
these edibles, that's great.
But also, that is a pretty simple process.
That is something that a citizen scientist or a home user would be able to do as well.
100%.
And that's kind of why I said it, because mostly what I think people are doing is they're
kind of afraid to work with solvents, which is very understandable.
But just pure grain alcohol is totally safe.
And a lot of people I believe are trying to extract in water.
And they're unable to reach these higher concentrations.
And there's other tricks you can do too.
I said you have an ounce of mushrooms, you extract into 100 milliliters of a solution.
You can filter that biomass out.
Take that sample that you have your extract in and use a fresh mushroom batch to re-extract.
The solvent has a certain capacity to hold alkaloids.
And you're never going to saturate that solution with one extraction.
So that's another way you can increase the concentration of your extraction by using
the same solvent or water on fresh batches of biomass.
And you combine that with the alcohol thing, then you can achieve really high concentrations.
And be able to make gummies or any kind of product by just diluting a little bit of it
out.
That's the same way that I get my cannabis tinctures for myself for treating my brain
injury up to the numbers that I want them to be.
So I don't have to take like 5, 6, 8 squirts.
I'll do not a double but a triple maceration.
So introduce the same ethanol to fresh plant material three times.
And what did you call it?
It's carrying capacity?
Whatever, it wasn't supposed to be a quiz.
But the total amount of cannabinoids the ethanol can hold.
That's where I want it to be.
I want it to be at the highest.
The saturation point essentially.
So I don't have to take in any more Everclear or whatever the ethanol is that I'm using
for it.
And some people, especially recovered alcoholics or people that don't consume alcohol, they
don't want that.
So you need to have an alternative.
And luckily we can boil off the solvent pretty easy.
One thing I want to add to that real quick is I've seen studies where people treat the
psilocybin alkaloids up to 60 degrees Celsius which is 140 degrees Fahrenheit.
And even with relatively short treatments, 5, 10, 15, 20 minutes, you don't get much
degradation.
So that's why you can heat these up to 100 degrees Fahrenheit and get almost no degradation
if it's for a short time.
You could also institute a rotovap which is a rotating evaporator we use in the lab
with mild heat.
And that, if you've got the money to buy a rotovap for example, that will go even faster.
So there's tools out there to be able to do this.
I know that you've already said that you're not a mushroom cultivator.
So you may not have anything to say about this question.
But people will indeed be curious if you have come across any ways that cultivators can
increase their potency in their growing bins.
Perhaps from a conversation with a client of yours or something.
Because people are always looking to increase potency.
And clearly, getting good genetics is probably the number one thing.
But do you have anything else to add?
The one thing that comes to mind is I've heard people talk about CO2 levels.
I believe CO2 levels are important for triggering fruiting body formation.
And so I would imagine that the air composition, oxygen to CO2 ratio, and temperature are probably
super important.
I saw this really interesting post last night on Instagram that Paul Stamets put out.
And he was saying that the temperature of the mushroom is cooler than its surroundings.
It has this endothermic behavior when the fruiting body is forming.
And by endothermic, I mean it actually is able to absorb heat because it's cooler than
it's surrounding.
It's like a heat sink.
Yeah.
So an exothermic chemical reaction produces heat.
And an endothermic reaction sucks heat out away from the reaction.
So for example, when you mix acetonitrile and water together, which is a solvent I use
in the lab for analytics, it gets cold.
And you have to let it warm up to room temperature before you use it.
That's an endothermic reaction.
So this chemical reaction occurs and then this mass now absorbs heat from the environment
because the reaction costs that biomass heat.
Or that mass, not biomass.
But yeah, so temperature, CO2, oxygen are probably the first metrics I would look at.
But again, that's a hypothesis based on very limited information.
Good enough.
We'll take that.
So I guess this is a little bit of a fanboy question, but what varieties are you seeing
consistently getting high potency results?
I mean, online, just based on people's talking, I think that most people would put whatever
version of a penis envy at the top of that list.
But you're in a unique place because you're interacting with people who are growing a
wide variety and you're seeing the test results.
And yeah, I think I'll just stop there.
What are you seeing?
Yeah.
The most potent mushroom I've seen so far is an ape, which I believe is a penis envy
variety.
Albino penis envy, yep.
And I've actually seen some variability in different apes, but the highest potency I've
seen so far is 1.8% dry weight.
And these beautiful apes that are just bluish and fat and beautiful.
So that's one thing I almost said something earlier about people's visual appeal to mushrooms
and comparing it to how people just freak out about cannabis flowers.
But I know there's some mushroom geeks out there that totally love just looking at the
different morphologies of these fungi.
I find it super interesting as well.
But you can definitely see some people thinking, oh, a cannabis flower is way more beautiful
than a mushroom.
But I think that's in the eye of the beholder, so to speak.
But what I see when I look at these amazing natural organisms that we have, I see chemistry
factories, right?
Like this unbelievable ability to produce these chemicals that nature is providing.
And it's so interesting, too, if you think about why plants are chemical factories.
And it's a pretty simple answer.
They can't run away.
They can't run away from their predators.
So they have to defend themselves chemically.
And then plants and fungi have been on this planet for so long, they've had plenty of
time to evolve mechanisms for defense, which are super broad.
They've also had time to evolve molecules that affect organisms in other ways, which
is what we get to benefit from, which is, I find absolutely fascinating that these completely
different organisms produce molecules that affect our brain chemistry.
That just blows my mind.
Right on.
So let's go ahead and take our second commercial break.
And when we come back, we're going to talk about how the new existence of mushroom analytics
is actually changing mushroom pricing in the underground.
So we're going to take this short break.
We'll be right back.
You're listening to Shaping Fire, and my guest today is biochemist George Selhorn.
One of the reasons why no-till cannabis growing is so valued by farmers is because the mycelium
networks in the soil remain established from year to year.
And we know these fungal networks are essential because they are the nutrient superhighways
that extend far and wide in the substrate to feed your plants.
The trouble with growing in new living soils or blended cocoa substrates is that it takes
most of the plant's life just to create these mycelium highways.
Dinomyco-endomycorrhizal fungi inoculant reduces that time and gets your plant eating
a wider array of nutrients faster.
And it's three times the concentration of the other popular brand in the US at 900 propagules
per gram of two fungal species selected specifically for cannabis cultivation.
Dinomyco is the result of 30 years of research and trials at the Volcani Agricultural Research
Institute in Israel.
It has also been vigorously trialed by cannabis and food growers across the US.
Dinomyco is now available at grow shops and on Amazon in the United States.
I love using Dinomyco to both speed up the growth of the mycelium networks in the soil,
but also as a biostimulant to make clone cuttings more virile.
You can see side-by-sides showing the comparative growth on their Instagram at Dinomyco.
If you demand reliable growing results and appreciate the importance of an active root
zone in creating a thriving plant, I encourage you to check out Dinomyco.com and use the
store locator to find out where you can get yours.
That's D-Y-N-O-M-Y-C-O dot com.
Shaping Fire listeners can get 10% off any size of Dinomyco on Amazon or Dinomyco.com
by using the discount code SHAPINGFIRE, one word, no caps.
Whether you are starting with new beds or pots, or if you want to add some zing to tired
soil, choose Dinomyco to maximize your plant's potential.
Dinomyco Endomycorrhizal Inoculant.
For decades, Americans have enjoyed cannabis flowers in joints and bongs and bowls.
And now, with the normalization of cannabis use increasing across the country, we have
the opportunity to enjoy smoking cannabis luxuries that simply were not attainable before.
North Coast hand rolls blunts, cannons, rosin-infused donuts, and canegars available in the state
of Michigan.
North Coast focuses on flavor over everything else.
Instead of growing their own flower, North Coast goes out into the cultivation community
and creates relationships with the best growers working with the best new cannabis varieties
available.
Surely, heavy THC is a factor, but North Coast focuses on aroma, complex terpene profiles,
and taste that continues throughout the entire smoking experience.
The North Coast team curates flowers like others curate art.
They seek out the best talent, build relationships, helps them take their product to the highest
levels, and then buys their well-cured flowers in order to hand roll them just for you.
I really like their hand-blown glass tips.
And North Coast has branched out beyond canegars into rosin-solventless THCA diamonds and exceptional
hash rosin carts for on-the-go cannabis connoisseurs too.
North Coast provides you with attainable luxury, offering you an ultra-premium smoking experience
at a price that seems reasonable and repeatable.
To find out more about North Coast's line of cannabis products, visit their Instagram
at NorthCoast.Rolling.
And when in Michigan, ask for North Coast at your favorite shop.
North Coast.
After you've caught up on the latest Shaping Fire episodes, do you sometimes wish there
was more cannabis education available to learn?
Well, we got you.
Shaping Fire has a fabulous YouTube channel with content not found on the podcast.
When I attend conventions to speak or moderate panels, I always record them and bring the
content home for you to watch.
The Shango Lowe's YouTube channel has world-class speakers including Zoe Sigmund's lecture,
Understanding Your Endocannabinoid System, Kevin Jodry of Wonderland Nursery talking
about breeding cannabis for the best terpene profile, Frenchie Canoli's Lost Art of the
Hashishin presentation, Nicholas Mahmoud on regenerative and polyculture cannabis growing,
Dr. Sunil Agarwal on the history of cannabis medicine around the world, Eric Vlosky and
Josh Rutherford on solventless extraction, and Jeff Lohenfels on the Soil Food Web.
There are several presentations from Dr. Ethan Russo on terpenes and the endocannabinoid
system too.
While there, be sure to check out the three, ten-part Shaping Fire session series, one
with Kevin Jodry, one with Dr. Ethan Russo, and one with Jeff Lohenfels.
And even my own presentations on how to approach finding your dream job in cannabis and why
we choose cannabis business even though the risks are so high.
As of today, there's over 200 videos that you can check out for free.
So go to youtube.com forward slash shango lose or click on the link in the newsletter.
Welcome back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire.
I'm your host, Shango Lose, and my guest today is biochemist George Selhorn.
So one of the interesting, I guess, impacts from the recent existence of mushroom labs
is how it is impacting price in the, I guess, both the underground mushroom market and
also in the just blossoming, soon to be licensed market.
Because up until labs existed, a psilocybin mushroom was a psilocybin mushroom.
They were generally the same.
Some people had their preferences because maybe they had a good trip on it one time
or they like how they looked more.
And then people would be like, oh, these tend to be stronger than these other ones.
But it was really just conjecture and very anecdotal on a first, you know, each person
had their own opinion and there was no way to compare and contrast.
Aha, enter mushroom labs now.
And so now we actually know what's in them.
And so there's this new variety.
Up until now, it was people's preference and maybe the mushroom had something desirable
about it, like it was albino or leucistic or, oh, cool, it looks like penises, which
is kind of a novel thing too.
So people were making decisions on aesthetic choices.
But now you can put them in a lab and say, all right, this black cap albino penis envy
is the most potent thing that we've gotten tested versus this Brazilian, which is beautiful
and easy to grow and has these other attributes that we're attracted to.
But it's only 70% as potent as the ape, for example.
I just made that number up, but just for the example.
And so that is now impacting pricing at the street and manufacturing level because people
are starting to charge more for ultra potent mushrooms like these apes.
That's very interesting.
What is your experience behind the scenes with your customers?
Because it's getting to be a bit like cannabis where the higher the THC, the more likely
it is to be sold.
Well, the potency of mushrooms is now becoming related to the price as well from both people
who are taking it for a spiritual experience and for people who are planning on doing an
extraction and putting them into a bunch of gummies or something.
Right.
Yeah.
I didn't even know that was happening to be honest because I don't purchase mushrooms.
Because you're in the lab.
Yeah, right.
Yeah.
People pay me to take their mushrooms and test them.
So that's actually fascinating.
It makes sense actually because at least with mushrooms, we can touch on the cannabis stuff.
I have a pretty strong opinion about that one if you want to hear it.
But with mushrooms, I've tested stuff as low as 0.2% all the way to 1.8%.
So that's nine fold difference in potency.
If you go to a bar and you want to buy a Budweiser that's whatever, I don't know, 1.5%, whatever
the percent of a Budweiser is, you're going to pay a low amount of money.
And then say there's like some 8.5% Belgian, you're probably going to pay more for that
beer, right?
Because alcohol is, like we know what it does, it has a linear effect.
You drink more, you get more drunk, right?
With mushroom alkaloids, you take more, you have a more interesting experience.
This is like linear.
The more you take, the higher you get.
So it makes sense in the mushroom world.
The only problem there is, are people going to be saying, oh, this is an ape when it's
really like a way less potent mushroom.
So ask for the lab tests if they're charging you based on potency.
It's interesting how suddenly COAs are very relevant in mushrooms now too.
I've had people requesting them be made, yep.
It's interesting there are arbitrage opportunities as well in this because if you are manufacturing,
you may not necessarily choose an ape mushroom because they are at the, even though the
potency is the highest, it is also the highest price.
And so there would be good arguments to be made that you're looking for, in a manufacturing
environment, you may be looking for a balance between what mushroom has got the right balance
of potency, availability, easiness to cultivate, and then easiness to break down and use.
Yep, you're 100%.
And so most potent mushroom is not necessarily going to be best mushroom for manufacturing.
And these realizations are just coming to the industry and it's really interesting to
watch them sort themselves out.
Yeah, I totally agree because if you're running a business, it's all about efficiency.
How much does it cost me to do this and how much do I get back and how much product can
I make from it?
So I could very easily see a scenario where there's a 1% mushroom, it grows fast, it's
really easy to grow, like you say, maybe it grows twice as fast as a mushroom that's
1.5%, you know what I mean?
So it would be better to grow the 1%, you get more biomass, and then your extraction
efficiency is better with the slightly lower potent mushroom.
It's going to be, everybody's process is going to have to be worked out in that manner and
that's what I would suggest people do, is just don't go right off the bat and buy the
most expensive potent mushroom.
Get a couple different potency batches, see how much it costs you to make your product,
and then make the correct decision.
So earlier in the second set, we were talking about what part of the mushroom tends to be
the most potent.
And you told me about the single test case you have done where it was actually the junction
of the stem to the cap that tested highest, which was a really interesting insight.
And then as we worked our way out of the question, I just mentioned that people argue quite a
bit online about whether or not it's the cap or the stem, and you said, yeah, there's a
lot of variability, and we moved on.
But I want to come back to that, because you are the chemist and you are the person who
is doing these tests.
And granted, most of your tests are on homogenized mushroom, right?
So the cap and the stem are all mixed together.
But I'm thinking that you have something to say, even if there's no hard and fast rule.
I just want to get your thoughts on stem versus cap potency generally across all Pselosiby
mushrooms.
That's such a difficult question to answer.
I would feel comfortable if I tested at least 10 different mushrooms and looked at caps
and stems and stuff, but I've only done it once.
Like an N of one is a classic example of not enough data to make a decision.
But over the years, people have looked at this in different academic groups or different
parts of the world where they're allowed to do this work.
And in general, the theme is that the caps are more potent.
So I would probably lean to that being true.
There's always exceptions to rules, like where we saw the guy have a more potent stem the
other day.
But in general, I would say the caps probably do have more alkaloid than the stem.
Especially if there was a fully mature mushroom.
Right on it.
That makes sense.
Your rule of thumb would be cap, but we know the variability between varieties is so significant
that don't put too much weight on the rule of thumb.
The best thing to do is just grind it all up, in my opinion.
Grind everything you have into a single powder and then it's going to be pretty consistent.
I've had another customer where he took a pound and ground the whole thing up and then
he sampled it in three different areas and called that A, B, and C.
And then he did that for four months.
Every month he did a sampling like A, B, C.
So he was looking for degradation over time and consistency of sampling.
And he found some really cool stuff.
The sampling and the consistency was highly...
Everything was really close.
Every test I did was right around six milligrams per gram, so 0.6%.
And over time he barely lost anything.
So he had a really good storage condition.
So if you're looking for consistency, homogenize.
I think that when it comes up most of the time is when there is a sale taking place.
Whether it is so often a purchaser, whether or not it is somebody who is trying to establish
a business in Oregon, or if it's in the traditional neighborhood market, people want the caps
because they look cool and they're kind of ceremonially dope.
But so often if you're the last person to buy mushrooms from your connection, there
might be a lot of stems in the bottom.
So you might end up with mostly stems and a few caps.
The fact that we don't really know does help the position of the seller.
So I think that's when it usually comes up.
Because anybody who's growing their own and it's not changing hands, we're just going
to homogenize it, like you said.
It seems to be either in a licensed market or about to be licensed market where there
is a professional cultivator selling to a professional manufacturer, or when you're
just getting mushrooms from your homie.
Let's hit on the storage of mushrooms next.
The answer to how best to store your mushrooms has really evolved over the years, and very
much so over the last three years.
When I was in college back in the early 90s, we were told to put it in a Ziploc and put
it in the freezer.
That seemed to work, but I'm understanding now that there's a lot more people doing this
research now and it's evolved.
So why don't you tell us a little bit about the varieties of storing our mushrooms and
how we can get the most longevity about them.
Probably in your answer, include a little bit about what causes mushrooms to degrade
too.
Sure.
Yeah, so remarkably, the best way to store mushrooms is in the dark, sealed in a bag
at about 60 to 65 degrees and moderate humidity.
I've seen people do freeze-thaw studies, like you said, in the freezer, put them in the
refrigerator and store them just at room temperature, which would be a little bit warmer than 60,
65, 70, 75 degrees.
Pretty much the best way to do it to maintain alkaloid levels is cool and in the dark.
Do we want to remove as much oxygen as possible?
Yes.
That's right, I was just going to.
Oh, all right.
So using a-
A vacuum sealer or something like that.
That's what I'm trying to get to.
That's a good move then.
Yeah, absolutely.
Absolutely.
So the primary issue is oxidation.
So if you take away the oxygen, then you're going to have way less opportunity for your
mushrooms to degrade.
Light and heat and oxygen are your enemies when it comes to this.
So oxygen is the molecule that does the damage, but light and heat will speed it up.
And the reason why the freezer doesn't work all that great is when you freeze-thaw biomass,
whether it be tissue from an animal, plant, bacteria, fungi, when you freeze-thaw something,
you cause some of the cells to lice or burst.
And when you do that, you're going to expose the contents to oxygen.
So that freeze-thaw in and out of the freezer, every time you do it, you're going to burst
some of the cells and then that's going to lead to the degradation.
In the refrigerator, it's probably a moisture thing as well.
So moisture also could be a problem.
So if you don't fully dry your mushroom, you put it in the fridge, the change in temperature
is going to cause condensation.
If the biomass absorbs any of that water, it will facilitate degradation as well.
Whereas you keep them in a nice, consistent, dry, dark environment and it's cool, that
seems to be the best way to preserve your mushroom potency over time.
So you suggested keeping them in a low 60s, dark spot in a bag.
Let's talk about that bag, because you may have just kind of said that generally.
There's a difference of an opinion between a paper bag, because some people say they
need to breathe, but I think that's just the opposite because of the oxidation aspect.
And then there's other people who talk about either using plastic or because most plastic,
that's not a vacuum seal breeze.
Some people are suggesting glass jars are the way to go.
So what is the vessel that you recommend?
Actually, if you want to be really anal about it and give yourself little to no, the best
opportunity to preserve your material, a glass jar that seals would be great.
And also if you want to go even a step further, you can take an inert gas like nitrogen or
argon and blanket the vessel with that and it pushes out all the oxygen.
That's going a little far and beyond.
Most home people aren't going to do that, but in the laboratory or in a business, you
absolutely would want to do that because you'll get much longer shelf life if you purge the
oxygen from the storage vessel.
A way to do that cheap at home without adding an inert gas is for these food fresh vacuum
packs.
They've got these mason jar lid adapters, which is what I use for my cannabis.
And so I know the stuff that I'm going to smoke soon and then I know the stuff that
I've just taken out of cure, that's probably going to sit there until I get to it in two
or three months.
And so I put it in a large mouth mason jar and I think I paid like 20 bucks for this
adapter and it sucks all the air out of it.
So I would think that that would also be a win for when I have mushrooms.
100% and filling up the vessel with as much material as possible so there's no room for
air.
Yep, nope, that's exactly the way you would do it if you're covering all your bases.
All right, so let's talk about time for degradation for the most common way of keeping mushrooms
versus the crazy way that we just described for perfection.
So most people, they're going to get their mushrooms in a Ziploc and then they're going
to bring them home.
Let's not use freezer or refrigerator because we've already suggested that no one should
be doing that.
So they want to keep it in a cool, dark place.
So fine, let's just put it under the bed.
So it's dark, it's cool, and it's in a Ziploc bag.
And let's say that the mushrooms, when you receive them, let's say that they were harvested
two weeks ago and they were dried properly and you've got a very short supply chain between
the cultivator and me as the mushroom enthusiast.
So in that scenario, how quickly are my mushrooms under the bed going to degrade?
Are we talking, we have a nice cool, it's like a 60, 65 degrees?
Yeah, yeah.
Let's say the temperature's right and it's dark.
It's slow.
I can give you an example that was not perfectly stored, but when I first started setting up
the lab here and doing my R&D and getting my methods started, I had a grower friend
give me a nice bag of homogenized material so that I had a good amount of material to
go back and check so I could work on consistency, trying to make sure I was getting accurate
results over time.
Now I had that material and I did all my initial development about last September, or I mean,
sorry, last December, January is when I did that work.
And then I tested that stuff about a month ago.
So it was about six months where it sat probably closer to 70 degrees.
It was just in a plastic bag in my closet in my bedroom.
And it went from about 0.7% to about 0.56%.
So let me really quick, what is that?
That is a, yeah, that's about 80%.
So it's like a 20% loss in six months.
And that's not too bad.
No, that's actually way better than I thought it was going to be.
It was elevated temperature.
So if you keep it at 60 degrees, and that probably could have warmed up in there above
that if it got warm, you know, like a couple of few weeks, it's been warm recently.
So it could have accelerated a little bit towards the end there.
But that guy that I did the study with, you know, over four months, I think the potency
changed by like 2%.
So very little.
Yeah, very insignificant.
One of my friends who's a cultivator, he was very concerned about this last year during
the Pacific Northwest heat dome when it got to like 114 where he lives in eastern Washington.
And you know, he said, you know, other people he knew were going to get ice in order to,
you know, keep food or their pets or whatever cool.
And you know, he kind of, you know, how a double boiler, you've got the heat source
on the bottom and then a secondary thing.
He was actually taking all his storage of dried mushrooms and putting them in a vacuum
packed bag and then put it in a cooler that had all ice in the bottom, but then was sealed
and then was on top.
And that's how he's all like, he's like, I don't know what the science says about how
quickly these are going to lessen potency.
He says, but I want it to be zero.
And so he's all like, I may be sweating my ass off during the heat dome.
He says, but my mushrooms won't.
And I thought that was a pretty novel approach.
That's a pretty clever approach.
Yeah.
Because what he did was smart because it allows him to put his mushrooms in the air above
the cold.
Whereas if he would have like laid it directly on the ice, that super cold temperature probably
would have caused some condensation to form inside there.
So it's almost like he just made a little bit of air conditioning for his mushrooms,
you know?
And he describes it as a double boiler.
And it's weird.
Even though it's a radically different application of that idea, I totally got what he meant.
I'm like, oh, that's brilliant.
Yeah, absolutely.
He's letting the ice at the bottom cool the chamber above and it's not going to drop it
down to the ice temperature, but it's going to keep it much cooler than ambient.
So that's pretty clever.
Like I said, I like it.
So let's talk about, since we're talking about mushroom analytics labs and primarily Shaping
Fire talks about entheogens and evolution of mind and all, but there are other mushrooms
that people are all hot about now.
Generally put in a Chinese medicinal groups like reishi and turkey tail and lion's mane
and all of these other mushrooms that sometimes we use in cooperation with psilocybe mushrooms
for this ailment or that.
But also just taking them for general health seems to be pretty appropriate.
Can you talk a little bit about the awarenesses that you have testing these other mushrooms
as well?
I mean, you don't just test psilocybe since you've talked about these other mushrooms
and you have such intimate details with them.
I'm assuming that there's people who are formulating a lion's mane extract or something who's coming
to you as well.
What are you seeing as far as variability in the potency of these mushrooms?
Because unless they're really degraded, they all look the same.
There's no real way for us as a consumer to know whether or not this particular lion's
mane product is as strong as this other one as a consumer.
This is the direction that we're going.
I'm in the process.
I just got the cordyceps testing set up.
However, the testing for a lot of these other mushrooms is a lot more complicated.
Sometimes you can use the HPLC UV, but for most of these you're going to need a mass
spectrometer and those are exceedingly expensive, over $100,000 for the right machine to do
that testing.
I plan on going there.
I want to turn this business into a fully functional mushroom lab, not just a psychedelic
lab.
I've been approached by customers for things like mescaline, DMT, ayahuasca, alkaloids.
People are asking me about testing for all these things.
In the long run, I would like to be able to test for all of that.
The coolest thing about being in Oregon is with the decriminalization laws, we can test
these as long as we have small amounts.
It's really cool.
It actually gives you an advantage of being in Oregon that the other jurisdictions that
only legalize psilocybin, they're not going to be able to touch.
Right on.
That makes a lot of sense.
There's so much demand.
It's huge.
Even though cannabis is not normalized yet, especially at the federal level, all these
other entheogens that we love and humans have been using forever, they're coming in the
door right behind cannabis in the same way.
Still going to be politically and legally messy for a while, but everybody knows that
the doors are open.
Yeah, it's cracked open.
Pandora's box.
The snowball's rolling downhill.
I want to ask you a question about fruiting body versus mycelium potency because this
is probably one of the most asked questions I'm asked when talking to folks about Chinese
mushrooms and such.
There are people who fall on the, it's okay to put mycelium in the caps in the way that
Stamets does for his products.
There are people who believe that mycelium based medicine is snake oil and it's actually
only the fruiting bodies that should be used in more of a real mushrooms company kind of
way.
Someone's opinion really tends to fall on the fact of what their personal preference
is.
You're an analyst and so I wanted to hear what your thoughts are about whether or not
we should be buying products that are made from a fruiting body or from mycelium when
we're talking about non-psilocybe medicinal mushrooms.
Yeah, this is super interesting and this is the point where opinions don't count.
Science counts.
When you have data showing that there's molecules present in a certain part of the
biomass I don't care what someone's opinion is.
If we know that lion's mane mycelium makes hersinone A or aronacin A and the fruiting
body doesn't then you can go eating the fruiting body all day and you're not going to be getting
the aronacin.
You'll get the hersinones which I believe that's correct that the aronacin are typically
found in the mycelium and the hersinones in the fruit.
If I had that switched I apologize to everybody who knows that off the top of their head.
But this is where the science rules.
You have a good lab, a good scientist that knows how to do all of this stuff properly
and has the proper controls and the proper identification of these molecules and you
can even start looking at this on a genetic level too.
You could start looking for gene expression in the mycelium versus the fruiting body and
that's another layer of evidence that it's being produced.
You can find the gene in both the fruiting body and the mycelium because the gene, the
DNA is consistent from it doesn't matter the structure of the mushroom or the mycelium
but the turning on of that gene does matter.
So there's ways that we can look at that and then obviously if the molecule is present
in so for example we grow some lion's mane mycelium and we have a boatload of biomass
and we pull that out we extract it and we identify hersinone A using mass spectrometry.
It's there.
Right?
So then you go and you have the fruiting body of lion's mane you grind that up you do your
analytics maybe the maybe aronacin isn't there.
So all I'm saying is there's different molecules made in mycelium and fruiting bodies for different
species and I've heard Paul Stamets say this ad nauseum but some people just don't want
to listen.
You know if you don't want to follow the data and the science that's your right but it's
not going to be correct in terms of what the contents are of those extractions or those
biomass.
I think it's also one of the reasons why we need to make this information more available
to people right because I don't think that anybody well or very few people are intentionally
making decisions that are anti-science.
I think that most people just would never know where to find the data that you're talking
about of people testing mycelium versus fruiting body.
This information is just hard to get.
You need to be a scientist you need to be able to go on to PubMed and not just find
articles that fit what you're looking for but be able to go into the article and read
it from a critics perspective.
Every time a scientist reads a scientific paper you're putting that data to the test.
You're saying does the data that people have presented in this paper convince me of what
they're trying to convince me.
And a lot of times you'll have a scientist read a paper and be like I don't buy it.
That data is not convincing.
Look at what they did here.
They're changing their axes to get you to think there's a bigger effect.
There's a lot of subtle things scientists can do to trick a non-expert.
So that's why it's dangerous for your average person to go into PubMed read a science paper
and be like oh this is what this means.
It's dangerous to do that because a lot of times unfortunately there are plenty of scientists
out there that have an agenda and they're being paid by a company to get a certain answer
and they'll do everything they can to support it.
Look at the food industry for goodness gracious.
We run into that in cannabis all the time.
People are reading these tests and certainly people are fudging with their graphs but at
the most basic level you really have to study whether or not they used isolate or a whole
plant resin in the patient study because they act differently.
You can't just say we used 200 mg of CBD for this lupus patient because 200 mg of isolate
is different than 200 mg of CBD in a whole plant resin.
There's reasons to use either.
Even though I'm a whole plant guy I'm not trying to diss the isolate.
You just have to know what your goal is and understand what was done in the study.
100% and there's a really good example for that too.
With CBD isolate versus a CBD extract.
Children with Dravet syndrome they need CBD isolate.
The CBD is what actually helps the seizures.
You don't need that other stuff and plus when you have all that other stuff in there
you might have to give the kid a little bit of THC which you might not want to do to a
five year old or something.
There's absolutely applications for isolates versus crudes.
If you're going at something like a cancer or multiple sclerosis or some inflammatory
thing you don't want isolate because all those other things in there are going to have different
effects and synergize and attack the broad symptoms of someone that has cancer or MS
or something like that as opposed to something very specific like a Dravet syndrome which
is a very specific kind of epilepsy.
We transfer this to the mushroom world and I guarantee there's going to be ailments that
well for example depression, psilocybin, pure psilocybin isolated in the lab, even maybe
synthesized and used as a medicine for depression that works 100%.
You don't need a whole mushroom extract to pull that off.
But there's definitely going to be something out there where we talked about earlier with
the five or six different alkaloids we're finding in psilocybin that are measurable
by HPLC UV.
Maybe a different proportion of those might have a better effect on PTSD than depression
or a better effect on any of these other ailments that we're seeing psychedelic mushrooms being
effective on.
Can we get an even better result by changing the ratio of Bayocysteine to psilocin?
I'm really looking forward to us actually having the research behind these other components
of the mushroom so that we can start even having this whole mushroom conversation.
At this point, anybody who says that they know is blowing smoke because the research
isn't there.
I respect smart people's hunches but we're only in the early days of learning what's
in the mushroom and so to say that we know all the ramifications is just unrealistic.
The hunches and hypotheses put us on a road to discovery, right?
Yeah, exactly.
Well, it's kind of like the same thing we're going through with cannabis, right?
We all started with bro science and now we have to individually replace what we think
we know with new things as the research gets established.
Of course, yeah.
Right on.
Well, let's wrap up here.
Thank you so much for sharing your unique expertise with there only being three jurisdictions
in the country that it's legal-ish to do what you do at the state level but it's still a
schedule one drug.
You have got perspective and experience that is just exceedingly difficult to find and
it took me a while to find you and then it took you a while to be comfortable to be a
little more public.
So I appreciate you choosing to share your knowledge with us and I wish you the best
of luck on this research and your applications however you use it.
So thank you so much for being on Shaping Fire.
Yeah, thank you so much for having me.
This has been super incredible and it's the first time I've ever done anything like this
so it was great.
I had some closing thoughts there for a second but they may have just escaped me.
Other than, oh yeah, I remember.
So real briefly if I could just kind of give a brief history of my interest in this.
You know, I started my psychedelic journey pretty young.
I took LSD for the first time at 15 years old and got very heavily into it for a couple
of years which had an enormous impact on my life for the better actually.
My younger days were pretty wild.
I grew up a skateboarder with a single parent that was a business owner so there was a lot
of freedom and I got into a lot of things young.
I was going down a track that probably wouldn't have been really beneficial to my longevity
and after experiencing psychedelics, mostly LSD and then a little bit of mushrooms towards
the end there by the time I was finishing high school, it completely changed me and
put me on the academic track.
I found some better people to be friends with.
I got this amazing young lady that I started dating and we were together for 10 years and
she helped steer me in the right direction.
I ended up going to college, going to graduate school, getting a PhD and all this stuff.
I really strongly believe that the combination of cannabis and psychedelics helped put me
where I am today.
I've been involved with this counterculture for my whole life since I was about 15 and
I'm 45 now.
So for 30 years I've been involved at the edge of counterculture as a skateboarder,
as a cannabis person and very, very bullish on the ability of psychedelics to do positive
things to people.
Now we're finally here all these years later where we're given the tools.
I happened to get the education and now I can be put in the position to help a bunch
of people overcome challenges that might provide them with a better life down the road.
So that's kind of why I'm here, how I got here and I just really appreciate the opportunity
to share what I know about mushrooms and the analytics and the science behind it and I'm
really excited to see where all this goes in the future.
Thank you so much, George.
So if you want to follow along with George and his research, there is but one place to
go and that is the Flourish Labs Instagram account.
And so that's at Flourish, F-L-O-U-R-I-S-H and then underscore labs, L-A-B-S underscore
Oregon.
So if you happen to live in Oregon and you are looking for analytics, you can reach out
to George that way.
But if like me, you've got no need for analytics but you're very interested in keeping up with
the science and his research, there's the place
