British science fiction writer Arthur C. Clarke is known for saying,
any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic.
That's how I've always felt about my car.
I don't particularly know much about how my car runs other than the basics.
Sure, I do maintenance, but what really goes on under the hood might as well be magic to me.
After beginning to study soil life and the rhizosphere in depth,
I realized that I had that same regard for water.
I've always just kind of watered my plants without really knowing what was going on under the hood.
I had other stuff I had to do, so I just added water and went about my other business.
In its own way, too, water is indistinguishable from magic.
During today's episode, we're going to talk about what water is and where it comes from,
water harvesting, the responsibility that water has inside the pot,
some thoughts on water quality, and finally, some best practices for actually watering your plants
and listening to the plant telling you her needs.
If you want to learn about cannabis health, business, and technique efficiently and with good cheer,
I encourage you to subscribe to our newsletter.
We'll send you new podcast episodes as they come out, delivered right to your inbox,
along with commentary on a couple of the most important news items from the week and videos, too.
Don't rely on social media to let you know when a new episode is published.
Sign up for the updates to make sure you don't miss an episode.
Also, we give away very cool prizes to folks who sign up to receive the newsletter.
There's nothing else you need to do to win except receive that newsletter,
so go to shapingfire.com to sign up for the newsletter and be entered into this month's and all future newsletter prize drawings.
If your company budgeted thousands of dollars for cannabis conventions in 2020, which are all now canceled,
I invite you to consider moving your marketing investment to Shaping Fire.
For only a fraction of what it would cost you to attend just one convention,
you can advertise for nearly a year on Shaping Fire.
It has been a busy couple weeks as other companies have reached out to Shaping Fire
because their whole year of customer outreach events was just canceled,
and now they are scrambling for new ways to reach their customers.
The audience for Shaping Fire is made up of curious cannabis enthusiasts, entrepreneurs, and home growers,
and you can reach them for less than the price of a postcard each.
Email hotspot at shapingfire.com to find out more.
You are listening to Shaping Fire, and I'm your host, Shango Lose.
Today my guest is geologist and living soil expert, Leighton Morrison.
Leighton has been a lifelong enthusiast of both aquaponics and living soil.
His obsession with Biosphere 2 led him to set up an aquaculture system with the Rodeo Institute.
Leighton worked with world-renowned soil biologist Dr. Elaine Ingham,
blending his aquaculture byproducts with traditional compost and worm castings
to prove that natural inputs could effectively replace synthetics in cultivation.
Leighton currently is founder of Kingdom Aquaponics
and invented their line of living compost and compost tea products.
Leighton is a sought-after speaker and co-founder of the series of traveling
Science of Organic Regenerative Cannabis Cultivation conferences.
Leighton was recently here for episode 54 to talk about soil, its geological origins,
and how to mirror the layers of the earth in your container garden for optimum microbe life and water drainage.
After the recording, Leighton and I talked at length about water,
and this episode started to form in my mind.
I decided with the outdoor growing season coming up fast,
an in-depth discussion of water would be in order.
So we scheduled a second episode together pretty quickly, and today we offer it to you.
Welcome to the show, Leighton.
Hey, Shango. Great to be back, my friend.
Yeah, really happy to have you back, and again, so surprisingly soon.
I'm sorry I missed my recent trip down there because we're all in quarantine,
but I'll look forward to seeing you down there in Southern California when I can.
Yeah, looking forward to it.
So let's get right into it.
You know, one of the things that everybody, including me, really liked about the last time you were on the show
is that you're not afraid to talk in geological terms,
which when you're talking about soil is really informative.
And I figured, you know, let's jump right into the deep end of the pool this time again
and start with a meta question that, you know, we all are so concerned and aware of the quality of our water
and how much water that we are feeding our plants
and making sure we use clean water for compost, teas, and everything.
Dude, where did water come from?
Well, that's definitely jumping into the deep end, my friend.
All right, there's two trains of thought on that.
One train, and that which has been pretty much typical of science up until recently,
and that was it came from comets.
So it was not originally here.
I mean, we know somewhat of how the planets are formed.
We talked about that last time.
So, you know, the surface of the Earth was molten rock.
So, you know, we know that the planets are formed in the form of molten rock.
You know, the surface of the Earth was molten rock.
So, you know, how does water stay on molten rock, right?
So basically the theory up until recently was that it all came from comets.
And we know for sure that there is a tremendous asteroid belt
that has just limitless comets that are all water, that are trapped up.
Now, some other geophysicists are starting to say that,
no, no, no, it came from a material called carbonaceous chondrite.
All right, and it's one of the earliest known minerals,
generally considered an asteroid.
But the ironic thing is that it has about 20% mineral content of water
in a solid form that's not ice.
It gets complicated, all right?
So the theory, this theory is that, no, no, no, the water was always here,
formed in the rocks.
It just took up the heating process and then the cooling process
for that to be set free and to re-bond into H2O as we know water today.
So, I mean, again, science will probably come up with more answers for this
as time progresses, but, I mean, science is so amazing.
Just in the few years that I've known you,
what's happened to, you know, like the biological kingdoms have broken up.
Diatomes are now thrown into the algae kingdom.
Flagellates are now thrown into the algae kingdom.
And they're probably all going to shift again.
So it's an interesting time to be alive and because we have such incredibly
powerful tools that we never used to have even five years ago.
So in that regard, it's pretty interesting.
I still got to believe that because of the volume of water on our planet,
that there was some kind of terrestrial impacts that were brought,
caused by comets that brought in that, you know, huge mass amounts of ice.
And while I don't, you know, I'm not a scientist of that sort,
but it could also appear to me that it could be both, right?
That the water came from comets and then also, I mean,
you just totally blew my mind that there could be deposits of water that was
solid. That was not ice. I'm like, Oh God,
I need to go look up the Wikipedia on that to even, you know, that, that,
you know, not on my show, but that is another,
but he's science show in and of itself trying to understand that.
Yeah. I mean, it's, it's really cool. I mean, it's so,
it's so bizarre that most of the metals in this, in these, you know,
chondrites are actually in a silicate,
oxidate and sulfides form. They're not even metal. So that shows you,
you know, that there's some science here that we haven't gotten to yet.
That will probably answer some of these questions in better detail as,
as you know, we learn more and more about it, but I agree.
My gut feeling is, was it was a combination of both to answer the question
Yeah. Right. Cool. So, so let's, let's,
let's bring us up multiple billions of years to the now and get a little more
grounded in, in how water and how we're using it today.
So what is the role of freshwater in this,
in the soil of our pots and fields? You know,
I think that a lot of us including me tend to take water for granted.
It's like, well, you,
you put the water in and it causes some life and then we got some plants.
And if my plants droop, add more water.
And that's pretty much like as much as most of us know. But, but,
but I know from talking with you that there are act,
there's actual jobs that water has in the rhizosphere.
And I think we'd all be interested in that. So, so please wade into that.
All right. Water is the universal solvent in,
in terms of pH.
In terms of pH. If we have a acid or a base,
they do different things. They, they attract different minerals to them.
And in the periodic table, these elements are available in different pH,
pHs. Some are available only in low pH. Some are available in high pH.
Generally, most of these elements are available in the middle.
We call neutral water. So understanding that water is an acid.
I'm going to take you, I'm going to take you back to nuclear science.
When they originally started building nuclear reactors to generate power,
the first thing that they noticed was that they would have mineralization
occurring on the rods and the rods would get thicker,
thicker as the minerals came out of solution and attach themselves to these
rods. Now, if two rods touched, touched each other,
that's it. That's called a meltdown. Nothing good comes from that.
So they quickly realized that they could not use regular spring water.
They needed to do a scrub, a mineral scrub of the water.
So then came reverse osmosis and to understand reverse osmosis technology,
it's essentially like putting water in a rubber glove and squeezing it through
the pores of the rubber. How deep is that dude?
Yeah. I would think that that's just like a ridiculous level of filtration is
the idea, right?
Yeah. You're basically stripping it down to H2O.
Nothing else is coming through it. And again,
water is the universal solvent so it eats everything.
It can either preserve it or it can eat it.
So it's really a unique element in so many ways,
not to mention you can't live without it.
No life would be created if we did not have water.
Everything has water in it.
Water is the commonality of all forms of life on this planet.
So in that regards,
if you take water and you squeeze it through a rubber glove and you get just
H2O, as soon as that water comes in contact with anything,
it's going to automatically start pulling stuff off of it because it's a
solvent.
Its essence is to transport nutrients,
minerals, vitamins throughout the body, throughout the plant,
throughout the soil system and into the microbes. Everything,
everything has to have water as a base for life.
So it's really interesting that the deeper you dive down that rabbit hole,
to just think that this one element,
this one thing is the foundation of all life.
So, so its role in the soil then is essentially to what?
Be a grabber and a mover.
Its very existence makes sure that,
I don't know,
nutrition and other things in the rhizosphere are not sedentary and move
around. In a lot of the ways that I consider,
like mycelium networks, water is its own kind of movement network.
Absolutely.
Because it's a solvent and it's a transporter and it can release these
minerals and vitamins. Consider it a taxi cab, you know,
or I love your comparison to the mycorrhizae or saprophytic.
It's moving one thing to other places and allowing whatever is necessary to be
brought to the table in all life forms.
Is the only, I guess I'll say engine to move the water gravity so that when we
water, the water starts at the top of the soil and then gravity is pulling it
down until I guess that it becomes so,
such a small amount that it no longer,
there's no longer a significant gravitational pull and then it just stops.
Or even after water comes to rest,
does it still have a tendency to move?
Great question.
So we know water has a unique ability to be in a liquid,
gas or solid.
So you missed one thing called evaporation and also wicking.
So in the presentation I did at Humble this year at the conference,
I put up a slide showing a bottle of water with red dye in it and the
gentleman dipped a hemp wick into the one bottle that was full all the way
down until it got wet, you know,
right to the tops of his fingers and then he pulled the wick out and stuff
that wick into the bottle that was empty next to it.
And what happened over the course of 48 hours was they equaled out.
So that's water moving against gravity.
It's going up the stream and then it's going down the stream.
It's going against gravity.
It's going up the string over and down.
So water has some really unique properties that are very different from
pretty much anything, any other element on this planet.
Because again, it can be liquid, solid or gas.
So in evaporation, which is really cool,
the water is getting purified.
It's getting distilled.
So the sun comes out,
evaporates the water off the ocean and desalinate it.
And that H2O in a gaseous form goes up into the,
up into the atmosphere.
It gets cold and it starts to collect together and to form clouds.
And then those clouds get, you know,
very,
very dense and compacted to the point where those molecules start to touch
each other and they start to form raindrops and then they come back to earth
pure and clean until air pollution.
Right.
Now we have acid rain and all alkaline rain and all these other problems with,
with,
with the earth cleaning and cleansing the water.
So with,
with my originally suggesting that gravity just pulls the water down in our
pots and fields and you now adding evaporation and wicking,
is it possible that after I water and the water finds its way down to the
bottom of the pot,
that the dryness of the pot above it could wick the water back up?
And is it possible that during the warmth of the day,
the water could evaporate up into the upper layers of the pot without leaving
the container?
Well,
remember that's why we got into that soil system.
So the,
the,
the,
the,
the,
the,
the,
the,
the,
the,
the,
the,
the.
the,
the,
the,
the,
the,
the,
the,
the.
From lower back up.
So without that,
if you were just organic matter,
the answer is no,
cause you don't have that tight pore space that's required to allow wicking to
occur.
in a natural system because that's exactly what they do.
The surface dries out due to the sun and the wind,
and naturally because of the soil system
was built through geological time,
it allows that migration, that wicking to happen
and pull the moisture from down deep,
perhaps groundwater even lower,
to be wicked up into the soil profiles
to give the surface plants the moisture
that they need.
Wow, all right.
So now I have a better understanding
that water is not going just in one direction.
It's actually moving around based on wicking,
the composition of the soil, day and night, heat.
And so now I guess this is how it explains to me
how that taxi cab service really works
because as water is being pushed and pulled
in all these different directions,
it becomes a vehicle for all these other nutrients
that since water is grabby and moves,
the water is going by these nutrients as a solvent.
It grabs these nutrients and then it's pushed
and pulled all around the pot
and that's how it's moving around.
Is that a reasonable way to describe it?
That's spot on.
That's spot on.
I think about bubble hash, right?
Water is the solvent.
It's the universal ultimate solvent.
It does everything from breaking things down
to preventing them from breaking down.
If you look at the pH in the bogs up in Russia
where we find those mammoths that are completely mummified,
the reason they were mummified, they were in water,
but the reason they were mummified was because of the pH,
not the water because then you look at water at swamps
where it's just rotting trees and roots
and everything else down
and turning it into organic matter.
So it's really, again, a very, very cool element
and it's something that you could ponder
some pretty long and hard about the power of water.
Right on, right on.
So the last question I wanna ask you
before we start moving on to our first break
is that one of the things that I've realized
from being primarily an outdoor grower
is that when I take my pots at the end of the season
and I throw them in the garage just for storage,
and then when I bring them out in the spring,
they're very dry.
And then when I add water to them,
there's like a breath of life.
Some sunshine and some water changes the soil.
And granted, after hearing you
at the regenerative conference in Michigan last year,
I realized I should no longer be putting my pots
in the garage over the winter.
I should just let them be outside,
let them go through the full year cycle.
And then when I come back in the spring,
they've like totally gone feral, right?
There's more worms and more life
and just more everything in them.
And I'm like, oh, great.
Well, I'm just gonna put a little hole in it
and put my start into it and off they go on gangbusters.
But I think that a lot of folks keep their pots
like I used to where we put them in the barn or whatever,
and they kind of fall asleep, right?
I always kind of think about it
as the soil's hibernating, right?
And so I know though that a lot of the constituents
of the soil wake up when we add a little bit of warmth
from the sunshine and some water.
What does water do to a dehydrated rhizosphere
that brings it back?
Great question.
All right, so look at it like this.
The reason the pot goes hydrophobic
is because the bacteria that's colonized
on the surface of the potting mix
or the organic matter or the sand, silt, clay,
whatever it is, cyst.
So they find themselves in a hostile environment.
They do not wanna die.
So they basically create a wax coating
around the outside of them.
And that's why when I did some work way back
when down in University of Arizona,
I would always be so intrigued at how soil could float.
I'd grab a handful of soil, throw it in a bucket of water,
and it would float.
And the reason was because of the biology.
The bacteria had cysted.
And now because it's wax coated on the outside of it,
it basically can't sink.
It can't open up and dissolve into solution.
So the real answer is that that's driven by the bacteria
and the other biology because it has cysted.
And we know for sure that these cysts,
whether they're bacteria or protozoa,
can live in ice for hundreds of thousands of years,
maybe more.
And we also know that pretty much life came from comets.
And so those comets were floating around in nothingness
for who knows how long,
and then come into the Earth's atmosphere,
heat up like you said, warm up,
and that ice melts,
and all of a sudden all of those microbes
come back to life again
because they have found themselves in an environment
that supports them and allows them to grow.
And I love the fact that you listen to me
and keep your pots outside
because what's happening is in those seasons,
there's definitely some ice forming in there
as the temperature gets colder.
So that's forming little water pockets
trapped in that soil mix.
And then as the temperature warms up outside,
things slowly come back to life.
So you're not taking this pot that's completely dried out,
dumping water on it,
and hoping that the water starts to sink in.
It's gonna take you days
to get those to recharge
when you're allowing them to do naturally
in overwintering outside,
especially if you cover them with hay or leaves.
They're gonna be just gangbusters ready to go
by the time you get out there with your seedlings.
So yeah, you're preventing life to be so harsh
that the biology has to completely lock itself up
and then take days to come back to life.
So that idea that all of the life in the pot,
when it dries out, gets this waxy exterior
is super interesting to me.
When you said that they make themselves become cysts,
I'm picturing all of the bacteria and the mycorrhiza
and the wild variety of microbes.
And I don't know, maybe all the living things
turn themselves into cysts
and they make this waxy exterior
so that they can preserve themselves
until the bad conditions are gone.
So then we add water to them and some warmth and sunshine.
What is the process of them getting rid of this waxy,
this waxy outer shell?
Do they like come out of them?
Like we imagine a baby chick coming out of an egg?
Or is it when enough water goes past them,
the water acts as a solvent
and breaks down the waxy exterior and says,
hey, all you living forms inside these cysts,
I'm going to remove your winter coat for you
or your dehydration coat for you.
And then they're free?
Or do they initiate it from within the cyst?
That is a great question, my friend.
First of all, let's correct one thing.
Mycorrhizae don't cyst, they sporulate.
So they create spores.
So it's a little different.
You're more into sexual reproduction
as far as fungal going into a suspended state of animation.
Whereas the bacteria and the biology do actually cyst,
or the protozoa actually do cyst up
and nematodes cyst as well.
I'm glad you made that correction in me, dude,
because I have been speaking in a way
that suggests that spores were cysts.
And I didn't realize that they were not in that family.
No, and you know what's really cool?
And I've talked about this before,
but what is occurring inside that spore,
there's a whole nother universe.
I mean, a universe of things that we don't know.
How they're alive, they're too small for us to study.
We don't understand how, it's like an egg.
It naturally hatches when the right environment is allowed,
or happens or occurs.
So yeah, I've done some neat work with my buddy, Efren,
about trying to understand more about
what is going on inside of a spore
versus what's going on inside of a cyst.
So to answer your question on cysts,
the thought is that the organism has the components
stored in what it's called their pantry,
which is part of the oregano's,
I don't wanna go too deep on the parts of a cell
or a bacteria, but pretty much it's storing
the materials necessary to create that coating
around the outside of it.
So the real mystery is, is the water
what's eating the coating away,
or is the water solubilizing the coating
so that the cell can pull it back in
and store it for the next time it needs it,
or is it kind of melt away and the cell,
as it starts to come alive, starts reproducing that
and stores it in its pantry for the next time
that it needs to cyst up?
So that's something that science is gonna need to work on
to get a better understanding of.
Is it just something that it produces?
Is it something that it stores?
Or is it a combination perhaps of both?
But water definitely, water and warmth
will definitely allow that bacteria to come out of cyst form.
Wow, all right.
So I'm sure that there are folks who are listening
who now know that they're gonna leave their pots outside
over winter, but that there's probably also people
who are in the situation that I was in last year
when I learned it from you, who had already put
all their fabric pots in the barn.
And so is there a best practice for waking up a pot
that has gone to sporization and cystization?
New words, I love it.
So was there a best way to wake it all up?
Oh yeah, absolutely.
Just bring it outside.
You're gonna get dew, you're gonna get condensation,
you're gonna get cool at night,
warm during the day in the sunlight.
So that's a gentle way to waken it,
to pull it out in spring when you have your starts
ready to go.
Now you're shocking everything.
You're shocking your plant, you're shocking
the natural order of systems in that soil system.
So yeah, I would just bring them out a couple weeks early
before you wanna plant them.
If you did store them and just let them sit in the sun
and don't hesitate to give them a little water,
but know that at night you're gonna get dew
and that they're gonna gently wake up
and then they'll be ready for you to plant
instead of trying to force the plant into them.
As far as adding the water to them,
to kinda trying to help them jumpstart
so you don't have to wait for the rainwater,
do we wanna just drench the hell out of them
and do we wanna use just our regular water
or is this a great opportunity for us to be using
a compost tea instead of a straight water?
Well, I don't know as I'd put the energy
into making a compost tea because basically
it's gonna run off.
And I wouldn't wanna overwater it
because now you're washing the nutrients.
Remember, water's the ultimate solvent.
So it's gonna be starting to pull things
that you want to stay in that soil system out.
So again, if the mistake is made
and they're put into a basement or a garage or a barn,
then just put them outside for a couple weeks before
and you're probably not gonna even have to water them.
I mean, I'm not telling you not to water them
but don't overwater them
because then you're just stripping things
that you wanna keep.
Right on.
It actually kinda reminds me of when I had my surgery
back in college and they gave me a general anesthetic
and as they were bringing me out,
they were giving me little sips of water, right?
They weren't giving me lots of water,
they were just getting me a little bit of water
to get my system acclimated and going.
So now I'm thinking like, oh, same thing with pots.
You don't wanna just drown the pot
but go ahead and give your,
depending on the size of the pot,
give it a couple drinks over the first three days
to slowly prime the pump.
Absolutely, and another thing you can do too
is put all the pots in a big square
and cover them with a tarp.
What the tarp's gonna do is it's gonna heat up
from the sunlight and it's gonna wick water
up through the bottom and condensate on the surface
on the underside of that tarp.
So you're pulling moisture up
through the bottom of the pot naturally.
You're hitting it with this gentle misting
that's occurring on the inside of the tarp.
And so now you've generally just,
you've used nature to evaporate and pump the water
up into the pot from the bottom
and then drop it down in micro droplets from the top.
So that might be even better way to really get them going
if you need to quickly.
There we go.
I knew I would squeeze one more best practice
out of you before the commercial, dude.
All right, so let's go ahead and take our first short break
and be right back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire
and my guest today is soil biologist, Layton Morrison.
Pre-rolls have come a long way
since the early days of normalization.
When you choose Saints joints,
you are smoking all-flour top shelf pre-rolls
with terpenes that will sculpt your high
in a way that dry old pre-rolls just can't.
Whereas most brands release pre-rolls as an afterthought,
for the last five years,
Saints joints has focused on their line
of exotic curated joints.
And while some companies just chase the hype strains,
Saints joints goes deeper,
searching out hard to find strains, unexpected crosses,
and nearly forgotten land races and classics.
And some hype ones too.
Not only does a joint from Saints smoke incredibly well,
they have fine tuned every step of the process
so you don't get runs in the paper.
The joint is just the right density to have a nice pull
and the joint stays lit, even if you get a bit chatty.
Saints joints boxes are works of art
and will spark conversation
when you pull them out at parties.
Saints award-winning boxes change with every release,
feature edgy outsider art,
and often raise awareness of important issues
like equal rights.
Saints boxes are so desired
that many collect them and display them in their homes.
Ask your bud tender for Saints joints
and have a premium joint experience.
Now, if you are a licensed cannabis cultivator,
I have an extra message for you.
Saints is looking for partners in legal cannabis states
to expand the availability of the Saints joints brand.
Do you grow exceptional cannabis flower,
but are less excited about all the effort, cost,
and risk of launching your own brand?
Saints joints may be just the partner you are looking for.
Already established in California, Washington, and Oklahoma,
and recognized by Entrepreneur Magazine
and Green Entrepreneur as a Cannabis Industry Leader,
the Saints joints brand will set you apart
in your home market.
The best thing I can recommend
is for you to visit their Instagram at Saints joints
and look at their patented drawer design boxes.
Become that brand everyone is talking about
without having to build it from scratch.
Check out the Instagram at Saints joints
and then visit saintsjoints.com to find out more.
There are lots of good seed makers out there.
Every once in a while, someone becomes legendary.
The Mendocino, California cannabis breeder
called Mandelbrot is one of these people.
Mandelbrot was also known as Ra's Truth,
and his cultivars are known as the foundation
for the Emerald Triangle's world-famous
gasoline-scented terpene profile.
Back in the day, when it was really hard
to find quality genetics and education,
Mandelbrot was advocating for organic growing techniques
and providing exceptional seeds
that would sell out as soon as they hit the shelves.
Mandelbrot lived too short of a life, dying in 2015,
but while he was with us,
he created several connoisseur-level cannabis masterpieces
like Oil Spill, The Truth, and Royal Kush.
No matter if you approach growing cannabis
more as a toker or a breeder,
you will find something that delights you
in Mandelbrot's selections.
Because while some strains are better to grow or to smoke,
Mandelbrot's creations excel in every category,
and that's why people keep talking about them even today.
Emerald Mountain Legacy continues the Ra's Truth tradition
by preserving these coveted genetics for future generations,
unchanged as they were originally created in the mid-2000s.
Emerald Mountain Legacy also creates tasteful,
modern crosses to Mandelbrot's classics.
These lines, worked by Mandelbrot's brother, Ben,
further their family's genetics
in a spirit that Mandelbrot would have approved of.
Check out the Emerald Mountain Legacy Instagram
and website to see photos of these plants
and learn more about Mandelbrot and his infamous strains.
Emerald Mountain Legacy seeds are available online
from seed banks and distributors,
including Labyrinth Seed Company,
The Regenerative Seed Company, and Pure Sativa.
Emerald Mountain Legacy, keeping Mandelbrot's legacy alive.
In times like these, when so many cannabis companies
are growing their flower in gigantic warehouses and fields
using synthetic nutrients,
it is good to know that there are authentic
California heritage growers
using natural farming techniques and sunshine
to cultivate cannabis flowers for you.
California has produced the best cannabis
in the world for generations,
and the idea that massively scaled
industrial cannabis production can provide the same quality
as small batch, lovingly cultivated flowers is just silly.
Moon Time Medicinals is located in Humboldt County
in the lush South Fork of the Eel River Watershed
in the epicenter of the American cannabis heartland.
Moon Time Medicinals grows under the bright California sun
in greenhouses using only natural farming techniques
like hugelkultur, compost teas, whole food fertilizers,
and fermented plant juices.
Every part of their growing process
plays its own part in nature,
and nothing synthetic is injected into the process.
The result is big, beautiful cannabis flowers
with wide ranging terpene profiles
that tastes like great cannabis should.
If you live in California,
ask your bud tender for Moon Time Medicinals
and visit Moon Time Medicinals on the web and Instagram.
Moon Time Medicinals is also available
as part of the Redwood Roots family.
Moon Time's whole flowers appear
in Redwood Roots curated joint packs
alongside other heritage cannabis cultivators
like Lady Sativa Farm, Ridgeline Farms, and others.
Moon Time Medicinals, top shelf cannabis
grown in harmony with nature.
Welcome back, you are listening to Shaping Fire.
I'm your host, Shango Los,
and our guest today is soil biologist, Leighton Morrison.
So if you're still with us
after making it through our metaphor set,
where we talked all about where water comes from
and what its job is,
in the second set, we're gonna talk about
more things that actually are gonna be useful
in your cultivation process.
We're gonna start by talking about sourcing of water
because there's a lot of different ways
that you can get water of varying qualities,
and we wanna make sure that you understand
what your options are
when choosing where to get your water.
So Leighton, let's start talking about
a little bit about water tests.
You know, I know that decoding a water test
could be an entire show in and of itself,
and that's not what we're doing today.
But for most people,
they know that they should get a water test
so that they know what's in their aquifer or city water
or the rainfall near their house
or their runoff or whatever.
So people generally know that they should get one.
And I've also kind of have the belief
that most waters are usable.
But I'd like you to talk a little bit about
red flags in a water test
that have got to be taken care of
for you to be able to successfully grow a cannabis plant,
and talk a little bit about pH as well.
Okay.
Again, nice rabbit hole.
Let's start with the understanding
of how water moves under the ground.
Okay, so everyone thinks, oh, I drilled a well
and I got well water, I got great water.
In the most cases, that's true.
But then you have to start thinking about,
well, where I drilled my well,
I've basically created a opening in the earth
that allows the surface water and groundwater
to travel down into the aquifer.
So in many ways, you've actually exposed that aquifer
to things that you weren't supposed to.
Wow, so you could contaminate your own aquifer
during the drilling process.
It's happened on Long Island.
Wow.
And they drilled these wells
in the middle of the potato fields,
and then they fertilized the hell out of the fields,
and everybody got cancer.
So that's just one case of it.
And I've actually had been fortunate enough
to work with a gentleman who does groundwater mapping
for basically superfund sites,
where they have these horribly toxic chemicals
that are in solution, are moving,
the water's transporting them.
They're trying to figure out how bad it is,
how deep and how heavy the concentration is.
And he basically made an earth rubber.
So he made a rubber that can be as long as you want it to be,
and he's drilled down thousands of feet,
and it's one contiguous rubber.
And basically, what he does is he takes this,
he drills a hole, and then based on that hole,
he's already prefabricated this rubber
that he drops into the hole and fills up with water.
And as the water goes into the rubber,
it pushes it all the way down to the bottom of the hole.
Now, the cool thing is on the outside of that rubber
is a special coating that turns colors
based on what chemical or compound it comes in contact with.
So by drilling a series of holes,
he can see which way things are migrating or not migrating.
And that is critical because these sites
that have to be cleaned up,
they need to know where do you start cleaning up?
Which way is the water transporting these horrible chemicals?
So now you start to understand
that even water traveling uphill,
I love this, Mount Lemmon in Arizona.
You can go travel through five distinct climates,
or I wanna call successionary plant systems.
From the base, you start at the bottom of the mountain,
and you're in a desert.
I mean, it's hot, 110 degrees,
very little growth or plant life.
You drive for a couple, not an hour, maybe 40 minutes.
Now you're up into these, the big cactuses,
the big three-pronged cactuses you see in the old Westerns.
Now you're heavily surrounded by them,
and you've got leather cactuses and more scrub and sage.
And then you move up into, now you got some shrubs,
some deciduous plants.
And then move in a little bit further,
you're getting into now deciduous trees.
And then finally at the top of Mount Lemmon,
you're in the conifers and it's snow.
There's snow on the ground in the middle of summer.
Interestingly enough, that as the aquifer has gone down,
has dropped in levels down in the desert near Tucson
and between Tucson and Phoenix,
because all the water that's been pulled out of it,
it has changed the hydrology.
And now the water is not seeping out
at the top of the mountain like it used to.
There were rivers coming down this mountain.
So how the hell did the water get from the desert
where there is no water to the top of that mountain
to the point where it created streams and rivers coming down?
That's pressure, that's geology.
So the weight of the earth around it
is actually squeezing that water
all the way up to the top of that mountain.
And because that mountain has a thinner layer
because of geological tectonic plate movements,
the water is allowed to squeeze out of that.
So in understanding how water moves in aquifers
and in the ground, it's critical to do your homework.
Where is my water coming from?
Another great example of this is Cape Cod.
Cape Cod's a sandbar, all right?
It was formed back when the glaciers were present
and as they receded, they pushed all this,
dumped all of this glacial till out into the ocean
and created Cape Cod, right?
Well, obviously there would be no aquifer in Cape Cod, right?
Not true.
There's a river coming out of the groundwater in Barstow.
And this is a big river.
I mean, this is no joke.
One of my good friends, Keith Wilda,
where I collect my fish frass
from the oldest trout farm in America,
that trout farm was set up in that spot
because of how incredibly pure that water was
and how much of it was just bubbling up out of the ground.
I mean, you walk around his property
and you can see water bubbling up out of the ground.
Dude, the million dollar question is, is it fresh?
The water actually comes from Canada,
North New York and parts of Vermont.
And it actually, believe it or not, it's wonderful water.
The interesting thing is it's high in nitrite.
So we'd have to get along back to aquatic biology
and understanding how organic nitrogen,
organic nitrogen is not in the usable form,
but with the introduction of bacteria,
specifically nitrify or nitrobacter,
it'll convert it to ammonia.
And then the ammonia converts to nitrite
and then the nitrite converts to nitrate.
Now nitrate is harmless to plants and animals
and we can actually use it,
whereas nitrite can be toxic in heavy concentrations.
So again, he's got all of the aquatic organisms
because he's an aquaculture facility.
He grows a tremendous amount of biomass of trout
so that he naturally has the protection
against the nitrites.
And after his post-water treated, the nitrites are gone.
They've been completely morphed into nitrate.
So he's actually doing the water system a favor
by cleaning it with his fish
before it's released into the streams
and into the swamps around him.
So then let's bring this on back home to the water tests.
So I think that when you started this super interesting
story, I think you were starting with,
you gotta know where your water's from
for your water tests.
And the idea that the earth was pressing down
on the groundwater enough to make it go up the mountain
and flow down, that's super badass.
So what are the chemicals that if somebody sees
in their water test coming out of their aquifer
that they should raise a flag and go,
oh, this may not be a good place
for me to cultivate cannabis.
Yeah, cannabis is an accumulator.
So anything that's being transported in the water
will accumulate in your plant and that's a problem.
So backing it up, most water tests
are designed to sell you filters.
So you really need to know where you're sending
your water test.
I recommend Micro Macro International.
Gretchen and her crew of scientists
are there to actually test for minerals.
They're not, or pesticides, residues,
and toxics, heavy metals, all that.
Most water companies or places that you send
for your water test, short of the ones
that the well companies work with,
I don't recommend you send it to them
because they're gonna send some guy out there
to sell you a filter.
So they're not finding the toxins.
Those are too expensive to test for.
And most people don't test for them.
Well water's a little different.
Because it's considered a potable water,
they're a little bit tighter on making sure
that they are testing a more stringent test.
But if you really wanna know what the heck's going on,
you send it down to someone like Macro Micro Gretchen
and she'll tell you exactly what's going in your water.
But again, you have to think about,
where is that water coming from?
If you're south of an industrial park,
or potentially the water's coming through there,
you wanna know.
And there are a lot of country,
or a lot of states and counties have done
groundwater migration studies.
They're very expensive to do.
But especially around polluted areas,
they've been forced to map the groundwater.
So I would recommend that you reach out
to your local authority and try to find out,
hey, did anybody map the groundwater?
And again, the groundwater's just as important
as the aquifer itself.
And the groundwater, because it's traveling by a pipe
that someone drilled a hole in down to get down
to the aquifer, they're letting all of that
potential toxins down in there.
Now they might not be getting as much of it,
because as that water migrates down that shaft,
there is a current in that aquifer.
So it could be transporting those toxins
away from their pump when they're not using it.
Of course, when they're pulling water,
they're gonna get a little bit of it up the pipe
that they're drinking out of.
But for the most part, anything that's coming down
the sides of that shaft are gonna get pushed
into the current.
So imagine you throw a tennis ball in the ocean.
Well, is the ball getting pulled out with the tide,
or is it getting pushed up against the shore?
Same thing is happening on the groundwater level
as well as the aquifer level.
So you really gotta know your business as far as,
you know, if you're going to rely on, you know,
the well to water your cannabis,
if you're in a industrial area like down in LA
or San Francisco or San Diego,
you gotta be really careful.
I would almost tend to say you're better off
to use town water and tie up the chloramine
than you are to trust the well,
unless you've done your homework and or sent it off
to get a real hardcore water test and analysis.
Right on, cool.
So let's hold off on the chloramine discussion for a sec,
because we're gonna get to that in a little bit.
But so I'm starting to kind of like tease out
three different threads here as far as like
how we would be using the water test.
So, so far we've been kind of discussing
the kind of research you're gonna wanna do
before you buy a parcel to grow, you know,
either THC cannabis or hemp on.
So if you're gonna be growing cannabis sativa,
do your homework about how the water moves
and where the water is moving from
before you buy your parcel,
because cannabis is an accumulator
and you could end up growing plants
that have got, you know, arsenic or something in them
and you don't wanna deal with that.
So do your homework first before you buy.
Then there's a second thread,
which is lots of folks who are growing
either commercial or for themselves
and they're already on their parcel.
And so, you know, chances are a lot of these people
would already know if their water was contaminated
and hopefully it's not.
And so they already know that their water
is good enough to grow.
And then there's the third category,
which are people who are on city water.
And, you know, unless you are, you know,
living in kind of like a failed water system,
like a Flint, Michigan or something,
generally I would think that most of the city waters are,
you know, while maybe not epically good,
they're at least passable for pouring onto
our cannabis plants.
Hope that's the case.
So then that kind of leaves the bugaboo of pH
because any three of those categories,
you could be dealing with water that pH is poorly
for growing cannabis.
So address that specifically.
Like I know that there's still lots of products
on the market to pH up or pH down,
which are like, you know,
I generally consider them a hassle to have to equalize,
you know, all the water that I'm going to be
offering the plants.
How far away from optimum is too far
to be doing that all the time
and you just need to find a different source?
Like how far from optimum is too far, would you say?
All right, the scale pH is logarithmic.
So say you have a pH of six.
Six one is 10 times greater than six.
Six two is now 10 times greater than six one.
So it's logarithmic.
So people don't get that there's like huge differences
between six and eight.
I mean, it's monumental.
Eight is considered too much.
It's too alkaline for plants to grow.
There are some,
some plants that can get away with it,
Pete, for one, but for the most part,
it's the majority of plants cannot tolerate pH above eight
or below, I think it's like 4.5.
So again, there are some plants that can tolerate that,
but there are few and far between.
So the vast majority of plants,
we want to keep in that neutral zone
and that's where they're going to do great.
Now, another thing to take into consideration
is that the plant can adjust pH in the rhizosphere.
We know this because the plant will excrete and exudate,
certain type of bacteria will grow out
and that bacteria is job is to mine this mineral
or that mineral, and it might be slightly off of the pH
that the plant or the soil has present.
So by adjusting the specific bacteria
that it wants to grow out,
it can adjust the pH to allow that mineral to be mined
and brought back to the plant
through the nutrient cycling system,
the protozoa eating the bacteria, et cetera.
So those are your outside parameters of pH
and that will allow a plant to grow,
but also something to take into consideration
is as you pour that water on the soil
and that water moves through the soil,
you're adjusting the pH.
I've done a tremendous amount of work
with people that have high pH soils or low pH soils
and they need to get them adjusted.
And the way I generally do that is with compost.
I can get compost that's more acid or more base.
And so I just tell them, all right,
you're going to have to either till this in
or you're going to have to dig a hole
and then blend the existing soil with this compost
and then that will equal out.
So it's kind of like if you take a soil system of six
and a compost of eight and you mix them 50-50 equally,
you will end up with a pH of seven.
That works because these numbers are logarithmic.
So that's something to keep in mind.
Now, as far as the water systems are concerned,
generally speaking, city waters are safe.
They are forced to test for heavy metals and pesticides.
The one place that they get a little bit
problematic is that nitrogen cycle
where you have the ammonia that they use
to mix with chloramine or chlorine
and ammonia mixed together make chloramine.
So if you have a high level of nitrobacter
or nitrogen fixing biology,
you're going to start that process
of breaking that organic matter,
say the little tiny leaf or something
that got pulled into the pipe from the reservoir.
That is going to actually start to morph out,
start to pull off the ammonia,
leave the chlorine in place
and then convert the ammonia to nitrite
and then to nitrate.
So really depends on where you are in the pipeline
and to how long or what level of biology
got into the system to determine
whether you're drinking nitrite water or nitrate water.
So that's the only concern I have with city water.
For plants, now human consumption,
that's another whole rabbit hole.
Yeah, totally it is.
Well, another rabbit hole.
Let's continue talking about city water
because that's where I was going to move to next anyway.
So one of, not one of, the number one question
that I get from people about their city water
is how to take out the chlorine.
And normally I have to explain to them,
I'm like, oh, well the chlorine is easy.
You just take the, you pour your water
and leave it out overnight and the chlorine off gases.
And if you want to do it more quickly,
you can stir it for a bit or you can put a bubbler in it
and chloramine, it's volatile
and it goes away very quickly.
But then I also have to tell them,
I'm like, man, they don't really use chlorine
as much in public waterworks anymore.
And they're using chloramine instead.
And unfortunately we're not able
to just mix that stuff out.
It's not as volatile and it stays in the water.
But I'd like you to go ahead and repeat the great solution
that you offered us last time
on how to neutralize the chloramine in your city water.
Yeah, no problem.
And you know, I did want to back up on one point.
And you know, when you're using town water,
or not town water, well water
for feeding your cannabis plants
and then you test your cannabis plant
because you're supposed to
or you have to on a commercial scale,
that cannabis plant's gonna tell you
if your water's bad or not.
As long as you understand
that you didn't put anything else into your system
and the water was the only input that you use.
So that means, you know, if you're growing
with mineral salts or something like that,
the toxins could have come in that way.
So you really, now you have to test
all these different things.
But if you're, you know, again,
this is more important in a suburbia urban environment
than it is in a rural environment.
You're not gonna have to worry about your water as much.
But if you did use a hemp plant to test your water,
I think it's a great idea.
Because if you're just using water only,
that plant's gonna tell you if your water's toxic or not
because it's gonna fail a test for a metal or something.
So anyway, moving on to tying up chloramine.
So chloramine is basically chlorine and ammonia.
So if you can, and ammonia gas is off really easy.
And chlorine gas is off really easy.
So all you have to do is break it, break the bond,
because chloramine is an ionic bond.
So it's a really, really strong one.
Pretty much the only thing that can do that,
well electrolysis can, but more importantly, biology can.
Biology does everything, which we know.
We've talked about that in the last show.
So if you introduce a humate or a humic acid,
or even a good compost tea that's been concentrated,
what that's gonna do is that's gonna get in there
and it's gonna break that molecule apart,
and then through aeration it will gas off
and you'll be fine.
So other than sometimes you can have what's called
a disinfectant byproduct, but those will not hurt plants,
but they are harmful to animals and humans.
So to get to the nitty gritty of it,
somebody who wants to add some humates to their water,
it's as simple as just taking some matured compost
that you may have and putting it in an old nylon
or cheesecloth, tying it off,
and just dropping it into your water reservoir, right?
I like to take it a little bit different path,
because you really wanna get that humic acid
out of that compost.
So I would take the compost, I would saturate it,
get it really wet, and then put it inside of,
say an old washcloth or a towel,
and then dump it on the towel,
and then wring the towel out as hard as you can.
Now you're getting pure humic and pure folic acid
concentrated, whereas if you put the bag in the bubbler
and brew it, you're not gonna get that fast of a release
of the things that you really need.
The pressure and the squeezing really helps
to get what you're looking for out of that compost
as fast as possible, then add that into your brewer
and brew your water.
But the key again is you need to brew it,
you need to move air up through the water column
to help break off any of the leftover gases
that are trapped in the water,
away from your, out of your water column
and into the atmosphere.
So that's a little trick for you.
Yeah, that is a good idea.
So I know I'm not the only one who's weighed this
in my head.
In my early years of personal growing for my medical,
I'd be like, oh my God, trying to add compost tea
to my water and bubble it in my apartment
is such a pain in the ass.
And so will you give us the real breakdown
of how necessary it is?
So many people in cannabis forums,
they are totalitarian, right?
They are, you must do everything perfectly.
But when it comes to us alone with nobody around
in our garden, very often people will cut corners.
How bad is it really to use your city water
with chloramine to water your plants?
I mean, clearly it doesn't kill them
because people are growing plants with city water
that's untreated all the time.
What are we actually losing?
You're losing the microbial life.
So that's it.
I mean, we know that when these things come in contact
with biology and not all of them,
you know, this was the work I did back at Rodale
and I would bring in some city water that I had
and I was on the end of a pipe and it was,
I mean, the chlorine was just so brutal.
It just burned your eyes when you poured a glass of water.
And I brought that down to try to do, you know,
side-by-side tests at different dilutions to determine,
you know, what is killing the biology?
And it does, it definitely seriously reduces the biology,
not all of it, but especially the predators.
They take the big hit and fungi takes a big hit.
The bacteria, most of it can survive,
but you're gonna lose diversity for sure.
So how bad is it to use?
It's fine if you're using salts.
If you're using a living soil system,
you're gonna have a problem.
Because you're gonna constantly need to up the biology life
in that soil because you used that chloramine water.
And it's not like you're just watering it once.
It's like, you know, every day or every other day,
you're hitting it with more chloramine
and more chloramine and more chloramine.
So even if you are only killing 10% of the biology
when you water, well, if you kill a varying 10%
throughout the entire summer or throughout
your entire cycle if you're in a tent,
well, you're losing a lot and your plant
is living unsupported from the proper biology.
Agreed, where you're losing it is you're losing potency,
cannabinoid production, terpene production,
cannabinoid production.
So that's where you're losing.
You're still gonna get some good weed.
You're still gonna be able to get high off of it,
but you're not gonna be getting
what we call plant potential.
And if you're looking for plant potential,
you really wanna get that plant to give you
everything that it wants to give you,
then you shouldn't be using chloramine water.
You should figure out another way.
You know, you can boil it,
but now you're concentrating fluoride.
You can use, you know, go down and buy bottled water.
That's probably your easiest way out of this.
You know, I love compost tea,
but you know, based on years of experience
traveling the country, looking at people's compost
and having them say, oh my God, I make the best compost.
My compost is amazing.
And I microscope it and there's no life.
So again, it's nutrient rich.
Yeah, it's great stuff.
I'm not knocking your compost,
but you didn't make it biologically active.
And that's the key.
So if you're gonna make a compost tea,
your goal is to try to get the biology
into the soil with the tea.
The tea is the vehicle for getting living biology,
advanced predators into your soil system.
And so if you're brewing with compost
that has no biology in it, what are you really doing?
Well, you're getting humic acid and fulvic acid,
but you're not increasing the biological level in that soil.
So that's where it gets hairy.
When you try to talk about hitting full plant potential,
that's where, you know, you need a microscope
or, you know, a trusted soil food web source
for getting your microbes tested.
So you know where you are.
Having your compost tested to make sure
that you actually have biologically rich compost
before you could try to make a tea with it.
So, you know, all these things are,
need to be taken into consideration.
But if your goal is just to grow something to smoke
and you're happy with whatever the plant can produce,
then don't stress about all these things.
Just, you know, life goes on.
This plant is an amazing, durable, strong, unique plant
and can survive in, you know,
some of the most harsh conditions
the planet can throw at it.
So, you know, again, I think you need to draw a line
and say, am I going for full plant potential?
Do I want the best this can possibly do?
Then I gotta get serious about it.
If I'm just trying to grow and I don't have time
for all of the, you know, these intricacies,
then I'm just gonna just add the water.
Don't stress or use bottle water.
Because it's not like you're gonna need, you know,
100 gallons of water.
If you get a five gallon jug,
it's probably enough to water your 10 plants, you know,
for at least a month, right?
Yeah, and then you can just go and refill that
bottled water up at your local grocery store.
One of the things I like here in Seattle,
you know, I live on Vashon Island
across the water from Seattle.
The Seattle Aquarium actually sells
their reverse osmosis water
out of a little spigot on the side of the building.
We used to use it all the time
when I was into breeding fish.
And so that was cool to be able to get very cheaply.
The only reason I point that out is, you know,
we don't really wanna encourage people
to use bottled water as like buying a new bottle every time.
Agreed, my friend.
And I should have been more specific.
I was talking about those ones, those big jugs,
that you can do exactly that.
You bring them back to the machine,
you stick them in there, and it fills it up.
But another thing I do wanna mention
is that reverse osmosis, as great as it is,
it has demineralized the water.
So it's not particularly good water to grow cannabis
or anything else to consume.
I mean, the studies that are coming out
of the Middle East right now,
because everything is desalinated over there,
there's a huge iodine deficiencies
in the humans, in the population.
And they're getting very sick
because they've been drinking this stuff for years.
And there's no minerals left in it.
So I'd prefer you use spring water over RO water,
or if you're gonna use RO water,
you gotta re-add the minerals back into it.
And now you're getting-
That's interesting, it's like RO water is not a whole food.
No, no, no.
I mean, it has its purpose.
And people do drink it.
I mean, look, in most sailboats,
they have a little RO underneath the sink.
And that's their source of water.
And it's fine, but if you live on that water,
you are stripping minerals out of your body.
Because remember, this water
is the ultimate universal solvent.
So it will actually, if it has no minerals in it,
and it's stripped, and you drink it,
it will pull minerals out of your body.
So that's the other side.
You want your water to be mineralized.
Now that's very important for consumption,
and for plants too.
I mean, it's better that you're giving them
those trace minerals.
Cool, so let's go on to our third of four sources.
We talked about city water,
and we talked about aquifer water.
I know that you are particularly a nerd
for water harvesting, as am I.
I really only ever think about rainwater myself.
But then I heard you talk about it,
and you start ticking off the list
of all these different places water can be harvested.
So let's wade into that, pun intended.
Where are good sources for capturing water,
wild crafting water?
All right, now we're going back into the deep end again.
All right, so most people would be able
to identify a wet spot on their land.
And it can be at the top of the land,
it could be at the bottom of the land,
it can be a little bog,
or an area where the soil is always moist.
What that is, is that's a artesian well,
or a groundwater source,
that the water's oozing out of the rocks.
So those are one of the areas that I love to start with,
is whenever I'm scouting a client's property,
which is the first thing I do,
I'm always looking for the wet spots.
And then I can say, okay, we have a good source of water
that we want to now direct and manage and harvest.
So that's one place.
I love rainwater, but one of the coolest things
is seeing all these satellite images
of what's going on in the atmosphere
during this coronavirus.
And I was horrified to see how bad the air pollution was
in the tri-state, which is New York, Connecticut,
and New Jersey.
And all of that air was generally moving
northeast up the coast.
So we all have talked about acid rain back 20, 30 years ago,
but no one talks about it now
because it's not a popular topic.
So if I was in a situation where I wanted to collect
rainwater in my old state of Massachusetts or Connecticut,
I would be a little bit more concerned
about making sure that I filtered it properly.
And by filtering it, I mean that I would want to run it
through other accumulator plants.
Hemp is a great one, but there's plenty of other ones.
There's all kinds of aquatic plants that do accumulation
or that clean the water.
So there's a little bit of a different spin
that if you should know your atmosphere,
the smog coming out of LA blowing up into the valley,
I would not want to harvest water up there
without purifying it or having the water have a time
to go through the root systems of plants
that are known to clean the water.
So those are two sources.
And then the other thing is that when collecting rainwater,
I love these cisterns outside people's houses
and all the gutters go in there, and that's great.
The only problem with that is you've collected
the rainwater during the time you don't need it,
but you're going to run out of it real quick
when you start using it and it's not raining anymore.
So beyond that, set up your cistern for sure,
bigger the better, but where the water comes out
of your cistern when it's full,
that's where you really want to get serious.
Now you want to have a swale going through your property.
Obviously you got to take topography into consideration.
And if you're perfectly flat, it doesn't matter.
There's still a slight pitch to it.
You just have to get out there with a laser level
or a hand level and figure out where that pitch is
and build a swale and better yet a bio swale.
So you dig a gentle channel and you fill it with chips
and then you've covered it with a little bit of dirt
and then you plant it.
And what those chips do is they slowly suck all that water
up and during the rainy season,
and then as the rain stops coming
and the soil starts to dry out,
they wick that back into the soil system
like we talked about earlier on.
So basically one of the coolest things that I've worked on
was where we dug a well, a groundwater well
to see how deep the groundwater was.
And I'm a big fan of this.
So we found the lowest point of the property.
We dug a groundwater well, lined it with stones,
went down till we hit moisture, till we hit oozing water,
then dug another couple of feet
and again lined it all with stone and then watched it.
And we could watch the groundwater going up and down
during different seasons.
Well, after we installed all of this water harvesting,
these swales and smiles, that's another one
which is gonna be hard to describe without a drawing,
they basically raised the groundwater
because as the groundwater went down naturally
due to lack of rain, now all of a sudden all that water
that was being stored in those bioswales
was slowly being let back into the soil system
and accumulating in the well.
And the coolest part about it was,
it's like we could pump water out of that well
to do emergency watering.
And that actually forced more water
to come back into the well.
So it's a combination of managing your soil systems,
putting as much carbon as you possibly can into it
to hold the moisture so that when you're desperately
needing the summer, it's slowly leaching out
and going back into either your well so you can monitor it
or just knowing that it's naturally leaching out
into your plants.
And that's where you kind of like get smart
and you build this bioswale
right through the middle of your field
so that you know that the plants on the left
and the right of it are getting the moisture
and you can actually think of like a river
and creating all these different forks coming off of it
so that you're getting these water storage units
in the soil in the form of a carbon, an old chip
or cardboard or paper, whatever.
And again, you're planting the top of it
so that evaporation cannot happen.
That's really important.
Don't store water in an open pond
because you're gonna lose it during the summer.
You're gonna wanna store it underground, undercover.
And you'll see such a big difference
in the amount of watering that you actually have to do
that you'll realize, oh my God,
I should have done this years ago.
When you say store it underwater,
do you mean in big plastic reservoirs?
Like bury those?
No, I meant underground.
Oh.
You don't need a lining.
You just basically need to dig a swale,
fill it with chips, take the leftover dirt,
spread it on the top a couple inches,
and then plant it with a cover crop, a ground cover.
And what that does is that prevents that,
like if you just put the chips in
and you dump the water into those chips,
the air, the wind, and the sun
would naturally wick that water out and evaporate it.
So by covering it, putting it underground, under soil,
and then cover cropping that soil
so that the soil doesn't blow off and erode,
and also again, the soil could wick the moisture
out of the chips and up out into the surface
if you don't have ground cover to protect the soil.
So is the way that you access that water for your plants
by planting your cannabis plants there?
Because so...
No, no, basically what you're doing
is you're thinking along the lines of wicking.
So basically you're storing the water there,
but that water is being wicked out laterally,
horizontally, upwards, even up gradient as necessary.
So you're basically, you're concentrating the water
in one spot, knowing that it's going to wick out
and spread out in a greater area
than where the water is concentrated at that point in time.
That a little bit depends on your soil system.
In a clay soil, it's not gonna wick as fast.
In a sandy soil, obviously it's gonna wick a lot quicker.
So there are some other considerations to think about,
but what it's doing is it's raising
the moisture level in the soil.
It's not watering the plants.
You're using it to surface water.
You're just allowing the roots to have greater access
to subsurface water and moisture.
I understand now.
So whereas a pond, you can actually siphon the water
out of the pond with a hose and point it at your pots
or your drip line and there you go.
You're talking about, we wanna capture and keep
as much of the water on our parcel.
Exactly, using the soil to do the work for you.
I love the guys that have those water tanks uphill
and they use obviously gravity to water your plants.
Well, it's the same idea except for it's the soil now.
So the soil is actually, because you dug the swale,
you put all those chips in there
and when your cistern overflowed,
it overflowed into that swale and that swale slowly,
the water moved down by gravity to the end of it
and all those chips got what we call field capacity.
They got as wet as they possibly can
and now they've held all of that moisture there for you
so that as the ground dries out around it
because there's no longer rain coming down,
the ground around it is now pulling that water out
of that bioswale and supporting a moisture level
that it needs for the plants to grow.
Right on, I understand that and I actually saw that,
a great example of that, gosh, was it the beginning
of last summer or the summer before?
But anyway, at Lady Sativa Farm in Humboldt,
they live at the top of a mountain
and most of us go through a drought season
and they're like, listen, during the rainy season,
we have to capture as much of this water
here at the top of a mountain
because it really wants to go down the hill
and so they use swales and ponds
and a whole variety of techniques
that we actually go through with the interview with Rio
from Lady Sativa that's on the YouTube channel
that you can check out and his goal,
like yeah, he's a cannabis farmer
but he's all like, man, he says,
I spend more of my time sequestering water
and growing cover crops and making the water work
to leave my property as much as he's growing cannabis,
which I found really interesting.
Let's talk about this, the other category of folks
because certainly in the regenerative agriculture scene,
which we love so much,
there's a lot of these permaculture techniques
that have made their way into the scene
so people aren't just directly pumping the aquifer
but let's answer this question in another way
for folks who are just growing their six persons
and all plants that are available in a lot of states
up to like the 15 that are available
in a lot of states for medical.
If you don't have property,
if you're not trying to sequester all of this water
on your acreage and you just don't wanna use
your city water, I recognize that we have to be
a little bit aware of where our rainwater is coming from
and what it's made up,
especially if we live in an industrial city,
what would you consider a simple and effective way
to capture rainwater cleanly,
just to be working on your six or 15 plants?
That's a good one.
I mean, again, one of the things that I said earlier
about capturing rainwater,
if I was in one of those industrial zones or in a city,
I would wanna be running that water through some mosses
or some other plants that actually do clean the water.
So now I'm making it too complicated for these guys
because now I'm saying, okay, yeah,
capture the water off the gutters,
but then take it and you've gotta store it somewhere.
Most people literally are taking it off the roof
or they've got a big tarp
and they're funneling it into a rain barrel
and they've got a rain barrel with a spout
and then they fill up their watering can with that
and they go put it on their plants.
I would say that's the default setting
for most people small cropping and capturing rainwater.
What do you think of that setup?
To what degree do you need to add this step
where you put it through some grasses or something?
Again, now we're dividing the hair
between full plant potential and just plant.
Yeah, good point.
So if you wanna go to the next level,
then that's what I would do is I would look at
these different plants.
Another thing you can do is the old canary in the coal mine,
throw a couple of goldfish in there.
And if these goldfish die, you know you've got a problem,
but if they're thriving and living, then you're okay.
So that might be a quick, easy way for people to know
that the water that they're using or collecting,
harvesting is safe because the canary in the coal mine,
if the goldfish dies, you got a problem.
And another thing that the goldfish would do too
is if you feed it, it's gonna make some poop for you,
which is aquaponics.
So a couple of birds with one stone there.
Yeah, there you go.
So hey, let's go ahead and take
our second commercial break.
You are listening to Shaping Fire
and my guest today is soil biologist
and all around good guy, Leighton Morrison.
One of the reasons why no-till cannabis growing
is so valued by farmers is because the mycelium networks
in the soil remain established from year to year.
And we know these fungal networks are essential
because they are the nutrient superhighways
that extend far and wide in the substrate
to feed your plants.
The trouble with growing in new soils
or blended cocoa substrates is that it takes most
of the plant's life just to create these mycelium highways.
Dinomycoendomycorrhizal fungi inoculant reduces that time
and gets your plant eating a wider array
of nutrients faster.
And it's three times the concentration
of the current leading brand in the US
at 900 propagules per gram of two fungal species selected
specifically for cannabis cultivation.
This new product called Dinomyco is the result
of 30 years of research and trials
at the Volcani Agriculture Research Institute in Israel.
It has also been vigorously trialed by cannabis
and food growers across the US
since the product first arrived here last year.
You may have already even heard about Dinomyco
by its original name, Dinomyc.
Now Dinomyco is available at grow shops
and online in the United States for the first time.
I love using Dinomyco to both speed up the growth
of mycelium networks in the soil,
but also as a biostimulant to make clone cuttings
more virile.
You can see side by sides showing the comparative growth
on their Instagram at Dinomyco.
If you demand reliable growing results
and appreciate the importance of an active root zone
in creating a thriving plant,
I encourage you to check out Dinomyco at Dinomyco.com
and find out where you can get yours.
That's D-Y-N-O-M-Y-C-O.com.
Whether you are starting with new beds or pots,
or if you want to add some zing to tired soil,
choose Dinomyco to maximize your plant's potential.
Dinomyco Endomycorrhizal Inoculant.
If you listen to Shaping Fire
and you grow your own cannabis,
chances are high that you are very particular
about the inputs you use for growing.
People like us painstakingly self-educate
on cannabis nutrients and techniques
so we can cultivate the best tasting
and cleanest flowers possible.
And when we go to purchase those nutrients,
we want to be sure that our supplier shares our values
and is providing exceptional quality.
This is why I recommend BuildASoil.com
to my friends who care about quality.
BuildASoil empowers organic growers to do their best work
by sourcing and shipping
only the finest cannabis growing supplies.
From organic inputs, soils, soil testing and pots,
to lights, growing tents, sprayers and cover crops,
BuildASoil founder Jeremy Silva
doesn't just stock his store with what's available.
He goes deep to personally vet each product for quality
and determine that there isn't a better version
of the product that he could be selling.
Because of this arduous process,
you know that your options on BuildASoil.com
have been carefully curated
to create the results you are looking for.
Not only that, but the BuildASoil way
is a philosophy that will permeate your interaction
with the company.
From website design to pricing and shipping
to after purchase support,
Jeremy and his team always strive to do their best
and give you the best customer service in the business.
Check out BuildASoil.com today
for top tier quality cultivation supplies
and a friends and family buying experience.
And check out their educational videos
and extraordinary social media while you're there too.
Quality organic growing supplies at BuildASoil.com.
For 20 years, Humboldt Seed Company
has been family owned and providing reliable,
high yielding seeds originating in Northern California.
While the current trend is to slap one super male
into a line of hype strains,
Humboldt Seed Company continues to breed
with precision and care by doing large sifts
and back crosses to emphasize the absolute best traits
that a line has to offer.
This kind of breeding takes time, talent, and space to work.
No matter what kind of aroma you are particularly into,
Humboldt Seed will likely have something you'll love.
If you love fruit, you can choose from banana, mango,
apricot, papaya, blueberry, blood orange, melon,
and lemons across their various strains.
They have all gas, glue,
and classic sour diesel lines as well.
Of course, there are the heritage California strains
like OG Kush, Jack Herr and Headband.
And their award winning blueberry muffin
is one that delights just about everybody's palate,
especially when concentrated.
Humboldt Seed Company is proud to bring to market
the infamous freak show Cultivar 2,
which has a great THC high,
but looks so much like a fern
that some folks can't even identify it as cannabis.
It's a plant that really needs to be seen to be believed.
If you're looking for well balanced CBD seeds,
Humboldt Seed Company can turn you on to CBD strains
that actually have flavor,
like the dill and pepper terpenes
of Willie G's Lebanese land race.
Whether you are looking for regular,
feminized or auto flowers,
Humboldt Seed Company has the gear to make this
your best growing cycle ever.
Visit humboldtseedcompany.com today
to check out their line of vigorous genetics,
download their catalog,
and find out where you can pick them up.
You can also check out their Instagram
at the humboldtseedcompany
to check out their gorgeous flowers
and the extraordinary freak show plant.
Humboldt Seed Company, let them know Shango sent ya.
Welcome back, you are listening to Shaping Fire.
I'm your host, Shango Lose,
and our guest today is soil biologist, Leighton Morrison.
So here in the last set,
we are gonna be talking about best practices for watering,
because for something that seems so simple,
there are a lot of ways to screw it up.
So Leighton, what factors determine how much to water?
I know for a lot of folks,
we kind of just think, well,
let's just drench the hell out of it,
and then that way I know that it won't dry out
before the next time I come back to my pot,
but that's not very strategic.
So leaning on the biological knowledge,
what's the actual way for us to figure out
how much to water?
Listen to the plant, it'll tell you.
If the sun leaves are tracking the sun
or the lights in your tent and praying to it,
you know the moisture is perfect.
So when they're drooping,
that usually means that they're either lacking moisture
or they have too much moisture.
And overwatering definitely moves soil particles
down into the profile as well as washes out nutrients.
So I'm a big fan of those blue mats.
You can regulate it, moisture meters are helpful,
but eventually you'll get used to it.
You'll just be able to stick your finger in there,
and if you can feel it, you'll know you're in a good place,
and if your plant's praying to the sun,
you know you're in the sweet spot.
Yeah, man, there's nothing quite like
when the plants are praying,
and they're all up, they're reaching,
and they're tracking the sun or the light,
and they've got that slight inverted taco look.
Oh my gosh, when I see that,
I give myself a little pat on the back,
and I'm all like, thank God I'm doing it right today.
Yep, right on, right on, Shango.
The plant tells you everything you need to know,
you just gotta learn how to listen to it.
So what are some of the factors
that are going to play a role
in how much we're gonna water?
I'm assuming heat and humidity are gonna play a big role.
How should we think about that?
Humidity is a huge role,
because if it's too dry,
if it's the winter and you've got your heat on,
and your HVAC system is pushing heat all over the place,
yeah, it's gonna dry out,
and that's where I recommend if you're in a tent,
you get one of those little tiny humidifiers.
They're inexpensive,
and it will help to put moisture into the air,
and you won't have to water nearly as much.
So that's a great way of preventing the soil
from wicking the moisture out
and letting the air pull it out,
because you guys all have fans, too.
You have to move the air around.
So when that wind is blowing across the pot,
it is pulling moisture out of it.
So that humidifier is a great trick,
and then of course, cover cropping.
I'm a big fan of no soil left bare,
so that those leaves are covering up
every square inch of that pot,
and what you'll notice when you flip the leaves over
and look at the underside,
there'll be a little condensation.
So it's preventing that moisture
from escaping from the surface of that pot.
Great way to prevent excess watering.
Excellent, I think it's good for us
to point out momentarily,
cover crops do not steal nutrients from your pot.
No, they do not, and they build miles of rhiosphere,
which crosses the roots of your other cannabis plants.
There's all kinds of wonderful exchanges
that are happening there,
as well as nutrient cycling.
You're getting extra protozoa, extra bacteria
that are all functioning for you at a high level.
So they're not stealing nutrients,
they're actually adding them back to you.
Fantastic.
So a lot of us are slowly but surely
converting over to fabric pots.
And there's a lot of reasons
why black plastic pots are questionable.
Everything from the fact that they're plastic,
to the fact that they tend to get a little sludgy
at the bottom if people don't have rocks in the bottom.
There's a lot of good reasons to go to the fabric pots.
And then you've got companies like Grassroots
that are actually lining the inside of the fabric pots
so they lose less air out the sides.
But in your experience, Layton,
do we need to water fabric pots more often?
Oh yeah, they definitely leach out moisture
out the sides of them.
It's the same thing.
It's like if you're in a plastic pot,
the only area you have to be concerned about
is the top of the pot.
With a fabric pot, you've got the sides as well.
That's where I always say,
you need some kind of vapor barrier
to prevent that moisture exchange.
Glad to hear that the pot companies
are actually taking that into consideration now.
Because in the past, when you see these,
the sides of the pots would go hydrophobic.
So you'd pour the water on the top,
it'd run right over the sides and right down the sides.
And you couldn't get the moisture in there.
And you talked about that last time,
about how you saw a huge difference with the cover crops.
Now you can't cover crop the side of your pot,
but you can do things like put hay bales against them,
foam if you have extra foam,
so that you prevent that water or the air
from stealing the moisture out of the side of the pot.
And also temperature.
We don't want the sides of that pot to get warm,
because that's going to directly affect the biology.
So by insulating it and putting a vapor barrier in
on the sides of your pot,
you're going to be able to use those.
And I'm a big fan of those fabric pots.
I really like them.
Yeah, I'm actually really excited.
They're calling these living soil fabric pots
from Grassroots Pots.
They actually sent me out a couple to trial.
So I'm actually trialing their pots,
but then also their fabric beds.
They've got liners on those too,
because they're like,
hey, we all know that we're losing water out the sides.
And fabric pots are not necessarily as effective
as pushing the water down to the bottom of the pot,
because so often it just evaporates out the sides.
So anyway, a lot of people who have used them,
because these have been out for a year or two already.
I'm just getting around to it.
So I'll tell you more of my thoughts
and they'll follow on that.
So, okay, so let's next talk about hydrophobic pots.
So I can cop to this, right?
I have been the worst.
I did not even realize what was going on in my pots
until I heard you speak at the Michigan Regen event,
because, and I just know that so many people are gonna like,
oh shit, that happens to me too.
I would hand water my pot
and I would watch the water bead,
slide across the surface of the pot
and then go down the sides.
And I'm all like, damn it.
I want the water to go into the soil.
And yet it was going, it was just sliding off
as if it would like, the soil was a solid structure.
And it was after listening to you and Dr. Elaine Ingham
that I realized that I needed to add a cover crop
to create all of these opportunities
for the water to go inside.
And now I don't have that problem,
but I know there's people who are listening
who have that problem.
So go ahead and hit on what makes a pot go hydrophobic.
And I'm assuming you're going to,
but talk crap about peat moss too.
Well, you know how much I hate peat moss.
Me too.
And I've been blessed to have worked
with a company called Pit Moss back 10 years ago or so
in trying to develop a product.
Mott Hadley was grinding up newspapers
because he saw his grandmother use newspapers
to line her soil in her outdoor gardens.
And he realized, whoa,
why they have a great moisture holding capacity.
If I shredded it, maybe I could get away from using peat.
And he started this company and through the years,
he's gone ups and downs.
And finally, just recently a group has come in
and really started to grab this thing by the horns
and they're developing some wonderful products.
I'm beta testing a bunch of them now.
I'm actually working with them on formulating one
specifically for living soil systems,
which I'm really excited about.
It's going to be mushroom compost.
It's going to be core.
Believe it or not, they've got a great source of clean core,
ground up paper pulp, cardboard pulp,
which is an amazing fungal food.
The biology that I've seen in so far
in the products that they've sent me,
I either see a tremendous amount of spores
or I see a tremendous amount of hyphae.
Could you imagine being able to buy a soil
that was loaded with hyphae out of the gate?
Oh man, what a jumpstart.
Hey, what's funny too is Pit Moss has reached out to me
as well to send me stuff
because they heard through the grapevine
that I talk a lot of crap about, you know,
taking peat moss out of the environment
because it's not sustainable.
And now here that they've reached out to you,
somebody over there is doing a good job
reaching out to folks like us.
Yeah, I give Ashley a lot of credit.
She heard me on a podcast.
Oh yeah, Ashley's the one who reached out to me too.
Yeah, yeah, she heard me on a podcast
and hit me up because I was bashing peat.
And so it's wonderful.
I'm ecstatic to be back in touch with them
and back and doing some trials to see how they're performing
and how we could formulate better ones.
But I didn't answer your question.
Yeah, what is hydrophobic soil and how does it happen?
So hydrophobic is basically that you have organic matter,
which is what the plant's growing in.
And the outside of that organic matter
is completely coated with bacteria.
And those bacteria go back into that cyst form
as they dry out and they create that wax surface,
which doesn't allow the water in.
So in a situation where I have a hydrophobic pot,
I don't have cover crop.
I would take a wet towel, like in a towel soaking wet,
and then I'd cover it so that that water slowly
wicked out of the towel and wicked back into the pot.
So that would be the way to quickly, as quick as possible,
take the hydrophobic component out
of the surface of that soil.
Now, the interesting thing is with pit moss,
it has a similar side effect that I've
noticed in my starts, that it does go a little bit
hydrophobic on the surface.
But as soon as you break through it,
you could feel that it's nice and moist inside.
So that's one of the things that we're talking about,
is like, all right, how do we prevent the soil
from going hydrophobic on the surface?
And I explained to them the reasons why.
We're playing with a organic-based wetting agent
that's going to prevent it from happening.
But again, we need some more time
to really get these kinks out of it.
Product development aside, though, we have the answer,
right?
You've got to have a cover crop.
And whether it's grasses or clovers or radishes
or the build-a-soil cover crop mix,
there's a lot of really great options.
But the point is, you've got to grow other stuff in your pots.
Monocultures are not natural.
Yep, no, you're absolutely right.
That is the answer.
But there are still people, there's
holdouts that don't want to have to fuss with the other crops,
because they can inadvertently become bankers,
or not banker plants, but trap plants,
and bring in other pests into your atmosphere.
Well, you definitely need to choose your cover crops
carefully.
That part is for sure.
But it is hard to go wrong.
Yeah, and again, if you're in a situation
where you don't want to deal with cover crop,
just get an old towel soaking wet
and put that around the top of the pot
so that it holds the moisture in.
And that will prevent that hydrophobic problem
in the first place.
Fabulous.
So what causes the pot to go hydrophobic?
What is the thing that people need to not do?
We've talked about solving it.
We've talked about using the cover crop.
And we've talked about putting the blanket on it.
But we can even, say me for example,
what did I do to cause the top layer to go cystic
and have that waxy top?
What did I do wrong that caused it,
other than just not having a cover crop?
Humidity and sun.
Humidity, sun, and wind.
That's what's causing it.
When the wind blows across soil, the amount of moisture
that it pulls out of that soil is crazy.
I mean, I used to do these monster landscapes
for these billionaires.
And we'd be working right straight through
whatever season it was.
And we'd always get like in, if we got to spring,
mud season, it was a nightmare to try to spread soils.
So I would have to be so careful to have the blender
not blended when there was a rainstorm coming.
Or even in some cases, not try to spread it
on the surface of the existing soil
until the wind came in and dried it out.
I mean, I'd shut the job down a number of times
because of these conditions.
And the builder would freak, the owner would freak.
And I'd be like, look, you guys, if I don't do this,
I'm going to turn this into a mud bath.
And then you're really going to have a problem
because everything's going to be rutted
and you're going to be killing plants.
And so that moist, that wind going across the top
of that soil surface is probably the biggest thing.
Second would be the sun.
And of course, lastly, the humidity.
If you do not have a relative humidity meter
in your tent or in your greenhouse,
then you never know how much moisture
is being stolen off the top of that pot
because of lack of humidity in the air.
So those are the three reasons.
It wasn't you, it was the environment.
It was wind, sun, or relative humidity.
So how much does it matter the temperature
of the water when we water the plant?
Oh, great question.
I'm a big fan of room temperature.
So if you're in a greenhouse,
I would just let it sit out in the greenhouse
before I used it.
If you're in a tent, you're probably at 68 degrees.
Again, room temperature, you don't want to shock anything.
It's like if you poured cold water on your plant,
it's not going to like it.
Or if you pour boiling water on it,
your plant's not going to like it.
So you want to have that water as close to the temperature
of the soil as you possibly can get.
So that was a really good question.
So is there any advantage to bubbling the water first
to aerate it?
I know that some people do that to get rid of the chlorine.
And I know that other folks do it
because they're actually going to put some compost tea
into it.
But then I also know some people that do it
because they're like, oh, I want to take more oxygen
down to the root zone.
So I'm going to bubble my water to extra aerate it
before I put it in there.
And I don't know if that's scientifically sound.
What do you think?
Oh, absolutely.
Absolutely sound.
You can build a dissolved oxygen in a water column
through aeration.
And that's why you do it in a fish tank.
Because the fish, I'm getting into biology again,
but the breakdown of those, you know,
the nitrogen's cycle is creating CO2.
And so the only way to get the CO,
the dissolved oxygen level up high enough
to support the fish life,
depending on the amount of biomass,
obviously the more fish, the more bubblers,
the more air stones you're going to need.
So no, I'm a huge fan of bubbling the water first
and then applying it because yes,
you are bringing down a higher level of dissolved oxygen
into the soil system.
I think I touched on this last time.
I did an experiment way back when,
where I measured dissolved oxygen in a raindrop,
in a sprinkler.
So one of those rotary sprinklers
that come out of the ground and go,
and water in a pipe,
and then water in a drip irrigation tube.
It was amazing.
The dissolved oxygen level in the raindrop
was 23 parts per million.
In the sprinkler, I think it was 15.
Out of the faucet, it was about eight.
And in the end of the drip irrigation pipe,
it was six anaerobic, five to six.
So it was anaerobic.
So we know you can build that water molecule up.
There's a great video showing what happens
to a water droplet as it travels through the atmosphere
and it rolls over on itself like a donut.
So it's constantly pulling in the oxygen
as it's tumbling through the air.
So no, big fan of it.
Definitely aerate your water if you possibly can,
because that will help to support the life in the soil,
especially if you have a really good living soil system
and you don't have earthworms
or a way for that soil to really build the tilth
out of the gate, then bubble your water
so that you're helped to feed those organisms
that extra oxygen so they can in turn build that tilth
and allow that soil to respirate.
Let's talk about method of watering.
You know, everybody says,
well, I shouldn't say everybody.
There is a certain contingent in the homegrowing scene
that demands hand watering.
And some of that is because of the effect
of the hand watering and just giving the plant
as much as it needs.
But I also think a lot of it is that people like me
who believe that a plant thrives more
when you spend a little time with it every day
and you're more aware of your pest pressure
and changing color of leaves that might show
that you might be missing some nutrient.
But all of that comes with the moment
that you spent with that plant.
But we also, you know, while I have not used Blue Mat yet,
you know, my friends are saying great things about them,
but then when you scale up, it's much, much difficult,
much more difficult to do hand watering
and people shift up to commercial scale drip lines
and things like that.
Is there really a difference to the plant,
which one you use, or is this really simply economies
of scale and how this impacts your labor?
Does it really matter to the plant which one we use?
The only problem with hand watering is the inconsistency.
Unless you're sitting there counting at each plant
how long you took to water it,
then some are gonna get a little bit extra water
and some are gonna be a little less water.
I get the concept of being, you know,
out there with the plant and I'm a big proponent
of being a farmer's shadow.
Like you guys need to be in with your plants all the time.
There are the extremists that say,
oh, just leave the plant alone, let the plant do its work.
Yeah, I get that too, but in a monocropping situation,
you're asking for problems.
I mean, if you're highly regen and you've got
all kinds of different plants and diversity
around your cannabis, you're gonna be okay.
You're not gonna have the kind of pest pressure
that can happen with a monocropping system.
And I believe that the hand watering comes in
because it's forcing you to spend time
with each and every one of those plants.
So it's a good practice, sure,
but you've gotta be careful because humans are humans.
And if you start daydreaming for a minute
and lose your count, well now you're gonna overwater
or underwater.
So, you know, it's a matter of being more diligent
in spending your time, but in this case,
the reason I love the blue mats are
is because they're non-mechanical.
It's a, the only thing that's driving it is that ceramic.
When that ceramic gets to a certain level of moisture,
it either calls for more moisture or it shuts off
and prevents more moisture from coming out.
So it's a brainless way of maintaining
a certain soil moisture level that's unique
to anything I've ever seen on the market.
So that's why I'm a big fan of it
because it takes the guesswork out of it.
So, this should be good.
In the category of guesswork, you just said
if you get distracted and you lose your count
when you're hand watering.
Dude, I don't even have a count.
I didn't even think about that as, you know,
I hand water and I'm watching it and I'm like,
meh, looks about right.
Lone, and I'm thinking to myself, oh my God,
no wonder I've got watering issues all the time.
So how do you come to a water, how do you come to a count?
Basically, you gotta start with, obviously,
sticking your finger in the soil.
And if you're not good enough at that yet,
another trick is to take a handful of the soil
and squeeze it as hard as you can.
And if you get water dropping out of it,
it's too much water.
You should be able to just get a little bit
of a slick spot at the bottom of where you're squeezing it.
But it shouldn't drip out of it.
And it should, obviously, it should hold together.
It shouldn't just, you know, crumble or expand back
to its original size very quickly.
So that's a great way of determining the moisture content
of where your sweet spot is.
But as far as hand watering, that again,
depends on your soil system.
If you're all potting soil, or we call it
the soil is medium, that's gonna take more moisture.
And again, problem is the surface is gonna go hydrophobic
and the internal is gonna go anaerobic.
So that's why I push that A horizon is so critical in this.
And that A horizon is gonna help you maintain
an equal moisture profile from the bottom of the pot
to the top of the pot.
So again, it depends on your soil matrix
as to what the count might look like.
But it's pretty easy to, you know,
once you start to realize what the moisture should feel like
you'll get comfortable with it.
You'll be able to just walk up,
stick your finger in the pot.
Oh, this one needs a little moisture.
Go to the next one.
Oh, this one doesn't.
Because, you know, another thing too,
is that these plants are gonna react differently.
One might transpirate based on the cultivar
differently than another one.
You know, some of them are used to higher tolerance of heat.
Some of them are less.
You know, you know all this.
I mean, the cultivars are also gonna drive, you know,
what that moisture level looks like.
But start with that squeezing trick.
That's a good one.
And then eventually move into that,
being able to just stick your finger in there
until you feel that moisture level
and you'll get comfortable with it.
Yeah, I think what I'm gonna do is I think I'll go,
I'll go down the line of pots and give them different counts
and then go back in 10 minutes
and do the squeeze test that you described.
And then I'll know what my right count is
because that'll be the pot that's reacting properly.
Yeah, and I would even wait longer.
I'd wait a couple hours, you know,
to let the moisture, you know, migrate down
into the bottom of the pot and then feel it.
So water them, wait a couple hours,
and then go back and check it out.
And that would be my advice.
So certainly people water in compost tea, right?
They'll use some compost tea first
and then they will water their plant to water it in.
What do you think about like having your water
be compost tea?
Is there a need for the fresh water
in addition to just compost tea?
Or are you like, ah, they both have got water in them?
They both have water in them.
But I, you know, if I'm using a concentrate,
so one of my products is a liquid concentrate,
then I definitely water it in.
I mean, I've turned grass purple, like literally purple,
because I put so much on it.
Because I wanted to see what was gonna happen.
And the colors of the grass came out and it just screamed.
It turned so dark green that it was almost purple.
And I was like, wow, look at that.
Yeah, the client's not gonna like that.
I better water it.
But again, you know, going back to compost teas,
as long as you have biology, then I would say, yeah,
it's not gonna hurt to just give it a spritz after
to try to move those droplets of compost tea
down into the soil profile where they belong.
Because they don't belong on the surface.
Yeah, on the surface, they're just gonna die from the air.
In the UVs and everything else.
So no, I totally get the practice of watering in.
When I was doing a lot of installation of product,
what I would do is I would make, obviously, my concentrate.
I would add 10 gallons of the concentrate.
Then I would add 110 gallons of water, a little bit of foods.
And then I would just go apply it.
But I would apply it heavily.
So I would do a soil drench.
So some of it was getting, the continued spraying
on top of it would push the first spray down into the soil.
And I would just be like, yeah, whatever evaporates
or whatever UVs kill these little guys,
I'm not gonna be concerned about it
because I drenched the soil.
So I inadvertently moved the organisms down
into the lower profile that I wanted to.
Fantastic.
Well, Leighton, thank you so much for sharing your time.
I know you're on the road and consulting a lot.
Actually, maybe even a little bit less
right now in quarantine.
Actually, you might actually be home quite a bit right now.
You are normally traveling a lot.
Are you even gonna be home enough
to put into a food garden this year?
Funny you should say that.
I have done it.
I mean, it's been, God, 32 years more
since the last time I had the opportunity to plant a garden.
So yeah, I've been planting, gardening with Pauline
and our dog.
He's out there helping me with the soil.
I mean, it's hilarious.
And so I'm actually enjoying the quarantine.
I'm definitely not working as hard
or earning as much as I would like to.
But this is all gonna peter out eventually.
And I will be able to get back on the road
and help other folks out across the country.
But for right now, I'm enjoying it.
I mean, I'm so blessed that I can still support myself.
I've made enough money that I'm not gonna be freaking out
that I can't pay my bills.
So I'm taking the time, I'm meditating,
playing in the soil, taking walks.
And life is great.
I'm enjoying the quarantine.
I'm sorry for everybody out there that's suffering
because I know there's so many people
that we're living paycheck to paycheck
and are totally screwed right now.
And it's sad, it's horrible.
But I'm taking it with stride
and I'm trying to stay positive
and send out good vibrations to everybody.
But yeah, I'm actually,
I am growing a food garden this year.
It really is interesting to see the revival
of the Victory Garden, right?
Oh, yeah.
The long-term joke is that cannabis
is a gateway to horticulture, right?
And there's all these new home growers
that are suddenly going,
well, I was able to grow a little bit of weed.
Let me see what else I can do.
And all the seed companies
are breaking new records for seed sales.
And even though there's the vast majority
of what's going on with the pandemic
is obviously terrible,
it does make me feel some measure better
that people are learning how to grow their own foods,
which we should never have lost that skill.
And hopefully that is something
that can continue moving forward for all of us.
And thank you for bringing that up.
That is such an important point.
We all should be having at least an herb garden,
if not at least a few veggies.
And it's not a lot of work.
It's not that hard to do this,
whether it's in a pot or it's planted in the soil.
And that's providing food security.
And you're right about the seed companies.
I mean, they're out of everything.
And so I gotta believe that the vast majority of people
across this country are growing these Victor Gardens,
which is great.
And hopefully that never changes again,
because we can control the inputs
of what's going into these veggies.
And we know that they're healthy.
So I'm glad you brought that up.
That was great.
Yeah, well, it wasn't intended.
I just kind of stumbled into it,
because that's how we are.
So right on.
So thanks again, Leighton.
I look forward to talking to you again in person
when we can.
All right, brother.
Great to speak with you again and have a wonderful day.
If you wanna hear more from Leighton Morrison,
I encourage you to go on back to Shaping Fire episode 54,
if you haven't heard that.
And it's all about soil, how soil is built,
soil horizons, meaning the different layers of soil,
and how to properly build a container of soil
that mimics the planet.
It's an absolutely fantastic episode.
And you will get to enjoy not only a whole bunch
of good scientific information,
but also the gleeful storytelling
that Leighton shares with us.
Also, if you wanna find out more about Leighton's business
and his various products,
you can check those out at kingdomaquaponicsllc.com
and his Instagram at kingdomaquaponicsllc.
You can find more episodes of the Shaping Fire podcast
and subscribe to the show at shapingfire.com
and on Apple iTunes, Stitcher, and Google Play.
If you enjoyed the show, we'd really appreciate it
if you'd leave a positive review of the podcast
wherever you download.
Your review will help others find the show
so they can enjoy it too.
On the Shaping Fire website,
you can also subscribe to the weekly newsletter
for insights into the latest cannabis news
and product reviews.
On the Shaping Fire website,
you will also find transcripts of today's podcast as well.
For information on me and where I'll be speaking,
you can check out shangolose.com.
Does your company wanna reach our national audience
of cannabis enthusiasts?
Email hotspot at shapingfire.com to find out how.
Thanks for listening to Shaping Fire.
I've been your host, Shango Lose.
