One of the key attributes I look for in friends is an open mind with an ability to learn new
things and evolve, even change opinions.
While some folks respect being the same as they've always been, I'm not one of those
people.
I'm a pretty active learner.
And active learning is also a healthy trait for a cannabis cultivator to have.
For as long as any of us have been alive, we've had to learn cultivation in secret,
picking up hints from print magazines, the guy at the gardening store, random folks at
parties and if we're lucky, maybe a mentor in the cannabis underground.
Eventually the internet and forums came about and that has been great for spreading both
good and bad information about growing.
We're in a period now where cultivators have the opportunity to partner more and more with
institutional scientists to compare our cultivation recipes to established science to develop
new modern best practices for growing cannabis.
One thing for sure, as cultivators, the opportunity to partner with professional soil and plant
scientists looking to help us grow our best plants ever is extraordinary and will change
how cannabis is cultivated forever.
If you want to learn about cannabis health, cultivation and technique efficiently and
with good cheer, I encourage you to subscribe to our newsletter.
We'll send you new podcast episodes as they come out, delivered right to your inbox, along
with commentary on a couple of the most important news items from the week and videos too.
Don't rely on social media to let you know when a new episode is published.
Sign up for the updates to make sure you don't miss an episode.
Also we are giving away very cool prizes to folks who are signed up to receive the newsletter.
There's nothing else you need to do to win except receive that newsletter, so go to shapingfire.com
to sign up for the newsletter and be entered into this month's and all future newsletter
prize drawings.
You are listening to Shaping Fire and I'm your host, Shango Lose.
My guest today is Jeff Loewenfels.
Jeff is author of the award-winning Teeming With series of books.
That's T-E-A-M, Teeming as in partnership.
Teeming with Microbes, the Organic Gardener's Guide to the Soil Food Web.
Teeming with Nutrients, the Organic Gardener's Guide to Optimizing Plant Nutrition.
Teeming with Fungi, the Organic Grower's Guide to Mycorrhiza.
And coming out next month, September 2022, Teeming with Bacteria, the Organic Gardener's
Guide to Endophytic Bacteria and the Rhizophagy Cycle.
Now I got an opportunity to read an advance copy for this episode and it's a really great
book.
Mind-blowing, honestly.
You'll get a taste of it today.
Jeff also wrote DIY Auto-Flowering Cannabis, an Easy Way to Grow Your Own.
Links to all Jeff's books are on the page for episode 96 on Shaping Fire.
Jeff writes the longest-running gardening column in the United States for the Alaska
Dispatch, now for over 40 years.
He's also a lawyer and former radio and TV show host.
Jeff has been on Shaping Fire before, too.
Episode 21 on Teeming with Microbes and Fungi.
Episode 47 at Shaping Fire Live in Portland, Oregon with additional special guest Seth
Crawford on the breeding and use of modern auto-flowers.
And finally, on episode 53 to talk about his recent book on auto-flowering cannabis for
new home growers and cannabis patients.
Today though, during set 1 we will review a bit of what we know about bacteria generally
and the importance of bacteria in and on cannabis seeds.
During the second set we explore the Rhizophagy Cycle in serious detail.
And in the third set we talk about specific methods to put this new understanding of endophytic
bacteria to work for us in the garden.
Welcome back to Shaping Fire, Jeff.
I am so excited to be here.
You can only imagine.
Well, it's always great to have you on the show.
And you know, since we're friends outside of the show as well, it's nice to hear your
voice because there hasn't been as much opportunity to, you know, see other cannabis professionals
around the country like during this COVID craziness.
And so it's actually nice to hear a good friend.
So welcome, welcome.
Really.
I agree.
And hopefully this stuff will pass and we'll be meeting again in person.
Amen.
All right.
So, you know, it's always been the Teeming With Trilogy.
First you did Teeming With Microbes, and then it was Teeming With Nutrients, and then it
was Teeming With Fungi.
And then, you know, then you switched over and you did an Autoflower book.
But now suddenly you're back with a fourth book in what we all know is a trilogy.
So did you always know that there was going to be a fourth book eventually, or did you
just become inspired after learning more about bacteria?
Oh, you know, you never think about the next book.
And in fact, once you write a book, you never think you're ever going to do it again.
It's a very difficult process.
You have to go down in that little rabbit hole and stay down there and write it.
But you know, when I wrote the first book, Teeming With Microbes, I did it because I
was upset that nobody really understood and was talking about Dr. Elaine Ingham's soil
food web concepts.
This book I got excited about after talking to Dr. James White, because it adds a whole
new dimension to the soil food web and just creates a completely different picture and
raises new questions, which we'll be able to study and experiment with and become better
growers.
So I wasn't expecting it when I came across the subject matter.
It flipped me out to the point where I knew I had to really investigate it.
And then when I discovered that it had some real possibilities for growers out there,
it became a necessity to write the book.
You know, when I was trying to figure out how to refer to the series, now that there's
four in the series, I actually looked up, you know, if a trilogy is three books, what
is four books?
And there are two options.
There's a tetralogy or a quadrilogy.
Have you chosen one of those?
What do you use to describe four books?
You know, I haven't really figured it out yet, because I also try to figure out what
I use to sign the books.
And so I haven't really come to a decision, but it's going to be one of those two words,
probably.
Right on.
So when we've talked before, you know, you've described like reading the series, right?
For those of us who have been with you since the beginning, you know, you put out Teeming
with Microbes, and it was an easy read.
It was a fun read.
And we learned a hell of a lot.
And honestly, it really made the, you know, microbe life and the soil food web much more
accessible to a lot of us in cannabis cultivation.
And then your second book, Teeming with Nutrients, was also highly educative.
But as you said before, it's a little bit of a heavier lift as far as a read goes.
There's a lot more vocabulary, numerical science, shall we say, than the Teeming with Microbes.
And then Teeming with Fungi, again, was a lot of biological storytelling.
And it was things that we could do stuff right about, you know, right away.
And so, you know, the various books have got like different heft of like, of difficulty
in reading.
Like where on that scale do you find this new book on bacteria?
Well, on one level, I find it, you know, I find it very simple to understand.
But on the other level, it's the most complicated.
And the reason is because it does talk about bacteria.
We're only familiar with bacteria in a general sense, in a health sense.
And so when you start using bacterial names and have to spell them out and things like
that, it becomes much more difficult.
And then when you start dealing with an organism that's so small that we really don't study
it as a society, we don't study it in school, other than that's a bacteria, that little
dot, you know, you got to learn some new stuff.
And I had to teach myself and I figured, you know, I probably had to teach the reader as
well before I could get into the real subject matter of what bacteria do for us with regard
to plants.
You know, that's good, you know, good, well put, because you're right.
You know, when I was reading your book, and thank you for sending me it, the, you know,
the first half of it is a bit of a refresher of high school biology.
A lot of stuff I hadn't thought about in a long time, but it is absolutely necessary
for the second half of the book, which is like, you know, getting into a race car.
It goes fast and it's thrilling and it's absolutely crazy.
The things that you learn from the book, but you really do need to be reminded what, you
know, you know, I mean, I haven't thought about gram positive and gram negative things
a long, long time.
So one other thing that we should hit on before we get into the meat of the topic, just a
piece of vocabulary.
Would you discuss the difference between the words bacteria and bacterium?
Right.
And this is really, really key.
And it's one of the reasons why people really can't understand bacteria in a general sense
unless they really concentrate.
Bacterium is an individual bacteria.
Bacteria are the population of bacteria.
So the way I like to look at it, when most people think about bacteria, they are thinking
about their car in the driveway.
That car is the bacteria.
No, that's the bacterium.
When you say bacteria, you're thinking about the parking lot at the Atlantic, you know,
the Atlanta airport, you know, thousands and thousands and thousands.
So those two concepts are key.
And we often slip into talking about bacteria.
There's hardly ever a bacterium.
It's just one of those things.
They multiply every 20 minutes.
And there are so many of them that even when you're talking about an individual kind of
bacterium, you're really talking about bacteria.
And what I like to tell people to do, and it's one of those things that I wasn't able
to do in the book.
If you Google bacteria on a needle, you'll end up with a picture of bacteria on the tip
of a needle.
And it's just a mind blower.
I didn't want to pay for the picture to put it in the book.
So I'm just telling you about it now.
It's unbelievable how small they are and how many they are.
And so really what we're talking about when we're talking here, we're talking about bacteria
multiples, even though we refer to bacterium to describe the individual and what its parts
do, et cetera, et cetera.
You never see an individual.
You always see the population.
Great.
So let's push a little more on that size aspect of it.
Because some of the examples that you give in the book of how small an individual bacterium
is, it's really remarkable where a head of a needle is going to have thousands of them,
which really tells me that this is an organism that we're going to be interacting with in
the huge numbers.
Yeah.
They're 0.2 micrometers.
I think the example I give in the book is that if you, first of all, if you look at
a human hair, a human hair is about 18 to 180 micrometers.
So they're really small, obviously.
But if you made a bacterium the size of a spruce bark beetle or a bark beetle, and the
tree itself was the normal size, that's sort of what you're looking at.
The hair versus the little teeny, they're teeny.
God, they're small.
And they're just hard to conceive of, they're so small.
So what I tell people is they're so small, but there's so many of them that when you
drop that Frito or that Dorito chip on the floor, don't believe in the two-second rule.
They're on it right away.
Instantly.
Right, right, exactly.
So we'll be talking again and again over the course of the episode about bacteria and using
water and moisture as a tool in different ways.
But categorically, bacteria require moisture to create their mucilage they use to move
and to grab passing nutrition and microbes.
Does this suggest that a bacteria is more part of the water food web instead of the
soil food web?
Well, you know, I don't really think of it that way.
All soil particles have a microscopic coating of moisture around them.
So it's a natural environment for bacteria to live in and to move around in.
Now of course, remember, they don't move very far or they don't have to move very far, but
they're very, very small.
And so the whole dynamics of how they move about and what they do as they move about
is just absolutely fascinating.
But that water level in the soil, it's there.
It's in your compost.
It's in your vermicompost.
And of course, inside plants, there's plenty of water.
But I consider it to be attached to the soil food web.
Great.
So if bacteria require water to be mobile, what is the mechanism they use to move around?
In my mind, I imagine something like oars.
Right.
And of course, they're so small, and this is something very hard for us to conceive,
they're so small that they can't use something like oars.
The dynamics of fluid at that size level is completely messed up.
And so if they used oars, they would just sort of spin around.
They wouldn't go anywhere.
So they've developed this wonderful mechanism.
They have these flagellums, these propellers, literally motors, and they use about 10% of
their proteins to produce these guys.
And they spin around these little motors.
They rotate about a thousand times a second.
It's unbelievable.
I mean, it's just incredible how fast they move and how much energy they take.
And depending on what kind of bacteria it is, they have them on the ends.
They could have them in the middle.
They could have thousands of them, or they could have one of them.
And they've developed this ability to be able to use this propeller motion to move through
this fluid, this sort of jello to them.
You can imagine that if you were in a swimming pool full of solidifying jello, how difficult
it would be to move.
Well, that's the problem they face, and that's why they've developed these unbelievable motors.
And when you look at the pictures of them, they are motors.
You have to sort of pinch yourself.
Whew, unbelievable what we can see with microscopes these days.
And they rotate 6,000 RPMs, rotations per minute.
Holy crow.
If you did that with your car engine, it wouldn't last very long.
So they're pretty incredible.
And they develop these protons.
They use these protons to move these things.
They're unbelievable.
Unbelievable.
So you mentioned all the variety of mobility mechanisms that the different varieties of
bacteria have.
We've gotten an idea of how small they are.
Can you give us an idea of how numerous the varieties are?
I can imagine there's so many on the planet that we're still finding new ones all the
time.
But do we have any sense of their numbers on the planet?
Not really.
I mean, they're discovering new ones all the time.
I just read an article today that they wandered into some cave in Hawaii and discovered 1,000
different bacteria they'd never seen before.
So it's pretty incredible.
Now, I will say that I read studies that indicate that in soil, there's kind of a set amount
and kinds of bacterium in soil that's pretty much similar all around the world.
The plant can pick from that what they need with the exudates.
But bacteria, they're just so plentiful.
There's so many different kinds.
They have the ability to be able to transfer DNA as they're going about their daily lives
to make subspecies.
It's really easy for them to change by transferring chromosomes.
They're amazing.
Well, it's funny.
It's almost like you're reading my notes because that is my next question.
I know there's not boys and girls in bacteria.
So, will you explain to us both how they reproduce and how they transfer their DNA?
Because with them reproducing, doubling in number every 20 minutes, there's so much opportunity
for the passing of DNA and evolution.
They must evolve so fast.
Yeah, they do.
I mean, there's two different ways they do it.
When they divide to multiply, there's a quasi-nucleus.
That's not the right term.
It contains chromosomes, the plasmid, and it divides itself.
And sometimes some of the chromosomes leak out of that plasmid as it's dividing and is
floating around out there free and gets involved in another bacterium.
And sometimes two bacteria will back up next to each other, put out this little plank way
and transfer a couple of little DNAs.
Wow.
And then, of course, it must occur that occasionally one bacterium eats another bacterium and absorbs
some of that DNA into its plasmid and becomes a slightly different kind of bacterium.
So, yeah, they change all the time.
That's interesting.
There's not really like a, what do I want to say?
Like a carrier, right?
Like in mammals, you'll get the seminal fluid that is holding the packages which then have
the DNA.
And we're talking about a level of biology that is so basic that it's just the transfer
of the DNA itself.
I caught three different varieties that you mentioned.
One, when one separates into two and there's a little bit of accidental leakage, that's
one.
The second one being where one eats another.
And then the third one where one pokes another.
And so, even the fact that there are multiple ways that it happens tells me that there's
constantly so many variables every time there's a new, I don't know, generation.
Right.
Which is why they can live in so many different kinds of environments.
It's also why we have bacterial resistance.
After a while, they outsmart us.
So, yeah, they're incredible.
And I think we've talked before, we don't study them in school because they're too damn
small for people to look at.
Instead, we study dinosaurs, which are too extinct really to be of any use.
So I wish we were studying bacterium and doing more microbiology in school.
And actually, at home preschool, with the plush toys and stuff as we've talked about.
Little kids know their bacterium names?
No.
But they do know a dinosaur name.
Well, the bacterium is still here.
I don't get it.
But that's just me.
So how do these bacteria talk to each other?
Because they very much appear to cooperate with each other.
Right.
And they can put chemicals out into the soil.
When those chemicals reach the right concentration, they can cause the entire group of bacteria
to act in particular ways.
So there's this sensing they have that they're able to do.
Now they also can obviously talk individually to each other.
But it's the quorum sensing that people know bacterium for.
So an individual bacteria might be swimming around having a nice happy day.
And then all of a sudden, it starts to pick up this, for lack of a better word, sort of
a pheromone, as do all the other bacterium that are around it, including the ones that
were their mother and father 20 minutes ago.
And all of a sudden, they act the same way and they fly in the same direction or they
attack the same thing.
Whatever it happens to be that's going on, they all do it at once because there's little
sensing signals out there in the environment.
I can imagine that's quite an impressive moment when you're looking at, you know, it's probably
really hard to look at one single bacterium.
So you're probably seeing looking at like a small group.
But it isn't difficult to see one anymore.
It was when you and I went to school.
And it probably is today in normal high schools because they don't have the machinery.
But oh my goodness gracious.
I mean, we can now see individual strains of DNA.
And so yeah, we can see individual bacterium.
And in fact, later on in the show, we'll talk about the bacteria that go into plants.
And the pictures that are in the book are phenomenal.
I mean, my God, who that that moment of watching, you know, a bacterium and then watch it, you
know, start to be surrounded by other bacteria.
And then that moment where I mean, I'm assuming that there's this moment of shift where I
as the observer, I see them just milling around and then suddenly I can tell they've started
to coordinate.
It's it's almost like, you know, not to anthropomorphize too much, but it's almost like like a moment
of them gaining intelligence because of the quorum sensing.
Exactly, exactly.
You know, or because you know me, I mean, in the back of teaming with nutrients, I sort
of I sort of laid out my philosophy that we're just, you know, we're it's the dandelion theory
of life that we're just, you know, we're Horton.
Here's the who were the little people and there's a bigger people and you know, there's
another bigger dandelion.
I mean, you know, these bacteria were just bacteria perhaps, you know, and and we quorum
sense, you know, I'm going to vote for so and so.
All the group gets together and they vote for so and so.
You know, it's like a it's like quorum sensing.
Well, that idea that we're all bacteria, you know, that's that's that's that's barely a
metaphor, right?
Because it's there's actually truism to it.
I mean, right.
So much of our body is bacterias and microbes and these life forms that are actually following
their own, I guess, intent or plan, if you will.
And yet, you know, I think of it as they make up my body, but actually my body is only
like about 30 percent unique to me and the other 70 percent are all these living life
forms that that my body is somehow coordinating.
That's trippy.
Yeah.
And what gets even more trippy is that some of the things that, you know, we always talk
about the soil food web operating like the stomach, you know, the soils, big, big stomach
digesting stuff.
Oh, my God, what happens in the stomach and what happens in residue, which we're going
to talk about, it's unbelievable how similar they are.
So so, yeah, these bacteria control us.
And when you have a bad bacteria, you get sick and you've got some good bacteria that
probably take out the bad bacteria.
It's just it's phenomenal how how they operate.
It doesn't matter whether they're inside you or inside a plant.
They are they are controlling lots of things.
We have no idea they're doing.
So as we are, you know, we're kind of setting up this these generalizations about bacteria.
So everybody's kind of approaching the second set from the same context.
So we know how they reproduce and transfer their DNA.
We've got a kind of an idea how they talk with each other, how to like they essentially
eat or acquire nutrients and create energies for themselves because, you know, they don't
have mouths.
So so what's their deal?
Do they do they absorb it or photosynthesize?
Well, they could do both.
There are some yeah, there are some photosynthetic bacteria, some aren't.
There are some that go through endosymbiosis.
You know, they take they open up and actually invaginate around what they're eating and
others absorb it like a plant absorbs through through channels and stuff in there through
their cell wall and then into the membrane and then into the cytoplasm of the bacteria.
That's that's invaginate.
It's got to be totally cool word of the day.
I'm going to have a look that we're done here.
So it's making you know, you open up and you and you're like kind of encompassing
your clothes.
Right, right.
Yeah.
Yeah.
All right.
So there's there's lots of different ways that they get the nutrients and because there's
so much different so many different variety of bacteria, you know, pretty much any way
that you can think about it probably happens in some bacteria.
So so there's so much variety that that we're not going to lock that down.
Okay, so so bacteria are so small that they do influence the macro world, but you know,
let me say that differently bacteria are really small, but they do influence the macro world.
Do we have any idea of what their numbers must exist?
Like how many of them need to get together for them to influence levels of magnitude
in nature that we notice it?
Sure.
Well, I think there's probably two answers to that on both extremes.
Snowflake one bacterium can cause a snowflake.
So so very small.
And yet on the other hand, then we can totally notice it though.
We can still try to catch it down our tongue.
Right?
Yeah, exactly.
And then you take you take, you know, some serious diseases which spread out throughout,
you know, cause pandemics.
Not the one we're going through now, but I mean, so so they can influence as individuals
and as groups.
So you know, in your first section where I'm learning more about bacteria, you know, some
forms of bacteria have no cell walls.
And I don't understand how that could be because in you know, in my only, you know, high school
biology everything has cells walls.
That's how everything stays inside and like holds it together in nature.
How can some bacteria not have cell walls?
Well it's these are called L forms.
And oddly enough, the term comes from the name of the school where they were identified
some London school.
So they used L, L forms.
And these are bacteria that don't have cell walls.
And in our story, we'll talk about one way that they get that way, but there's still
a membrane.
So what you've got when you look at the bacteria is you have a cell wall, same thing with a
plant.
Then you've got a little space and then you've got a membrane.
And so things have to go through the cell wall and then they have to go into through
the membrane to get into the goods, the soup, the cytoplasm of the bacteria.
And same thing with a plant.
And so you've got the ability for the insides of the bacteria to stay connected just by
that membrane unless they're really getting roughed up.
They can rupture obviously.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So in my picturing that they have no cell walls, it's not that they don't have a dividing
wall.
It's actually a membrane.
It's just not something as serious as a cell wall.
So those bacteria would probably be more fragile, but they still have enough membrane
to hold their lives together.
Right.
And they might leak a little bit.
You know, the example you might want to think about is somebody mails you a box with a blown
up balloon in it.
You open it up, you take the balloon out.
The cell wall was the box.
And now you've got that balloon.
Well, if you're not careful, it's going to pop.
In the box, it wouldn't have popped.
That's a great example.
I got to tell you, Jeff, it's so encouraging to have you back on as a guest because we
have a lot of information to go through today.
You are such a snappy and excited and get the words out and get to your point guest.
This is the only way we were going to do this.
We're moving through at such a pleasant pace that I can almost feel information falling
out of people's ears.
And we're actually going to be able to get through everything in a realistic time instead
of a four or five hour show.
So it's nice to be around your enthusiasm.
Well, I appreciate that.
So let's move on a little bit.
So we've hit a lot about generalized bacteria, but I want to start grounding some of this
in cannabis.
We're going to start by talking a little bit about bacteria and seeds.
When we go to the second set, we're going to go in depth about the rhizophagy cycle,
and that's going to be our biggest set today.
But I want to ground our conversation in cannabis since that's the nature of the show.
So cannabis plants have a relationship with bacteria at every step of the life.
And I was really surprised to learn that there's even bacteria in the seed that is
put into the seed as it's growing, and then it's sitting there in wait as it's waiting
in our refrigerator.
And then when it's given the right conditions, it's told, all right, time to do your job.
So will you walk us through the relationship between bacteria and cannabis seeds?
Sure.
This is a good time to introduce the concept of endophytes.
Endophytes are microorganisms that live inside a plant for at least part of their life and
sometimes contribute to the plant.
Sometimes they harden the plant, but they live part of their life inside the plant.
Now, there are all manner of bacteria, as we'll talk later on, they get into a plant
and they can get into a plant through little cracks in the root and they can get into the
plant, airborne, get blown onto the plant and maybe get blown onto a flower.
But what happens is when a flower is formed and the seeds are being formed, if you sort
of imagine it, it's like an open, the palm of your hand is the flower and you've got
bacteria in the palm, your hand closes up and those bacteria end up inside the seed,
your fist.
Does that make sense?
It does.
So those bacteria are in there, those are endophytic bacteria and all seeds have bacteria
in them, endophytes.
And usually, I don't know, maybe a hundred million seeds, a hundred million bacteria
in a seed that might be a high end, many different kinds depending on what kind of seed it is.
These are in the seed, when the seed germinates, they are released or they come out of their
dormancy and they either go into the plant or they go, most of them, into the soil.
So these become your rhizobacterium, they add to the bacteria that are already in the
soil, but these are specific bacteria carried by that seed and then deposited in the soil
for what purpose?
Obviously the seed, the plant that grows from that seed uses those bacteria and those bacteria
to do something beneficial for that plant.
It's like the seed is bringing its own bagged lunch.
Exactly right.
Exactly right.
And it turns out with cannabis that it's bringing specific kinds.
Now let's just for a second get away from cannabis.
One of the studies done that I read was of corn.
Corn has changed over the 400 years in the new world, we've been breeding it, etc.
But it turns out that the original corn, if you plant it today, it has the same bacteria
in it that it had back 400 years ago.
Holy crow!
It's just amazing.
And so it turns out that cannabis carry their own specific desired bacteria.
So that's the first lesson.
And when we're dealing with seeds, we want to be very, very careful.
So obviously the one thing you do not want to do with your cannabis seeds anymore is
sterilize them, which many people do.
I don't think they're fully capable of completely sterilizing them, but many people
use hydrogen peroxide, etc. to sterilize the seed.
You don't want to do that.
You want every single bacteria that seed has living and doing something in that soil.
Well, it's become incredibly common for people to use a 70-30 mix of water and H2O2 with
the idea that it is adding more oxygen to the situation.
Are you suggesting that the H2O2 in that blend is wiping bacteria from the seed?
Yeah, I think it might be.
Obviously we've got to do a lot more research, but it certainly makes sense to me that it
is and that when the seed germinates, there's still some of the H2O2 that kills some of
the bacteria or impacts the bacteria one way or the other.
So yeah, I think we've got to be very, very careful about that.
By the same token, a lot of people start their seeds in towels, paper towels.
You put the seed in, you wet the paper towel, you fold it, and then the seed grows, and
then you take it carefully with a tweezer and you put it in the soil.
Wait a minute.
Doesn't it make sense that that paper towel contains a lot of bacteria that you may want?
Bury the paper towel too.
Practical advice.
And so many people, if you leave your seed in the paper towel an extra day, a lot of
the time your most important new root hairs will have bonded with the paper towel.
I've been in this situation this spring where I pulled it.
It had attached and I gave it a little tug and I separated what's going to become the
tap root from the paper towel.
It didn't feel good when I did it.
I ripped root hairs.
But now after reading your book, I understand profoundly how important all those early root
hairs are.
I want to be far more careful now.
I'm more likely just to cut that area of the paper towel out and plant it with the whole
thing.
Right.
Right.
Exactly.
Which will work just fine.
Yeah.
So the seed carries these wonderful things.
And what we've discovered with cannabis in particular is that the bacteria in the soil
around a cannabis plant is generally one cannabis plant and another cannabis plant is pretty
much the same.
What happens is the plant, and we're going to talk about this obviously in the next segment,
is Rhizophagia.
The plant takes up some of these bacterium and depending on the type of cannabis you're
growing, it takes up specific endophytes.
So your Durban poison takes up one set of bacterium endophytes and your, you know, your
Lemon OG takes up another kind.
Now we've always talked in cannabis about Tawar.
Now maybe we're getting into a slightly different, maybe it's not called Tawar anymore, but the
bacterium impacts the cannabis in ways, you know, we are now just getting our eyes opened
on.
I mean, there's no question that your cannabis is influenced by the type of endophytes that
it has inside it.
In your book, you also lay out that different seeds, even of the same variety and from the
same seed making experience, will have different bacteria in the different seeds.
And so even if you are, you know, intending that your seeds be, you know, identical, I'll
use that term loosely, that even if you had the genetics all exactly the same between
two seeds and they were actually identical, the fact that they are encapsulating different
blends of bacteria means that that bacteria is going to influence how the plant grows
in the environment.
And I know this is incorrect usage of the vocabulary, but it reminds me a lot of how
the scene thinks of phenose, right?
Like, oh, you know, you got the same seed, but you got different phenose of that seed,
right?
And so it seems to me that that is an interesting thing for cannabis cultivators to be aware
of when we're trying to judge the quality of seeds.
Sometimes the seed can be produced perfectly appropriately, and part of it being appropriately
made is that different seeds in the same run are actually going to have different bacteria
and therefore are going to start the plant off on a different path, on a different footing.
Right, right.
Yeah, you can't help, but have that happen.
But by the same token, you know, your strain should contain the same endophytes, you know,
time and time and time again, which is very interesting.
And we know, we know that when you use, when you, again, we're sort of overlapping, when
you use nitrogen fertilizers, you reduce the number of bacteria in the rhizosphere that
go into the plant that influence the plant's terpene content and flavonoids, et cetera,
et cetera.
So, and when you increase the amount of bacteria that you put in the plant versus nitrogen
fertilizer, you end up with higher terpenes, flavonoids, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera.
So, so all of this bacteria talk validates, validates, validates the organic soil food
web system of growing, you know, and then I guess we can go one step further.
It also validates not changing your soil all the time.
If you're growing cannabis in soil, it's putting, you know, it's putting exudates out that are
concentrating the right kinds of bacteria.
No sense throwing that stuff out.
Plant in it again so you can take advantage of what's already happened in it before.
So, dear listener, if you're listening and you're like, oh my gosh, Shango, ask more
follow-up questions on this.
We will get to that in the third set, specifically how the bacteria can be leveraged in your
cultivation environment.
But for now, we're going to move on.
So, you know, reading your description of seed germination, the root cap that protects the
radical, the mucilage produced by the seed to lubricate the area of soil around the seed
and how that mucilage is used to bind microbes to the root while attracting phosphorus, zinc,
iron, magnesium.
It makes me realize that as cultivators, we should really be careful and resist moving the
seed once we've placed it in the soil.
You know, yes, they're hardy and like seeds pop, you know, and survive in crazy situations.
But there's so much subtle biology going on as soon as you're triggering the germination
that I can now see how important it is to not disturb the seeds.
And I think that like with this understanding, I'm going to increase my germination rates
because I have a tendency to move seeds and move the soil around it to help it get more
sun exposure or like, oh, I watered it and it got recovered.
And I really think now I understand that it's important to just like don't be touching the
seed after you've started the process.
Right, right.
Yeah, it's, you know, let the plant, I've always said the plant's in control.
You know, that's what I learned from Dr.
Elaine. And there's no reason why a cannabis plant shouldn't be in control as well.
All right. All right.
So let's go ahead and take our first commercial break.
We are probably mostly here for the Rhizophagia cycle, and so we're going to leave most of
the time for that next.
So we're going to take our short break and be right back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire.
And my guest today is Jeff Lowenfels.
You know, without these advertisers, Shaping Fire would not happen.
So please support them and let them know you heard them on Shaping Fire.
One of the reasons why no-till cannabis growing is so valued by farmers is because the
mycelium networks in the soil remain established from year to year.
And we know these fungal networks are essential because they are the nutrient super
highways that extend far and wide in the substrate to feed your plants.
The trouble with growing in new living soils or blended cocoa substrates is that it takes
most of the plant's life just to create these mycelium highways.
Dinomycoendomycorrhizal fungi inoculant reduces that time and gets your plant eating a
wider array of nutrients faster.
And it's three times the concentration of the other popular brand in the U.S.
at 900 propagules per gram of two fungal species selected specifically for cannabis
cultivation. Dinomyco is the result of 30 years of research and trials at the Volcani
Agriculture Research Institute in Israel.
It has also been vigorously trialed by cannabis and food growers across the U.S.
Dinomyco is now available at grow shops and on Amazon in the United States.
I love using Dinomyco to both speed up the growth of the mycelium networks in the soil,
but also as a biostimulant to make clone cuttings more virile.
You can see side by side showing the comparative growth on their Instagram at Dinomyco.
If you demand reliable growing results and appreciate the importance of an active root
zone in creating a thriving plant, I encourage you to check out Dinomyco.com and use the
store locator to find out where you can get yours.
That's D-Y-N-O-M-Y-C-O dot com.
Shaping Fire listeners can get 10% off any size of Dinomyco on Amazon or
Dinomyco.com by using the discount code Shaping Fire, one word, no caps.
Whether you are starting with new beds or pots, or if you want to add some zing to tired
soil, choose Dinomyco to maximize your plant's potential.
Dinomyco Endomycorrhizal Inoculant.
A fully functioning greenhouse grows extraordinary cannabis flowers that have exceptional
bag appeal, great terpene profiles and exceptional yield.
But as we have discussed many times on Shaping Fire, a greenhouse is only as good as the
environment you create for the plants inside.
BioTherm has been on the forefront of developing and installing highly efficient greenhouse
solutions since 1980.
Whether new construction, major upgrades or a retrofit, BioTherm's cultivation climate
solutions are tailored to each grower's specifications.
They even have root zone heating mats that attach to a home hot water heater for growing
areas 500 square feet or smaller.
The atmosphere of the growing environment directly affects the health and productivity of
your crop. BioTherm offers heating, cooling, dehumidification and CO2 enrichment to
optimize the air your plants breathe and optimize plant growth by enhancing the elements
within the cultivation space.
BioTherm's dissolved oxygen irrigation solutions will improve the vitality of your water
and the efficiency of your hydro delivery system.
When you implement BioTherm's systemic innovation, you'll experience increased yields,
improved plant vigor and increased resistance to disease and pests.
BioTherm offers free phone and email support for everything they sell and will help you
troubleshoot and diagnose issues to get your equipment back online.
The explosion of greenhouse cultivation has crowded the field with novice consultants
selling unproven gadgets.
When you choose BioTherm to regulate your greenhouse environment, you know you're relying
on their over 40 years of experience designing, installing and supporting mission critical
greenhouse technology.
Your plants deserve nothing less than BioTherm.
Visit BioThermSolutions.com today to learn more and request a quote.
Once you've discovered the benefits of using cannabis, it's a very small step to start
making your own edibles, gummies, lotions, tinctures and concentrated oils at home.
Magical Butter has been helping cannabis consumers become self-sufficient for over a
decade. With the easy to use Magical Butter countertop botanical extractor, you can
create high quality cannabis products to your exact specifications at a fraction of the
cost of store bought edibles.
I talk a lot on this show about the importance of home growing so you don't have to rely
on others to feel healthy.
Well, the Magical Butter machine can empower your personal health by putting you in
control of how you use cannabis in your daily life.
I've been making my own butters and oils on the stove for years and I much prefer the
ease of using the Magical Butter machine.
I just set it and walk away.
With the simple touch of a button, the Magical Butter machine grinds, heats, stirs and
steeps your herbal extract all at the correct time interval and temperature for the
perfect infusion every time.
As a result, you achieve your desired infusion easily, safely and consistently.
Check out the Magical Butter Instagram to see the machine in action and don't feel like
you have to go it alone.
There is a huge community on Facebook called Magical Butter Users United sharing
recipes and best practices so you can learn at your own pace from others who are already
doing it successfully.
Now is the time to get your own Magical Butter machine and save money while enjoying
cannabis. Use the discount code Shaping Fire, one word, no caps, to get 10% off.
Visit MagicalButter.com today.
Welcome back. You are listening to Shaping Fire.
I am your host, Shango Lowe.
And my guest today is Jeff Loewenfels.
So before the break, we were talking more generally about bacteria as an organism, as
something that we interact with every day in our lives, but almost never think about,
unless we get sick.
And then we started bringing that home to the cannabis plant itself, kind of like at the
beginning of this cycle that we're going to be talking about this entire set, the
rhizophagy cycle.
And I see this cycle as starting with the seed, as far as like the plant's living cycle
goes. It starts with the seed because when we germinate the seed, it brings along with it
the essential bacteria that it's going to need to grow, which is like totally cool and
amazing in and of itself, but also, you know, really useful to know as a grower.
So, you know, I kind of want to back into this topic, Jeff, because, you know, usually in
an interview, I'd ask successive small questions to paint a bigger picture, slowly making
the picture bigger. But we're going to discuss the rhizophagy cycle.
And I really think that before we talk about the details of, you know, the roots and the
uptake and all this stuff in specific, we really should grok what the rhizophagy cycle is
itself in total before we go into the details.
So I want to do something for the first time.
I'd like to read a paragraph from your book, just a couple of sentences, and then I'll hand
the mic to you to meticulously walk us through it in more detail.
All right. But this like whatever it is, four sentences in your book, right, just nailed it so
well for me after I read all the details that I'm like, oh, this is beautiful.
So here it is, friends.
Under the new model of the soil food web, plants still farm the soil, but they maintain
flocks of bacteria, too.
These are rounded up and corralled just inside the root meristem cell walls.
There, the bacterial walls are shorn off and absorbed by the plant as nutrients.
In response, the bacteria produce nitric oxide to protect themselves.
This is a further boon, supplying the plant with nitrogen.
Then the plant causes the bacteria to multiply.
Finally, the plant grows a root hair and puts the flock of bacteria back out to pasture to
get ready for the next season's shearing.
So this example, or end of quote.
So this example that you give of bacteria being like sheep really simplifies it to the
point that I understand that the bacteria are going to enter the plant through the roots
and then be put back out to pasture through the roots as well.
And this is wonderfully oversimplified, but I think that having that out in everybody's
ears first will help them listen and make more sense about where you're about to go.
So I am sure that you have a way to explain this as a beautiful package.
So at this point, I'm going to hand you the mic.
I know this is going to be a pretty long answer to the question, but why don't you just walk
us through the Rhizophagy cycle in its main framework, and then when you get to the end
of it, we'll move on to the more specific questions.
Sure.
Okay.
Well, let's start with our model of the soil food web.
The plant takes its photosynthetic energy and it uses quite a bit of it, 50% or so,
to produce exudates that drip out into the soil that attract bacteria, fungi.
The bacteria and fungi, as we know, attract protozoa and nematodes who eat the bacteria
and fungi, poop out the excess, and all of that excess is in plant usable form, and it
then diffuses into the plant.
I call that the diffusion model of the soil food web.
It's the wonderful research and work that's done by Dr. Elaine Ingham and others that's
given us the concept of the soil food web.
Well, along comes Dr. James White and this terrific woman in Australia who made the discovery
of Rhizophagy, and they discovered that some of these bacteria that are congregating right
there in the rhizosphere, they're living in there right at the root tip there, right,
as you say, in that little sloughed off area where the sloughed off cells are coming out
of the root tip as it grows.
All of a sudden, some of them smell this butyric acid, buttery smell, and they back up against
the cell wall, I mean, the root wall, right there in the meristem of the root.
These brand new cells that are being formed, they have very thin cell walls.
They aren't differentiated in any way, and there are a colony of bacteria sitting right
there against the cell wall of these root cells, and some of them produce ethylene,
not some of them, they all produce ethylene, which they make using one of the exudates,
arginine.
So the plant produces this arginine.
It allows these bacteria to produce ethylene, and this ethylene enables them to push through
that thin cell wall in the meristem and enter into the space between the cell wall, the plant
cell wall in the root, and the actual membrane that we talk about, you know, that has the little
channels that nutrients go through, etc.
So there's a little space between that membrane and the cell wall called a periplasmic space,
and in go these bacterium, and they become bacteria inside, and as they go in, they have
this ethylene, which causes the wall to open up.
The ethylene triggers the plant to try to defend itself, and the plant does that by spraying
something called NADPH.
I won't give you the scientific word for it, but it sprays superoxide, oxygen, superoxide
onto the bacteria as they enter, and that superoxide strips off the cell wall of the bacteria,
and that is absorbed by the plant as nutrients.
Now, it strips them off, and the bacteria goes, wait a second, I got to protect myself
a little bit more, and so it produces nitric acid, and both the nitric acid and the ethylene
produced create chemical reactions that do two things.
One, it reduces the power of the superoxide, turns it into hydrogen peroxide, which is,
so it's been anti-oxidated, so to speak, and two, it causes the plant to provide a little bit more
carbon to the bacteria, so you get this bacteria that's literally trapped inside that little
periplasmic space.
It's getting carbon from the plant, but it's producing ethylene and nitric acid, and that
nitric acid turns to nitrate, and it is also absorbed by the plant.
So the plant has now gotten the cell wall and nitrate out of the bacteria that's in this
periplasmic space.
Now, inside this space, there's a current, so you have a circular current inside the
cytoplasm, inside the membrane, and inside this periplasmic space, you also have a circular
current, and these bacterium, now bacteria, without cell walls are moved in a circle in
this periplasmic space, and as they move, the agitation and the fact that they've been in
there for more than 20 minutes causes them to reproduce.
So they're L-forms, they don't have cell walls, and they reproduce, and they form quads and
ceteplets of bacterium, wall-ish bacterium, that are circulated around the cell, and they
are producing ethylene the whole time they're doing it.
This ethylene is causing the plant, again, to provide a little teeny bit of carbon, but
it also causes the plant cell to grow, to elongate, and after a couple of days, literally,
these things are feeding the plant, producing that nitrogen, and they're moving around and
they're multiplying, they congregate, their numbers get so large that they begin to congregate
up against the cell wall.
They get caught in a little rough spot, and as they produce ethylene in that group, that
ethylene causes a tube to form off of the root.
You and I know that tube to be a root hair.
Root hairs aren't separate cells that attach to the root.
They're a tube that forms from the cell that is in the root.
You've got this tube that forms, and the bacterium, now bacteria, that are producing
ethylene move into that new tube.
More and more accumulate, more ethylene is produced, there's that cycling that goes
around, and all of a sudden, a little tidal wave of periplasmic stuff, gel, gets pushed
into that little tube, that little forming root hair, and it pushes the bacterium out
of the tip of that root hair into the soil, where they, coincidentally, grow back their
cell wall, and then several days later, repeat the trip through a new meristem cell.
Now, that little explosion through that root hair doesn't occur just once.
There can be three, four, five different explosions as that root hair grows.
Now, you and I have been taught that root hairs are there for absorbing nutrients, which
they do.
They increase the surface area, what, 30% or so of the root, but they're really there
to be a jectile structures to put these naked bacterium L-forms back into the soil, so that
they can pick up more arginine, pick up more other exudates, put their cell walls back
in, and go back in again and feed the plant.
So they're trapped in there, providing nutrients, getting nutrients, and then they're back
in the soil, fixing themselves up, and they go back in again, where their wool is sheared,
and then they're put back out into the pasture, so that they can regrow their wool, and come
back in again and be sheared again.
Wow!
What a system!
It's totally mind-blowing.
It is mind-blowing, and it makes you wonder, so are the bacteria in the rhizosphere, let's
call them, are they there because of Dr. Elaine's concept, which is of course the
truth, or are they there because of Dr. White's concept?
Were they there first for the rhizophage, or were they there first for the diffusion
model?
We don't know, it's sort of like a chicken and egg thing, but it's fascinating.
The same bacteria.
Wow!
And why would a bacteria want to-
It could be redundant systems, because nature does that often.
Yes, that's exactly right.
Now, it makes sense that the bacteria would want to be inside the root, because once they're
inside their root, they have less competition, they have no predators, they're being fed
some carbon by the plant internally, and nobody else is eating that carbon.
So there's reasons why, and they're multiplying like crazy, and what is life here for?
It's to multiply and propagate, and that's what they're doing inside that root.
The philosophical question about which came first is a fascinating one, but what happens
in there is just absolutely unbelievable, and the photographs, folks, that are in the
book that show these individual bacteria, and then show them as protoplasts or L-forms,
and then show them as quads, they're, oh my gosh, unbelievable, and they only get
better.
They only get better.
Now, I should say, because it's not necessarily in the book, and I don't know whether you
want to get into it right now, but from a cannabis growing perspective, the question
I wrote in the book at the time was, are trichomes simply root hairs that are formed on the leaf
in the phyllosphere?
And a lot of research has been done in the two years since the book was written and went
through the publishing process, and it now appears that there's sort of a similar thing
happening with these bacteria in trichomes.
They're cause, in a sense, part of the formation because they have ethylene, but it appears
that what's happening is there are bacteria inside these trichomes that are being bombarded
by superoxide and then are going through the antioxidant situation that they went through
in rhizophagy and are nullifying the superoxidant by producing nitrogen inside the trichome,
but also producing all sorts of metabolites, flavonoids, cannabinoids, etc., so that there's
a direct relationship between the rhizophagy and what is being called endosymbiosis in the
phyllosphere and inside the trichome.
So there's definitely something going on here with these bacteria that we were not aware of
that we could guess at that Dr. James White and some of his students are now coming closer to
getting the answers for, and I dare suspect that once cannabis is fully legalized so that we can
study it in a truly scientific method, we're going to find out an awful lot about how these bacteria
influences the trichomes, and I'm going to have to do a revised edition.
It really is amazing that we humans are so cocky thinking we know so much, and yet we didn't even
know that the rhizophagy cycle even existed until 2008. It's like there's so much more
research we have to do about our planet, and hopefully we won't kill it first.
You know, and it's interesting, I think it was actually 2010, I sent a copy of the book
to the woman in Australia who made the discovery, and she since sort of moved on apparently because
of funding, etc., etc., but she was stunned and thrilled that somebody's really glommed
onto this because it's so important. Do you recall her name? So we can name check her
and give her the respect? Yeah, but I can't pronounce it,
so I'm going to open the book up and give it to you, but I just cannot pronounce it,
and it just makes me so angry. I have to find it, it's going to take me a minute here, but
go ahead and ask me another thing. Here it is, it's Shanaeret Pungafoglu Lundheim.
Wow, that is a mouthful, and you know, it's hard to walk that line, right? We want to give
respect to the scientists, but also if their names are in languages we're unfamiliar with,
we also don't want to do the disrespect of butchering the name. So I'm sorry I put you
in that position, I get where you were coming from.
No, no, no, but it gave me an opportunity to once again point out, this is not me, folks,
I did not make these discoveries, Dr. Elaine Ingram and Dr. James White, they are the gurus,
not me. All I did was parrot what they've taught me, so yeah, I'm glad you did that.
Right on. Okay, so thank you for going through the entire cycle so that as we go through these
next few questions, people already have the big picture and now we're just going to kind of poke
at it. One of my favorite parts of this cycle are exudates, something that I have found fascinating
ever since I started getting involved with learning about the soil food web. Generally,
cannabis cultivators understand that the exudates are selective nutrition that the plant uses to
feed the microbes and other allies that come out of the roots and the hairs into the rhizosphere
during the dark cycle. During the light cycle, the plant photosynthesizes and the rhizosphere
feeds the plant, but then during the dark cycle, the plant rewards the rhizosphere with exudates.
But few folks, including me, have a real understanding what these exudates specifically
contain and how the selectiveness part of the plant functions. You've already said that
the plant uses the exudates to attract particular members of the rhizosphere, including bacteria.
And so, will you kind of like break that out for us because this is an incredible mechanism?
Well, the plant uses that photosynthetic energy to make everything that's inside the plant.
And it's always a surprise to people to realize that they would waste, so to speak, by exudating
these things. And so, they can adjust that exudate to attract what they need. If they
need more bacteria, it's one thing. If they need more protozoa, it's another thing. But in this
particular instance, there's one part of the exudate, this arginine that we talked about,
that really is so important to the cycle. And if the plant wasn't producing it, the cycle would
occur. So, it just points out how important individual exudates can be. Now, we know that
some of these exudates attract fungi. Some of them attract yeast, which is a fungi. Some of
them act as sitophores. They go out and they lock up various things. So, for example, there are
things that you don't want inside a plant. And the plant has the capability of putting out an exudate
that can glom around those particular metals, for example, and prevent them from going inside the
plant. And bacteria have the capability of doing that as well. And they're sort of trading around
with this stuff. So, these exudates are incredibly important. And they have everything in the world
to do with not only the attraction of these microbes, but the beginning of soil structure.
Because once you attract these microbes, they create the soil structure. The bacteria with
slime, the fungi by tying together individual particles of soil. So, it's just an unbelievably
crucial thing. And we exudate, as we've talked before, our sweat is exudate. It attracts bacteria
and fungi to our skin. And if dial soap worked the way that it's supposed to work, we'd be dead in 24
hours because that stuff acts as a protective to us. So, it's key stuff.
I want to focus in on one aspect of nitrogen that you mentioned during the cycle. You made
this very interesting comparison between the traditional soil food web, Elaine Ingham diffusion
idea where our plant is growing and it absorbs nitrogen through the roots to feed itself.
And then the other example on this bacteria-focused rhizophagy cycle where the cell is brought into
the plant via the hairs. It is then stripped of its cell membrane.
No, no, not via the hairs. They come in through the meristem in the root tip.
Ah, thank you. So, then they find their way in, they're stripped of their cell walls, and then
they start to produce nitrates as a defense because they're all like, my cell wall is gone,
I'm naked. Quick, let's produce this defending nitrate, which is-
Well, yes, nitric acid.
Nitric acid.
Which then turns into nitrate as a result of some of the superoxide that the plant is spraying on
them.
Excellent. Thank you. So, here's the question. The question is,
these are both different ways that the plant gets nitrogen. Do you think that one is preferable to
than another, or do we find that both are important because they're going to be doing
different things in the plant, and perhaps it's just nature's redundancy to make sure things stay
alive?
Well, I think both are important. Obviously, there's going to be a lot more research to
determine, but so far, there have been studies that show about 30, maybe 40% of the nitrogen
in a plant can come from rhizophage. So, obviously, that's a pretty significant number.
But something else happens. When that NAPDH sprays this superoxide onto the bacteria,
it has to make sure that it's not killing its own cell wall at the same time.
And so, what happens is the plant cell becomes a little bit more resistant, a little bit
better able to handle stress as a result of that superoxide ROS being sprayed, and it strengthens
the plant. And so, the plant is better able to handle various stresses as a result of having
gone through this process. We haven't even talked about the fact that a lot of these bacteria,
these endophytic bacteria that enter the root and then move into the plant, produce these
phytohormones like gibberellic acid, ethylene, that cause the plant to have different reactions
to different things. And so, they help the plant as well. It's just incredible what these
bacteria do.
This is probably a good place to plug the book again, because by listening to this interview
today, you are not replacing the book. I mean, there are four chapters that I don't even pull
questions from. So, if you are hearing our conversation today, and you're getting fired
up by some of the new ideas that you're having, for goodness sakes, go get the book. Because as
much as I try to capture everything in this interview, we're never going to do in an hour
and a half what's in this entire book. So, let's talk about... Let's see, where was I?
Oh, yeah. So, one of the insights that I found especially stirring was your statement that
through cultivators using methods like natural farming and Korean natural farming techniques
specifically, that we can use valuable photosynthetic energy to biosynthesize exudates feeding the plant
as much as I am helping the plant... I'm sorry, to attract bacteria and fungi to the root zone.
Sorry, I skipped a line in my reading. So, the point I'm trying to make is that
you're suggesting that the natural farming and KNF that we do is really less about feeding the
plant directly, but it's really about helping the plant bait the hook to lure and attract the food
its needs. Which brings us back to the idea again, that I'm not actually the one who's feeding the
plant. I am the one that's feeding the soil. And my partner in this is the plant. And through
KNF and natural farming, we're actually helping the plant bait the attractants. That's huge.
Right. Yeah, you're filling up the refrigerator and the plant doing that. Yeah. And I think I
try to make the point in the book that we can call it KNF, we can call it regenerative farming,
we can call it whatever. It's all soil food web. And that's where it comes from. It's making sure
that the soil food web can operate to its fullest extent with the maximum amount of efficiency,
so that everybody's happy, including you, the individual that's taking care of the plants.
That's regenerative. That is. It closes all the cycles and we are fully interacting with our
crops and with the earth. So, these root hairs, these tubes at the end of the roots, where we are
kind of flushing the bacteria back out for it to regenerate itself and then to come back so that we
can shear it and use it to produce nitrates again. That cycle is clearly important. And as a
cultivator, I want to know what I can do to encourage root hair growth.
Well, obviously, you want to make sure that you're not disturbing any of the bacteria
in your system, because that's what's causing the roots, hairs to grow. We want to be able to
ultimately add in the right kinds of bacteria. Do we know, for example, with cannabis, which ones
they are? We have some ideas, but are you and I able to identify them? No. So, we have to figure
out a system to be able to do that. And I think that's all coming. I see a time, five years from
now or 10 years from now, where we're going to be able to take a soil sample and be able to analyze
it with our cell phone. And it'll tell us what's in it. Right now, you can determine what kind of
bacteria DNA you've got by sending in samples and having an expensive system done. But we're
going to end up with a 23andMe system, I think, where we can find out exactly what's going on.
And it's so exciting that we're getting there. Now we know that there's a need for it. So,
certainly, there will be a development that gets it. The databases are already there. We've got
databases of all the known bacteria. And so, we ought to be able to hook up what we've got. So,
it's coming. But there are certain things that we do know. So, for example, we know that the
bacterial mix in vermicompost is different than the bacterial mix in thermal compost.
And it may turn out that using thermal compost is better than using vermicompost because it has
the right mix of bacteria in it to be able to feed the kind of plant that we want. One of the
things we haven't talked about is that these plants are pretty specific. Why would a plant
allow a bacteria to get into its root cells? Well, it does so if it's the right bacteria and
it knows it's not going to harm it. And so, the plants are pretty selective about which bacteria
they'll let in and which ones they won't. And it turns out that some bacteria go into a particular
kind of grass. I don't mean cannabis, but a particular kind of grass. And the grass thrives.
That same bacteria goes into a different kind of grass and that grass dies. So, it's very specific.
And the evolution has determined which bacteria can go into which plants. And we need to nail
that down. And we will. It's all coming along. Just in the time that this book has been going
through the publishing process, as noted, our whole concept of what goes on inside trichomes has
changed. Dr. James White and his students have discovered some of these bacteria inside cells,
inside nucleus. Huh. What are they doing there? They're on the nuclear pore.
Are they providing something for the nuclear pore? Are they taking sugars from the nucleus?
What's going on there? So, there's lots of neat stuff that's going to be investigated. We're
going to get better and better and better at this stuff. Excellent. So, I want to take a side quest
with you at this point. We've already recommended at the top of the show that people check out
Teeming with Fungi, one of your earlier books, if they have not. It's a cannabis cultivation
classic, but it's actually enjoyed by gardeners of every kind of plant. So, I recommend people
read that. But I would like you to tie us to that book. I would like you to make the linkage between
the rhizophagy cycle and the mycelium network. Because mostly, we've really been talking about
just the bacteria at this time. But I know that there are handoffs back and forth between the
bacteria and the mycelium network. And that's fleshed out also in Teeming with Fungi, I believe.
But I'd like to have you kind of tie that in at this point. Right. Well, none of these microbes
operate alone. The soil food web is a web, not a soil food microbe. And so, everything's operating
together. And what we've discovered is that, first of all, the mycorrhizal fungi go into the
plant. They don't invade the cell usually, but they're in between the cell and then an
invagination occurs. But they're in between the cells and they're providing nutrients to the plant
in return for those exudates in sort of a similar way that's happening to the bacterium. Although
the bacteria isn't connected to the soil anymore, it's providing nutrients that may have come from
the soil but then contained inside their body. But they operate in conjunction. So, for example,
along the mycorrhizal mycelium, you will find plant growth promoting bacteria that sometimes
act as rhizophagy bacteria, but sometimes they just help out getting phosphorus, for example,
and giving it to the fungi so that the fungi can give it to the plant. And they work together.
By the same token, there are some fungi that are not healthy for the plant. And some of these
bacteria can jump out of the root and kill the fungi and jump back into the root again. So,
there's this intricate relationship that goes on. But the plant growth promoting bacteria,
which are in some products that we can already buy, I'm trying to, you know, unfortunately,
the damp, I can see, mammoth, you know, it's, you know, those kinds of products,
they operate using the bacteria and the fungi, I think. And so, they operate together and they
work together. So, you know, we've talked before about how overfeeding a plant can make your
plant's roots and mycelium network lazy. And from thinking about this bacterial cycle, this
rhizophagy cycle, and all of the elegant work that is being done, and how very specific that
the nutrients are that the plant is farming and gathering for itself, I'm convinced even more of
not overfeeding our pot. Because if we're just making all of these kind of like,
loosey-goosey nutrients that we tend to add that are not as specific as the plant is specific,
that, you know, having all of this nutrition floating around is going to be, there's a
likelihood that I'm either going to interrupt or screw up the rhizophagy cycle, or that I'm going
to add enough food that suddenly the mycelium network is not reaching out to the distant parts
of the container or of the soil in order to get specific micronutrients, or that I can, you know,
I might even injure the cycle. It seems to me that we need to be exceptionally careful to only feed
the plants as much food as they're going to need, or say, amend as much as we need, and return our
focus again and again to soil health versus dumping nutrition in. Right. Yeah, there's no question
that there are studies, lots of them that show that the chemical nitrogen when it's applied as
a fertilizer reduces, you know, the rhizophagy, symbiosis, you know, nitrogen fixation,
because the plant doesn't have to waste the exudates. That's the reason I give, anyway,
little theological thinking, but, you know, the plant doesn't have to waste its photosynthetic
energy doing this other stuff if it's getting it for free. And it's very clear with cannabis studies
that plants that are given artificial chemical nitrogen, they don't do the internal stuff the way
a natural plant does. And again, since we know the bacteria influence the terpenoid flavonoids,
you know, these secondary metabolites and stuff that are in the trichome,
you know, if you're growing cannabis, you want those trichomes, you know why you want those
trichomes to have the maximum amount of production in them as possible. And, you know, there is a
model again, we don't call it rhizophagy, we call I think we call it endosymbiosis, or symbiosis,
yeah, endosymbiosis, that involves the trichome. And so the predictions that were in the book have
actually come true. So we're approaching 40 minutes, so we're almost ready to take a break.
But, you know, I've already said there's no way that we're going to cover everything in the cycle
today, right? But I know that you are particularly excited to talk about particular aspects of the
cycle. So I want to kind of give you this open question. Since in set three, we're going to be
talking about application of what we've learned in set one and two. Are there particular parts
of the cycle that I have not focused on with my question for you, that you're all like,
I really want to talk about this, because now would be the time for you to say,
I really want to talk about this. Yeah, I think the endophytes that go into the plant
that are not involved in the rhizophagy cycle, you know, are very, very important. And these
are also taken up from the soil food web, a conglomeration of bacteria that are there in
the rhizosphere. And they get into the plant through little cracks that form as branches of
roots are forming. There's always a little cracks where these guys can get in, and they sneak in
through wounds. You know, and I suppose some of them, I don't know, I don't think they come
from the rhizophagy cycle itself, but they get into the plant, some of them get into the stomata,
and they can travel around throughout the plant. And they impart all of these terrific,
terrific things to them. So they can stimulate growth, because they can produce
auxins, they can produce cytokines, they can produce ethylene and gibberellins and jasmonic
acids, you know, all of the things that cause plants to grow, to form their flowers, to drop
their flowers for their fruits to ripen. These are all bacterially produced. And, you know,
we've learned an awful lot about them. And now we're beginning to figure out how to be able to
supply either the phytohormones that they produce, for example, with regard to gibberellins,
we can now produce gibberellic acid, you can spray your plant with gibberellic acid,
you don't need the bacteria that create the gibberellins. You know, so we're learning all
of these things, and we're beginning to apply them to different plants, including cannabis.
And so these endophytes are incredibly important in terms of enabling the plant to operate as a
plant, produce flowers, drop flowers, etc, etc. To increase their stress tolerances,
to outcompete plants that don't have them, to change the temperatures which they're able to
operate in. I got a picture, I think in the book of an area in Houston, Texas,
lawns, and all the lawns are covered with snow except for one of them, because those grass
plants must have an endophyte in it that's changed the freezing point of the water.
You know, there's some really phenomenal stuff that goes on. And we're learning so much about
this stuff. And there's no question in my mind of all the books that I've ever written,
this is the one that's going to need a revised edition at some point.
So these endophytes that you're talking about, it sounds like they, since they're not part of the
rhizophagy cycle, they're really just making a one-way trip. They join the plant, and then
they stay in the plant, right? They're never being re-released back into the rhizosphere.
Well, some of them, they go into the seed. So, you know, they're in the flower,
and the next thing you know, they go back into the seed. And so, yeah, it's pretty amazing.
The idea that the bacteria are such opportunists, and they get into the plant where doors are left
open and cracks in the root and, you know, wounds and all these different places, you know, it's
interesting because on one hand, you're talking about these like beneficial endophytes, which we
want in the plant. But this is also the same place that like pathogenic bacteria would get into the
plant as well. And, you know, because I want to avoid the negative bacterias, it's got me thinking
in whole new ways about, for example, staking plants near the rhizosphere, right? Because,
you know, there are certainly cages on the outside area, which are, you know, best for supporting a
plant. But a lot of people are, you know, put the stake in alongside the plant and then in some way
bind the plant to the stake. But that means that the stake is going into the root zone and probably
ripping all sorts of root and root hairs along the way and actually causing trauma to the root zone
that is pretty much inviting bacteria of all forms. And it seems to me like we are rolling
the dice when we do that. Well, it could be. And, you know, some of those stakes, like,
you know, those tomato stakes, they got a little green stuff on it. Is that there to kill bacteria
and fungus and keep it, you know, so, yeah, I mean, I think you got to be very, very careful
and experiment. I think you got to experiment. It may very well be that if you dip that
stake into compost, let it sit there for a week or so, it absorbs the right kind of bacteria that
are in the compost that might help your plant. So we got a lot of research to do here.
Right. That's a great idea. I think I might just do that just as a preventative at this point.
Right. So, all right, cool. So let's go ahead and take our second short break and be right back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire and my guest today is Jeff Lowenfels.
There are so many seed banks nowadays that you really have options in who to choose.
Not only that, if you pick the wrong seed bank, you could be in for a really sketchy ride.
And that's only one of the reasons I recommend HEMBRA Genetics Collection to my friends and
listeners who are looking for a seed bank. That's HEMBRA spelled H-E-M-B-R-A.
HEMBRA is not just another seed bank. HEMBRA is a woman-operated boutique cannabis genetics
provider that only sells thoughtfully curated seeds from the top names in cannabis breeding.
With over 50 breeders and over 500 strains to choose from, you will certainly find something
you'll love. HEMBRA Genetics has something for everyone with over 350 feminized strains,
200 regular varieties, and over 100 auto flowers to choose from. Names you know you can trust like
Humboldt Seed Company, Night Owl, Canerato, In-House Genetics, Fast Buds, and Gnome Automatics.
We both know that there are other seed banks who will take your money but have no customer service.
I invited HEMBRA to advertise on Shaping Fire after hearing so many good stories about them
from my friends. They have A-plus customer service with lightning fast response times.
In most cases, Helene and Caitlin will get your order out the same day you place it,
and you'll usually receive your seeds in just a few days.
Most seed banks are simply not this organized or interested in getting your seeds to you this fast,
but HEMBRA cares. You even get free seeds with every order.
Helene and Caitlin get it. They have been in the cannabis growing scene for over a decade.
So save a few bucks by using this discount code too. Use the code Shaping Fire, all one word,
at checkout to save 10% off your order. Buy seeds from good folks who will get you great
seeds reliably every time. Visit HEMBRAgenetics.com today. That's HEMBRA Genetics.
For decades, Americans have enjoyed cannabis flowers in joints and bongs and bowls.
And now, with the normalization of cannabis use increasing across the country,
we have the opportunity to enjoy smoking cannabis luxuries that simply were not attainable before.
North Coast hand rolls blunts, cannons, rosin-infused donuts, and canegars available
in the state of Michigan. North Coast focuses on flavor over everything else.
Instead of growing their own flower, North Coast goes out into the cultivation community
and creates relationships with the best growers working with the best new cannabis varieties
available. Surely, heavy THC is a factor, but North Coast focuses on aroma, complex terpene
profiles, and taste that continues throughout the entire smoking experience. The North Coast team
curates flowers like others curate art. They seek out the best talent, build relationships,
helps them take their product to the highest levels, and then buys their well-cured flowers
in order to hand roll them just for you. I really like their hand-blown glass tips.
And North Coast has branched out beyond canegars into rosin-solventless THCA diamonds
and exceptional hash rosin carts for on-the-go cannabis connoisseurs too.
North Coast provides you with attainable luxury, offering you an ultra-premium smoking experience
at a price that seems reasonable and repeatable. To find out more about North Coast's line of
cannabis products, visit their Instagram at NorthCoast.Rolling. That's NorthCoast.Rolling.
And when in Michigan, ask for North Coast at your favorite shop. North Coast.
There are a lot of good people launching new businesses in cannabis, psilocybin,
and other psychedelics. And it's a very strange time for us. In the same moment that psilocybin
mushrooms are illegal at the federal level, they are becoming increasingly legal in states across
the country. These businesses leading the way into the future of plant medicines require
specialized legal representation by attorneys who have depth not only in litigation,
mergers, and acquisitions, but also in psychedelic and other plant medicines.
Green Light Law Group has been empowering cannabis businesses since 2014, and as the market
has diversified into psilocybin and other plant medicines, Green Light has been right there,
evolving with their diverse clients to provide legal expertise with a high level of legal acumen,
creative strategy, and precision that comes with an intimate and specific understanding
of both business law and plant medicine. If you are a business owner trying to navigate the layered
local and national drug laws on your own, you are at risk of fumbling. These confusing and quickly
changing laws complicate everything. Green Light Law Group is ready to help you when hit with a
lawsuit, or because you were shafted by a vendor or business partner, or simply because you want to
stay legal and could use some preventative guidance before cultivating a controlled substance as an
entrepreneur. Green Light Law Group is a collection of folks who care profoundly about their work,
and I know this is true because I know the folks from Green Light. There is a huge difference
between a big legal firm who has decided to start representing a few drug companies,
versus working with a collection of high integrity, passionate lawyers who are
personally interested in new plant medicines and firmly believe in their power to heal.
Contact Green Light Law Group today and learn more about the services they can offer your
industry-leading cannabis or psychedelics company. That's Green Light Law Group at
greenlightlawgroup.com. Welcome back. You are listening to Shaping Fire. I'm your host,
Shango Lose, and my guest today is Jeff Loewenfels. During the first set, we learned a lot about
bacteria generally. Then during the second set, we got really specific about the rhizophagy cycle
and how the bacteria is interacting with the root zone of the plant, but also at the top of the
plant too, which is astonishing. This third set, we are going to focus more on how to use this
understanding that we're starting to get about bacteria to make our gardens more successful,
higher yielding, and resilient. I want to start, Jeff, with commercial fertilizers. Now, you
touched on it briefly earlier. I don't know if you have more to say about it, but I know that
you have mentioned to me time and time again that commercial fertilizers that are not just
straight up soil amendments, fertilizers that are super nutritive because of how they were made,
actually inhibit the rhizophagy cycle and generally make our plants kind of druggy,
salt dependent. I'd like to hear what you have to say about how commercial fertilizers
inhibit the rhizophagy cycle and what we should be avoiding.
Sure. Well, what happens when you put a commercial fertilizer into the rhizosphere
is you change the composition of that rhizosphere. Because there's salt, some of the microbes,
bacteria, are killed. The water drains out of them to dilute the salt, and the salt goes into them
in osmosis, and so they blow up. In other instances, there are microbes that literally will
go crazy for the chemical that you're synthetic that you've put down and will change the
composition or the ratio of the bacterium and other microbes in the area. That's not good either.
Remember, we want to let the plant be in control. The plant should be able to choose what it wants
and get as much of what it wants when it wants it. When you change the ratio, when you kill off
some of the things that are needed, the plant has to react in a way that either causes them to have
to reproduce the exudate in order to regenerate the microbe that it needs, or it just gives up,
or it just simply says, I can coast along on what I'm getting here. I don't need to do these other
things. It loses the benefits of having an endophyte causing stimulation, causing the plant
to be able to handle stress better, and all those kinds of things. You end up with a weaker plant.
Then you throw in the fact that you've started the path of destroying the structure of the soil.
We've only got 60 years left of soil using the current techniques. Every time we harvest and
rototill, we destroy the soil structure, and we are headed to big trouble. It's going to be the
next generation that's going to suffer that trouble. That's why all of these bacterial
situations, razorfage, endophytes, are, I think, the holy grail for the conversion of chemical
agriculture to the organic system that you and I know and love.
We talk primarily about natural farming and regenerative gardening techniques on this show,
but there's no doubt that we are going to attract some people who use
salt fertilizers for this episode because the information is so rare to get.
I'm going to ask you an impossible question and say, just give me a taste for those people.
For the people who are here to learn about bacteria, but they use salt fertilizers or
AB style fertilizers, or maybe they've got fields and they're using large branded commercial
fertilizers, what is the alternative? What are we trying to suggest that they use instead of that
stuff? Right. Well, of course, I've got a lot of stuff at the end of the book, individual bacterium
names I can't pronounce, so people need to take a look at that. There are some very distinct
kinds of things that we can put on our plants and in our soil. One of them with regard to
cannabis is used for wheat and other things as azospirillium. We can spray that on our plants
and we can water it down into our soil and it ends up helping the plant. You don't need to use
a chemical. You've got a living bacterium supplying the food that the plant needs.
A lot of cannabis growers are beginning to do experiments with azospirillium.
You have to adjust yourself. For example, you wouldn't want to use neem oil because wouldn't
the neem oil kill off whatever you're putting on your phyllosphere? Does neem oil maybe doesn't do
such great things for the bacterium in the rhizosphere? Now, there's a time when you need it
perhaps, but not all the time. I think we're going to have to just do lots and lots and lots of
experiments. If you're growing individual crops, there are now, and again, I list some of them in
the book, there are studies on individual endophytes or groups of endophytes that help
specific crops, trees, vegetables, tomatoes, et cetera, et cetera. We're beginning to get a feel
for the kinds of bacteria we can add to the soil and to these plants and make things work.
It makes me think about compost teas. For years and years and years, I've been using compost tea.
I know they work. I know compost teas work. I've done before and afters. I've done bad soil,
good soil, but a lot of time people don't get results with compost teas. That may be because
they've already got all the components that the compost tea supplies to a system that doesn't
have all the components. Therefore, they don't see any differences. It's all tied together and
there's going to be tremendous amounts of research. Whoa, to be able to go back to grad school and
study some of these questions, yeah. We talk about that often on the show,
about what a great time it is to be somebody in their late teens or early 20s and starting off
with these interests. Between the creeping normalization and the access to lab equipment
that we cannabis folks have now, we're about to enter the golden age of research.
There's also different qualities of compost tea, right? A lot of people, they're relying on their
compost tea, but then they put it on their microscope and it's nutrition, but no life.
Just because something is called compost tea, there is a difference between an
inert compost tea, a dead compost tea that's just full of nutrition, versus a compost tea that is
chock full of all these living bits. Just like you can have dead soil, which we generally call
dirt, right? There's dirt that's not bioactive. Then after you spend some time and you start
adding bacteria and mycelium and compost teas and fortify it properly, then you have living soil.
Composts are in that same way. I'm going to follow up with,
are there particular things that we can compost and make compost tea out of that will be
supportive of endophytic bacteria?
Well, compost is full of endophytes and so is vermicompost. I think the book talks a little
teeny bit about the differences. There are different sets in one versus the other. What
you put into your compost is going to end up with different stuff coming out of your compost,
as you can imagine. I dream about what if I was able to make a compost out of my cannabis plant
wastes and then use that on my cannabis? Doesn't that supply the right kinds of bacteria? I
suspect it does. I don't know for sure, but sure makes sense to me, doesn't it?
There are things that we can be looking at in terms of specificity. Again,
the research that's coming and the instrumentation that we're going to require in order to be able
to tell whether we're getting there. It's kind of important.
Oh, you mean like the technology so that we can measure this stuff?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I get it.
Exactly, exactly. I mean, we can measure it now and it just costs millions and millions of dollars.
It just costs a lot of money to send away a sample to get its DNA. It's getting cheaper and cheaper.
Now we're all in love with endophytic bacteria and we want to attract as much of it as we can
to our root zone by using natural farming techniques. Is it possible to apply endophytic
bacteria? Can we amend with endophytic bacteria?
Yes. Let me give you the easiest example, rhizobium, the nitrogen fixing bacteria that
form nodules. We apply that. Those bacteria, as a result of ethylene, I might add, end up inside
a little nodule in the plant. Those are endophytic bacteria. So yes, we're going to be able to supply
them like that. There is even a series of discussions about being able to supply endophytic
bacteria that can live in the plant, jump off the plant, and kill the weeds that are around the
plant and then jump back into the plant again. Whoa. Yeah. So all of these things are coming
and we just have to be able to identify better. Dr. James White could tell you, as can a handful
of scientists around the world, that if you apply XY bacteria to wheat, you end up with better wheat
or ZD bacteria to bananas, you end up with better bananas. The research simply hasn't been done on
the cannabis because of the laws that we face in the United States. About to change if my dear
classmate Chuck Schumer has his way. We're going to have good research on cannabis finally.
This is one of the biggest things they ought to be researching.
So how does the nitrogen fixing that we in cannabis cultivation do? Most people call it
cover crops, even though that word doesn't perfectly fit. But we grow something on the top
and then we chop it, we let it drop, maybe we cover it with some compost or some more soil
so that the plant itself is pulling nitrogen from the air and then putting it down to the
roots and then we kill the plant and then that makes the nitrogen available to other participants
in the container or in the soil if you're on a field. How does this sort of nitrogen fixing
play a role in this bacteria story? Well, we don't call it nitrogen fixing,
but that's what's going on with these rhizophagia bacteria. They're fixing nitrogen
and giving it to the plant. Same thing with the endosymbiosis in the phyllosphere. I mean,
those bacteria inside those trichomes are fixing nitrogen and giving it to the plant. Wow.
So what we really want to do is be able to introduce these kinds of nitrogen fixing bacteria
that don't necessarily form nodules into various kinds of plants. And Bayer and all those big guys
who we accuse of all sorts of terrible things because they do some terrible things,
they're studying all this stuff like crazy now. And I would predict at some point in time,
that's what they'll be selling. They'll be selling bacteria that can go into a plant or fungi that
can go into a plant. They already sell mycorrhizal fungi that can go into the plant and fix nitrogen.
Wow. Wouldn't that be incredible if you could grow a tomato plant or a cannabis plant without
adding any nitrogen because you've got enough fixation going on right there.
For those who haven't picked it up out of context yet, would you define phyllosphere, please?
Phyllosphere is the rhizosphere around the leaf. It's that area along the leaf surface
where there's microbes and dust and little things that are there. So we call it the rhizosphere
around the root, and it's the phyllosphere around leaves. And that's primarily where the bacteria
that finds its way into our seeds to start the next generation, that's where it comes from,
is the phyllosphere. So the seed is being formed in the flower and the bacteria that is in the
flower, which is, I'm sure there's some variety, but it's also the same bacteria that are in the
root zone. It's jumping into that seed, if you will, so that it is present when the seed is
germinated down the line. Yeah, both go into the seed. So you're capable of taking the soil
bacteria that become endophytes and go in, they can move through the flow. They can move around
inside the plant. And they do move around inside the plant. But yeah, so it's called vertical and
horizontal transfer. Yeah, so you definitely get some from the air. Is there anything that we can
do to attract more beneficial bacteria to the rhizosphere? Other than having a healthy plant,
you know, like some people, right? They want to dump molasses on everything, right?
I am probably more in a category that I use too much Korean natural farming preps. Like,
you know, if they say one to a thousand, I'm loving it at one at 250, right? And I know I
shouldn't be doing that, but it's really hard not to. So in that kind of dumb mindset, I asked this
question and perhaps there's a smart answer. Is there anything that we can top amend along the
stem of the plant that will find its way down to the root zone that will, you know, bring in more
beneficial bacteria? Yeah, again, an area where some great research has to be done, but using
soil from old growth cannabis and putting that down as a way of transferring the bacterium that
or bacteria that were produced on that previous plant is probably the way to go.
Right. So great, great reason to, you know, reuse last year's pots, keep your soil,
you know, the whole no-till vibe that, you know, we're strong proponents of here.
Yeah, exactly. But it goes one step even further. I mean, you could actually take some of that soil
and put it into a new pot as opposed to planting the seed in the old pot.
Right. You can use it as a top dress like you would compost.
Yeah. Yeah. Inoculant.
Yeah. Inoculant. Yeah, that's good too. All right. So let's flip that risk. All right. So we've been
talking about things to do to preserve the, or excuse me, to attract more bacteria. What are the
actions that we can take that will kill all the bacteria in the pot? I'm assuming like at the top
of the list is heat and water, but I don't know. So, so what are those variables?
Yeah. Oh, definitely heat. But even, even with regard to heat, a lot of these things will,
will form you know, into, into kind of words, endospores.
Endospores. They form endospores. They're able to withstand the heat,
which is how a lot of the bacterium that we like go through the composting process
and still survive. So, so, you know, you've got, you've got that situation going on.
I don't know the answer.
All right. Fair enough. So, so I'm going to ask you another question that you may not
have an answer. And it's a follow-up to the heat one though, right? So, so you know,
those of us who are in containers, our, our soil is at much more risk than people who are in the
ground, right? Because people who are in the actual ground, the roots can go deep where it's
cooler. They get the geothermal advantages. It's wonderful both during the summer and in the fall
when it starts to cool down and the roots are kept warmer. Right? So that's awesome. But, but lots of
us are in containers and on a day where it's like, you know, 95 to a hundred and a five, the,
the, the, the plant containers cook just sitting in the sun. And if we're in a greenhouse, that's
not supported with air conditioning, it might even be even hotter. Do you have an idea how much heat
it's going to take before the bacteria start to syst up? Because like, okay, they might be
able to survive the heat, but we don't want them to have to go through all of that hassle of, of
systing up and then, and then realizing it's safe again. And then, and then, and you know, like we're
slowing down our plant growth. So I'm curious on these days that, that it's, you know, 95 to 105
and our, and our, our containers are getting really hot. Am I wiping out my bacteria?
Uh, you know, it's interesting question. I, again, I don't know the real answer. It's,
you know, intuitively, it seems to me that some of them are multiplying.
Some of them are going into a dormant situation as a result of the heat. Um, and, uh, I, I wonder
whether the plant adjusts its exudates, et cetera, et cetera, in order to be able to try to, to fix
that situation. I don't know. Um, obviously the, the thing that controls how well a plant grows
temperature wise is the enzymatic activity inside the plant. And it's around, I think it's 76 to
79 degrees is ideal. Uh, and it has more to do with the enzymes, uh, produced. And some of those
enzymes are obviously produced by bacteria. So, so it's a good question. Again, I hate to give the
answer more research. Yeah. Well, that's fairly. And, and, and, and also you, we've been, we've
all been reading you for so long and you've done so much research, both on bacteria generally,
and also our favorite plant, the cannabis plant that if somebody is going to make an educated
guess, I'm comfortable with it being you, right? Because, you know, uh, I, I, I would be a lot more
suspicious of like generalized bro science that someone learned by, you know, from somebody who
taught them to grow. Cause I certainly know I got a bunch of bad information from my mentor,
even though I got a lot of great information too, you know, we're kind of at the point in,
in cannabis culture where we're trying to figure out which is which right.
So, so, so here's a similar question, slightly twisted. Um, so, so far we've talked about all
these things that we can do to encourage bacteria generally, but we know that there are beneficial
bacterias and then pathogenic bacterias. Are there things that we can do to keep bad bacteria from
invading to, to limit it somehow? You know, there must be, uh, which is why people keep sterile,
uh, you know, I say sterile, their greenhouse situation. They don't let any, you know,
any insects in the convector, bad bacteria, et cetera, uh, uh, on the plants. And you're very
careful and you know, you don't smoke inside the, the, you know, touch, uh, tobacco, that kind of
stuff, you know, it's S so you can clearly spread these bacteria around, no question about it.
And, and you probably have to be very, very careful. Not you don't probably, you have to
be careful not to bring in a bad, a bad bacterium, you know, that might cause some kind of a, you
know, a mildew, et cetera, et cetera. Although those are usually fungus. Um, so it is possible
to, you know, cause some real serious problems. Fortunately, I don't think it happens that often
stamping off. It sounds like we doubt. So this is yet another reason to keep a clean, um,
a clean growing environment, right? Cleaning your tools, cleaning the floor, you know,
not taking things off the floor, putting it in your pot, things like that as well, because
we don't want to upset the balance between the beneficial bacteria and the pathogenic bacteria.
Right. And even, even things like, you know, I talk a little bit about it in the book,
it's sort of counterintuitive when you harvest your plants for seeds, as opposed to harvesting
it for, uh, you know, the cannabis content, uh, you know, how do those seeds normally grow? We,
you know, we tend to take those seeds right away. Do we let the plant fall to the ground,
you know, and, you know, prepare the seed even more for growth, et cetera. You know,
it's something to be thinking about because there's bacteria everywhere and they're so
important. Uh, so I, you know, I like the idea of letting my, letting my plants mature to the point
where the, the flowers fall off and the seeds get a little dirty in the soil and, you know,
they pick up a little bit more bacteria, et cetera, et cetera. It's kind of an interesting
stuff. And, and, and it's, it's thinking of the seeds, by the way, we did, we talk about the,
cause you mentioned the heat, you know, the idea that we dry our seeds out, we usually put seeds
in the jar. We put in this little packet that we got from an old film canister or, or a Boveda,
you know, to, to, to dry out the, uh, uh, you know, the, yeah, desiccant, you know, and we don't want
to do that. We want, we want those bacteria to live. They're living inside those, those seeds.
Now we don't want them to live to the point where they cause germination, uh, you know,
or where they multiply like crazy and cause things to go nuts inside the seed. Uh, but those seed
coats actually let in oxygen, a little bit of moisture. And so we don't want to let the seed
sit in hot and in, in dry, dry situations. Uh, well, I think it's like sort of picked up out of
the book. So where, where would you, yeah, well, that was headed there anyway. Uh, what,
how would you recommend storing them then? Uh, you know, most people keep them either in the
fridge or the freezer to, to kind of stall biological activity. Um, what are your thoughts?
Well, you know, I think the fridge is probably okay. Freezer, I don't know whether that's,
that's so good. And again, so again, you know, the ultimate answer is research. Um, uh, I just
keep mine in room temperature in a, in the container. That's not necessarily fully airtight.
Not necessarily fully airtight.
Or if I keep it, or if I keep it in something like a film can, you know,
an old film canister, uh, I don't use it to second.
Um, so as like, uh, I want to hit one, one, one thing that you just said about
having the seeds drop to the ground. Right. And, and, and, and I'm, I understand already
that you're probably going to say the answer is more research. So your, your, your thought
process through that is that, um, uh, when we are making seeds in sterile environments,
we might be missing out on some, um, you know, bacterial or fungal or some kind of protections
that come from the, the, the, the seeds falling either out of the flower or the plant collapsing
onto the ground and then interacting with the biology of the, of the top soil is,
I think that's where you were headed with it. And, and, and if we're, and if we're, you know,
if we're kind of stacking your estimated guesses right now, um, uh, uh, do you have ideas of what
those would be? Like, do you think they would be more bacterial or more fungal? Uh, like, well,
like what are you, you've researched both? What are your riff? What are you going to riff on?
I think they, I think they'd be both. I think they'd be both. Uh, you know, it's interesting.
Some of the, uh, some of the razzle fadgy, uh, microorganisms, in addition to bacteria are yeasts
was your fungi. Um, it's kind of interesting. Uh, they go through the same thing. And in fact,
they, they bleep, they, they bud as they reproduce. That's what happens to these L
forms. They bud like, like, like, uh, uh, fungi in the stuff. This there's so much stuff here.
It just drives me crazy. That word bleed, uh, is worth pointing out. It's it, and you didn't say
bleed. It's actually bleeding. And when I read it in the book, I'm like, well, that there's a,
there's a weird word. Yeah. There are a couple of good crossword words in this book. Uh, not to
mention all of the bacterium and, and, and, and I, I think I should mention just quickly that
there are these bacteria names are so hard to pronounce. Uh, there's so many different ones,
uh, you know, that I go out of my way to tell people don't memorize anything.
By the time you get to the end of the book, you get a little bit better familiarity.
The stuff is in the book. When you, when you need to look it up, you can go look it up
where we're headed. I think is a situation where we're going to have labels for products that we're
going to be able to buy that can contain various different kinds of bacteria. And hopefully you'll
be able to go to the index of the book and say, yeah, that's the one I want. Um, it's coming.
There's no question that's coming. I mean, you can buy as a perillium now. I mean, there's a
bunch of these things that I mentioned in the book that you can buy on a farmer level. You and I have
trouble finding them, but it's beginning to trickle down into this area. And as more and more
people, including farmers understand rizofagy more and more of this stuff will become available
and used in general farming and gardening and growing.
You mentioned this aside, uh, in the book, you said that, um, you're, you're talking about
fertilizers in general and you're, and you point out that phosphorus is no longer allowed in many
formulations. And then you say by, by NPK fertilizers question mark. So, so tell us a
little about that. I had not, I, I, since I don't use them, I didn't really, I wasn't aware.
Sure. Sure. Well, we're reaching feet, uh, peak phosphate, uh, phosphorus, uh, on this earth.
Uh, some people think we again, you know, 60, 70 years left. Um, and, and partly as a result of
that, partly as a result of the fact that phosphorus has caused so much pollution in
terms of our water systems and eutrophication, et cetera, et cetera. And partly because it's so
locked up in the soil so quickly that are many people's soil already contains phosphorus. You
can no longer buy lawn food. And I think almost every state with a middle number, it's not zero.
Wow. Uh, that you just can't buy. There's no phosphorus lawn food anymore. They've taken that
middle number out. Um, uh, it's for, for, for the reasons mentioned, it's a waste, uh, it's already
there, uh, and we're running out of it. So, so it's, it's fascinating. Now the end of end of
Phidic situation enhances. So some of these bacteria, as we noted before, are, are, are
phosphates, uh, solubilizing, uh, uh, uh, and encouraging, uh, the use of, uh, or the breakdown
of phosphate, bring them into the fungi, et cetera, et cetera. So we're going to get our
phosphates as a result of our fungi and our bacteria. So, so as far as like final thoughts
go, Jeff, you know, I w I was going to set you up here at the end, um, with what you actually
ended up opening the interview with about, um, teaching bacteria in schools and how they, they,
they taught, they teach so much about dinosaurs and yet we don't have those except for maybe
chickens and, uh, and yet, um, and yet, you know, bacteria is, is everywhere and, and kids don't
learn anything about it really. And so, um, I just wanted to know, I think I know that, uh, you
are having read the book and, and it really does capture your personality. I mean, there's so many,
so many jokes and puns and offhand things here and there. You can really tell that when you write a
book, you really embrace it and become it. And so, um, so, so to, to wrap up, I just want to hear,
you know, what your message is about the, the realization that the, um, um, uh, rise of
hashy cycle exists coming since 2008 and our new awareness of bacteria from, uh, from, uh, from
James White that like he's had, you know, having a hard time getting the message out. And yet
now here, your book is going to present bacteria in living soil and its role in the soil food web
in a way that's going to reach an entirely different audience as the other books in your
series have done. So, so why don't you, why don't you wrap us up with a summation here of your
thoughts and your vibes? Sure. Well, you know, this book was so much fun to write because it was
such new information to me. Uh, and, and, and I'm just a gardener. I mean, you know, I write these
books for gardeners, you and me and cannabis growers or gardeners, et cetera, et cetera.
And I just, the more I got into it, the more excited I got about it, partly because I don't
know anything about bacteria. You know, I didn't learn an awful lot. They're just too damn small
for people to study in high school. That's the thing. So, so when I came across a quote from a
song by a guy named Andy McKinnon, uh, McKinnon, uh, from Seattle, he, uh, I think he's from
Seattle. He's a Washington state native plant, uh, society member. Uh, it's sort of in capital
encapsulated everything for me. And lately I've been catching my wife going around singing this
little, this little, little ditty. Uh, and it goes, I feel it in my branches. I feel it in my
roots. Endophytes are in me from my flowers to my roots. And they are there everywhere.
And because they're small bacterium, there's billions of them everywhere. And they're doing
so much important work that we don't know about and can't see. Uh, but we can feel that it's
going on. Uh, and so it's really, really important that we as, as growers carry that feeling forward.
I mean, what, what I try to get people to do is pay attention to these unusual things that are
going on inside plants. These are not dumb, inanimate telephone poles sitting in the ground,
just because they can't walk and run and punch people in the face and do all this. It doesn't
mean that they're the stupid inanimate objects. They're fascinating. And they've learned to
cooperate with the microbes and the bacteria is one of, uh, you know, the, the main one that I'm
talking about, obviously in the book in a way that is so fascinating that it makes them
different entities. You know, there, you know, you shouldn't be looking at your plant for the flower
or for the leaf. Uh, you should be looking at your plant for the processes that go on,
that make that flower and make that leaf. That's what, that's what it's all about.
Not the end result that you can harvest. Thank you so much, Jeff, for returning to
Shaping Fire. I always have a great time whenever we talk, whether or not it's, you know, at a,
at a conference or, or somewhere where our paths cross or, or the times that we, you know, we
really focus and talk like this. Um, it's always such a joy. I had the smile on my face throughout,
you know, almost the entire time. And, um, and, and thank you for the role you played in translating
a lot of this heavy duty science into terms and stories and anecdotes that lay folk like me,
who are very interested, but don't have a hard science background, um, are able to enjoy it
ourselves so that we can use it, you know, for our gardens to, to grow medicine and for the
regenerative good of the planet. So thank you, my friend. Yeah, I certainly appreciate the opportunity.
We always have a great time. Uh, and I look forward to doing it again as people develop
more questions and as more and more information is discovered about these endophytic bacteria.
Fantastic. All right. So, um, if this is your first time learning of, uh, Jeff Lowenfels,
you are probably not following his Instagram yet, which is one of the best ways. Jeff doesn't have
like a huge online life, uh, but if you want to follow along, it is a good place to go. And Jeff's
Instagram is gardener, Jeff, really simple gardener, Jeff. Um, but more importantly, uh, now
perhaps you would like to read the book, which like I said, we're, we're really, you know, we kind
of hit it superficially yet lovingly in this, uh, you know, a little bit more than an hour and a half.
And if you want to get it, um, you can get it on Amazon now it is in a pre-release. So I guess
they're like pre-orders right now. Um, it actually comes out physically on September 27th and the,
the title of it is teaming with bacteria. And, um, and, and so you can just search that, but
sometimes it doesn't come up as quickly in the search box since it hasn't been released yet. So
there's also a direct link on the shaping fire website for this episode, uh, that's teaming with
bacteria. And while you're there, if you'd have not read them yet, um, go back and check out Jeff's
back catalog, um, originally, um, uh, teaming with microbes, then teaming with nutrients and then
teaming with fungi. You can find more episodes of the shaping fire podcast and subscribe to the
show at shaping fire.com and wherever you get your podcasts. If you enjoyed the show, we'd really
appreciate it. If you would leave a positive review of the podcast, wherever you download,
your view will help others find the show so they can enjoy it too. On the shaping fire website,
you can also subscribe to the newsletter for insights into the latest cannabis news,
exclusive videos, and giveaways on the shaping fire website. You also find transcripts of today's
podcast as well. Be sure to follow on Instagram for all original content, not found on the podcast.
That's at shaping fire and at shango Lowe's on Instagram. Be sure to check out the shaping fire
YouTube channel for exclusive interviews, farm tours, and cannabis lectures. Does your company
want to reach our national audience of cannabis enthusiasts? Email hotspot at shaping fire.com
to find out how thanks for listening to shaping fire. I've been your host shango Lowe's.
