My favorite kind of people are open-hearted, active learners. These are
people who generally are kind to others, try to not be a jerk, and are really
engaged with the world and learning new things. This is one of the reasons I fell
in love with the auto flower breeding community a few years back. This oft
maligned and ridiculed sub-genre of cannabis cultivation are some of my
favorite underdogs. In their early days, they were laughed and trolled right off
the popular message boards until they eventually formed their own. And
throughout the years of being hassled, they just kept sharing genetics and
best practices with each other, slowly doing the difficult grunt work on auto
flower genetics that will make all the future auto flower breeders look good.
Modern auto flowers are pretty much just starting now. There have been some
winners in the past, but now that Ruterolus has been tamed, now is the time
when talented growers will really start building up the library of auto flower
terpene profiles. If you've been listening to my show for a while, you
probably noticed that I got turned on to the power of auto flowers about two
years ago. I was attracted to auto flowers because they were a perfect
solution for me to recommend to cannabis patients who have weather not as perfect
for growing cannabis as California. From the Pacific Northwest where I live,
through the northern climates of the Midwest, and the short summer cold
Northeast, we all want to grow under the sunshine, but our summers don't stay hot
enough and our real summer weather rarely lasts to the middle of October
when we normally harvest. With an auto flower, you can start it outdoors the
last week in May and harvest it mid-September, fully ripe and packed with
terps and cannabinoids. Regular plants won't finish most places until at least
mid-October, if at all. Early October cold and rain makes for a lot of
disappointing growing seasons. With auto flowers, you are harvested, hung to dry,
and often in jars well before the rain starts. So when I discovered auto flowers
for myself, I dug in deeply to learn as much as I could and then programmed a
whole year of auto flower content in 2019. I had a few podcast episodes, put
together a half dozen live panels, and a pair of live events. I was even invited
to write a jacket endorsement for the new Jeff Lowenfeld's book on auto flowers
that came out that year. It was a lot of fun. Commercialization hasn't really
come to auto flowers yet. They still have a very mixed reputation and home
growing is still in its infancy in the US. But patients have adopted them and
they are remaking patient home growing, which is really cool to watch. So today's
show is an attempt to get the early days of auto flower history up to the present
on record from the perspective of a person who was present from the
beginning. This isn't a complete history because no one could do that and we
don't cover modern commercial hemp varieties like the work of Oregon CBD
and others. But at the end of the show today, you will have a really well
fleshed out understanding of the last 12 years of THC auto flowers being grown by
home cultivators and the basics of what breeding auto flowers is all about.
Have you used CBG dominant cannabis flower, tincture, or other preparations
in the last six months? Dr. Ethan Russo asked me to let you know that he and
others are conducting a study to determine the benefits and drawbacks to
cannabijerol and they would love your opinion. The questionnaire takes about 10
minutes and can be anonymous if you wish. The study is available at bit.ly
forward slash CBG study. That's bit.ly forward slash capital CBG small case
study. And the link is in the notes for this episode on shapingfire.com too.
Thanks for considering participating. If you want to learn about cannabis health,
business, and technique efficiently and with good cheer, I encourage you to
subscribe to our newsletter. We'll send you new podcast episodes as they come
out, delivered right to your inbox, along with commentary on a couple of the most
important news items from the week and videos too. Don't rely on social media to
let you know when a new episode is published. Sign up for the updates to
make sure you don't miss an episode. Also, we're giving away very cool prizes to
folks who are signed up to receive the newsletter. This month we are giving away
Farmer Fly Selections seed packs of Chetawizzy and Vashon Lime Tonic to four
different listeners who are subscribed to the updates. We did this contest last
month on Instagram and Farmer Fly had such a good experience that he suggested
we run it again just for the Shaping Fire newsletter subscribers. There's
nothing else you need to do to win except receive the newsletter, so go to
shapingfire.com to sign up for the newsletter this week and be entered into
this month's and all future newsletter prize drawings. And be sure to check out
Farmer Fly Selections on Instagram too. You are listening to Shaping Fire and
I'm your host, Shango Lose. My guest today is Dan Jimmy, more commonly known in the
underground as Full Duplex. Dan is founder and breeder at Mandalorian
Genetics, an award-winning and exceptionally well-respected line of
autoflower seeds. He is also co-founder of autoflower.net, the center of the
autoflower breeding and cultivation universe since 2010. Today we're going to
take you back to 2008 in the autoflower world and walk us back to the present.
Hey, welcome to the show, Dan. Hey, good morning, Shango. Thanks for having me.
I'm really glad that you made the time here during the holiday season. I've been
wanting to have this chat with you for a while and I'm glad we finally found
the time. So let's get going by starting talking about the legacy
autoflower cultivars that existed prior to 2010 because, you know, as we'll talk
later, 2010 seemed to be a real changing time but prior to 2010 it was kind of
crazy. Tell us about those early cultivars. So yeah, around 2009 and 2010
we started to see the emergence of autoflowering strains hit the market. I
can remember looking at seed banks like Attitude Seed Bank back in the day and
noticing these things were called autoflowers and that they were
light-cycle independent. The only bad thing about that was is they weren't
very potent and they didn't have a lot of terpene content and they just weren't
robust plants. Some smaller cultivars, quick and fast to grow, I think they were
they were definitely very early in their infancy at that stage. So when you say
not a lot of terpene profile, do you mean that there just wasn't a lot there at
all or just that it was unpleasant? I would say a combination of both, honestly.
You know, it smelled, the smell that was emitted from the flower wasn't like the
gas that we look for today or the other terpene profiles that, you know,
produce bakery smells or sweets and things of that nature, but it was just
the smoke was a little harsh because it was still, you know, early root
aralis. It hadn't had a lot of selection done to it, but what it did do was flower
in an obscenely quick time. So where did these root aralis genetics come from?
From my memory and being around back then watching them emerge, a majority of
this stuff was coming from the European market. Spain and other EU territories
where they had been working with them, you know, prior to 2010. Lowrider, I think
everybody remembers Lowrider II. There was, you know, Snowrider and Mossy's
Purple Gem. There was also a few other companies out there. I think Dynafem
had the Roadrunner Auto and very early on exploration of this plant.
It makes sense that the root aralis genetics would, you know, show up in Europe first
considering the plants originally came from Siberia and Russia. I mean, those are
those are, you know, so close as far as traffic routes go. I can see how those
seeds would, you know, easily be discovered in Russia then make their way
into, you know, Europe for people to start playing with then. You know, isn't it
odd to think about how these same cultivars, these pre-2010 cultivars, you
know, to one group of people who were like, you know, visionary breeders, they're
like, oh my god, this can change everything, you know, over the next, you
know, X amount of years. And then they're also the same cultivars that gave
autoflowers such a terrible reputation, right? Because even though autoflowers
have gotten so much better, there's still people who have that knee-jerk response
that, oh, autoflowers suck, you know, bad yield, bad smells and stuff. And, you know,
that was definitely true pre-2010. But yeah, these same cultivars inspired a
bunch of people and then turned off a bunch of other people.
That they did. It was truly a catch-22. And I think what you said there was
right on point. You know, people saw a huge potential for these and they
may not have known at that time what that potential was, but they decided to
give the plant a chance. And then there are the folks that, you know, got that
impression stuck in their head and then they didn't want to either mess with it
anymore or give the the cultivar an opportunity to change by assisting it.
You know, we've been assisting the cannabis plant in whole for centuries.
And I think that there was a group that snatched ahold of that new potential and
really became, like you said, a visionary on it. And some people stuck in their
ways. It's kind of like the LED versus HID lighting debate. You know, there's new
tech and old tech and you see people using a hybrid of the two.
Yeah, and you know, it's what a pain in the ass, too. I mean, as far as breeding
goes for it, we'll talk more about the, you know, the breeding in the third set.
But just quickly, you know, breeding autoflowers is not as simple as
breeding regular photo periods where you're just like, you know, male meet
female. Boom. You've chucked some pollen and now you've got new seeds. You know,
with the autoflowers, the the ruderalis genetics were so janky with their
low yields and smells. To dress that up, people were crossing it
into flowers that had a better reputation and more attributes that
people liked. But man, you're taking something that is janky and poor
smell and hitting it against something that you potentially like. Well,
gosh, that takes a lot more work to breed out those attributes that we don't want.
Exactly. It does take some time, especially if you're, you know, what I
like to say, building a new cultivar from the ground up with ruderalis. It's hard
to get your hands on true ruderalis these days. Most people that want to
start a project to where they take their their favorite photo period strain and
they want to make it an auto flower, it does involve a few years worth of work
to do so. So those early days, was there just essentially one ruderalis cultivar
that people were handing around to hit their their favorite plants with or
were there several to choose from? Earlier on, there were several to choose
from. A lot of the painstaking work had been taken out of it with the arrival of
lowrider and lowrider 2, the purple rider or purple gem. Sour 60 was another big
one back in that early time frame. I think a lot of that sub work had been
done to where the auto flowering or day neutral trait was dominant in the plant.
We sure owe a lot of credit to those cultivators and breeders early on who
did all that really annoying work to stabilize the auto flower
recessive trait. It would not be nearly as much fun if you had to do
all that work just to make your own auto flower nowadays. That's correct.
They were definitely pioneers in the field. Again, I'll touch back on
Dutch Passion and Dynafem. They saw the potential very early. They
put in a lot of work behind the scenes. I come from, and we've talked
about this, we may talk about it a little more, I came from the forum days.
There wasn't a Instagram out there or a Canna Buzz or any of these other
platforms that we see today to where we could just openly share about what was
going on. How were auto flower breeders finding each other back pre-2010?
I started delving into autos in 2009. That's when you just peruse these
forums that were out there. Mainly at the time for me was ICMAG. You would
find other people growing these auto flowers. You would have to key item
search or key term search to be able to locate them. That's how we were
finding each other, was through the forums. Once we found each other, you
start developing the relationships and sharing knowledge.
Yeah, we're going to be talking more about auto flower network here in a
little bit. Talk a little bit about how rough it was to be an auto flower
person on these breeder sites.
We were the joke, the butt of all the jokes, the never taken seriously. Any
time that you would go into, say, just a generalistic forum about
understanding a set of nutrients or understanding a soil type or a grow
medium type, the minute that you mentioned that you were growing an auto
cultivar, radio silence. You got laughed at, you got told you're growing
ditchweed. It was getting bullied for lack of better term back in those early
days. We had to rely on each other and rely on a community.
Right on. That was a drag. We're really grateful that we have so many more
resources now. Let's talk about how turning that corner happened. For
anybody who's been following this, magic happened there around 2010, 2011.
A lot of things in the auto flower scene happened at once. They were all going
in the direction of stronger auto flowers and a stronger auto flower
community. What do you think happened there in 2010 that really started to
push the threshold and turn the corner to this present blossoming of the auto
flower scene?
I'll take it back to community. Everybody that was joining up on these
forums, they initially started out in one place and then one thing leads to
another. You either get banned or you move on. Around 2010, we started finding
each other in a new forum, roll it up. I noticed an influx. What we decided to
do was basically have one sole dedicated thread to auto flowering cannabis
because we were searching and hunting for a subforum or a place that we could
go in as the community at large who all had the same love for this specific
cultivar of cannabis. We could share the stuff to all make us understand it and
grow it better because in the main forums, it was getting lost in the wind.
It was a few posts here, a few posts there, a section here. There wasn't one
simple central resource for all of us to just get together and trade ideas with
and have a virtual smoke sesh, if you will, and share about this. I know around
2010, there was a thread formed and roll it up. That's where I noticed a lot of
people starting to migrate too and see a need for better information, more in
depth and places to talk about experience with them other than just, oh
my god, this plant flowers without a light cycle. It doesn't taste very good,
but we can grow a lot of weed quick. Right after this period when you
started seeing these people come together on the roll it up, is this when
you and your co-founders decided now is the time to create your own home with
autoflower.net, the auto flower network? In a nutshell, yes. I had
brought over the forum, not the forum, but excuse me, the thread called
the art of the auto and roll it up. It was a place where it was centralized
like I was speaking about before. After working in there for a few months, I
got approached by a breeder by the name of Mossy and a gentleman from Canada to
basically create our own home. We had begged admin and roll it up multiple
times just to give us a sub form. We weren't looking for a dedicated forum,
our main page, splash page on their site. We just wanted a place where we can make
it easier for people to find each other instead of having to comb through
Google search results or even a really poor search engine on a forum.
We got approached and we started spitting ideas and what we wanted it to
be. One thing led to another and the gentleman from Canada got the server
space and knew a little bit of coding. I knew some back-end work as far as server
maintenance and building. Mossy had the information and experience. She was
one of the earlier, what I like to call independent breeders that weren't big
name like Dutch Passion and Dynafem. She had really put the work into
early Ruteralis and really working it geared towards meds and improving
terpene profiles to where it was actually a good medication for better
circulation for nighttime. She played a huge key role and she's kind of a
silent person. I like to talk about her as much as I possibly
can because she was a mentor to me and I think she left a huge impact as she had
one of the first colored autoflower and cannabis varieties out there.
Where was she living or still? I don't know. She's still in Spain.
Spain. It's interesting how much Spain comes up right around this time with the
change in genetics. Would you say that Spain was at the forefront of
the new wave of autoflower genetics at this time? I would agree with
that. There was a huge gravitational pull towards that region. Spain has some
different laws than what we do and especially at that time. I think it
was a hub for a lot of this autoflower and from what my experience has been
growing up in this culture, for lack of a better term, has seen a lot
of the stuff is European-based but a lot of it's Spain-based. It's interesting
too because there's one set of people who talk about the fantastic
heritage genetics that come from Europe and then you've got other people
who talk about these trashy European genetics. I think that
both are probably true. Just like most truths have got a little
bit of this and a little bit of that. There's all of this new
amazing work that's coming out of Spain at this time but then there's also other
people putting out stuff that had not really hit the mark of some of those
folks that were bringing their seeds over. There was good and
bad stuff coming out of Europe just like there's probably good and bad stuff
coming out of everywhere right now. Do you remember some of those names
coming out of Spain? Who were the first reliable people doing stuff in Spain
around this 2010 time? Around the 2010 time, again Dutch Passion, Dynathem.
I hadn't seen some of our newer big brands to come out of Spain quite yet at
2010 because I think with, we'll give an example, one of the cultivars was Think
Different by Dutch Passion. It was the largest autoflower I had ever seen
within a year and I think they were working on it well before obviously the
2010 mark or coming into the 2011 mark but it was called Think Different and it
was huge. Guys went from getting a few ounces per plant and to getting a pound
per plant grown in the proper conditions and it really I think set
off like this emergency flare of like there's some huge potential here. So I
think it helped shift some people who are on the fence to really take a look
at this plant and start working it as a whole and I think some people made some
huge changing decisions to grab a hold of that. With the resurgence of
Spanish autoflower genetics or maybe not resurgence but the explosion of
Spanish autoflower genetics and with people around the world you know being
able to see that happening between the various forums you know a couple of the
threads but then also the beginning of autoflower network. Did Spain
start to attract attention for being a leader and start to you know attract
brainpower towards it? I definitely think it did. I can remember early on so you
know we'll kind of fade into the beginning of autoflower.net. We get a
forum up, we have an informational board, we've got people coming from all over
the world to join. We you know harvested a lot of people from the older threads,
the older message boards and I think it gave a gateway for people to come in and
start to share and then I noticed after we get everything up and running I have
to take a little bit of a hiatus and I come back and when I come back I see
this new brand that A at first the hillbilly in me didn't know how to
pronounce the name but after seeing it enough I had to do my
research and that was Mephisto. And so I've was Mitch in Spain or was
was Mitch going to Spain because I've never been clear about that because I
always thought I always thought Mephisto was an American brand but then
people keep on telling me like oh when Mitch went to Spain like did he
come back? What's what's the story? For what I know Mitch left to go to Spain
from where I am not a hundred percent certain on that part of the backstory
but I do know that he went to Spain to really put in the work to you know build
up the Mephisto brand. For so many people that really seems to have been like
Mitch is part of a lot of people's background story right? Like when I when
I talk to people early heads who are into auto flowers a lot of them you know
get to a point in their story where and then I got a bunch of seeds from Mitch
you know and it seems that you know Mitch going to Spain with the connections
that he already had solidified and him deciding that he was going to be you know
he wanted to he wanted to learn in that scene he wanted to be a part of the best
practices and and you know I don't want to put words in his mouth because I
haven't had the opportunity to interview him but but you know someone goes to a
hot spot because they want to participate and I can imagine that he
got so excited that that's where a lot of these people got turned on to was
like through him. Yeah and you know I agree you know and once his genetics
started popping up on the forums and started popping up on the auto flower
network you know it really gained him a lot of credibility for what he was doing
and so to answer your other question about it being a stateside company I
don't think it really was a stateside company ever it was just a way to get
that flowing to the stateside. And maybe maybe I just thought it was a US company
because there are there's so many of his seeds here and there is such a huge
following for him you know I mean there are there are a handful of good auto
flower breeders putting out seeds now no doubt but I would say for for you know
most folks Mephisto is you know has been the top of the mountain for a long time
people wanted those seeds and and they were often sold out which you know makes
everybody want them more and you know in the last few years certainly there there's
a lot of other really excellent you know other people breeding including
yourself but I think that Mephisto deserves a lot of respect for for being
some of the first folks to you know really stabilize mass-produce and get
out these new auto flower cultivars but at the same time doing it in a savvy
cool way with creative packaging and and you know engaging names and they you
know the whole the whole package where it made it really easy to become like a
fanboy you know exactly no I agree you know it was a different it was
definitely a different approach that none of us had seen before because I
don't know if you purchase seeds back around that time frame I mean they had a
they may have came in a snazzy like matchbox style booklet with a glass vial
in the center you know they may have some cultivar information on the back
expected cycle times and expressions but there was never really a marketing angle
that what you saw with Mephisto it was definitely different than we had seen
before and that this kind of like the kind of brings it all together right
like we've got we've got all these new genetics being developed in Spain now
that the you know the actual auto flower you know the recessive Rudy has been
stabilized so that people could just use it you know they don't have to do six or
seven years of you know breeding work to isolate that before even trying to make
their flavors they could just take somebody else's work and then build
their flavors on top of it so all these great all this all these great seeds
coming out of Spain and then and then you know Mitch and folks like Mitch
going to Spain and spreading that information around the world and then
auto flower network creating this community where auto flower breeders
could feel at home and share best practices internationally I mean boom
right I mean I think that is that is the turning point where the entire modern
auto flower scene come from comes from yeah you know I definitely think that
there was a you know a trispoke thing where it was like these three massive
things came to a head and they just kind of supernova it from there you know they
started to get in better recognition cultivars were becoming better there was
actually variety you know it wasn't just short plant one and short plant three
you actually had some you know real variety starting to show up you know you
were talking about laying the foundation of their original root or Alice and you
know like we've talked about earlier in this it's a very gangly and you know
runty style plant and then now for somebody to be able to just give you
picks and choices and expressions that you want you could really see how the
foundation and how the mentality has changed yeah right on cool right on well
let's go ahead and take our first short break and be right back you're listening
to shaping fire and my guest today is Dan Jimmy of Mandalorian genetics and
the Auto flower Network oxygen is an essential plant nutrient and keeping
sufficient dissolved oxygen in the root zone is a challenge
Gaia's brand of ultra fine nano bubble systems will help your garden thrive in
ways you may not have considered no matter if you grow in soil hydroponics
or aquaponics Gaia's ultra fine nano bubble systems will increase your
dissolved oxygen and increase your yield often the first sign of inadequate
oxygen supply to the roots is wilting of the plant under warm conditions and
high light levels insufficient oxygen results in an accumulation of toxins and
an insufficient amount of water and mineral absorption if oxygen starvation
continues mineral deficiencies will begin to show roots die back and plants
will become stunted healthy roots supplied with sufficient oxygen are able
to absorb nutrient ions selectively from the surrounding solution as required in
studies this has shown a 30% increase in plant growth not only do ultra fine
oxygen bubbles allow your plants to thrive but they will keep your drip
lines and irrigation pipes and plumbing clean too because algae pythium and
other invasive species only survive in low oxygen environments and the Gaia
system only costs about two dollars per day to run Gaia ultra fine oxygen
nano bubblers are also great for making compost teas and wild crafted nutrient
teas the smaller bubbles of truly dissolved oxygen allow more microbes to
reproduce faster go to Gaia's website at h205.com to learn more about using
dissolved oxygen and how to purchase the simple yet amazing technology that's
h205.com
as cannabis regulations become more demanding and consumers become more
educated it is increasingly important to avoid the use of chemical pesticides
when cultivating cannabis beneficial insects have been used for decades by
the greenhouse vegetable and ornamental plant industry and today many cannabis
cultivators are moving from sprays and chemicals to beneficial insects
Copert biological systems has the beneficial insects mites and nematodes
microbials sticky cards and air distribution units you need to partner
with nature to defend your garden whether you manage acres of canopy or
have a simple grow tent in your home
Copert is ready to help answer your questions and help you transition away
from chemical sprays towards clean and natural solutions since 1967 Copert has
assisted growers in identifying pests and devising reliable solutions while
providing healthy insects and mites that will protect your yield since the 1990s
Copert has been a leader in cannabis pest and disease control worldwide and
have highly trained consultants to assist you in Canada and the US from
coast to coast no matter where you live
Copert biological systems can help visit copert.com choose your country and get
detailed information
that's copert.com for the most up-to-date cannabis related biological
control information you can also check out their instagram at copert Canada you
know getting away from pesticides is good for health and good for business
and copert is ready to help visit copert.com today
with the national hemp program in flux due to stringent THC testing requirements
brother Seth and Eric Crawford continue to release seeds to hemp farmers that
will be legal no matter how you grow them or when you test them these new
varieties from Oregon CBD seeds have substantial amounts of CBDV, CBGV, CBCV
and THCV while always staying below the 0.3% THC limit and
guaranteeing compliant crops for farmers every time also these new varieties
cannot be pollinated by your neighbors uncontrolled pollen or a rogue male in
your own crop either
Oregon CBD seeds are non-gmo certified too. Oregon CBD seeds was founded and
funded in 2015 by Seth and Eric maxing out their personal credit cards without
outside investment they continue to refuse outside investment that would
change their company culture Oregon CBD grows tons of fresh food on their
research farms for local food banks literally tons of food they also give
away tens of thousands of pounds of R&D flour to patients as their company began
to succeed Seth and Eric started donating money to the cannabis medicine
and hemp fiber cause too by giving millions of dollars to Oregon State
University in order to establish the world's leading cannabis genomics
research program and they treat their employees right Oregon CBD pays for full
health and dental coverage for their employees a 401k program and their
minimum starting wage is 20 bucks an hour plus everyone shares food from the
farms Seth has been on shaping fire a few times to talk about novel
cannabinoids you can check out episodes 25 and 37 on CBD cultivars in the hemp
market episode 66 on triploid cannabis genetics and the very first shaping
fire live episode 47 with Seth and soil expert Jeff lowenfels talking about
auto flowers if you are a hemp farmer and you want to grow reliable seeds that
are sure to thrive in past testing check out Oregon CBD seeds calm to learn more
about buying seeds for the 2021 season that's Oregon CBD seeds dot com welcome
back you are listening to shaping fire I'm your host shango low so our guest
this week is Dan Jimmy of Mandalorian genetics and the auto flower network so
before the break we were talking about this threshold moment in like 2010 2011
time where we had this combination of you know auto flowers becoming really
stabilized in Spain people going to Spain because they wanted to participate
people then sending their seeds all around the world and then people getting
to know each other and best practices through the auto flower network and it
all kind of came together at once so you know over these last you know nine years
or so since then we have seen yields increase terpene profiles better you
just just the plants are getting more sophisticated I'm really curious Dan
what you are seeing now I mean like you're you're a breeders breeder right
like you you not only breed really excellent auto flower plants that people
enjoy to grow and are great for parent patients and they look pretty like not
only that but you're also like you know you you help run auto flower network and
you're a nerd right so you are you're you're you're you're you know you you
are into the details of a lot of this and so I'm hoping that you can give me a
good kind of overview of of what we're seeing the different veins of because
you know as we know breeders work on different parts of the plant the parts
that interest them and I am not involved enough in the auto flower breeding scene
to know what these other buckets are so so let me just hand you the mic and why
don't you just tell us what you are seeing evolve here in the in the last
you know let's say six years and and where you see people working and feel
free to name-drop if you want but mostly I want us all to have a better idea of
of what's being worked on and what's novel in auto flowers right now sure I
mean honestly you know quickly the things I can see is a potency increase
true terpene profile increases and I think the biggest thing is the overall
structure and flower to leaf ratio are the biggest three shifts I've seen most
recently I've seen you know in the earlier days you see a lot of stuff that
was probably based off the low rider or low rider to genetics some of it could
have been done from the sour 60 stuff we saw earlier even the Roadrunners from
Dynafem and oh you could see even though it was from these different brands and
different breeders you could see some similarities between those plants and
what I mean by that is you see a lot of the root or Alice you know still coming
through yeah the yields increased yeah the plant size is increased but we're
still seeing a lot of the morphology from the root or Alice may that be high
leaf ratio long extended leafs from the main stem on your main fans up until now
where you actually can tell a difference between a cultivar through some breeders
you know they've become more stabilized I think the people that have put in the
most work are seeing more of a homozygous you know cultivar expression
per 10 pack another thing that I've seen that is shifted is it used to be common
place to get regular seeds all the time like when you got out of flowers back in
the early days it was regular seed there were very very few feminized and I think
that was a big milestone for Mitch as well was getting out mass numbers of
feminized seeds for people and now in the market it's really really hard to
find regulars and all you seem to find is feminized on of flowers which is fine
and dandy and it's great because there's multiple benefits and we can talk about
that later but I think those are the biggest things that I've seen shift as
well as potency you know I personally took my whistle just a little bit I've
got several 18 to 25 percent THC cultivars that are coming out where back
in the day you were lucky to see 13% you know so that's been a big change and
I think that comes with the selective breeding that's been going on people
moving more away from the traditional root or Alice and just seeking more of
the day neutral trait rather than getting to the auto flower trait quicker
it's interesting I like I like that little insight you tossed in there about
the different the different strategies breeders will have whereas some folks
are taking hype strains and just hitting it with the Rudy and putting something
out which you know may be a faster you know Girl Scout cookies but but it may
not be I don't know finished right like like yes you successfully made the auto
flower she goes fast but but there's something extra to it to I don't know
sculpt the terpene profile so that it's more than the hype name and whereas
other folks are not looking to reproduce the hype name and they're coming at it
from a different direction you know independently not trying to recreate
something else but instead to create something different and I'm not saying
that that neither I'm not saying that just hitting you know a hype strain with
you know root or Alice is bad I'm not saying that because I have grown a lot
of fun stuff that way too all I'm pointing out is that it's a different
approach it is a you know it was a very specific breeding strategy correct yeah
it's just a different approach it's just like you know you can have several cooks
in one kitchen they all have one dish they got to make but everybody gets to
that point differently yeah to totally and you know even we get this even in
regs right we've got people who are they're taking their uber mail and
they're hitting the taut the ten hot strains that they like and they're doing
you know all ten of those versus this one uber mail versus people who every
project they've got has got different mails correct yeah so so as you are as
you were seeing these these different attributes come out of the plant when
did you start to see that period where people were starting to start to be
picked up more at retail right like like it no doubt when they started
making so many feminized autoflower seeds they got picked up really quickly
by the by the patient market right because there there really isn't a
better patient home grow plant than a feminized autoflower it is the easiest
of easiest and and you know you know I you know I teach that to the patients
that I work with like hey you need any safe place to start this is your safest
place to start but that that doesn't necessarily mean that that's where when
people when when autoflower breeders used to like more successfully actually
get money for their seeds right because it's one thing trading with your friends
because the market isn't there for it but then there's the day that comes that
people start buying the seeds when did you when do you think that started I
mean I bought my my first autoflower seeds all the way back in 2009 when I
first got when I got involved with him that came from the attitude seed bank
that you had you still had some options available but it wasn't as widespread as
today there were a couple brands out there and I know I keep repeating Dutch
passion and dynathem but those two are so stuck in my memory from just the Wow
factor seeing these things and there are several other great brands and I know
I'm forgetting to mention right now and I apologize but you know I'm gonna say
Nirvana was another location you could find them too and yeah you could buy them
as early as back then but I think the larger influx came probably 12 13 once
the forum started getting more momentum and you know the Mephisto was getting
momentum and then the market was kind of driving itself that way and I could be
off a little bit with those dates as far as like the mass boom of when everything
took off for that group but from my memory if my memory serves me right you
know I know it was somewhere in between 2011 and 2012 2020 that it really really
took off but you could buy them back as early as 2009 on attitude so you know as
far as the root Aureolus taste to what degree do you think the root Aureolus
taste is still prevalent in all of the auto flowers because it does seem to be
different from breeder to breeder what do you think is influencing how much
you're tasting the the grassy Rudy in there I think it's breeder selection I
think it is you know dependent upon what they're looking for as a result part of
the plant what the parent inputs were I think a look like I spoke about this
earlier about the higher leaf ratio root Aureolus is known to have high leafy
content in between its buds therefore giving you more chlorophyll which in
turn if it's not dried and cured properly gives you a lot more of that
grass hay taste to the flower and I think with the improvement of you know
the calyx to leaf ratios on these plants we're seeing a lot of that dissipate and
I think that's what's happening when people are doing selective breeding with
an outside source maybe another photo period or something of that nature where
it's not continuance of the Rudy gene so I'm gonna put you on the spot here
which is probably not fair but I'm gonna be I'm gonna ask you to name drop some
of the breeders that that you think are doing good work and I want to I want to
preempt this by saying that you know I recommend that everybody go to
autoflower.net and you know if you're interested in growing auto flowers or if
you're interested in breeding them that is the place to go because that is where
I went to find the seeds that were being made by talented people that may
not necessarily have the commercial push behind them yet right because the
autoflower for sale scene is still very young and and so you're still you know
buying from a lot of individuals either you know via mail or you know at a at a
convention or or a big smoke sesh or something like that and so so you know
that is really great place to buy is to go and and look at the plants and read
the threads and find out the person who you dig their style and then and then buy
direct so so that's cool but there's no question also that there are a couple
really good seed banks now that are bringing people together to represent
them to take some of the sales off of the sales stress off of the the breeders
themselves because just because you're a breeder does not mean that you are a
great marketer of your own stuff either and you know you got to have respect for
that so with all that being said and my encouraging people to hunt out breeders
that are maybe less commercial why don't you plug a couple folks who you
appreciate their work for people who are looking to start with them they want a
good first auto flower experience definitely there's a few that come to
the top of my head if they want a good first experience there's a company out
there called night owl seeds which is run by Daz he has done some phenomenal
work has been trained by one of the best to produce auto films and his stuff
sells out everywhere it's one of the hardest one of the hardest you know
cultivar lineups to get your hands on when they come up for sale they
immediately sell out definitely think that that's a good place that people
should start I've got a friend brother Mendel selections they're based out of
the middle of the country they're not so much on in the seed banks but if you
search them out on Facebook and Instagram you'll find some beautiful
beautiful worked cultivars from these guys there are auto femmes I've worked
with some I'm working with some of them myself now he really has a passion
behind it like dad's and myself and you know to kind of have that same
envisionary style I got a friend out here in eastern Washington he's an up
and coming breeder it's fire buds genetics good friend of mine actually
have been mentoring him for the last couple years we trade some information
I've seen some really good work coming out from him so those are I'd say up in
my top three of you know what you can find locally that are doing you know
approaching it in a different style to make a better plant for the community at
whole you know it's good I was gonna say I've just seen a lot of their stuff
expanding with the green wave coming and it's nice to see that happen with guys
that are passionate about it and you know really put the time into work and
and I know you're a humble dude but but I will also say that you know plug your
Mandalorian genetics because I love I love growing purple plants and you do a
lot of purple lots of you know candy smells and reliable plants right and you
know we have grown a lot of them here on Vashon Island when I say we I mean folks
who are patients on the island who are growing with their with their medical
certification and you've been so kind as to donate seeds to our our local Vimy a
meetings and so patients have been able to get some of your seeds for free and
it was really nice to see if so many people have a good first-time experience
with autoflowers especially here in the Pacific Northwest where like you often
have summers like we did this summer where nothing photo period finished
because the weather was so bad and nights got cold so fast so by all means
oh you know and and your stuff wins awards too right so I'll trash on awards
a different day but you know that is something to be said when when you know
your stuffs winning awards so Mandalorian is well to be considered as
well so I like what you said though about the you know the the auto flower
scene being lifted up by this kind of by the green rush right and I think that
auto flowers are really the right place at the right time because there's so
much more home growing and auto flowers are so convenient for newbie home
growers and feminized seeds are you know convenient for everybody and you
know a lot of people still prefer the reg seeds and that's fine but you know
so many people when ease is their number one thing a feminized auto flower is is
the top of the pile it is cool to see some other people like helping push the
auto flower tide forward if you will and so like let's talk a little bit about
the auto flower cup so I I unfortunately missed the auto flower cup the last time
I had the opportunity two years ago because I was actually running a panel
at cultivation classic on auto flowers so I didn't get to go so you'll have to
tell me all about it so so so who's behind the auto flower cup and what have
we seen so far so the 2019 Cup was down in the grants past Oregon area it was
put together by a gentleman of the name of James Hastings James I wasn't too
familiar with him before the word started buzzing around that this cup was
gonna be put together they put the cup together for five days down in Oregon on
a campground that was cannabis friendly which was really really amazing and
honestly the things that I take from that experience for one it was nice it
was the first time that I've been around that kind of event as far as like
everybody's there for the same minded goal everybody's there to share their
cannabis cultivation and you know exchange information and talk it was
like bringing the forum alive because I got to meet a lot of people that I've
only known screen names for years yeah you know and their personalities outside
of that screen name was just an amazing way to see that they were the same way
on the forum because they all cared about the plant and it was an experience
like it'll be one of those ones for me to go down like I'll never forget it I
met so many great people there was so much good food I could have been a
little bit better planned for events over five days and I'm just being
honest you know we're pretty much willing free to roam anywhere down there
because it's absolutely gorgeous there were lakes there are hiking trails all
kinds of stuff to do but when it came down time for like you know competition
and things like people were doing their testing and you know it was basically
people's choice you know there were we entered into it without all the hype I
think that you sometimes see behind larger competitions it was nice like a
communal thing to where people that have been putting in all this work for all
this time and talking to each other we were able to come out show our best and
just have a good time over a long weekend yeah five days that's a really
long time man I mean like even a even a three-day event feels long by the by day
three but you know a five day when you add you know the campground and the
forest and you know I can I mean we're in Oregon so there were probably mushies
everywhere I can see how you know a good summertime campout is is gonna be even
more than the cup it's more like a it actually sounds more like an auto flower
or rainbow gathering yeah I mean yeah to be completely honest with you you
know everybody you know enjoyed the the hikes and the fishing and it was just
kind of like this powwow with a award ceremony at the end and I think the
reason it was done for five days is a lot of the stuff wasn't you know I've
seen different framework as far as these competitions go where the flowers sent
out way ahead of time and people have weeks to maul over the different stuff
that they're looking at and I think this is what the one spot where it was
lacking was because everything had to be tested over those five days so I think
that's what gave it its length but I think that it could have been done a
little sooner as far as testing because you know you depending on your amount of
entries that's a lot of cannabis to get through without having some kind of like
on trial on trials effect or you know overlap of what's going on yeah I hear
that let's let's give some love to Jeff Lohenfels about his auto flower book too
because you know one of the one of the challenges the auto flower community has
is just reaching outside of the auto flower community it's so insular and we
you know we we trade genetics we trade stories we trade best practices but most
of it is kind of like inward focusing which which kind of slows the expansion
of the scene which may be for the better right because it makes that you know
primarily authentic very interested people get involved but at the same time
if we want the scene to grow and if we want people to buy auto flower seeds
from the people putting in the work the words got to get out there and then you
know so anybody who doesn't know Jeff Lohenfels is known as Lord of the Roots
and he put out a seminal series of books all about living soil you've probably
heard of teaming with microbes teaming with nutrition and teaming with fungi you
know they are they are a baseline of understanding well growing anything in
in soil but certainly growing cannabis and soil if you haven't read them you
should check them out but Jeff got all turned on to auto flowers living up in
Alaska and just generally being you know 40 plus year gardening nerd and so he
put out this book on auto flowers and and it was an interesting book why don't
you tell us Dan about the interesting direction that that Jeff took it and and
who who his book ended up actually being for you know in a nutshell ended up
being the introduction for people to give an auto flower a try for the first
time and you know I have to laugh because you know I was excited about the
book coming out and you know somebody with Jeff's caliber stepping into the
limelight with something that we think you were talking about we have been
quote-unquote in the shadows with for so long was amazing to see and you know you
talked about how like it's so much you know inclusive with the auto flower
community I think that's you know done wanted to you know done a couple things
one like you said we haven't really got out there until somebody like Jeff but
it's also created this weird bond amongst the breeders and the people who
take it passionately to kind of watch out for one another so it was kind of
cool to see but Jeff's exposure to the auto flower I approach I think was great
you know he joked with me I told him I was buying the book and I was honored
enough to have a few pictures in there you know and that was awesome to me so
of course I had to purchase it he kept telling me he's like no Dan he's like
this book isn't for you he's like it's not for people who already understand
the cultivation of the auto flower it's for your aunt or your uncle or your
crazy cousin who wants to get in there and start growing some homegrown and
taking you know easier approach to it and you know I think Jeff hit the nail
on the head with that one he got it out there I've read through it a couple
times and you know he's bait he's made a nice introductory way of people to know
what an auto flower is see the basic mechanics of the plant and what to do
with it when it's done and not just with Jeff sir I got to say you know you
stepping out into the limelight with the several different seminars that you have
done to discuss auto flowering plants you know you between Jeff and yourself
you have given the auto flower community that outward shining light that hey
these guys are over here doing miraculous things we see it we love it
we think you guys should love it too and this is why and I think your approach
with the live seminars and the shaping fire recordings that you have done about
the auto flowers is really given a broader spectrum of what we're trying to
do and what they can do for either a commercial setting or the homegrower and
patient right on dude well full first thanks for saying that but but I think
that Jeff and I come from the same place where we are both like giddy and excited
about auto flowers and what it can do for home growers and patients and we you
know neither of us are breeders but we're so excited about it we wanted to
talk to people about it so you know he he wrote a book about it that was how he
you know voiced himself and for me I programmed all of 2019 with like auto
flower events that were free for folks and stuff and that was what I was able
to do but I think in the end we all want the same thing we want we want the
breeders to get the recognition that they deserve for the hard work that
they're putting in and these beautiful plants that are designing and we want to
make sure that people who have any kind of interest in growing cannabis have can
grow cannabis so they know how to get into it because you know hell we all
want cannabis to be in gardens as commonly as tomatoes and the only way we
can do that is if we've got you know breeders breeding and people you know
like Jeff and I and you telling people that it's happening so so that's cool
and also you know there's nothing like throwing events to be able to meet new
cultivators right because like I met so many great people you know like like for
example at a Indo Expo I was giving a talk on on auto flowers and why she
people should try them and and Daz was there you know and like you know I had
heard about Daz Mephisto and followed him and stuff and and he came up after
the after the talk and he's all like hey man nice to meet you and you know it
wasn't my best performance but it was you know it was cool to turn people on
to stuff but it was nice to meet people who I look up to in the scene like Daz
right you know good folks who are doing good work and I think that's that's part
of what makes auto flowers so good is because everybody has been so ignored
for so long that really there aren't a lot of assholes in the scene people are
really nice to each other because we've all been on the the edges for so long
yeah and I agree and that's the second part I was talking about earlier is this
kind of it's formed a bond between all of us to where yeah I haven't I've met a
few that were a little persnickety but I've never met like that elitist
mentality it's like okay you've experienced this and you've worked with
them in this long and you've seen that but we can both avoid that by doing this
that the other it's it's it's almost like the forums have shifted into real
life because one of the main mindsets that we wanted to create on the auto
flower network was a lack of better term a safe place where you come in and share
that knowledge and you're not gonna get you know barked at by 15 20 other people
telling you you're stupid and that auto flowers are shit yeah you know it was a
place and it was amazing to watch the morphology of that too because after
that tone was set and the site started to gain its momentum like the admin
didn't have to step in the the general population but there's no room for that
here we're not here for that and it's cool to hear you see that come out in
real life too yeah I absolutely do I mean you know the auto flower network
while I don't spend a lot of time there because I don't breed I love just going
and reading threads to learn best growing practices and honestly for the
jokes because it's the folks there are really funny so all right so so let's go
ahead and take our second break when we come back we're gonna talk about
breeding with auto flowers and we're not gonna go into it heavy-duty science
approach but but I do want to talk about why breeding auto flowers is are
different some of the unexpected challenges and and mostly why why we
need to make sure we have respect for these auto flower breeders because
because this is not super easy we're gonna take a short break and be right
back you are listening to shaping fire and my guest today is Dan Jimmy of
Mandalorian genetics and the auto flower network as a business owner you are
incredibly busy in reality you are responsible for everything your company
does you've got so many responsibilities every single day that often you just
don't have the time to really dig into your marketing as deeply as you'd like
you know there's more that you could do to reach out to new customers and
encourage loyalty and the customers you already have but you certainly don't
have the time for it and you're not ready to hire somebody full-time for
that role either for you I recommend blunt branding at blunt branding Kirsten
Nelson and her team are focused on improving your bottom line you know most
marketing firms are excited to make your logo packaging and website very pretty
but they leave responsibility for improving your bottom line up to you
they don't want that kind of responsibility but that's pretty much
the most important part of marketing right Kirsten and her team will help you
engage new customers funnel them to your point of sale whether it be online or a
storefront and keep them coming back to you and telling their friends now if you
happen to be a new cannabis company or an established company moving from
medical to adult use in your state Kirsten especially can help you not only
is she well versed in marketing and finance but she totally gets cannabis
whole plant medicine terpenes heritage farmers and the particular needs of
startups check out what she did recently for moontime medicinals and humbled at
moontime medicinals dot-com Kirsten and her team put together a whole brand
package for them built their website and wrote their sales materials no doubt
this is a paid commercial spot but that does not mean they bought my opinion
I've worked with blunt branding on five projects now for various of their clients
and every single time they have done more than they have promised and over
delivered on results I love how they generate new revenue and focus on that
as the goal instead of just making a pretty logo similarly every single
friend I've referred them to his comeback to thank me and that just does
not happen every day grab a pen and paper because the website addresses
coming up if you want someone to implement marketing programs that feed
your bottom line give blunt branding a call they will share proven techniques
to increase your audience and generate sales while using cutting-edge
technology solutions in the background that make all of this easy automatic and
trackable go to shaping fire dot com forward slash blunt branding to find out
more you can also click the link in our newsletter blunt branding marketing
makes you money
after you've caught up on the latest shaping fire episodes do sometimes wish
there was more cannabis education available to learn
well we got you shaping fire has a fabulous YouTube channel with content
not found on the podcast when I attend conventions to speak or moderate panels
I always record them and bring the content home for you to watch the
shango lows YouTube channel has world-class speakers including Zoe
Sigmunds lecture understanding your endocannabinoid system Kevin Jodry of
wonderland nursery talking about breeding cannabis for the best terpene
profile Frenchy cannoli's lost art of the hashish in presentation Nicholas
Mahmood on regenerative and polyculture cannabis growing dr. Sunil Agarwal on
the history of cannabis medicine around the world
Eric Vlasky and Josh Rutherford on solventless extraction and Jeff
Lohenfels on the soil food web there are several presentations from dr. Ethan
Russo on terpenes and the endocannabinoid system to while there be
sure to check out the three ten part shaping fire session series one with
Kevin Jodry one with dr. Ethan Russo and one with Jeff Lohenfels and even my own
presentations on how to approach finding your dream job in cannabis and why we
choose cannabis business even though the risks are so high as of today there's
over 200 videos that you can check out for free so go to youtube.com forward
slash shango lows or click on the link in the newsletter sometimes the topics I
want to share with you are far too brief for an entire shaping fire episode
in those instances I post them to Instagram I invite you to follow my two
Instagram profiles and participate online the shaping fire Instagram has
follow-up posts to shaping fire episodes growing and processing best practices
product trials and of course gorgeous flower photos the shango lows Instagram
follows my travels on cannabis garden tours my successes and failures in my
own garden insights and best practices from personal grows everywhere and
always gorgeous flower photos on both profiles the emphasis is on sharing what
I've learned in a way that you can replicate it in your own garden your own
hash lab or for your own cannabinoid pathic health so I encourage you to
follow at shaping fire and at shango lows and join our online community on
Instagram welcome back you are listening to shaping fire I am your host shango
and our guest this week is Dan Jimmy of Mandalorian genetics and the auto flower
network so to bring this show on home what we're gonna talk about next is the
actual breeding of the auto flowers because it is not the same you know I've
I've made seeds right I'm not really a breeder I'm a pollen chucker you know I
get a male plant I like and a female plant I like and I put them near each
other or I where I apply some pollen with the paintbrush and ooh I've made
seeds for next year and that's just fun right it makes me feel closer to the
plant but when I started listening to breeders talk about breeding auto
flowers I'm like oh hell no that it sounds like a lot of work and and the
thing is is that for the for the passionate people I know in the in the
breeding community for auto flowers there ain't no thing to them they're
like oh no that well this is just expected to get something good and I
like and I love them for it because I get to pop their seeds but I think it's
a good thing for for growers to know what's behind the secret sauce so they
can you know properly value these seeds so so Dan why don't you like walk us
through what the breeding of an auto flower looks like yeah I'll approach it
in two different ways and we'll keep it you know like you like at a high level
here that way we can get a generalistic understanding you know you did mention
and I'll start with the simplicity first you did mention about you know you take
your favorite cultivar and male and then female put them beside each other
and then you get seeds from that run and auto flower to auto flower is pretty
much gonna do that for you if you are somebody who is wanting to experience
pollen chucking to see how this takes place if you have a hundred percent auto
flower female and a hundred percent auto flower male and you let them pollinate
each other you will get a hundred percent auto flowering seeds now with
that said you're gonna get a lot of genetic variety you're gonna see a lot
of different things so expect all kinds of different phenotypical expression
showing up in that seed but at a high level and if you just want to experience
that process and you know be self-sufficient and make your own seeds
that's one way you can approach it now the more in-depth side of it and it's a
side that you were talking about with the complexity levels is I think the
breeder or the more current breeders approach to it is taking a photo period
male or female and introducing it to an auto flower now when you do so you have
a lot of work to do and what I mean by that is you have generation
generational selections that have to take place in order for you to make that
plant a true auto flower I think a lot of the earlier auto flowers that were
done this way we're done with the expectation of bringing out the auto
flowering trait first and I can understand that you know like we were
talking earlier the hype strains you want to get that fast flowering cookies
out there or the fast flowering GMO and the quickest way to do that is inbreed
or you know make your initial parental selections and then inbreed looking for
the auto flower trait only if you're looking more to change the morphology
and get rid of a lot of the root or Alice I think there's a lot more of a
selection process that has to go on and with that selection process I'll cover
that a little bit your initial cross is going to give you your f1 seeds those f1
seeds are going to be primarily dominant in the photo period lines genetic makeup
it's going to be very rare for you to see a fully auto flowering expression
out of that first round of seeds so then you ask yourself well what do I do to
make that show up the best option there is to inbreed that line and what I mean
by that is you take a male and a female from that first generation and inbreed
them together giving you your f2 generation at the f2 generation you're
going to start seeing similarities from mom similarities from dad you may even
see some auto flowering expression now with that I will caution you back to
what we were talking about you know breeding quickly for just the auto
flowering trait if you're that's your end goal let's start looking at the f2
and if you find you know one that is going to go full auto flower and one
that kind of stalls out from the auto flower it'll grow up it'll start to pre
flower it'll go into what I call bud set and then it needs 1212 to finish its
life cycle at that point I think that would be a good selection for you if
you're just hunting something that's going to come out in an auto flower
fashion that would be my next round to select from if you're looking to kind of
incorporate you know what you really liked about the photo period mom but you
want just the auto flowering genetic from the father or vice versa I think
you need to start really digging into your seed count at that point at the f2
look for something that's doing the stall on both sexes both male female and
then push that to the third you know generation and it's third generation you
could probably start seeing a little bit more of a balance between auto flowering
and some that still may be photo period and then you can start picking at that
point based upon your turf profiles your flower densities your expressions of
leaf color whatever your you know tickles your fancy and then making your
f4 by f4 if you select in that manner you should see really close to 100%
auto flowering genetics it's a little bit more time intensive it's a lot more
sifting through seeds and there's a good possibility if you pick up that nature
or if you pick up that direction that you're gonna have to go through quite a
few seeds to find what you want if you want a true if you want to represent
both parents truthfully I believe so if it takes to f4 just to get all of the
seeds to be auto flower do we have to go further than that to also lock down
some of the individual trait or like the like like taste traits shall we say like
do you need to do can you be selecting for both at the same time can you be
selecting for both the auto flower traits and the you know yield and
potency traits at the same time or do do you need to choose which ones first I
think you could do it all at the same time if you know you're taking good
notes and you know what you're hunting you know I'm guessing you need a big
sift to as I'm asking the question I'm all like oh you can you can choose for
both if you've got a lot to work with and so if you're if you're if you're
gonna you're trying to do this with 20 seeds you're gonna be a lot more limited
than if you're trying to do this with 200 seeds that's correct and that's what
I was talking about earlier you know having that sift and also you know if
you're wanting to do a true photo to auto cross you know have your end goal
and have your mindset you know what where you want to be at the end and you can
definitely do that sifting and hunt out the multiple traits you know you see one
that goes to pre flower and stalls but it has a leaf structure you want it's
got a balance on each side that you want it the plant itself looks balanced you
see some nice symmetry in the plant and then you might have color from the other
one you're like okay I want the color too and you could do that as part of
your sift and I think that's what's creating the more modern-day auto flower
I think that's what a lot more the approach is rather than seeing a lot of
you know new stuff come out that's yeah it's auto flower but it still kind of
looks like root or Alice but it's had a different photo parent that wasn't
worked as in-depth you know needing to work something to f4 or further you know
it's definitely further if you're not gonna have a lot of sift that that means
that you're gonna be doing a lot of cycles and selecting I would is it a
fair assumption to say that a lot more the auto flower folks are incorporating
breeding over the winters because like you know with a lot of the a lot of the
photo period stuff people can just grow outdoors during the summer and get work
done enough that over a couple seasons though they can develop something really
good for the outdoor but if you need to get to f4 before all of your seeds are
even showing the auto flower trait that tells me that you know to get to get
anything done in your lifetime you're gonna need to be growing and you know
multiple tents indoors at the same time as you're you're watching for
expressions under the Sun during the summer and testing that's absolutely
correct I think that's the one key thing that we need as breeders is the indoor
space separated space especially because I mean yes pollen is highly volatile but
there are easy steps to contain and control that but it does take around the
clock year-round work especially if you're working on something new and I
you did ask in the earlier question and I didn't touch on it but I'd like to as
you asked about like continuing the F generations for stabilization and to
answer that question is yes a lot of the work that I have done is in the
neighborhoods of f6 f7 f8 and f9 and then really around f5 or f6 I'm starting
to see that balance across so not only do you have the years of work or the
time frame of work just to get what you want then you have to stabilize it to a
point where it's become that same or close to same cultivar all expression
across the ten pack that way it's not like Pokemon and you open it up and
and I like to steal that one from you I said that yeah I'm pretty sure you had a
meme on that at one point in time oh yeah I did that's funny all those
different animals together I do that's funny all right so so now that people
are getting an idea of what it would take I'm sure that there are people are
falling into at least two categories there's one category of folks who you
know they just want to understand auto flowers because they're gonna grow
some and they want to sound cool talking with their friends about auto
flowers and then there's another basket which are people who are like okay I
want to try breeding some auto flowers I've got this idea I want to do I've got
these tastes I want to bring out what would you tell what are what are the
steps that you would tell somebody to do if they wanted to get involved I'm
assuming that there's probably a thread on auto flower net that's dedicated this
and then and then what are people using as the root or Alice input nowadays I'm
sure that there's you know some kind of stabilized option that most people are
working with that's hard to screw up I think a major and I'll answer that part
first so like the majority of the people I think are using predefined auto
flowering genetics that have been worked for years I don't think a lot of people
are going back to pure root or Alice for their foundation because that takes
a lot of work it takes a whole lot of work because you're not only just
hunting the auto flower trait from the original root or Alice what you're also
dealing with is all of the other genetic recessive traits of low potency bad
yield funky growth so if they are wanting to learn about it I definitely
think you know get out there and find some regular seeds and put them side by
side to understand it if they want to get into the depth I would get out there
and I would look for you know reputable breeders and especially independent
breeders because the independent breeders tend to have more regulars
which I was talking about before which are really really hard to find you don't
have a lot of people out there offering regular auto flowers these days and to
have a foundation without the complexity of understanding how to feminize a seed
you need to have a male counterpart let me I want to I want to plug heart rock
mountain right now because that's where I've been he his seeds and your seeds
are the are the stuff that I've been getting that's regular and it's actually
kind of an interesting upside I'm a big fan of the dragonfly earth medicine
regenerative agriculture techniques certification and at the moment most of
their people are shying away from from making feminized seeds and so they're
putting out lots of auto flowers but they're all rags and so if you can find
a seed breeder who's playing with auto flowers that's also dragonfly certified
it's like hitting a gold rush I agree yeah totally I I've his heart rock
mountain farms their their lions claws one of the first ones that I personally
came across that truly hits like funk and gas I don't know why and maybe it's
just the stuff that I've grown I've probably only grown 45 or 50 auto flower
cultivars but do you find gas is kind of still missing in auto flowers I don't I
don't I haven't come across you know I come across like you know you know the
sweets and the candies and the bubble gums and the and even in the cheeses in
the northern cheese hazes and stuff but but I don't I haven't found a ton of gas
I personally haven't either I've got a few different cultivars and I got one
that smells like acetone and it was the first chemically chemical smelling auto
flower that I had ever personally experienced and I've you know obviously
been to a few different events I've got friends that have been growing auto
cultivars for years and you're right the floral the berries the fruits the candies
are really coming out from them but I think the more modern-day auto is
leaning that way because they're getting the the breeders that are
working with them are the ones that are taking their time are in search of those
terpenes so I definitely think we're gonna start seeing more of the gassy
because that's one thing that I've been approached and asked the most honestly
by people that are interested in growing these in large scale is so where are the
terpenes at where's the gas at like we want that fuel smell because that's what
the public wants and I even think even the homegrower wants that for a
nostalgic reason you know because that's a very common notice profile that
we we often associate to cannabis and it's getting there but I don't think
it's full-fledged hammered there yet I think we still have some work to do
yeah I think that you're right on that and so let's use that to transition here
to kind of a wrap-up where do you see the auto flower scene going right now
what are the major trends that you think are gonna play themselves out over the
next couple years number one is just the uprise in the home grow I'm part of
a bunch of different groups both two different forums and you know I can see
as each new state is going legal either medicinally or adding recreational to
their medicinal certificate you know legalities a lot of home growers really
starting to pick it up because they can literally put a 2x4 tent in their closet
with an LED and get at it you know I remember back in the day we would grow
in PC cases because they were so small. You mean like computer cases? Yeah so I would just you know take a
large computer case gut the internals where you got some you know fluorescent
lights inside of it and let it go to town Wow you know so seeing the plant
evolve from that into the home grow I definitely think that's we're gonna see
a huge influx there and I'm already seeing it based upon Instagram and like
I said a few other other platforms you really see the home growers grabbing a
hold of the auto flower especially now the states are legal and the second wave
and what I'm really seeing is supplemental for farming especially in
out talks specifically to our climate our climate in this northern section is
similar to the one that's over in Maine and you know kind of central US Michigan
and stuff like that and I'm seeing farmers use them to supplement either
their veg space during the winter because they're an all-outdoor facility
and they vege their moms over the winter they do their cuttings and stuff
like that and they're producing a yield during the same time they're flowering
out or not flowering out excuse me vegging out their next year's crop
indoor facilities are filling their mother rooms with auto flowers while
they're waiting for their clones to take and get ready for the bloom room it's
adding another layer of revenue for the company with extremely low overhead costs
because as you and I know and Jeff speaks about it in the book they don't
need a lot of food now there are I'll caveat that there are a few out there
you know as the selective breeding is taking place that they do need some food
they need a little bit more attention but I think that's with any kind of
plant but I'm seeing that wave hit the the farm the large-scale farm market to
from coast to coast it's really interesting to see how they're being
used as a tool and some of them are selling it as flour and some of them are
a lot of them are doing it for extracts maybe hash rosin maybe for cartridges
for edibles see a lot of different options happening with it so I'm seeing
those two direct avenues really starting to move through with the auto wave so to
speak it's really interesting to see folks who ordinarily would not be into
auto flowers suddenly warm up to them and start growing in them when they
realize that you know if you start your auto flowers early in May that they'll
finish in the same time of year that a light depth would and so you actually
have flower to bring to the market that's fresh and usable maybe even just
you know if you're doing outdoors on a on a less quality part of your property
because because they actually you know being from Siberia a lot of these plants
like really like to be abused and have stones in the soil and like just be kind
of ganky soil but then you know other folks were doing indoor they realize that
oh wow we can grow autos in our mother room or in our veg tent you know because
they are they are light independent correct you know you're vegging out and
you're holding your mothers at either 18 6 or 24 any kind of higher variation and
these guys are just going through their mechanics and they just need a little
bit of water along the way yeah absolutely I think that is I think that
as they are increasingly picked up by I don't know let's let's let's call them
commercial tastemakers right as as the bigger players are bringing out auto
flowers you know early season offerings you know I think that you know the last
vest vestiges of auto flower taboo will go away and it's just gonna be part of
the scene it's gonna be like you know you know regs light DEP and auto flowers
and it's they're all gonna be on the same playing field I would love to see
that and like you said a minute ago it's you know slowly changing one mind at a
time some people that were so hell-bent about you know it's ditch weed oh it's
just that you know it's low rider to actually watching them grow and then
they see it and they're like holy shit okay so yeah it's not the same thing
anymore and that's usually all it takes if you can get to a person who is a
disbeliever and say here here's 50 seats grow them let me know what you think you
know and that usually helps turn the mind around and you know providing
pictures and COAs you know that that really helps too because you know your
commercial tastemakers love to see numbers and when they see numbers and
and everything lines up to their model I think they're more apt to do so and I
hate that sometimes it takes that depth of transition but sometimes it just does
some people are open to it yeah we'll give it a shot other people need a
little bit more proof but they're slowly coming around it's nice to see yeah you
give to use your example you give somebody 50 seeds and they look at it
they will look at auto flowers all with new eyes because they'll see a couple
different phenos some of which they'll like they'll see the increased
consistency versus what it was like before 2010 and then they'll smoke it
and go like damn oh this is really good especially since you know it's it's a
misnomer that potency is the end-all anyway you know THC potency and a lot of
a lot you know you can get stuff in the mid teens with good terpene profiles
that just give you a fantastic buzz you know people who are demanding you know
you know 28 29 30 percent I think they're missing the bigger picture and
and since auto flowers don't do those kinds of numbers if you're if you're
gonna cozy up to auto flowers it's also teaches you that you don't need those
kinds of THC potency numbers either you know and I agree with you and thank you
so much for saying that you know I've had stuff that's been in the lower
percentage you know from a photo period plant that you know it might have it had
you know just enough terpenes it had the right amount of THC there was enough
synergy there to melt my face off to where like you smoke a 31% and it's just
like oh you know it's it there's something else going on there over than
just potency or even trichrome coverage you know that's the other thing too and
a lot of that was one of the that's one of the biggest reps that autos get is
how they lack trichromes I could see that at a beneficial point for hash
making but like I also don't believe that that's fully translated into
potency yeah I agree with that and you know since you mentioned hash one of the
things that I personally like about auto flowers is in my experience they don't
nug up the same way that many photo periods do they're they're they're a
little looser and I think they hash great they because the the internal
trichomes are so much easier to get cold and to have you know drop off and leave
the actual material without having to beat it all up I think that auto flowers
are great for hash yeah I've got some experience or you know had some really
good experiences with returns on you know either ice water hash or even dry
ice hash you know a lot better breakage because I think exactly what is happening
is what you said is you they don't get super tight there are some out there that
do but a majority don't and there's more surface area of good trichrome heads
that you can actually get into rather than having to pulverize it and release
a lot of the chlorophyll too yeah right on well Dan thank you so much for
joining me especially on this like quiet and sleepy Sunday morning after
Christmas I really appreciate you sharing your time and your experience
and you know honestly you know I knew I wanted to do this show about the the
history of auto flowers so that we could you know get this into the history books
before it's either lost or become or before some big auto flower company you
know commoditizes the story and claims that they invented auto flowers you know
and there's not there's not a lot of people who were there at the early days
and so luckily you were and you know your involvement with auto flower down
that gave you a you know gives you a really big perspective so thanks for
taking your time to share that with us and you know thanks for just generally
being a dude with good cheer who represents the auto flower community
positively no thank you Shane go and thank you tremendously for having me on
this morning I really appreciate it and I you know love what you do in the
involvement with the community and you know how we first met with your Vimeo
events over on the island and seeing your compassion to the people as well as
the plant and spreading good knowledge it's an honor to be on the show you know
I hugged you in high regard and especially the guests that you have so
thank you for your time this morning and bringing me on right on brother thank
you so if you want to follow up on this stuff that we've been talking about
today here's a whole bunch of avenues for you to go down first and foremost I
recommend that you follow Dan Jimmy's Instagram which is unendingly
interesting and has beautiful flower photos and that's on Instagram at
mandalorian underscore genetics also you want to probably want to check out
auto flower net which is the forum where you're gonna learn all about your best
practices and up-and-coming breeders and see great photos and and as you get into
auto flower growing and breeding if you've got questions that is a fabulous
community to be a member of very warm very very low amount of trolls just a
really great heartfelt community if you want to get more of Dan Jimmy you can
you can enjoy the YouTube video that is on my shango Lowe's YouTube channel of
Dan before he was using his his his government name I guess of Dan Jimmy he
he did a special video with another friend of ours a sebring all about
giving seeds away to patients and and you know for those of you listen to the
show the patient focused breeding and patient focused growing is very
important to me and these two guys both both make seeds to give away and also
facilitate other people giving away their seeds as well and you can you can
find that giveaway growth I think the videos called giveaway seeds on on my
YouTube channel you can also listen to earlier shaping fire episodes that had
to do with auto flowers there was episode 47 which was the very first
shaping fire alive that was at a cultivation classic in Portland and my
guests for that are Jeff Lohan fells who wrote the book we were talking about
earlier and Seth Crawford who is a an auto flower breeder from us Oregon CBD
seeds they focus on making auto flowers for the hemp market but the two of them
together on on stage not only was insightful for both commercial growers
and home growers but they're also both funny as hell dudes so that was a good
presentation you can find the video version of that on YouTube or you can
just listen to shaping fire episode 47 and audio only because it works either
way and then you can also check out episode shaping fire 53 all about
recruiting new cannabis gardeners with auto flowers and that's my interview
with Jeff Lohan fells about his book and and about how we you know through things
like his book we're gonna expand the auto flower scene which I gotta admit
I'm very proud he asked me to to write a testimonial on so it's my first first
book I'm on the jacket cover are on so that's pretty cool you also on the
shaping fire on YouTube channel you can see my own presentation on why auto
flowers are useful to patients recorded one version of it in Portland and indo
Expo and another version indo Expo Denver and those are both on the YouTube
channel and then if you if you want to get direct links to any of this or links
to heart rock mountain farm that I mentioned or Mephisto genetics which we
mentioned all of those links will be on the page for this episode at shaping
fire comm you can find more episodes of the shaping fire podcast and subscribe
to the show at shaping fire comm and wherever you get your podcasts if you
enjoyed the show we'd really appreciate it if you would leave a positive review
of the podcast wherever you download your view will help others find the show
so they can enjoy it too on the shaping fire website you can also subscribe to
the newsletter for insights into the latest cannabis news exclusive videos
and giveaways on the shaping fire website you also find transcripts of
today's podcast as well be sure to follow on Instagram for all original
content not found on the podcast that's at shaping fire and at shango Lowe's on
Instagram be sure to check out the shaping fire YouTube channel for
exclusive interviews farm tours and cannabis lectures does your company want
to reach our national audience of cannabis enthusiasts email hotspot at
shaping fire dot com to find out how thanks for listening to shaping fire
I've been your host shango Lowe's
