I have been interested in the days right before death my entire life.
When I was a child, my aunt started one of the first hospices in the United States.
I grew up mowing the lawn of the small house that acted as its office.
My mom worked there for almost 20 years in grant writing and development.
My dad worked there too in public outreach.
Hospice, death, and dying was a constant topic at my house.
And it wasn't dark or sad in any way, it was just the service my family provided.
In high school I was on the debate team and we had an entire debate season on the topic
of euthanasia and living wills.
Even though debate is a game, I learned the intricacies of what legally defines life and
how the state and families play a role beside the wishes of the patient.
And now as an adult, talking and teaching about cannabis medicine, people come up to
me right at the grocery store, or they stop me and ask to talk to them in their car, or
they stop me after public speeches.
And very often they let me know they are dying, and they want to learn about cannabis
relief.
I've learned to give an efficient, dry, and to-the-point response.
Folks seem to appreciate that.
And off they go to find some cannabis tincture with an understanding of dosing and how to
use cannabis.
This episode is important because dying is not cool and there would be no marketing or
information provided to cannabis folks who are dying.
People who will die soon and their families need one place to get most of the information
they may need to get started down this path, all in one place.
That is what I'm trying to do with this episode today.
If you want to learn about cannabis health, business, and technique efficiently and with
good cheer, I encourage you to subscribe to our newsletter.
We'll send you new podcast episodes as they come out, delivered right to your inbox along
with commentary on a couple of the most important news items from the week and videos too.
Don't rely on social media to let you know when a new episode is published.
Sign up for the updates to make sure you don't miss an episode.
Also, we're giving away very cool prizes to folks who are signed up to receive the newsletter.
There's nothing else you need to do to win except receive that newsletter.
So go to shapingfire.com to sign up for the newsletter this week and be entered into this
month's and all future newsletter prize drawings.
You are listening to Shaping Fire and I'm your host, Shango Lose.
My guest today is Dr. Sunil Agarwal.
Dr. Agarwal is co-founder of the Ames Institute in Seattle, Washington, a practice specializing
in integrative approaches to neurology, oncology, transpersonal psychiatry, and palliative care,
and incorporating cannabis, ketamine, and other emerging therapies.
Dr. Agarwal is a fellow of the American Academy of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, board
certified in physical medicine and rehabilitation and hospice and palliative medicine, and the
immediate past chair of the Integrative Medicine Special Interest Group at the American Academy
of Hospice and Palliative Medicine.
He is clinical assistant professor at the University of Washington School of Medicine
and a member of the Humboldt Institute for Interdisciplinary Marijuana Research.
He is also currently an associate medical director of MultiCare Hospice.
Dr. Agarwal has been qualified as an expert in cannabis and psilocybin medical and religious
use in county, state, and federal courts.
His education, associations, and publishing are extensive and can be found at amesinstitute.net.
Sunil has previously been a guest on Shaping Fire Episode 3, explaining the geographical
history of humans and cannabis.
Today we're going to be discussing integrating cannabis medicine into end-of-life care.
Welcome to the show, Sunil.
Welcome back.
Oh, it's so great to be back, Django.
Well, let's get right into it and make clear what we're actually talking about today, because
a lot of us have heard our friends and family and even the news talk about end-of-life care,
but except for the idea that, oh, that person's probably reaching the end of life, we don't
really have a real grasp on what that might be.
So when caregivers use the term end-of-life care, what exactly are they saying?
Well, end-of-life care in this country usually happens in hospice care.
Most people, when they are facing end-of-life means in hospice, your prognosis is you have
a medical condition which two doctors certify that you might have six months or less to
live.
So it's kind of a care when you know that somebody is near the end of life, and how
do you manage the care such that you maximize the quality of life with the time you have
left?
That involves a whole range of skill sets from the caregiver standpoint, from the medical
system standpoint, from the family standpoint.
And that sort of all falls under the umbrella of end-of-life care.
So how far away from death does a patient have to be to, I don't know, qualify for end-of-life
care hospice treatment?
Because in a certain way, we're all terminal, right?
But there's got to be a window where it's so close that the strategy changes.
Yeah, that's right.
I mean, that's why I mentioned hospice at the get-go, because this really is how we
build our system of care.
So hospice is sort of the most intensive, like palliative, that's another term I want
to let your listeners know about is palliative care, which grew out of hospice.
It was the type of care, palliative means to cover or to cloak.
And so it's a medical specialty, you know, where you're working on symptom management,
really high-quality symptom management, supportive care, looking at physical, emotional, psychological,
spiritual suffering.
We call that total pain.
And so that type of care happens most intensely, 100% in hospice.
It's like palliative intensive care in hospice, and that usually happens at a patient's home,
and the team comes to them, and also is available by phone or, you know, telemedicine these
days.
So that's kind of, and that really is a benefit that anybody is eligible for.
Like I said, if two doctors say that they are potentially six months or less to live,
no matter what medical condition that might be.
I see.
Sorry.
I was just going to say earlier than that, now people know that even, you know, patients
need some kind of palliative care much earlier than in being in hospice care.
And certainly, anybody, you know, and you're right, I mean, we could all benefit from greater
quality of life and better symptom management and care for the total pain that we experience
in our lives, which is a very holistic model of care.
And definitely that's somebody, something that anybody can benefit no matter their age
or illness status.
But the medical field of palliative care has decided to focus its efforts on patients with
anyone who has a, what we call a serious or life-threatening illness.
And so that's at any stage of that illness.
So that could be, you know, years before somebody might, you know, reach their death.
We don't really know.
But it is that patients can still be eligible for that kind of care, even though they're
not in hospice.
It just happens in a different way.
It's interesting that definition that you gave us for palliative care, where it is care
that is more holistic and taking care of the whole human instead of just, let's say, the
chemistry and mechanics of the body.
When you describe that, I thought to myself, well, hell, that's the kind of care that I
wish I was getting from my doctor my entire life.
And it's just not how we tend to do things in the United States, which is interesting
because, you know, our general fear of death in total.
You hit on palliative care and you hit on end-of-life care as far as definitions go.
But since so many people use the term terminal care, why don't you hit on that too?
And your answer may be it's the same thing.
But specifically, what do people mean about terminal care for folks who are listening
and they're trying to decipher what their doctor is telling them?
Sure.
I mean, terminal, if you're terminal, if you get a diagnosis, the doctor says you're
terminally ill, that just means that you have a diagnosis of an illness that, based on
statistical tables, you know, will lead to your death.
And that there's a lot of ranges of variability in terms of, you know, two years, one year,
six months.
There's like a lot of variation in that.
But like, for example, an illness like ALS or Lou Gehrig's disease, people may live with
that for many years and the decline might be slow.
That's where, you know, a patient might slowly lose muscle function.
And we don't have a cure for that right now, although there are some experimental approaches
out there that might modify the disease.
So there's another kind of philosophy or school of thought where people say, well, we say
the word terminal too quickly in medicine and that really it's kind of a, it can be
a sort of, what do you call it, like arrogance, because we don't really know.
You know, there are definitely examples of spontaneous remissions.
There are, you know, there are experimental approaches.
There are people with stage four cancer, you know, who are living for many, many years
now with certain types of advancements that we have.
So if somebody gets a diagnosis of stage four cancer, you know, and they're saying, well,
that's terminal, they might not pursue those other types of therapies that, you know, are
showing effectiveness for survival, longevity.
So that's one of the things that I think is really important.
So that's why I'm a little, I'm cautious with the term terminal because of the, like
I said, it implies a lot more than we really know, but it is helpful to know the statistical
tables, you know, and doesn't necessarily mean that they'll all apply to the individual.
There's a lot of individual variation.
And so that's where that comes from.
But we've kind of, I think we still use it in hospice.
So in hospice care, you do certify that somebody is, you know, we think we'll have six months
or less.
But then what happens, people still get, let's say they're living longer because now they're
having better quality of life.
And then the doctors have to recertify the patient periodically.
Oh, no, they live longer than we thought.
So do we still think they're terminal?
And then they have to go through a process like that.
So it's kind of a different approach.
So just for the clarity of folks, when we talk about terminal or not terminal, but let's
use end of life care in this case, we're not really looking for a solution anymore, right?
Because very often on this show, we talk about, you know, taking large doses of cannabinoids
to fight cancer or, you know, other, you know, traditionally terminal diseases.
But really, by the time you're in end of life care, the goal really isn't to, okay, what
are the ways that we can stop this?
It's really about how can we make you comfortable?
How can we make you mentally present so that you can interact with your family?
How can we decrease your pain so you can experience some joy and maybe a little bit of
self-actualization before your last breaths?
But it's not really about care.
Well, you know, people still, people can still have hope for that kind of thing if they,
we don't want to discourage that.
You can still have that kind of care.
You can have the care exactly as you described, impeccable management of comfort, family support,
psychospiritual, physical health and healing in terms of quality of life, and you know,
improving your, like you said, your mental acuity or just your physical comfort, all
the different layers, and then making sure that your family is also cared for and has
support.
And we usually accomplish this with not just like one doctor or one nurse, but really like
a whole team of, we call a multidisciplinary team of specialists like chaplains, social
workers, you know, integrative therapy, acupuncture providers or, you know, other people who are
acupuncture providers or Reiki or, you know, there's very broad range of specialties that
get involved to make that kind of care possible at the end of life.
But at the same time, a patient might say, well, you know, I still want to take my X,
you know, because even though that might be like an experimental therapy, you know, to
help a patient to see if that'll improve the length of time that they have or slow
the disease, that's not incompatible with that.
And patients still have a right to explore experimental treatments, even while they're
on hospice.
It's just generally the hospice, the medical Medicare, which is usually most patients in
hospice are on Medicare, they don't pay for that care.
They do let you see a doctor on the outside, one doctor on the outside, like your old primary
doctor or somebody else.
So there is a way to still have hospice care, high quality end of life care and still explore
the other aspects that you're talking about.
But of course, we don't, the end of life care folks are focused on how to make that
quality of life as good as possible so that no matter what the patient is doing, you know,
that's the best possible day.
And then also the people who live on after the patient that they're not racked with
complicated grief or, you know, trauma from their loved ones.
Right on.
So just for the sake of clarification, because of the particular audience that I have, you
know, you said that the patient may still want to be taking their ex and it's, you
know, it may be an, you know, not totally researched or finished medicine or whatever.
When you say ex, you meant like a variable, like whatever pharmaceutical that they were
getting good relief on.
You are not referring to ecstasy MDMA, correct?
Yeah.
On another show, you wouldn't have to clarify that, but on this show you do.
So we work with a whole lot of different entheogens.
Although, I mean, certainly we can talk about entheogens and pharmaceutical entheogens like
MDMA here or the Cogener's MDMA is like similar to, you know, something from Sassafras root
sephirole and that these are, you know, and also it's similar to mescaline.
And mescaline has been used for, you know, a thousand years at least more in different
types of healing, like holistic healing that we're talking about.
So there's definitely, we can talk about that too.
But I was referring to in that context, like if anybody wants to sort of use, I've had a
lot of patients in hospice that continue to use different like supplements or natural
medicines that are, you know, they hope that have anti-cancer activity, for example, but
at the same time, they're receiving high quality hospice care.
So it's still possible to have that hope of having something to, you know, do something
about the disease process, but also being under the care of a team that's really focusing
on your comfort and quality of life.
Dr. Justin Marchegiani So while we're probably not gonna have time
to get into the MDMA mimic that you just suggested, which is like mescaline and from a root,
I know that there's a lot of people whose ears just perked up like mine did.
Can you just give us a quick search term for folks who want to look that up?
Like what would they Google to find out more about this preparation you're talking about?
Dr. David Oxford Oh, Sassafras root.
Yeah.
Dr. Justin Marchegiani Oh, it's Sassafras.
Okay.
Dr. David Oxford Yeah, that was just, I was just giving an
example of like, you know, it's a MDMA was made in German by German chemists in the 19th,
early 1900s.
But its chemical structure is very similar to a chemical that's been used in natural
medicine for a long time, Sassafras oil, an ingredient in Sassafras oil.
So that's all I was just sort of tying it back to a natural cogener or something in
nature that it's very similar to.
And then I was also tying it to the class of compounds called phenylethylamines.
Phenylethylamines are, you know, what MDMA is like that and there are naturally occurring
phenylethylamine mescaline as your listeners might have heard of.
So I was just giving you some, you threw MDMA over there and talked about entheogen.
So I wanted to, one of my interests is this class of compounds and I think they're, they
have a huge role to play in end of life care and we're getting a lots of research
studies on that nowadays.
So it's even more compelling and I'm incorporating some of that in my practice, but we can talk
about that later.
Right on.
So because cannabis is such a versatile healing herb, you know, it's used for a wide range
of relief in all sorts of ways, capsules and vaped and tinctures and suppositories and
smoked.
But, you know, as a doctor, you know, who still has a very active clinical life and
you are seeing patients and families all the time, I imagine that even though there's a
wide range of possible uses for cannabis, that there are some that come up more often.
What are these uses that come up more often that you see when actually dealing with real
life patients?
Cannabis is a widely utilized for managing the pain, managing fatigue, managing insomnia,
managing like nausea and vomiting.
Those are some of the, did I mention mood?
I think that there's like a whole symptom cluster that, you know, cannabis can help
patients with.
And that's exactly what I've seen in my practice and encourage patients that have
access to cannabis who are at, you know, in end of life care settings.
It's not always easy to make that access thing happen.
I know we're going to talk about that later.
But when you do have access to cannabis, it can do a lot of work to take care of these
really difficult symptoms that normally doctors would prescribe opioids and benzodiazepines
and some pharmaceutical anti-nausea medicines to treat.
It is really interesting, isn't it?
How some of the symptoms that patients want relief for are some of the more basic things
that cannabis helps with, like nausea and pain and just general muscle tension, stress,
anxiety about being sick.
And yet, you know, once folks start taking it for that, they start to realize all these
other benefits like, oh, gosh, my IBS has gone away.
Or my headaches have gone away.
And then suddenly now they're taking it for a much wider range of symptoms than they
originally taking it for.
Because once they have first-person experience with it, they're like, oh, my God, where's
this been all my life?
You got it.
That's right.
It's called I'd call those side benefits as opposed to side effects.
So we're going to go to a break soon.
And then we're going to during the second set, we're going to talk much more specifically
about using cannabis for end-of-life care.
But I want to before we go, I want to make sure that we we talk about how this process
gets started.
You know, when cannabis comes up, do you find that it's normally you as the doctor who is
mentioning it to the patient and their family?
Or do you find that usually it's the patient who has found out about it on their own and
they are requesting this guidance from you?
Well, Shingo, I would say that the answer to that question has shifted quite a bit over
the last 10, I guess I've been I've been interacting with patients as a professional
medical student or something for almost 20 years.
So the situation from the first half of my career practice has shifted where to initially
where I was bringing it up more to now where patients are already know about this and are
bringing it up for more specialized guidance.
So it's really now, of course, that changes in terms of demographics.
It's your you're working with, you know, what is the age range of the patient?
What is their ethnic background?
What kind of setting are they in, like in a nursing home or hospital or in a community
setting?
So it's really those variables.
And then now I'm in a practice where, you know, cannabis is very prominently featured
on our on our materials and people know me for that kind of work.
So it's I end up getting patients who already know about it and are more like, well, yeah,
I know it can be helpful.
I've tried it, but I don't really know how to I need to kind of refine that or I need
more guidance.
So a lot of times patients are bringing it up.
Well, actually, that's a that's a great transition.
So our next set is going to be all about refining and patient understanding of how best to use
cannabis.
So that'll be great.
Let's go ahead and get this first commercial out of the way.
We're going to take a short break and be right back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire and my guest today is hospice and palliative care specialist,
Dr. Sunil Agarwal.
Sometimes the topics I want to share with you are far too brief for an entire Shaping
Fire episode.
In those instances, I post them to Instagram.
I invite you to follow my two Instagram profiles and participate online.
The Shaping Fire Instagram has follow up posts to Shaping Fire episodes, growing and processing
best practices, product trials, and of course, gorgeous flower photos.
The Shango Lowe's Instagram follows my travels on cannabis garden tours, my successes and
failures in my own garden, insights and best practices from personal grows everywhere and
always gorgeous flower photos on both profiles.
The emphasis is on sharing what I've learned in a way that you can replicate it in your
own garden, your own hash lab, or for your own cannabino pathic health.
So I encourage you to follow at Shaping Fire and at Shango Lowe's and join our online
community on Instagram.
As a business owner, you are incredibly busy.
In reality, you are responsible for everything your company does.
You've got so many responsibilities every single day that often you just don't have
the time to really dig into your marketing as deeply as you'd like.
You know there's more that you could do to reach out to new customers and encourage
loyalty in the customers you already have, but you certainly don't have the time for
it and you're not ready to hire somebody full time for that role either.
For you, I recommend blunt branding.
At blunt branding, Kirsten Nelson and her team are focused on improving your bottom
line.
You know, most marketing firms are excited to make your logo, packaging, and website
very pretty, but they leave responsibility for improving your bottom line up to you.
They don't want that kind of responsibility, but that's pretty much the most important
part of marketing, right?
Kirsten and her team will help you engage new customers, funnel them to your point of
sale, whether it be online or a storefront, and keep them coming back to you and telling
their friends.
Now, if you happen to be a new cannabis company or an established company moving from medical
to adult use in your state, Kirsten especially can help you.
Not only is she well-versed in marketing and finance, but she totally gets cannabis,
whole plant medicine, terpenes, heritage farmers, and the particular needs of startups.
Check out what she did recently for Moon Time Medicinals and Humboldt at MoonTimeMedicinals.com.
Kirsten and her team put together a whole brand package for them, built their website,
and wrote their sales materials.
No doubt, this is a paid commercial spot, but that does not mean they bought my opinion.
I've worked with Blunt Branding on five projects now for various of their clients,
and every single time they have done more than they have promised and over-delivered
on results.
I love how they generate new revenue and focus on that as the goal instead of just making
a pretty logo.
Similarly, every single friend I've referred them to has come back to thank me, and that
just does not happen every day.
Grab a pen and paper because the website address is coming up.
If you want someone to implement marketing programs that feed your bottom line, give
Blunt Branding a call.
They will share proven techniques to increase your audience and generate sales while using
cutting-edge technology solutions in the background that make all of this easy, automatic, and
trackable.
Go to shapingfire.com forward slash blunt branding to find out more.
You can also click the link in our newsletter.
Blunt Branding, marketing that makes you money.
Did you know that Shaping Fire has a fabulous YouTube channel with content not found on
the podcast?
When I attend conventions or speak or moderate panels, I always record them and bring the
content home for you to watch.
The Shango Los YouTube channel has world-class speakers, including Kevin Jodry of Wonderland
Nursery talking about breeding cannabis for the best terpene profile, Nicholas Mahmood
on regenerative and polyculture cannabis growing, Dr. Sunil Agarwal on the history of cannabis
medicine around the world, Ben Cassidy of True Terpenes on using terpenes for health
in your everyday life, Reggie Godino of Steep Hill on the cannabis genome, and Jeff Lowenfels
on the soil food web.
There are several presentations from Dr. Ethan Russo on terpenes and the endocannabinoid
system, and even my own presentation on how to approach finding your dream job in cannabis
and why we choose cannabis business even though the risks are so high.
As of today, there are over 100 videos that you can check out for absolutely free.
Go to youtube.com forward slash shango los or click on the link in this week's newsletter.
Welcome back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire.
I'm your host, Shango Los, and our guest this week is hospice and palliative care specialist,
Dr. Sunil Agarwal.
So, you know, during the first set, we kind of gave a little background for folks who
are new to thinking about end-of-life care.
So we know exactly when it is, what it is, and, you know, what it may take to get the
topic started on cannabis medicine.
During this set, we're going to talk a lot more about the how, right?
As Sunil was talking about before we went to break, there's a lot of different ways
to use cannabis and not all of them are appropriate for each kind of ailment.
Now, before we get into those specifics, I want to point out that there is no way that
we are going to get through all of the different ailments and ways that cannabis can help during
this show or during one of any show.
And so there's, I want to refer you to a handful of Shaping Fire episodes that we already
have out that goes in depth into cannabis use for particular ailments.
So here, here they are.
So episode 22, you can learn about treating brain injury with cannabis with Dr. Ethan
Russo.
Episode 36 is on breathing, COPD and asthma with cannabis with Dr. Robert, excuse me,
with Robert Littman.
Episode 57, using cannabis for Parkinson's with Zoe Sigman.
Episode 60 on decreasing chronic pain with cannabis instead of using opioids with Dr.
Eddie Ray.
Episode 62 on satisfying sexually with a chronic disease with a counselor and therapist,
Chris Maxwell Rose.
And then the recent episode, episode 67 on treating migraines with cannabis with Dr.
Ethan Russo.
So, so with that, Sunil, you know, most people think of using cannabis medicine by smoking
a joint, right?
Just because that's kind of the picture that they have in their head from culture.
But really smoking is not usually the proper form for most patients, both because the dosing
comes on so fast and also most terminal or end of life patients are, are not usually
a location that, that smoking is, um, you know, appropriate because they're, they're
likely indoors and perhaps in some kind of a institutional setting.
So, so what, when, when people ask you about, well, well doc, should I get some cannabis
flower to smoke?
What, what do you, how do you interpret that for them?
Mm-hmm.
Yeah.
I also, the other, I say the same thing you just said, and also the fact that with smoking
you, um, it doesn't last as long.
Uh, it might, might be quick to come on, which actually can be nice and helpful.
And for that reason, I don't, I try to, if a patient has the accessibility to have a
vaporizers, access, dry flower vaporizer or, or clean, a clean oil that's vaporizable without
pesticides or solvents, um, and you know, any excipients.
So there are oils can be vaporized too.
And inhalation is, can be really effective when you need relief like now.
And you don't need that much.
So you're fast acting and titratable, you know, as I'm sure your listeners know, is
there so many advantages of that route, but the disadvantages are, like you said, context
environment that might not be conducive to that.
And also the, uh, the fact that, um, you know, your relief might not be as long lasting
because the onset and, and, and fall off is, is, is short.
So I just kind of educate patients about that.
And that if you do smoke, you know, um, the Institute of Medicine, uh, 99, their earlier
report on cannabis and in, in end of life care, you know, um, they said that, yeah,
Hey, you know, the risks would be outweighed by the, I mean, the benefits would be outweighed
with the risks, risks of smoking in patients who are terminal or end of life.
So we don't really, I mean, if, if a patient wants to do that and likes that and likes
the flavor of the taste, you know, um, that approach and they have a setting that's conducive
to that, I'm not gonna, I'm not gonna, you know, stop that or get, or cause that, yeah,
there are risks like soot, um, you know, coughing.
Um, and of course you mentioned the respiratory sensitive individuals in that earlier show
you had on COPD.
Um, so those are the, those are the risks, but if, if they're okay with those things
or, and, and I think, I still think it's worth supporting patients to do that.
It's a very old method of use.
Um, and it might be part of their tradition.
It might be part of their, um, you know, the, the sensual aspects of cannabis.
And I, I didn't get to mention that in the last section that cannabis is also useful
for patients at end of life on, on improving, you know, their, um, sense of being and well,
just overall general psychoemotional spiritual wellness.
And so anything that's going to help connect them to a tradition or a aroma that feels,
you know, comforting is, is great.
So that's, that's all the big caveat I would say to patients about that.
Dr. John Gallagher I like how you put, point that out about the
tradition culture and the, um, I don't know, the emotional connection with flower because
it really is different, isn't it?
Between people who are learning about cannabis and starting to use it for the first time at
end of life versus a lifelong user of cannabis who is using it at end of life.
I mean, I have gone to so many patient events where, you know, you've got these,
these, these older folks who've been smoking weed their whole life.
And, you know, they look so much more at ease and in their realm when they've got a joint
and they're smoking it.
And for me as an asthmatic, I'm like, oh, you know, all that combustion and all that heat.
That's not, you know, for me, um, that, that makes it harder to breathe and isn't great.
But, but you see these, you see these folks and like it's, it's been their release from
anxiety and part of their social world for so long.
I discourage people to, you know, try to have those people switch to,
you know, something else, uh, just because they are, you know, dealing with end of life care
because you don't want to take from them something that they have been using effectively their
entire life.
You know, let the, the, the, they're going to get the, the muscle relaxation, the anti-anxiety,
the increase in appetite, you know, they're going to get the basics, whether or not they're,
you know, smoking and combusting a joint or using a vaporizer.
Um, but gosh, you know, let them, let them, let them use it the way that they want to.
Yeah, exactly.
We, we, our philosophies often don't take away what people it's already working for them,
but maybe you can add to it or supplement, you know, as long as it's safe.
Um, so I, I, I, you know, the, uh, then I would educate patients about the value of
tinctures, you know, um, or, or suppositories or, um, method or oral edible route, you know,
if they aren't, um, that, that they could add that in and, and, and enhance the benefit that
they're getting.
Um, so that, that's sort of how I approach that.
Like it's both and, you know, yeah, possible.
And so before we move on from smoking, so I guess against essentially the summary is,
is if, if there's no, uh, health reason for the patient to stop smoking and they love smoking
joints, let them, you know, go about their, their way that they always have.
But if, um, if there are lung issues, um, or, or if they might be able to be allowed to do this
indoors, you know, consider a flower vaporizer, which, um, you know, honestly I've heard from so
many patients who they just close their door and they vape in their room in an institution that's
federally funded and it's not allowed, but because, you know, vaporization isn't smoke,
it doesn't get the same kind of attention from staff.
And so, um, you know, that's that.
And so, you know, be, be aware of vaporization as an option.
But don't think it's the only option, um, just because somebody's sick.
So, so let's move on to capsules.
So, um, you know, uh, capsules are good for many patients because of the ease of use,
right?
There's, there's no smell it's, it's discreet.
Um, it's, it's very easy with the dexterity of the fingers, you know, to just take a capsule
versus, you know, roll a joint or, or, you know, uh, take tincture or things like that.
But, um, but it's not so good for some folks with like throat and some stomach issues.
So, so please speak to your experience about capsules.
Yeah, you got it.
I mean, a capsule can basically people talk about, um, encapsulating in, in usually like
cellulose capsules, um, various extracts of cannabis.
Some people just use raw or heated up flour, um, and ground up, you know, um, cannabis
flour, uh, or more commonly, um, and on oil extraction, like a coconut oil extraction
or, you know, glycerin.
Um, and then you, uh, and then your alcohol extraction, and then you, you just take, take
a chunk of that and then fill it into a capsule.
And there you have an encapsulated, um, cannabis product, which, um, you know, as you said,
by it bypasses, it's not the lungs, it's not the oral mucosa, it goes straight to the stomach
and in the small intestine, it, um, you know, absorbs the absorption is more variable.
But it's still, it's longer lasting.
And if you have, if you take it with a fatty meal, um, you know, or oil drink, sip some
oil, um, it'll improve the absorption ability.
And then it goes, has first pass effect to the liver.
So you get more potent.
And, um, if you're working with a THC, you get 11 hydroxy THC, which is more potent.
And, you know, you can have several hours of, of effectiveness and, you know, all you
had to do was just swallow one capsule.
So that's very convenient.
And, um, you know, I think, uh, can, can do a lot of, um, good for patients, uh, for,
for the symptom clusters and, um, uh, that we were talking about before.
So, yeah, it's, it's very, I, I think you're right.
The swallowing challenges are there.
I've had some patients, um, or I've heard about patients that just skip the, uh, who
have feeding tubes in.
Um, and, um, I had a doc teacher, a doctor who was a teacher of mine in medical school.
And she told me stories how they would just in the eighties, uh, somebody who had used
cannabis for, for nausea, vomiting, symptom relief, but couldn't swallow.
Uh, so they would just, they made an oil, um, and dripped it into the opening of the,
uh, food, the feeding tube.
Yeah.
So that's, uh, you know, sometimes you gotta just skip the entire upper gut, upper GI and
go straight to the opening that patients use.
Yeah.
Wow.
That's Dex, that's extraordinary.
I've not heard of that before.
Uh, one of the interesting things about capsules and you hit on it just a moment ago that there
are, there are some, uh, uh, stomach issues that you have to avoid it because even though
cannabis is good for stomach issues, the capsule itself is irritating for lots of different
types of patients.
And so, um, it's weird to say that, you know, cannabis is great for stomach issues and digestive
issues with it, which it is, but a, a, the method, the capsule itself may be the irritant.
So, um, you know, patients, patients and caregivers, they'll get more sophisticated as, as, as we
go with this.
Um, you mentioned a wide range of things that could be in capsules, uh, you know, from,
um, you know, uh, just, just, uh, flour that has been put into a capsule, um, and, and
then oils and then, and then whatever type of combinations that they might purchase at
a, at a, um, at a recreational legal cannabis store.
Um, I think it's probably a good idea for us to mention that if you are interacting,
you know, if you're using, uh, capsules that are homemade versus capsules that are store
bought, you're going to want to make sure that you take, you know, at least one of these
capitals, maybe a few, if there, if you think that there might be a lot of variability to
them and go ahead and drop them off at a, uh, a cannabis, um, analytics lab.
Hopefully, you know, if you don't have one in your state, you'll have one soon.
The point I'm trying to make is that a dosage is very relevant when it comes to this because,
you know, you know, one of the big aspects of medical cannabis is repeatability of results.
You don't want to have a patient who is taking, you know, a particular dosage of a cannabis
product consistently. And then all of a sudden they take the eighth or ninth capsule and now
they're over the moon high because, um, there's so much variability in it. So, so I'm a big fan
of people, you know, making their own cannabis medicine, but, um, uh, would you agree that the,
the repeatability of results is essential when it comes to, uh, this type of care?
Absolutely. Yeah. If you, if you can get to a lab, uh, if there's, uh, if you're in a state
where you have access as a patient or as a consumer, um, um, why not utilize it? It's
good to know how much, you know, at least the potency. There's other testing for safety too.
You know, if you got it from someplace and you're not sure of the pesticide content or heavy metal
residue. Um, so those are also important for safety purposes. Um, uh, and, um, and then potency
is great too. So you can know, okay, I'm, I'm trying to, I want to get five milligrams of THC
and 25 milligrams of CBD, or, or I want to have a high THC, low CBD, or, you know, I want to,
I want to, um, some places offer terpene testing. So those kinds of things will give you a chance to,
to understand more about what your responsiveness is and what you might need to adjust to maximize
the response you're looking for. So it's, it's very, uh, it's very helpful though. I,
it's hard to, some places don't have it. And sometimes the testing is expensive. So, um,
those are the draw, the limitations. Sure. And, and while we're talking about limitations, let's,
let's hit on the limitations of capsules. We've already hit on the fact that, that the actual
act of swallowing them can be an impediment for, um, many patients. Um, but also the, the putting
them together, the actual physical capping them up is, is very likely going to be something that
is going to be difficult for the patient. And gosh, it's, it's also very possible that it's
going to be difficult for the family members too, because making caps is not the easiest thing,
uh, unless you've got, you know, very fully functioning flanges, you know, and, and.
There is a capsule making machines you can get, which we sometimes patients benefit from
simplifying their lives. You know, it's like an auto auto capper.
Absolutely. And, and, you know, for somebody who is, uh, uh, working in end of life care and it's
not going to be immediate, that might be, I mean, it might make a lot of sense. Um, the thing, the,
the biggest drawback for me when recommending capsules to patients though, is the fact that
you're kind of, uh, tied to the preset dosage that's in the capsule. And I'm a big fan of,
uh, uh, variability in dosing, uh, from day to day, uh, based on the patient's needs.
So they can titrate themselves. And for this, um, tinctures become very popular. Um, what have you
seen as far as like the, uh, the benefits of a patient being able to control their dosage
up or down based on their day? Oh, well, that's, yeah, I've, it's, uh, that's very
beneficial, especially when you're, um, you know, struggling with getting your regimen
right, or you're in the early phases for, for patients who, you know, kind of already know what
their, um, what their sweet spot is, what their, um, you know, about amount of medicine that's
going to improve their, um, whatever symptom or, you know, global cluster they're treating.
And then it's, um, capsules, you know, can be a simple sort of fix, but if you haven't really
nailed that down, there's nothing like the tincture, um, to really help to, um, kind of
play with, okay, let me half a milliliter here or there, or quarter mil, um, in increments just to
kind of see what happens. And that's, we call that auto titration. Um, it's, it was this,
it was, uh, back in the day, uh, when we were still fighting where, whether we can even,
you know, have medical marijuana in all these states that we have it now, it was all this, um,
you know, um, there would be this, the conservative establishment would say, oh, well,
gosh, you know, there's no, there's no single dose and that's, that's terrible. Like, what kind of
medicine is that? And, um, and then we'd go back and say, well, no, this is even, this is called
auto titration. You can actually, you, the patient can self-adjust their dose based on what they,
what their need is and how they respond because there's so much variability in, you know, each
individual patient's endocannabinoid tone, their absorption, their, um, metabolism of different
cannabinoids and they're based on their, their genetic profile. So it's, um, it's really a,
it's a huge asset to, to cannabis medicine to have this ability to safely, you know, um,
have little slight scales of, you know, sliding dose, sliding scales, so to speak.
It's interesting too, how different patients use that variability, that sliding scale,
differently than each other. For example, I have seen about the same number of patients who, um,
have a smaller dose of THC and a higher dose of CBG and CBD in the morning. And, and then maybe
a little bit more by daytime as their body is getting a little more sore. And then by evening,
when they've already, you know, visited with their family and done whatever they have to productive
or whatever during the day, and they get to the evening, they increase their dosage to decrease
the stress on their body and just make their body more inhabitable. Whereas in that example,
where you start slow and you increase the dosage throughout the day, I've seen just as many
patients go the opposite way, where they wake up in a great amount of discomfort because,
uh, for many of them, it's, it's from, you know, sleeping or, or being horizontal and not sitting
up or whatever. And so they, so they wake up in a great deal of discomfort. And so they start the
day heavily and then, and then they slow down through the day and then, and then they increase
again at night. So they've, they can increase their catabenoid load before they go to sleep.
And it's that kind of variability, which, um, a lot of patients love about cannabis, right? Because
you just not really offered these options as a doctor in your situation where you can really
go up and down and, and give the patient so much control.
Oh, that's fascinating. You've been able to see that kind of, uh, you know, range of variable
usage and, and, uh, effectiveness. That's just so fantastic to hear.
So, so when you are explaining, uh, uh, um, variability of dosage, individualized medicine,
and that the patient's in control for, for, for most patients throughout their life,
their relationships been with the doctor is that the doctor tells you how much to take,
and you're not supposed to deviate from that. But we all know that we all pretty much deviate from
what the doctor tells us. And then we often are not clean about that with our doctor because
we, because they're an authority figure. How do you, how do you go about explaining to a patient
that they are in control of this medicine and they can take as much or as little as they want?
How do you kind of get them past the taboo that they are in control and that they don't have to
do it the way, um, the way that they're being told? Yeah, absolutely. I mean, I think, um, a lot
of what I've, uh, I'm coming from this integrative medicine background, you know, where, um, uh,
people are used to, um, you know, having a little bit more autonomy or a little more involvement in
their health care. Um, and so that, that certain type of consumer or patient that, that has already,
uh, you know, uh, learned to listen to their body and to, to, to be more active in that pursuit.
And cannabis is a traditional plant medicine, natural medicine. And that's, you know, people
grew their own and, and, and made their own products for thousands of years probably. And,
um, I think it's just, um, um, you know, just reminding people that this is not, um, kryptonite,
uh, and that it's not going to be like you take too much and then you're going to go to the,
you know, fatal overdose and, you know, something like that, like might happen if you're, um, you
know, trying, um, some other more higher risk profile natural substances. Cause there are definitely,
you know, if you take too much detour or something like that, you know, you can have a
really significant reaction or other types of plant medicines that have value, but, but also have a
narrow window. So it's emphasizing the safety, um, you know, from the medical standpoint is really
important and it's, we were fighting, you know, decades and decades of, of political, um, and,
you know, health, political politicized public health messaging on the, um, you know, uh,
extremely severe dangers of cannabis that even one, you know, micro fragment is enough to, you
know, um, be so dangerous to society that somebody needs to be put away in jail. And that's just,
that kind of reinforces the, that fear and that can, that like, let me be very, very cautious.
The other thing I would say is that there's been a kind of a proliferation of para educators,
um, para health professional educators, um, who, who help patients, um, with, with dosing,
uh, with titration, with kind of feedback. And so it's, it's having, having somebody who you
can kind of work with, um, who can help kind of guide you in a more, you know, definitely you can
still, you're still in control, but it's still nice to have a back and forth, you know, to,
to check yourself with, to get other ideas, other, other suggestions of medicine and product.
And so I've, I've found valuable for patients, um, when I can refer them to, um, a company or
an educator, um, that's, you know, doing that work and coming from a patient advocacy standpoint
where they're trying to empower with education. So that's a, that's another way to kind of be in
the, in, in between ground. It's not just the doctor and the patient, it can be like a team of,
with, with health educators.
Dr. John Pollack I like that we keep on coming back to this
team approach, uh, because, you know, while this is becoming more and more popular historically,
it's not really how Americans have interacted with the medical establishment. And, and I think that
the, the more examples you give, uh, the more apparent it is that this, this level of care
that hospice patients are getting are, is so much higher, um, that, and, and it's so effective that
it would really be great if, if we all had that. Um, so, so let's talk about this last category of
methods for using cannabis medicine and, and that's suppositories. And while, you know,
while it always gets giggles when, when I speak about it publicly, um, um, when push comes to
shove, um, it, it can, it can cause so much symptom relief that it brings patients to tears because
they, they've gone through all of these different, um, pharmaceuticals and, and they, they didn't
reach the needs that they wanted. And so then everybody tells them they should try, you know,
cannabis medicine. And, and generally, you know, suppositories are not the first things
suggested by friends, you know, so they go through, they go through smoking and maybe they'll go
through capsules and maybe they'll go through tinctures. And then they're finally like,
what the hell, you know, none of this stuff is working for me, but it's supposed to work and
working for other people. But because of their particular health issues, you know, these other
methods are not working. And so you can take an oil and, and make it into a suppository.
And then when you insert it rectally, the, the, the capsule or the, the, the oil, uh, the, so
some people use like a, like a frozen, um, uh, frozen oil, uh, I don't know, pill, I guess I'd
consider it. And, and then that melts and the, the, uh, the tissues on the walls of the rectum
will absorb the oil. And, and the two biggest benefits that I find that are unique to it is
number one, it skips the stomach and, and whatever kind of problems could be going on in the stomach.
But also, um, you can take a higher dosage of THC, um, uh, as a suppository than you can
otherwise for pain relief. So how do you see it actually play out first person? And I guess
suppositories are rare enough that you, that you may not have seen much of this firsthand, but,
but, uh, but perhaps you have. So what are your thoughts?
Well, I think, uh, it's really, I think you've pretty much said it all. It's, we don't have as
much, you know, like, uh, pharmacological, pharmacological data for pharmacokinetic is
what it's called where you look at absorption and you kind of calculate how much is in the
bloodstream as a function of how much you put into the, into the suppository. That data isn't,
is there as much as we have with other routes of administration. So it's a little, there's a
little bit more of, um, you know, individualized or anecdotally driven, um, recommendation pattern,
which is fine. I think it's, um, it's just, we just need more learned to learn more. I think,
you know, um, like for example, I think, you know, the, the absorbability of CBD might be
higher than THC or actually I think the THC we have better data on than CBD. Let me put it that
way in terms of absorption from the, even the ability to absorb from the rectum. So, and then
the other, there are other issues with, um, um, whether you're placing it in the right level in
the rectum, cause there's, there's actually like, um, some, the, the blood supply and there,
there's a, there's, there's a, like a line of tissue that separates, uh, one, one level of the
rectum from another. And there might be some, some people might need even deeper insertion for better
absorption, but then, you know, you really want to make sure you don't have anything in there
that's going to cause any, any harm. Uh, like it should really just be a dissolving, um, you know,
like bullet shape type, um, like oil, oil, uh, object. So the suppositories can be, there's more
of an art to it. And, um, and I, I think, um, I think you, you, you, it's sort of like, uh, smoking
where you do bypass a lot of the liver effects, uh, at the first stage. So that's kind of nice.
Um, and, but you also get the longevity of effect of, of effect. So that's also very,
can be very helpful. So I think it's, um, I have a less experience. I have patients that
certainly use cannabis suppositories and they're very happy with the effect. Um, I have, we prescribe
other medicines by a suppository. So it's not, not a new method to me. It's just that we don't
have as much data on it with cannabis. It's really interesting helping patients and their families,
you know, once they've decided that suppositories are going to be their solution. Um, it's amazing
how much I've learned about suppositories just from trying to help, uh, families figure out how
to do it. Right. You know, there's their suppository kits online on eBay that you can pick
up. And it's really funny. They look like, um, you know, they just, they look like ice make ice
trays. Right. And, and people are putting, you know, a little, a little squirt of cannabis oil
from a syringe and a little bit of shea butter and a little bit of coconut oil in there, and then
tossing them in the freezer, which is like a really, really basic, um, recipe. And, um, and,
you know, they, they get harder and then once they take them out, you know, they've got a few moments
to, um, introduce it to the body before it warms up and gets, uh, soft. And of course that's always
an interesting experience for the patient, um, to have something so chilly down there, but, uh,
but, um, it's interesting. Like I find that more and more people are realizing that a lot of,
um, just regular old capsules, like you'd buy at the pharmacy, just like empty, you know, number
three capsules, um, they as well will, um, disintegrate in the rectum. And it really doesn't
have to, you don't really necessarily have to go down this path of, you know, building your own
reinventing suppositories. Um, but, but, you know, it's a, it's a whole rabbit hole of its own,
you know? Yeah, I, I think it's, um, we need more data. Um, but I think I'm really happy to hear
that patients are making their own products and exploring it. And, um, I think a lot of folks are
also interested in this for disease modification, you know, to get the higher number of milligrams
to see if that will help to change the course of their cancer. Uh, and I just, I think it's harder.
We need more information to find out exactly how much is coming out of there, uh, into the blood
stream so that we can, um, you know, help guide better. And I think there's going to be, we're
going to find it's not, it doesn't, not everything absorbs the same way that, um, that, that you get
in the small intestine. So it's, um, it's going to be, um, uh, I don't know. Um, hopefully somebody
is going to do that, those studies. So, so what, what advice do you have for folks who are going
to use different methods together? So say they're going to use capsules and smoking or vaporizing
and a tincture or, or, you know, one of the others in suppositories, um, uh, because, you know, in
taking them these different ways, you, you have issues with, you know, timing of when it hits your
body and also having to do the math of your, your dosage. You've got a, you know, a lot of experience
with, you know, a variety of medicines and stacking them. Right. So, so, so how do you teach
that to patients? Yeah, it's, it's pretty much like, um, uh, you want to have what we're talking
with end of life patients. So a lot of, there's a lot, oftentimes a lot of symptom burden, that's
just going to be there throughout the day. So, so it's useful to have a kind of a workhorse,
you know, something that's, um, uh, giving you a steady state, um, or more of a long acting effect.
And that's like, we talked about, you know, tinctures or capsules. Um, and, and then you
can think of other methods, uh, vaping, uh, and even suppositories, it's kind of, um, a shorter
acting like breakthrough or, you know, it's a thing, something that you can layer on top of that
a longer acting workhorse. So I like to think of it that way to help patients understand that
there's something you're going to kind of need at the base, at the basal level. And then what else
do you need when, when you need something beyond that? And that's, that, that, that's,
that's sort of a good way to think about it. Yeah. That's a, that's a really good idea. Have,
have the one be your central solution and then have, have these, these extras that you might add
as, as needed. Um, do you normally recommend that patients, uh, keep some sort of dosing journal too?
Yes, that's very helpful, especially when you're trying to figure things out and seeing what's
working, not working. And of course, with the, you know, this is a complex botanical medicine
with, uh, it's not just one active ingredient. So the more you also know about, you know, what,
what percentage or, uh, consistency or potency material you're putting in your body. So making
note of that, um, quantity and times day, um, will, you know, and, and if you have, you know,
you can put on the other, on the columns, okay, these are the symptoms I'm treating. And,
and this is what it was before. And this is what it was after in terms of, um, you know,
severity on a one to 10 scale, for example. So that, that kind of data, uh, can be really,
you can look at, do that over like five days and get a lot of information and, and show that to
your, you know, to whoever's helping you, um, with, with dosing and, and, and, you know, because
it can become comp, it can become a lot, but this is just really to help, you know, make sense of
everything. And there's just so many products is the problem too. So people kind of get overwhelmed
and that's where, um, you know, starting with at least like one, you know, this one, and then,
and then another layer on top of it, and then keeping, keeping notes will, will help to, um,
simplify this. And, you know, this is just, just the idea is just to sort of dial us in so that
then you now, you can, you know, move on with your life, you know, and, and, and do the things that
you want to do. And the other thing I didn't mention in the, in the previous section about
the details on cannabis is an end of life care, you know, there, there, there may not be like,
um, a set dosing pattern, just, it might be like, you know, people just are finding something that
helps them with their mood and, you know, they, they, they just, they use that or they, they,
they use it when they like to, because, um, you know, their mood varies throughout the day or
their level of interaction with people changes, or they get, they get fatigued after a certain
amount of time, or you use it for energy. So sometimes it can just be a really like, okay,
let me just have these on hand. And, um, I kind of know what they all do and what they're all good
for. And so let me just sort of mix and match, you know, so that that's also another, like,
I don't want to like make it so complicated and like a program, you know, it should, it should
be a chance to also have a spontaneous, um, kind of empowerment toolkit.
Yeah. Excellent. I like that an empowerment toolkit. Yeah. I like that. So, um, you know,
it's not uncommon to hear from a patient, you know, three months into this process that, uh,
the cannabis just isn't working like it used to anymore. And, um, and, um, you know, it's one of
the challenges with cannabis medicine that over time, the human body can develop tolerance. Um,
would you explain a little bit about, uh, tolerance to cannabis and, and how you,
what kind of advice you give your, um, patients about, uh, manipulating their doses or taking
tolerance breaks? Absolutely. I mean, I, I've done my colleague, uh, Dr. Dustin Sulak in Maine,
uh, is an amazing osteopathic physician and cannabis researcher and scholar. Um, he has
made such a nice, um, like websites and patient literature and videos about his, um,
resensitization protocols. Uh, I just always refer my patients, please go listen to Dr. Sulak's,
um, lectures or videos about this. He has a website healer.com. And so I, I just have him do
the explanation, but I mean, in a, in a, what he explained to people basically in a, in a bottom
line is that, that, you know, your CB1 receptors, even CB2, but all any receptor, which is the,
um, protein on the cells that, um, on the surface of the cells, like open nerve cells, for example,
that, um, cannabis cannabinoids from cannabis, um, you know, bind to and signal through to cause
the downstream effect of modulating excitability, whether it's like, um, you know, overactive pain
circuits, overactive vomiting circuit, or, you know, um, boosting up the activity of, um, of, uh,
neurons that are involved in mood or, or slowing down the activity of neurons that are involved in
negative thoughts, all that kind of modulation that is through those receptors, you know,
through tickling or binding to those receptors. And, you know, if you just keep pushing and
pushing and pushing cannabinoids, um, for a long period of time, those receptors can get desensitized.
Um, and, uh, that means that they just, they don't make as many of them or, um, you know, um, it's
usually that, like they just kind of come back into the, into the cell membrane rather than being
out there ready to receive signals. So, um, it's a dynamic system. So if you kind of take a break
from the cannabinoid exposure or the holidays, follow different protocols that Dr. Shulak has
advised, you can really just resensitize the whole system. It can kind of reboot nicely.
So that's, that's the, that's the solution there. I mean, and on the extreme, sometimes you take too
much, not only is it not working, it can actually make things worse. There's, there's something
called the cannabinoid hyperemesis syndrome, which is more rare, but it does happen. I do see it in
my practice. And we, we think that there's a, you know, the body is like having an over, overactive
immune response to all these cannabinoids and ends up making an antibody. This is one theory
that kind of might be blocking the, um, the receptors and, and, and the, and the,
and the more nausea and vomiting rather than less. So that, that's kind of the, um, everything is in
moderation. So, so that's where I, if, uh, if cannabis isn't working as well, it's also possible
that, um, they, you know, um, other therapies might be helpful. You know, um, I cannabis is
not a complete medicine. It's certainly a holistic medicine. It can do a lot of things,
but there are also other, other natural medicines out there and other strategies,
um, that, um, you know, can, can, can synergize with cannabinoids. So that's the other thing I
would say about that. So let's take that and go the other direction with it. What kind of, um,
interaction with other drugs have you seen in your practice between, um, you know,
the pharmaceuticals that there may be and, and, um, and then using cannabis?
Well, the, the most, um, common one that I see in my type of practice, um, is the combination of
cannabinoids and opioids. Um, and this is opioids from are derived from opium poppy, uh, like
morphine, um, a coding, um, uh, and, and then derivatives from the Bain, which is another
ingredient. Anyway, that's, there's a whole class of opioids. Maybe people have heard about hydro,
hydrocodone, hydromorphone, uh, you know, Dilaudid, fentanyl, the long list. Those medicines can be
helpful for pain, but if they're the only ones you rely on, they have also significant problems
with tolerance, um, with, um, dependency with the constipation, um, with suppression of adrenal
access with long-term use. So if there's any way that you can make the dosing of those more
effective, like, you know, that you take cannabinoids and layer that with opioids and the
pain relief is synergistic or greater or last longer, that's kind of the, um, one of the drug
interactions that is very positive and actually has been studied in clinical trials. And we know
it's a real phenomenon and it actually probably makes opioids safer because the blood level of
the opiates also comes down, which lowers the chance for having an overdose. So that's, that's
kind of a big one that I, I see a lot. There's, there's many, there's long tables of drug
interactions and in, in, in, of cannabinoids, one of the ones that was really pointed out with the
introduction of high dose CBD on the market, Epidiolex, the tincture of, um, cannabis that
is used in, in, in seizure disorders, uh, FDA approved for that. Um, it, they, they go on pretty
high doses or they can go on a pretty high doses of CBD, like hundreds and hundreds of milligrams
per day. And at that level, um, it can impact your ability to metabolize, um, other anti-seizure
medicines that your doctor might've prescribed. One of them is called Clobazam, it's as well
known, or our trade name is Onfi. And if you take a lot of CBD, um, with Onfi, the Onfi levels become
more toxic in the body. And so they have to be monitored more closely. Uh, and that's, that's
been shown in these studies. And you know, that, that does come up from time to time. I have
patients who, who have seizure disorders who come to see me for advice and they're, they're taking
Onfi. So we always monitor the blood levels of Onfi while we're titrating up cannabinoids. Um,
so that, you know, we know that we're in a safe range. So that, so it's, it's kind of like on,
on one hand, I can count the sort of some of the major issues in general, cannabinoids play well
with others from most medicines. So, um, I think it's, um, it's just a matter of, um, uh, what can,
what can you mix it with? Um, therapeutically, I think there's a lot more to talk about in terms of
what can you mix it with or what can it help to reduce the amount of reliance on? I'm not a purist.
I think it's nice to use other medicines if you need them, but maybe cannabis will help to reduce
the dose of those medicines. Excellent. Fantastic. Well, oh, were you done? Yeah. All right.
Fantastic. So, um, during the third set, we're going to talk about trying to use cannabis
medicine in real life. So far, we've talked a lot about, you know, the theoreticals and the
ideal situation, but after the set or after the break, we're going to talk about, um, you know,
resistance by the family and resistance by the care facility, which, which is its own thing to
tackle. So, um, we will be right back. You are listening to shaping fire. And my guest today is
hospice and palliative care specialist, Dr. Sunil Agarwal.
This message is for folks who grow cannabis. I'm talking to home growers,
patients and commercial growers too. I'm probably talking to you when you plan out your next
growing cycle. Be sure to check out Humboldt CSI seeds at Humboldt CSI.com. Caleb Inspecta and his
family have lived in Humboldt County for over a hundred years. For the last 40 years, three
generations of his family have cultivated extraordinary sense of me, a cannabis and Humboldt
Mendocino and Trinity counties because of his lineage and the hard earned experience that comes
from growing up smoking and sifting large populations of cannabis plants in Northern
California. The seeds you'll cop from CSI will be winning genetics based on long time, heavy hitters
and updated and resifted to bring out new and exotic traits and better yields. Go ahead and
ask around. Caleb, also known as Inspecta and Pirates of the Emerald Triangle is a breeder's
breeder. He reaches way back and works with significant strains, recreating them in new and
interesting ways that you'll love as a toker and a grower, as well as offering you some surprises
that will delight serious seed traders and cultivators. Humboldt CSI goes a further step
and selfs all these chemovars so you know all the seeds will be female. These are not experimental
feminized seeds. Humboldt CSI releases some of the best female seeds available anywhere and it
will show in your garden. Folks grew quite a bit of CSI Humboldt GenX last year here on Vashon Island
and everyone was pleased. The patients had beautiful female plants and didn't have to
cull half of their garden as males. The folks growing for the fun of getting high grew colorful
flowers with exceptional bag appeal and great highs. And breeders had seven out of seven females
in a pack which gave them a lot of phenotypic choices. Take a moment right now and visit
humboldtcsi.com. You'll find an up-to-date menu of both feminized and regular lines
along with photos and descriptions. That's humboldtcsi.com.
Pre-rolls have come a long way since the early days of normalization. When you choose Saints
joints you are smoking all flower top shelf pre-rolls with terpenes that will sculpt your high
in a way that dry old pre-rolls just can't. Whereas most brands release pre-rolls as an
afterthought, for the last five years Saints joints has focused on their line of exotic curated joints.
And while some companies just chase the hype strains, Saints joints goes deeper searching out
hard to find strains, unexpected crosses, and nearly forgotten land races and classics. And
some hype ones too. Not only does a joint from Saints smoke incredibly well, they have fine-tuned
every step of the process so you don't get runs in the paper. The joint is just the right density
to have a nice pull and the joint stays lit even if you get a bit chatty. Saints joints boxes are
works of art and will spark conversation when you pull them out at a party. Saints award-winning
boxes change with every release, feature edgy outsider art, and often raise awareness of
important issues like equal rights. Saints boxes are so desired that many collect them and display
them in their homes. Ask your bud tender for Saints joints and have a premium joint experience.
Now if you are a licensed cannabis cultivator I have an extra message for you.
Saints is looking for partners in legal cannabis states to expand the availability of the Saints
joints brand. Do you grow exceptional cannabis flower but are less excited about all the effort,
cost, and risk of launching your own brand? Saints joints may be just the partner you are looking for.
Already established in California, Washington, and Oklahoma, and recognized by Entrepreneur
Magazine and Green Entrepreneur as a cannabis industry leader, the Saints joints brand will
set you apart in your home market. The best thing I can recommend is for you to visit their Instagram
at Saints joints and look at their patented drawer design boxes. Become that brand everyone
is talking about without having to build it from scratch. Check out the Instagram at Saints joints
and then visit saintsjoints.com to find out more. In times like these when so many cannabis companies
are growing their flower in gigantic warehouses and fields using synthetic nutrients, it is good
to know that there are authentic California heritage growers using natural farming techniques
and sunshine to cultivate cannabis flowers for you. California has produced the best cannabis
in the world for generations and the idea that massively scaled industrial cannabis production
could produce the same quality as small batch lovingly cultivated flowers is just silly.
Moontime Medicinals is located in Humboldt County on the lush South Fork of the Eel River Watershed
in the epicenter of the American cannabis heartland. Moontime Medicinals grows under bright
California sun in greenhouses using only natural farming techniques like hugelkultur, compost teas,
whole food fertilizers, and fermented plant juices. Every part of their growing process
plays its own part in nature and nothing synthetic is injected into the process.
The result is big beautiful cannabis flowers with wide-ranging terpene profiles that taste
like great cannabis should. If you live in California ask your bud tender for Moontime
Medicinals and visit Moontime Medicinals on the web and Instagram. Moontime Medicinals is also
available as part of the Redwood Roots family. Moontime's whole flowers appear in Redwood Roots
curated joint packs alongside other heritage cannabis cultivators like Lady Sativa Farm,
Ridgeline Farms, Humboldt Redwood Healing, and others. Moontime Medicinals,
top shelf cannabis grown in harmony with nature. Welcome back. You are listening to Shaping Fire.
I'm your host, Shango Los, and our guest this week is hospice and palliative care specialist,
Dr. Sunil Agarwal. So Sunil, you know, we've talked a lot so far about, you know, the why
and the how of cannabis medicine in kind of like an idealized environment, but we both know that
when it gets down to the moment of helping a patient, there are challenges and hoops that
we have to jump through to make it work. So number one on that list is usually resistance
by the family, right? Because we've had, you know, what, 70 plus years of federal resistance
to cannabis medicine and it's taboo. And a lot of people do not feel comfortable having their
parent or loved one using cannabis, which they are unfamiliar with and may have some, you know,
societal beliefs against. I figure you probably run into that all the time because you have such
an integrative approach. You use a lot of stuff that people don't even know what it is. And
so how do you normally approach a family? Do you normally, I guess this probably has a lot to do
with the state of the patient, but I'm just going to kind of set it up for you. Do you normally talk
to the patient first or the family first? When you know that cannabis is going to be a helpful
thing if used properly, how do you go about introducing it and working with a family that
may be resistant? The first thing I always try to do is to name what it is, what the barrier is
in this case. And, you know, putting a name on it makes it a little bit more, you know, like a
tangible, understandable, contextualizes it into the larger social fabric of a patient and family's
life. You know, other issues in society where we face discrimination based on, you know, age,
gender, race, religion, all the different things that unfortunately we still are living with and
are trying to systemically address. So, and that term is stigma. The issue of stigma, which is tied
to shame and fear and ostracization, that's what stigma comes from, this idea of being marked,
a stigmata, a mark that kind of makes you, you know, ostracized or socially outcast.
And so there's a stigma of cannabis that persists and that was, you know, engineered or pushed by
the government for a long time. Not that there wasn't, there's always been kind of in puritanical
settings and concern about substances that change your ordinary state of mind. And so I think people
just need to understand that that's can be done safely and appropriately in an accepted context
that's safe and healing. And so I, after you talk about, you say this is stigma that you're facing,
and if a patient tells me that they're, you know, they'd love to try this, but their loved one is
really like, doesn't see it that way, or, you know, they'll put limits. I've had some loved ones,
patients tell me, oh, well, you know, my siblings, older siblings, somebody who has a long,
lifelong disability, she has siblings that's looked after, health's looked after her, but
one of the siblings is really in favor of cannabis, the other ones are not. And so they kind of like,
don't go as far as they could go in terms of what could help the patient. So things like that,
I come across and I always tell family, I tell patients, listen, I'm happy to have a family
meeting, you know, conversation with your family members to help them address their concerns or
questions that they have about this. It's, you know, it's stigma and it's something that we
should talk about. It's usually grounded in some ignorance or, you know, lack of knowledge. And
there's fear too. And that's sort of the other angle is that sometimes the fear is sort of
warranted, you know, in terms of like actual legal repercussions that can befall a family
or a patient that they're concerned about. And, you know, that's where, you know, and that's
where the other context around, well, what is it exactly? What are the legal issues here? What are
the, you know, who's making the rules and who's enforcing those rules? And is there any way we
can find medical exemptions or exceptions or, you know, utilizing that angle of medical care,
where you have to advocate for a patient's rights or their patient's needs, you know,
and if the laws and rules are impinging on medicine, then, you know, which social worker
do we need to call? Which lawyer do we need to call? Who do we need to write a letter to?
You know, how can we, you know, overcome that barrier? So that's sort of how I
Family conversation, identifying stigma, talking with the family, inviting, you know, educating.
And then, you know, if there are real barriers like legal or administrative barriers, trying to
address those with a team approach and medical and letters if needed.
Jared Ranere It is interesting how, you know,
even though the family is coming to you for expert advice, how often they will then try to
create the ground rules for within which you work. So, for example, you know, it's not uncommon for
a family to say, yeah, we're okay with cannabis medicine, but only CBD and not THC. But they don't
really understand that THC, even at low doses that don't cause euphoria, are still, you know,
THC is generally going to be part of a healing process when it comes to cannabis medicine.
Dr. Tim Jackson Yeah, that's right. Those kind of the CBD
only THC stigma is even more specific, you know, and that also requires the same approach.
Jared Ranere When you need to interact with a family,
and they say, yeah, let's do a family meeting. It's hard, right? Because you've got all these
different communication styles of all these different people. And you might, you know,
the patient probably knows you decently and maybe the spouse or maybe the one child who is kind of
running point for the family knows you pretty well. But then you've got all these new people
in the room or on the Zoom call or whatever, and they don't know you. And like, you're like,
oh my gosh, how am I going to communicate to this room where I've got all these varying people? How
do you deal with that? Dr. Tim Jackson
Well, these are things that they teach us a little bit about in hospice and palliative medicine
training, fellowship training. And it's really just the research shows that the more that
family members speak in meetings have an opportunity to actually be heard and to speak
rather than being spoken to improves their satisfaction with the experience. So it's really
more about creating a venue, a space, a platform for family members to listen to each other
and to be heard about their concerns. So, you know, asking open-ended questions and,
you know, certainly leading the meeting, but giving a lot of space for people to
kind of state their concerns. And then if there are emotional aspects in their concerns,
oftentimes there are very strong emotional issues, fear, like I was mentioning, or, you know,
the shame or the tied to stigma or whatever it might be, then, you know, naming those emotions.
Like I can hear your frustration, I can hear that you're worried. And that helps to
improve the communication, name the concerns and, you know, start to hopefully move towards,
you know, if this is actually something a patient needs and then being the advocate for the patient
as a doctor and, you know, giving the advice that's my recommendation and then, you know,
seeing what people say. So that's how to approach those. There's an art to that.
I would think that clinical doctors, that is one of the key tools in their toolbox is
communication skills, because certainly somebody who's interacting with family all the time is
going to need a different version of communication skills than a, you know, a research doctor,
right? Who still needs to know how to interact with people, but it's a lot different dealing
with the folks in a lab versus family members who are dealing with a end of life patient,
because they've got all their own emotions are all on like hyper then because they're freaked out and
they're trying to review their life's history with this person. And they got their own taboos. Oh my
gosh, what a soup of a mess. Yeah, you got it. And that is our, in my field, hospice and palliative
care, communication is really one of the critical skill sets that we work on, because it's very
important to, you know, to deal with, to even figure out what's going on with a patient,
how you can better help their distress levels or the family, or sometimes I'm involved in helping
them, you know, develop the care goals, like whether they should go this way, take that
treatment, take this treatment, you know, or focus more on a fully palliative approach, like trying
to sort that out requires a lot of ability to understand the various competing, you know,
interests that are involved in trying to center what the patient's values are. So it is a,
you know, in general, I would say, when it comes to cannabis discussions and talking about this
stigma, if people are ready to sit down and talk about it, we've already made huge progress.
I remember when, you know, the state of Washington had no legal access to cannabis, you know, until
this law passed. I mean, they had medical marijuana, but they didn't have adult use. And,
you know, the big campaign that the ACLU ran was, marijuana, it's time for a conversation,
you know, and it was this whole idea, hey, we can sit down and talk about this.
You know, we can sort of change some of our preconceived notions. And that was kind of a
brilliant stroke. And I think the same thing is true in the individual context with family.
It is often frustrating because even when you have a family that is totally into it,
and they're, you know, they're modern, they're open minded, and they're actually thinking about
what's best for the patient, then you've got resistance from the care facility, because
generally they accept federal money and therefore are beholden to federal laws. I can imagine that
as a, you know, integrative caregiver, that running up against that barrier causes you
unending amounts of frustration.
Oh, well, yeah. I mean, again, as I mentioned earlier in our podcast, I have seen a nice amount
of change in the greater, you know, healthcare environment, residential care facility environment
in the 20 years or so that I've been thinking about this topic and being in clinical settings,
I would say. So, I think, and so to add to that, like, I've had examples of where I've had,
like, privately owned chains of assisted living or end of life residential care facilities,
which have a lot of older population, like, one I'll just name is Aegis Living, A-E-G-I-S,
they're huge, they're in multiple states. They, like, I would say five years ago or
something like that worked out a policy for, you know, allowing cannabis in their facility.
And having, I've seen other facilities that are privately owned also that allow their nurses to
handle cannabis that patients bring in, you know, their care staff, if they're getting help with
medicines. And so, I've kind of interacted with clusters of facilities that chose to not be
beholden to some of the federal rules, even though their patients might be on, you know, Medicare or
receiving some federal benefits. And it's probably because they're, you know, independent
or largely independent. But, you know, there's always still some overlap. There's always some
federal regulations, state regulations involved in all of these facilities, you know. And so,
it's just a matter of, like, well, is it enough to make a difference or are we just using that
as an excuse, you know, to just sort of pump the issue. So, I've been very heartened by the fact
that some of these facilities develop their own internal policies. In general, they'll say no to
smoking cannabis. They'll say, you know, non-smoke products. They'll say that the patient needs to
have a medical cannabis authorization and that things need to be labeled and this and that. So,
you know, sometimes security around the product. So, like, I mean, like a secure storage.
So, that's where I think I've seen some changes. Now, and then the other place that I struggled a
lot on this with was the hospital. You know, the hospital is really like the center of, you know,
advanced high-tech medical care and lots of regulations on hospitals. And, you know, many
times patients would sneak things in and just sort of, you know, the hospital didn't want the
liability of saying, okay, well, you had something happen to you and it's a medicine that we did not
give you or authorize. So, we just don't want you on it. And so, that kind of, like, legal impasse
prevented a lot of, you know, acceptance and stigmatizing environment to use cannabis. And
even though when patients might be hospitalized for things where cannabis could actually help
their symptoms. So, I would, you know, oftentimes prescribe like THC pills, you know, to patients
from the pharmacy. So, as a way to, you know, use some aspect of cannabis in a legal framework.
But now I've seen there are some hospitals that are allowing cannabis in their wards,
not everywhere, but it's changed. We had patients at Children's Hospital in the last couple years
where they also are allowing children to bring in cannabis that their parents are bringing in
and administering as long as they've had, they've gone through some kind of approval process that
they have on the inside, which goes through their pediatric attending doctor and some regulatory
setup. And, you know, it changes the stigma significantly. The child now, you know,
and family members don't have to hide it. And it's, you know, on, I've had some patients where
they put it on the whiteboard. You know, their family members are writing on it, like, this is
what we're doing. And so, that's been kind of a changing, there is an opening there happening,
I would say, in the hospitals. And then I contacted the Department of Health in Washington,
and they had said, oh, you know, we don't have any problems to patients using cannabis in
facilities. Like, it's not anything that the state of Washington is limiting, you know,
they have granted these rights to patients. And so, anyway, it's kind of a, but all of that said,
there are definitely facilities that are still out there that are far more tied into federal
pools of money. And just say, hey, we don't allow that here. And in those cases,
patients have to be, you know, discreet.
This is probably a good point for us to give a loving shout out to nurses, right? Because
there is no doubt that nurses, their creativity and hearts and knowledge are there at the center
of these decisions between the doctor and the family and sometimes the gray market, right?
I mean, so often I have come across nurses who are like, okay, I've got a patient who uses cannabis
at home, they're in hospice, but they're moving into the facility now. And I'm trying to move
their medicine into the facility. What are the methods that are most discreet? And, you know,
I play that role. I can share with them. It's for them and the family to decide, right? But
nurses play such an important role in making sure that the patient gets the care that the patient
wants. Oh, that's amen. Amen to nurses. They have definitely played a critical role. There's
one nurse who's been a huge leader in the National American Nurses Association,
largest organization of nurses. Her name is Mary Lynn Matherie. And she has been a huge leader
for decades on cannabis and medicine, starting professional education, doing her own research
about her own master's research when she was in graduate school about cannabis and, you know,
talking to doctors and how it's important to have an open lines of communication. So I just wanted
to shout out to Mary Lynn because and of course, many, many nurses have now come forth and started
cannabis nursing associations and all across the country. And they've really taken the mantle on
to advocate for patients and to kind of help them toe that line. Yeah. For family members who are
listening, who are thinking about going in this direction with their family, I highly recommend
finding a nurse that is educated and pro cannabis as an ally, because, you know, you're not going to
do anything that's going to be more effective towards winning than allying with a good nurse.
That's right. Yeah. Yeah. So, Sunil, before we wrap up here, you know, I've heard you speak a
number of times. And one of the things that I really enjoy is when you get to the part of your
presentation where you talk about humans having a right to use healing plants. And, you know,
certainly cannabis has been, you know, taboo for many decades. But before that, you know,
it was 70 percent of the pharma copia. We used it for everything. And then it fell out of favor
with the government because it was it was, you know, used as a scare tactic.
And so now everything's kind of a mess and it's slowly coming back. But at the end, you know,
this is a plant that's naturally occurring. And, you know, I'd just like to you to speak to the
idea that that that that the plant is naturally occurring and it's something that we should have
as an option as a patient at any point in our life. Well, you said it. Amen. I mean, there's no
I don't think there's I don't think there's much else to say. It's just simply the fact that we are
I mean, my area of interest is a human environment relationship. And that's I came I came into
medicine having a background in in geography, a human environment relationship and how it applies
to health and disease, to access to resources, therapeutic resources, the healing power of
natural landscapes and nature and, you know, all this critical ecology that that that we're part
of that determines, you know, illness and access to health resources. So it's health health and
the environment is integral to our, you know, to who we are as humans, to our evolution,
our connection to all other life on the planet. I mean, it's a it is a we are cannabis and humans
are and all these plants are actually like distant cousins on the evolutionary like, you know,
tree of life. So it to me was always very, you know, the idea that you have a natural right to,
you know, the bounties or the natural plant resources is a very old concept in
in law. And, you know, I'm, I don't know, I think it's called natural rights. And the idea that the
state that what is the compelling interest of the state to limit somebody's right to access,
you know, natural resources. And that's where, you know, that's a social contract question.
It's like, well, you know, what limits are there for, for example, safety or resource
conservation. So, you know, you might say, oh, well, you know, if everybody took all the firewood
from this area, then would, you know, it collected as much as they wanted, then there'd be no none
left for everyone's needs. And so there has to be a limit. Or if you say, you know, I don't want
people collecting this particular rare, rare bird, or, you know, making these kind of
endangered species pets, because this species is at risk of extinction, there's this huge,
you know, global social reason to withhold, you know, trading and endangered species and
conserving resources that are very limited. And that's, that's, you know, that's pretty much the
limits that we play. And then I guess the other one would be, like, how much ricin can you make?
Ricin is a naturally occurring, like, bioterrorism, biotoxin, which you can, you can grow from
plants. And so there's limits on that for the safety of people's ability to, you know, be free
from bioterrorism attacks. So those are really the idea that there's these plant medicines that are
going to be so dangerous for you that, you know, so you're going to abuse them so much, and they're
so unsafe, and we have to take them away from people. That's sort of the, that's the sort of
overreach that infringes on that natural right. And people have to really, you know, ask the
question, is there, is there a compelling interest of the government to limit this, you know, natural
connection, you know, or to completely in the case of cannabis, or these other natural medicines,
like completely, you know, remove it from entirely sever the relationship, you know,
like, legally speaking, there's no legal context, there's no legal way that you can have a
connection with these, these natural medicinal plants. And, and that's, that to me is, is,
is what it comes down to, you know, do we really think that that's a, that's a valid reach of our
government? And is there a compelling, and that comes down to, well, what is the argument they're
making? They're saying it's very unsafe and dangerous. And I think that's, you know, been
proven wrong. So, and, and, you know, the fact that there's a long traditional history of use
already should have proven that long, a long time ago. And I think that's, that's the mess that you
talked about, you know, that we kind of took these political, we took these, allowed the government
to take these steps of overreach for naked, racist, political, economic interest purposes.
And I'm sure some people along the way were convinced that there was, oh, some real danger
here. And we're doing this to, you know, save the children, to protect our future, to, you know,
like, like getting rid of lead, lead, lead paint and lead gasoline, you know. But this is not that.
And that's, that's really where if we don't have a historical context, if we don't have
knowledge of our traditions, and we don't have a appreciation and reverence for the right to
access and be part, connected to nature, we're gonna, we were gonna just kind of give that up
entirely. And that's, that's really, you know, I think that's, that's where I'm one of the struggles
that I'm very passionate about. And I appreciate you're asking me and it's not, you know, cannabis
is one, but I'm also, there's a whole family of psychoactive biota, you know, entheogen natural
mushrooms, and like ergot fungus that has lysergic acid in it. Or, you know, we mentioned peyote,
which has mescaline in it, ayahuasca, which, you know, is a has DMT in it. And these are all
substances that all these natural plants have chemicals in them that are like our brains,
neurotransmitters, there, you can call them neurotransmitter analogs. And so, you know,
nature has provided these amazing substances that are, you know, fit like locks and keys in our
in our body. And that's no surprise, because we're all evolutionarily connected. So anyway,
it's just kind of a, I think we're having a price, a crisis of connection to the world and to our own
connection to the natural world and sense that the government is, has passed laws that have tried to
break that connection. And that's where we're, we're trying to get back on, on footing. And I
think for as a doctor, I can't, I think, without these kind of without addressing this problem,
we're never going to be, we're never really going to achieve a public health, a modicum of public
health that we can. That's fantastic. And so well put Sunil, thank you so much. Well, let me see,
I got a couple things to thank you for. Of course, thank you for sharing your incredibly valuable
time with us. And thank you for sharing your experience. And also, you know, just thank you
on behalf of all of the patients that you bring your integrative approach to for, you know, being
willing to think outside the box and to be able to open, you know, open your heart and experience
with the goal of decreasing suffering. You know, it's, it's always a pleasure to interact with you
because interacting with a doctor who is, is truly dedicated to helping the patient instead
of checking boxes, it always feels really good. So, so thank you for sharing everything that you
have Sunil. You're most welcome. It's been a great honor and pleasure to work and to work with you.
I hope to, to, we do future episodes. Fantastic. So if you want to find out more about Dr. Sunil
Agarwal, you can go to the website for his clinic and that's at aimsinstitute.net. That's A-I-M-S
institute.net. And also I recommend that you go back and you check out all the way back to
episode number three of shaping fire. Sunil joined me. He mentioned earlier that he was a, was, and
is a geography buff, but we did this fantastic episode on the geographical history of cannabis
medicine. And if you're, you know, it doesn't matter if you're just getting to know cannabis
medicine, or if you've been following cannabis for a long time, this episode is just, it's just
great to give you an idea globally how cannabis has evolved in its relationship with humans.
And also I want to remind you of the six episodes that I mentioned earlier in the show
on the, on the various ailments that you can find out very specific dosing information.
And you can find out all you can find all of those shows, either where you downloaded this episode
or at the website at shapingfire.com. You can find more episodes of the shaping fire podcast
and subscribe to the show at shapingfire.com and wherever you get your podcasts. If you enjoyed the
show, we'd really appreciate it. If you would leave a positive review of the podcast, wherever
you download your view will help others find the show so they can enjoy it too. On the shaping fire
website, you can also subscribe to the newsletter for insights into the latest cannabis news,
exclusive videos and giveaways on the shaping fire website. You also find transcripts of today's
podcast as well. Be sure to follow on Instagram for all original content, not found on the podcast.
That's at shaping fire and at shango Lowe's on Instagram. Be sure to check out the shaping fire
YouTube channel for exclusive interviews, farm tours, and cannabis lectures. Does your company
want to reach our national audience of cannabis enthusiasts? Email hotspot at shaping fire.com
to find out how thanks for listening to shaping fire. I've been your host shango Lowe's.
