There are two aspects of teaching cannabis medicine that stand out as most challenging
to me.
The first one is that cannabis educators and caregivers must do a lot of personal work
to be good at the job.
A caregiver cannot be overreacting to the challenges the patient is going through while
also not making light of them.
A good caregiver is a difficult blend of stoic, educator, and friend of last resort
to the patient.
Several times in the last decade I have sat down with a terminally ill person who has
asked me how to use cannabis in their last days so they can be lucid saying goodbye to
their family.
This is heavy duty humanity.
This is a very serious conversation.
That patient doesn't want my tears or concerns for them most often.
They want me to stick to business and give them the information they require, give them
good product recommendation, and be gone.
It is a role of service and to do it right it takes a lot of self and situational awareness
by the caregiver.
The second especially challenging aspect is that cannabinoid medicine keeps changing.
Because the paucity of cannabis knowledge we've had is replaced by modern studies with
more participants and better analytics, we have to constantly update ourselves on the
latest understanding because that understanding is constantly evolving these days.
If you are a doctor or caregiver who found part 1 of endocannabinoid mechanics and has
now returned for part 2, thanks for your dedication to the caregiver service role.
The humans under your care will be all the better for it.
And if you are here for yourself as a cannabis patient, like me, know that this material
is presented to you so we can all learn and grow and heal together.
It is as simple as that.
If you want to learn about cannabis health, business, and technique efficiently and with
good cheer, I encourage you to subscribe to our newsletter.
We'll send you new podcast episodes as they come out, delivered right to your inbox, along
with commentary on a couple of the most important news items from the week and videos too.
Don't rely on social media to let you know when a new episode is published.
Sign up for the updates to make sure you don't miss an episode.
Also we're giving away very cool prizes to folks who are signed up to receive the newsletter.
There's nothing else you need to do to win except receive that newsletter, so go to shapingfire.com
to sign up for the newsletter and be entered into this month's and all future newsletter
prize drawings.
You are listening to Shaping Fire and I'm your host, Shango Lose.
Today my guest is Miyabi Shields, PhD.
Dr. Shields is co-founder of Real Isolates which, ironically, focuses on the importance
of secondary plant components and synergistic blends, so essentially whole plant medicine.
Miyabi received their PhD in Pharmaceutical Sciences focusing on the biochemistry of the
endocannabinoid system from Northeastern University in 2018.
Miyabi has authored or co-authored six peer-reviewed publications and presently has a patent under
review for a novel fungus and plant extraction method.
Miyabi also has a substantial list of honors and awards, including a 2016 International
Cannabinoid Research Society Pre-doctoral Research Award.
Their TikTok channel, atmiyabiphd, has 130,000 followers and is where I first met Miyabi.
Today is part two of Endocannabinoid Mechanics and during the first set, we'll talk about
how certain cannabinoids function.
The second set is all about comparing the various ways we get cannabinoids into our
bodies and the third set is about dosing thresholds for cannabis efficacy for chronic and other
serious patients.
Welcome back to Shaping Fire, Miyabi.
Hey, happy to be here.
Excellent.
Me too.
I had really enjoyed our first conversation and it got a really popular response.
People dug the quality and kind of information that you share.
So let's go ahead and do some more.
So let's jump right into it.
People say offhand that taking THCA is a lot like taking CBD and that makes sense to me
in use, but like what does that really mean at a chemistry level?
That statement is too vague to really be useful to most caregivers and patients.
Is it just that THCA heals without the euphoria of THC like CBD does or does it work on similar
receptors or perhaps still something else?
Well you pretty much answered the question yourself there with that one.
Yeah, so it's interesting.
I actually, this is so weird without my model.
Yeah, in your hands.
Yeah.
But so THCA is the acid, right?
It's the acid version of THC, which means that it has a extra carboxylic acid group.
And carboxylic acid is a carbon that's bonded to two oxygens and it's really negatively
charged and it's pretty big.
So that changes the shape of the molecule and that change in shape affects like a couple
of things.
The first thing it affects is the ability for the molecule to get into the brain.
Generally speaking, the more charged something is, like in this case having a negative charge,
will decrease its brain penetration.
So that's one way in which they're different.
The next way is how it binds to the actual receptors.
There has been evidence that THCA does bind to like the CB1 and CB2 receptors, but it's
far less than THC.
And really interesting about people saying qualitatively that it's similar to CBD.
For me, what's interesting about that is that both THCA and CBD activate or turn on the
serotonin 5-HT1A receptor.
And that's actually the receptor that's been linked to the beneficial mental health effects
of CBD in mouse model research.
So I think you're right on the money there when you say that THCA and CBD interact similarly
to serotonin receptors.
That's why people think that they feel the same way.
That actually makes a lot of sense in practice.
The fact that the THCA molecule hits the same receptors, though more lightly than CBD.
Because a lot of folks who, well, at this point, most people have got access to CBD
one way or another.
But a couple of years ago, pre-CBD being everywhere, people who only had access to THC through
the heritage market would just be able to go and enjoy undecarbed flour.
And it would give them the same kind of anti-anxiety and anti-depression benefits similar-ish
to CBD.
And people used it that way.
The other thing that's interesting about THCA is it seems to be kind of universally give
people serious munchies.
So it's very, very useful for folks who have lost appetite.
Let's take this, let's go one step deeper into this.
So let's talk about these other novel cannabinoids, the acid forms and probably the
varin forms. As more novel minor cannabinoids are studied and bred for, we're all going
to get the opportunity to learn and smoke the acid forms, the unheated, unaged forms
of these cannabinoids.
And also their varin forms of THC and CBD and the others.
To most folks, THC is the queen, of course, and CBD is seriously helpful.
But few folks understand the nature of the acid and varin forms other than knowing that
THC-V tends to inhibit appetite and stops the munchies.
So I'm going to kind of hand this to you in a basket.
Will you explain what the acid forms of cannabinoids are in relation to their non-acid
versions? And then either during or after, do that same thing for the varins?
So however you think it's going to be explained more carefully.
The gist of the question is, give us a better understanding what the acid and varin
forms of these cannabinoids are.
Right. So, I mean, the acid forms are, it's very simple.
You just add a carboxylic acid to the same position.
It's on the phenol or benzene ring portion of the molecule.
And it is, like I said earlier, it changes the structure and the shape and also the
charge. It's called electronegativity.
There's a negative charge on the acid versions of these.
And so they display very unique pharmacological profiles, meaning that if you change
the structure, it will change the receptors that it interacts with.
It also changes, like I mentioned earlier, about brain permeability or the ability for
these molecules to get into the brain.
So it changes like the distribution of where these molecules end up interacting in your
body. Like it's there's been some pretty interesting research done.
I believe it's in Australia on the acid versions of both THC, CBD, CBG.
So, you know, THCA, CBDA, CBGA, and I think CBDVA also to mix up both the acid and the
variant form there.
There's been a lot of really interesting research that's being done on like
anti-epileptic properties specifically being linked to these forms.
And epilepsy shares a pathophysiology with a lot of other disorders that people use
cannabis for, like migraines or cluster headaches.
And so I think it's going to be really, really interesting to see more research come
out and also to see more qualitative information come out as people are able to, you
know, experiment and see what are the therapeutic applications of it.
Because I definitely believe that there are unique therapeutic applications for these
rare variations.
It's really interesting that we're at this time where patients are able to literally do
citizen science because prohibition for so long has stunted scientific research and
people who are desperate for relief, you know, take cannabinoids just to say, well,
all right, they're safe enough.
Let's just see what happens to them.
And so we patients stumble upon things and then we tell people and we tell other, they
tell people. Next thing you know, there's something coming up from the underground that
the more formal scientific community needs to jump on and get evidence to back it up.
You know, how you describe the differences between the acid forms and the regular forms,
you know, they're so different.
You know, how they access the brain or don't access the brain is different.
The receptors that they attach to are different and it sounds like in different amounts.
It kind of gives me the idea that we should not consider the acid forms to even
necessarily be related in quality to their non-acid forms.
Like CBD-A doesn't necessarily act or do what CBD does.
THC-A does not really act or necessarily do what THC does.
And it sounds like their names, you know, cannabijerol, for example, that has more to do
with the structure of the molecule chemically.
And the addition or removal of this acid component really makes it an entirely different
cannabinoid than, you know, it's more common non-acid namesake.
Yeah. I mean, structurally, they're very similar, right?
Because the only difference is one carbon, two oxygens.
And then depending on the pH, there's a hydrogen there or not.
So like in structure, they're super similar.
And that's why they say, you know, THC and THC-A, CBG and CBG-A, you know, etc.
So they are very similar.
But in terms of like small, yeah, small changes in a molecule will have really, really large
changes in therapeutic effects profiles.
So in terms of like considering them different things, like I would just like say as an
example, you know, in the pharmaceutical world, as an example, there are different
benzodiazepines.
They are very similar classes, right?
But they are all slightly different structurally.
And that's something that's kind of like the same here where like we have the
cannabinoids, but all the rare cannabinoids are similar.
But they do have slight differences in structure that can have really large overall
effects on like the therapeutic profile.
Right on. So let's talk a little bit about the varins.
So the varins are, of course, you know, so hot right now because they're so hot.
Because, you know, for most of us, we all started with THC and then CBD came out and
kind of like rocked the whole cannabis world.
And then as people realized, oh, my gosh, if CBD, you know, is such a big deal, all
these other novel cannabinoids, we're all hungry for those now and to learn about
them. And so we're diving, you know, very, you know, diving deep into them.
And then, you know, the varins seem to be the ones that are going to be hitting the
scene next as these, as these seeds become available this, this coming summer.
And really all I, all I really know about the varins is that they are..
There's not a lot of them.
There have been very few of them because they've been bred out of cannabis more or
less as people focused on breeding for THC.
And I am told that THCV is an appetite suppressant, though I haven't really had that
experience myself because I haven't had a varin dominant, THC varin dominant plant
yet. So with all of that said, what are you unique to the varins?
So as they start coming on the market in the next year, people have a little bit of
frame of mind of what the hell people are even talking about.
So the difference between the varins and the parent molecule, so like we're talking
about the parent molecule being THC or CBD for that matter, those molecules have like
if anyone who's seen my videos, I call them a fatty tail.
I call it a fatty tail.
Those molecules have on the end of it a five carbon.
It's called a pentel chain because pentel for five.
It has a five carbon chain at the end of it.
And that's just a really it's a fatty tail.
It's just a piece of the molecule that is very sticky, sticky like butter, greasy.
And that has a very unique chemical property that interacts with receptors.
The varins only have three carbons instead of five.
So they are shorter and there's a smaller fatty tail.
So that changes the way that it interacts with receptors.
One of the things I think is really interesting about THCV specifically is its
interaction with a receptor called TRPV1.
And if you are familiar, it stands for transient receptor potential one, the
nulloid one. It's not a very sexy name for a receptor, but it's a receptor that's
an ion channel that also interacts with the endocannabinoid system.
And it's been shown to be important for like pain management, anti-inflammatory
things. And I'm wondering if it somehow is related to its interaction with TRPV1
that it causes this, you know, this effect.
But I haven't seen too much research on THCV yet.
I'm really excited to see more of it.
I think part of the reason why it's difficult to study THCV is because it falls
underneath the class of molecules that are regulated since it's an analog of THC.
That is at least why I think there's less on THCV than, say, CBD.
But I'm really excited to learn more about it.
I actually tried years ago.
I tried like a I think it was a one to one to one micro doser like tab.
I think it was called a tab lingual was what it was called.
And it was CBD, CBG and THCV, if I remember correctly.
And it was very interesting.
But I mean, you know, that there's a number of variables there that I'm changing.
But it was a very interesting experience.
I really enjoyed it. And I mean, just the the therapeutic profile of it was completely
different from THC.
When you're looking at the molecular level for the varins, while we don't have a lot of
research on them yet for a host of reasons, do you as a chemist have educated guesses on
what you think the varins will do?
Or is it or are these cannabinoids so different from each other where you're all like
God knows what's going to the varins are going to do after we test them?
Yeah, I mean, I guess I don't I guess I don't know necessarily like off the top of my
head what I would predict, although I think it's interesting that so the shortening like
the shortening of that fatty tail basically makes it structurally more similar to less
fatty molecules of which there are many in the body.
So I definitely think like without without saying anything like for sure that I definitely
think that it has unique profile, like it has a unique profile.
It probably has unique transport around the body as well.
And I know I would be really excited to see it.
I mean, I also think it's you know, this is just something that is difficult to think
about when we're talking about receptor receptor pharmacology, which is, you know, how
molecules interact with receptors.
When we look at these things and we test them, we're testing one thing at a time.
And we're often looking at something for a very specific reason.
You know, many of the rare cannabinoids have not been tested against some of the more
classic system targets, right?
Like dopamine or opioid or serotonin.
Some of them have and there's definitely some information out there.
But usually when we discover a rare cannabinoid or where we find something that's
structurally related to the cannabinoids, obviously the first thing you think is to test
them on the endocannabinoid system.
But it's just, you know, anyways, just research tends to get categorized.
If I'm trying to phrase this correctly, like based on the grant funding structure of
research and how research is funded, you end up like having categories of research
where labs will hyper specialize in something because you need to.
That's what you have to do to get the funding to do your research and do the papers.
So I think that I mean, I think as as we expand beyond that and start looking at
crosstalk between systems and interactions like on larger scales, which is starting to
happen already, we're going to find some really interesting interactions between all
of these alone.
And then there's a whole nother level when we start talking about putting them together.
Yeah, the the the crosstalk between the systems is something that is huge.
And honestly, I have to give you credit.
You're the one who taught me or or turned me turned me on to start thinking about it.
And also that is potentially an entirely additional show.
So yeah, don't get me started on the cross talk of endocannabinoid system with others.
Right on. Well, let's hold that aside and we'll approach that another day.
So so let's talk about the feeling that cannabinoids give us.
We've we talked a lot in part one about the mechanics and how the receptors work and how
the cannabinoids can block a block each other from the receptors.
And we talked a lot about that mechanics.
But but, you know, that you know, that sigh of relief that folks get from a cocktail at the
end of a workday, like when the alcohol hits the bloodstream, you can feel your body shift
down a few gears and you go like, oh, and then like everything feels a little bit easier.
Right. That also happens similarly, but but kind of different with cannabis as well.
Right. We you know, for those of us who prefer cannabis, we'll we'll have a bit and then
it hits our bloodstream and it comes on and we have like that similar sigh.
And we're kind of like, you know, depending on the kind of cannabis it is where they're
floating or in the zone.
But whatever it is, we can feel that downshift from the intensity of production mode.
Right. Whether that's like being at work or or, you know, watching the kids or, you know,
whatever we happen to be doing, it shifts us down into some sort of ease mindset.
What is happening then?
Right. And if it helps to say what's happening with with alcohol and then compare that to
to cannabis, I'm all for that.
But but there's something very specific mechanically that happens in that moment when
when the first of the cannabinoids hit the hit the bloodstream after work and we shift
down into not work.
And I think we're all curious what what that is.
So I'm going to answer this.
We're going to get really abstract here.
I'm going to answer this question with something an answer that is pretty much something
that can't be proven.
But that is also absolutely true, which is that everything in the brain is subjective to
contrast. And in my opinion, what we're describing here is the shift in your perception.
Right. It's this contrast and that and how that initial shift, like the first like the
first hit, right, versus like the second, third, fourth, or like what you were describing,
the first drink at the end of the day.
Right. Is that that initial change, that very first alteration in your perception will
always feel different than the continuation of an altered state.
And that's just because everything that we interpret in our brains is is relative to
what has happened before.
I mean, that's also just true, like in life and everything in general.
Right. Like every single thing that our brain has is built upon a contrast of the things
that it's already experienced.
And our brains are very used to what is the way I want to describe this?
Our brains are very used to getting into like a status quo, you know, keeping everything
the same. And then when you cause like a dramatic shift in that, that initial shift, it's
like, you know, when you're on a hot, it's like it's a hot day, like it's been really hot
here recently and you're in the air conditioning and then you take your first step
outside and you're like, whoa, it is hot and humid out here.
Like and it's almost like when you step outside for the first time or vice versa in the
winter, you're in the heat and you go out and it's cold and you almost like can't breathe for
a second because you're like, wow, that change in temperature was dramatic.
Like that was a dramatic change.
And then you're out there for less than 30 seconds or a minute and you're more used to it.
It's something more similar to that, except in your processing of your brain and in that
status. Right. Because absolutely like the cannabinoids have anxiolytic effects.
Right. Like they in general, they can they're relaxing.
And that's true all the time.
But in that initial that first initial phase of changing your like altering your
pharmacology in your brain, that initial change will feel different.
And I think that that has to do with the fact that it's in contrast to what you were like
before. Yeah, that that makes a lot of sense.
And you know that that plays out with how we experience it as a human, too, because on
on our harder days, that sigh of relief seems to be more intense.
Right. If you've had a light.
Absolutely. Yeah. If you if you have a light day and you come home when you puff, you're
like, ah, today was a pretty good day.
Oh, my, my, my, my cannabis is pretty good, too.
I'm going to have a good evening. Right.
It's kind of like like a uniform.
But if you've had, you know, a really challenging day that has pushed and pulled you
emotionally and you get to the end of the day and it hits your bloodstream, you're like,
oh, my God, my favorite thing.
Thank God.
Thank God. You know, and that makes sense.
The contrast aspect to it.
You also mentioned the anti anxiety aspects of it.
Would you hit that on a molecular level?
Like what what is actually happening to kick off that?
Did you call it an enzyme?
Enzyme?
Yeah. Enzyme.
This is a kind of a honestly, this is kind of a complicated one to explain because the
CB1 receptor, so THC activates the CB1 receptor.
That receptor has been associated with decreasing anxiety or having an anxiolytic
effect at like lower concentrations.
It's also possible that it causes anxiety.
So there's this whole like very delicate balance going on with with why this
happens. But in general, at least at low concentrations, activating the CB1
receptor is responsible for reducing some types of anxiety.
It's not really I'm trying to think of like in terms of like research that's been
done. Most of the most of the research has been in animal models, although some of
it has been like repeated in humans.
And it seems like it's called a biphasic effect.
It seems like at a high concentration, there's a second threshold that you'll reach
where all of a sudden it reverses and it causes anxiety or it causes paranoia.
Right. And one thing I've been really passionate about educating people about is
that our our thresholds are different.
Every one of us will have a different threshold for that second level of that
effect. So for some people, they might never get anxiety.
Right. And others, it might be a side effect that it's very easy for them to come
across. I would be in that second category.
And I got to tell you, it's made me very aware of, you know, in the scene, people
talk about puff and tough.
Right. You know, it's like, like, you know, have more finish the joint, have another
hit. You know, we won't part of cannabis is definitely, you know, there's pressure to
always use more. Right.
And and I find that I think that that really stems from a lack of understanding by most
folks that of this biphasic effect where, you know, if you have a bit, you have the
decrease of anxiety and the increase of euphoria and and your joy increases.
That's that's wonderful.
But where that that tapers off and becomes anxiety causing is different for every
person. And I for myself, I know that, you know, I can smoke a certain amount and it'll
put me right where I want to be.
But if I go beyond that, I can feel I actually don't know what I feel.
I feel I think about it as my my adrenaline turns on.
That's that's how I explain it.
I'm like, oh, your flight, your fight or flight.
Okay, so good. All right.
Well, I'm not that far off. So I'll have that little bit more and I'll just like feel it
turn on like like you would feel an air conditioner in your HVAC come on.
It's like, oh, air conditioner came or oh, first time the heater came on for the fall.
You know, you can feel the house rumbling.
Well, the same thing. I will smoke a bit and I'll have a great time.
And then I'll and then I'll smoke a bunch and I'll feel the adrenaline kick on.
And, you know, I've been smoking for so long now that I'm like, oh, OK, time to go
outside for a walk. Time to step out outside of the party.
Time to, you know, like whatever to do a little bit of self-care and check in on my set
and setting so that I don't get upset.
However, we do have to be aware that we all have got a different threshold for that.
And some people may never hit the anxiety causing part.
And then there are other people like me who it my body tends to kick it in pretty low.
So, you know, I know that I need to check myself earlier.
I run into this actually at conventions a lot, right, where people are outside and
everybody's puffing and trying each other's stuff.
And everybody wants me to try their stuff because they're proud of it.
And I want to celebrate how great their their grow is.
But at the same time, I'm like, if I do that a few times in a row, suddenly I'm so
anxious I can't go back to the convention.
Right. So.
So we use, you know, we speak to that aspect of it about, you know, like what happens
mechanically, if you will, when we when we hit our biphasic threshold.
Well, absolutely. So I'm also I am right there with you.
I'm a total lightweight, specifically when it comes to anxiety and paranoia.
And I mean, I'm at the point now where, like, I actually don't usually smoke anything
from anyone else because I mix things very specifically for me and other people are
welcome to smoke with me. Like, I would love to smoke.
I'd love to smoke you out at some point.
We got to do that. But but, you know, I'm very sensitive and it's been one of my
passions to understand this biphasic effect.
And it has to do with what's called endocannabinoid tone.
And I know we discussed this a little bit on the previous the previous talk.
And we were talking about Dr. Russo's clinical endocannabinoid deficiency.
But it in general, endocannabinoid tone describes the levels of circulating
endocannabinoids in your body and then also the levels of the receptors, the CB1, CB2
receptors, probably also TRPV1 and some of the GPRs.
These things are all different for each of us.
This is also a way of just it's one way of describing neurodiversity.
For those of you who are familiar with neurodiversity, neurodiversity is describes
just differences in the way that our brains can all process and have information.
And we are all like we are all very similar in the way that our brains process
information. And then we are all very, very different.
And one of those ways has to do with endocannabinoid signaling and the actual levels
of endocannabinoids. So in terms of being really, really sensitive,
it means that for both you and I, when it comes to like anxiety or paranoia,
there is probably that we have an increased level of CB1 receptors in a very
specific part of our brain that maybe people who do not have a high threshold of
that have lower levels of CB1 receptors and are not as sensitive to that.
It's also why to a certain extent, if you develop levels of tolerance, sometimes
certain side effects will go away because tolerance is usually it's associated
with a decrease in the number of CB1 receptors.
So some people when they develop tolerance will realize that like certain effects
go away. I mean, generally when you develop tolerance, you know,
all of the effects go away without using more,
but it's usually like certain effects one at a time, right?
Like some of them go away first.
And that has to do with changing the levels of CB1 receptors in very specific
areas.
Right on. So before we move on,
I think I want to just make a very intentional plug. I mean,
we made the case very obvious for folks,
but if you are a listener and you have a low biphasic threshold for anxiety,
so you, you puff a little and you get your anxiety decreased and then you puff
more and your anxiety increases. My friend,
do not let people bully you into taking more THC.
Absolutely not.
And if you are one of these people who have got a very high threshold for this
and let's say that you're, you know,
you're dabbing and you can puff with everybody and you can puff all night.
Please do not bully those of us who have got a lower biphasic threshold into
smoking with you for sure. Offer it to us,
but please don't bully people into it because it really is different for folks.
And if you are,
if you care for that person enough that you want to get them high also be,
you know,
have enough care for them to let them tell you that, you know,
they've had enough because we don't want to, we don't,
you don't want to make your friend anxious. So, so anyway I'll get off my soapbox
on that one.
I absolutely agree with that because all of us are trying to just have a good
time, right? Like everyone,
we're all trying to increase quality of life essentially.
And I think that's going to be,
that's going to be different for all of us. And I think it's important to know.
And also as another PSA,
I would love for people to start regularly saying like, Oh yeah,
my biphasic threshold for THC.
I would love to make that a regular thing.
It's actually THC is biphasic for a number of effects. It's not just anxiety.
So it's true that each of us has very specific side effects that we're,
you know, prone to. I'm also prone to getting very cold.
Are you prone to that, Django?
I'm not actually. I'm familiar with it.
I actually get cold from allergy medications.
How interesting.
My extremities specifically. I get like cold fingers and stuff.
Huh. Histamine receptors.
Yeah. Interesting. All right. So, so let,
let's hit one more question on this,
on this tolerance and cannabinoids thing before we go to the break. So, so,
you know, we talked about like the,
the having that end of day toke and how it shifts us down
and decreases our anxiety. And, you know,
anybody who's toked and who really appreciates that aspect has probably also
come home and have a toke and nothing happens. And,
and you, and you toke and you're like, you know, something's not working.
And, you know, depending on the person,
they might blame the flower or they might say that, Oh,
it's my tolerance. But, but you know, as somebody who studies this in the lab,
what are your thoughts on what are the most common? I mean,
do you think it's more often than not like a tolerance response or are
there also just some days that we're not going to get high because of the
chemical blend in our brain that day?
So, so I think that there's a number of, I mean,
tolerance definitely may play a part in it, but I've always, I mean,
set and setting, which is usually talked about in psychedelics, right?
Usually that's a more common,
it's a more common thing that people talk about in psychedelics.
I really feel like the endocannabinoid system and serotonin system share an
extremely strong synergy. I consider cannabis a soft psychedelic.
There are certainly near psychedelic experiences, or I would even,
I would classify them as psychedelic experiences that I've had on cannabis.
I think that set and setting are really important.
And I think that we don't often, you know,
we don't often think about so set being like the mindset that you're going into
and then setting being the environment.
Sometimes your environment can be like your,
like the stress levels of the day and what you're planning,
what you are planning or anticipating on doing.
All of these things play a role in your neurochemistry.
And I definitely feel like alterations in
your neurochemistry will affect the way that, you know,
molecules feel when you take them. And it's not always going to be the same.
And I know that like what we're looking for is for something to always be
exactly the same effect. But even with, I mean, everyone,
if we're going to make the same metaphor with alcohol, it's the same way.
You know, sometimes it's, it's a generally, generally speaking,
you have a effect, right? But sometimes you have a really great night.
And then other times like you're sad and you cry or you're angry.
That's a really good example. You're right about that.
I hadn't made that connection before. Yeah.
But it's pretty similar, right? Because your brain,
so the way that our brains sort of like function and perceive
the world is always in response. Our brain is always changing.
Like we are always in flux. We're always going,
our brains always responding to something and it's always changing.
So like right now you and I having this conversation,
our brain is in a transition from what it was two minutes ago to what it's
going to be two minutes from now, what it was yesterday,
to what it's going to be tomorrow, what it was last month,
to what it's going to be next month, et cetera.
There are changes that are going on on every scale of time in the brain
all the time. And so that will be different depending on a number of factors.
And like you brought up stress, having stress, having a really bad day,
you know, feeling really negative, that will alter your neurochemistry.
It's been shown and proven that when you're happy, right?
Like you actually see more,
your vision is clearer and you notice more things.
I won't get too deep into positive psychology because that's like a whole
another, that's a whole other rabbit hole that I,
along with crosstalk that we could go on to for forever.
But I am a very big believer in positive psychology.
I think that there are subconscious things that we cannot change and that we
can't alter.
But I also believe that there are conscious things that we can change in our
minds and that we can really focus on and behaviorally modify in ourselves that
has an impact on our neurochemistry.
Whether or not these things can be measured at this exact moment, like I,
I couldn't tell you,
but I know for a fact that set in setting and the way that we approach
like an experience really changes the outcome of the experience. I mean,
that's, that's part of why cannabis has such a high placebo effect, right?
Is the expectation and what we are like wanting to receive from the experience
having a, having a big impact.
I love the idea that some positive soft talk, some,
some thoughts in your brain or some mumbling to yourself about, you know,
self care and self love and, you know,
being worthy could actually make our high better. I think,
I think that's a beautiful thing and I think that we should make that the, uh,
the custom.
Oh, I, I absolutely feel like that's, you know, that's true.
That's why meditation goes so hand in hand.
Why not can it cannabis and other and other psychedelics, right? Like awareness.
Fantastic. All right.
We are going to go ahead and take our short break and be right back.
You are listening to shaping fire and my guest today is cannabinoid
pharmacologist, Miyabi Shields, PhD.
For years, organic cultivators have been looking for a replacement for using
peat moss.
Peat moss has long been the go-to soil amendment for water retention and
container growing,
but organic growers know that peat moss is an unsustainable resource and the
mining of peat bogs destroys habitat and releases sequestered carbon.
But peat moss works so well that many have continued to use it.
But now there's finally a revolutionary replacement for peat moss that shares
the same benefits while also being sustainable.
Pit moss sounds and acts like peat moss,
but instead of being mined from fragile ecosystems,
it actually is made from upcycled organic paper and tree bark.
Pit moss is excellent at retaining water in your substrate and creating air
pockets and tiny living environments for microbes.
Pit moss instantly increases aeration nutrient absorption and water
conservation too. Carefully and locally sourced.
Pit moss is the result of decades long research into the use of recycled paper
fibers.
Pit moss has the fluffy nature of peat moss and handles exactly the same.
And like peat moss, pit moss is inert, so it won't change your pH.
Available in a range of preparations, including a nutrient enhanced blend,
a cocoa coir blend,
and also as an organic soil conditioner with no added nutrients.
Pit moss is also available as an animal bedding.
So go to pitmoss.com now to learn more.
That's P I T T M O S S dot com.
Growing healthier, more sustainable plants. Pit moss.
While I love growing under the sun, there's a lot of good reasons to grow indoors.
And if you're like most folks,
you want a lighting source that grows high yielding healthy plants without using
excessive amounts of electricity.
BIOS lighting creates biological lighting solutions that brings the natural
brilliance of the outdoors into your grow room.
BIOS lighting has the attributes that I look for in a horticultural lighting
solution.
I've bought those cheap lights online and they're difficult to work with and
fail in no time. In contrast,
my BIOS LED light is industrial grade to last a long time.
It is IP66 wet rated. So little foliar overspray won't harm it.
It is easy to clean without taking it down.
And of course the most important aspect it is built for the exact light spectrum
I want for great yielding, healthy cannabis plants.
And it doesn't hurt that their lighting rigs look bad-ass too.
Many horticultural LED lighting systems are based on irrelevant performance
metrics. And people love to argue online about these numbers.
I prefer to judge on par photon efficiency and how happy my plants are.
And the BIOS lights exceed my expectations in these categories.
BIOS lights have an optimized broad spectrum that maximizes photosynthesis and
plant growth while also providing the ideal conditions for superior
par efficacy and a comfortable visual experience.
I also love their attentive and overeducated customer service folks.
BIOS starts with a team of biologists before getting the electrical engineers
involved.
They have studied how light impacts cannabis plants and devised an overall
strategy that works.
I encourage you to check out their website at bioslighting.com to learn more
about how this strategy can work for you.
And Shaping Fire listeners can get a special deal.
Use the discount code SHAPINGFIRE, all one word, no caps,
for 10% off your entire purchase.
That's bioslighting.com.
For 20 years,
Humboldt Seed Company has been family owned and providing reliable high yielding
seeds originating in Northern California.
While the current trend is to slap one super male into a line of hype strains,
Humboldt Seed Company continues to breed with precision and care by doing large
sifts and back crosses to emphasize the absolute best traits that a line has to
offer. This kind of breeding takes time, talent, and space to work.
No matter what kind of aroma you are particularly into,
Humboldt Seed will likely have something you'll love. If you love fruit,
you can choose from banana, mango, apricot, papaya, blueberry,
blood orange, melon, and lemons across their various strains.
They have all gas, glue, and classic sour diesel lines as well.
Of course there are the heritage California strains like OG Kush, Jack Herrer,
and Headband,
and their award winning blueberry muffin is one that delights just about
everybody's palate, especially when concentrated.
Humboldt Seed Company is proud to bring to market the infamous freak show
Cultivar 2, which has a great THC high,
but looks so much like a fern that some folks can't even identify it as
cannabis. It's a plant that really needs to be seen to be believed.
If you're looking for well balanced CBD seeds,
Humboldt Seed Company can turn you on to CBD strains that actually have
flavor like the dill and pepper terpenes of Willie G's Lebanese
landrace. Whether you are looking for regular, feminized,
or auto flowers,
Humboldt Seed Company has the gear to make this your best growing cycle ever.
Visit humboldtseedcompany.com today to check out their line of vigorous
genetics, download their catalog, and find out where you can pick them up.
You can also check out their Instagram at the humboldtseedcompany to check
out their gorgeous flowers and the extraordinary freak show plant.
Humboldt Seed Company, let them know Shango sent ya.
Welcome back. You are listening to Shaping Fire. I am your host, Shango Lose,
and our guest this week is cannabinoid pharmacologist, Miyabi Shields, PhD.
So Miyabi, we've talked about these different, um,
methods of, uh, bringing the cannabinoids into our body,
but anybody who has spent a lot of time with cannabis and has, you know,
smoked and had edibles and maybe tried a sublingual,
they know that they all hit different. And when I say hit different,
I mean that they come on at a different rate and they
feel different in the body.
And often they will have different medicinal effects depending on
how we ingest them.
So would you please explain the differences in how our body
absorbs the cannabinoids, that method of action,
and then the differences chemically,
so we as patients can use the best mode for our
desired relief?
Yeah, absolutely. So I'm going to hit the first two,
the two largest and most significant routes of administration,
which is edibles, which is an oral administration or smoking. Um,
so with edibles there's, well, there's three differences in the two routes.
The first one is like the actual absorption, right? Um,
so that means when,
when and where do the molecules enter your body and how are those
molecules entering your body, entering your body. When you smoke, um,
all of the cannabinoids are absorbed in the lungs.
They get from the lungs into the blood and go to the brain directly.
And it happens all at once. I mean, it happens in like less than a second.
That isn't it. Also just for everyone else. Also a PSA,
like don't hold in your hits. Like it happens really, really quickly.
You don't have to like, don't hold your breath. Like that's no,
don't do that.
And let's move up since we're going to hit that. And let's also reference,
um, from the Robert Littman episode, all on cannabis and breathing,
that not only is it not necessary to get your cannabinoids out as me,
obvious saying, but the longer you hit your hit,
the more damage you are causing your lungs and your cilia from having
the hot heat in your lungs.
And like smoke particulates and other things that will come over the longer
you're holding your breath. So definitely, yeah, no holding a breath.
It happens anyways, it happens really quickly.
So all of the cannabinoids get absorbed, like,
let's say within one second of each other,
all of them go to the brain and then have their effect.
That's why usually it's like 10 minutes, right?
There's like a 10 minute onset between the blood going from your lungs.
Your heart pumps it up to your brain really, really quick. Um, with edibles,
you eat them,
they go through your stomach and then they're absorbed in the small intestine.
They actually had to pass through the liver first before then your,
your body pumps them all the way through and then it gets to your brain. Um,
so in terms of absorption, it takes a really long time. I mean,
it could take anywhere between like 30 minutes to sometimes like three hours.
I've heard people say that like an edible has hit them like four to six hours
later. Um, it also depends a lot on like what you've eaten that day.
What does your diet look like?
Do you have any GI issues or GI motility issues that you struggle with?
Right. Um, so these things can all alter like the length of time.
And that's has to do with absorption. Um, that's the first thing is absorption.
The second difference is metabolism.
So in the smoking example, when you're smoking it in the lungs,
it goes straight to the brain. There is no metabolism, um, between that,
between that stage, between it going from your lungs to your brain,
there's no metabolism. So it's THC. Um,
and they in terms of like getting metabolized or deactivated,
it also happens all at once,
which is kind of why smoking has a very short duration of action. Um,
that's because as, um, as the smoke is like,
after it goes to your brain, then it goes to your liver and it all gets
metabolized. Um, as opposed to edibles, they get metabolized first.
So when you eat an edible,
gets absorbed in the small intestine goes through the liver and gets metabolized.
Um, most of us make 11-hydroxy as the primary metabolite,
which is, um, more potent and has stronger effects. Um,
I think there's, so there's another metabolite,
it's a car boxy version of it that is inactive.
I do think that a significant portion of people who cannot feel edibles create
that metabolite. Um, I would love for someone to study that. Um,
cause there is a significant portion of the population that can't feel edibles.
That's like a whole other topic. Um, but for those of us who can feel edibles,
your, your body metabolizes THC into 11-hydroxy.
That is actually the molecule that will go into your brain and cause effects,
which is part of the reason why edibles feel different. Um,
and then like I said earlier about the absorption happening more slowly over
time, that means that 11-hydroxy is present more slowly over time.
It lasts much longer.
That's another reason why the duration of action is longer before it gets
deactivated. Um, and then the third difference,
which people don't usually talk about is, um,
transformation at high temperatures.
So cannabinoids are pretty sensitive molecules.
And when you heat them to temperatures that are above, say like 300 degrees,
Fahrenheit, um, you know,
you're causing a significant change in,
in molecular structure for a significant portion of,
of the cannabinoids that are present. Uh, for example,
like I think at 300 degrees Fahrenheit, uh, study is done on THC.
It was about 30% of the THC converts into CBN or
cannabinol. Uh, that's a dehydration reaction. So basically, um,
two hydrogens are removed from, um, is it two?
There's, there's two extra double bonds in the, in the top ring. Um,
and it changes the actual formulation. And actually this is like my main,
this is my main research focus. So I maybe,
so maybe stop me cause I'll go on forever and ever about this one. But, um,
basically if you're smoking and you're using a lighter,
a lighter can reach temperatures well above a thousand degrees Fahrenheit,
right? If even if you're smoking a J right, or like spliff or something,
you have an ember, the actual, that's a whole different chemistry.
Cause the actual area of the ember is a different temperature than the area
right above it. And so there's this, I mean, joints are very complicated,
which I also love. Um, but you get this,
this very high temperature transformation, uh,
and a significant amount of the cannabinoids are, are transformed.
So you get a different formulation and that's the third,
the third difference because most edibles are made to preserve, um, THC,
or more recently also now CBD. Um,
and that is part of the reason why smoking feels so different is because it is
actually a completely different formulation of cannabinoids.
All right. That idea that, um, the,
the lighter can change the cannabinoids that in and itself is like a huge
thing that I put into my notes that we should talk about later. Cause we could,
we could do the rest of the show on that, but let's,
let's hold that aside for a moment and focus on, on first the,
um, the,
the two different forms of THC or,
or cannabinoids that can come out of the liver. Um,
you said we could, you know, that's a whole new path, but let's,
let's hit that path. So, so there are, you know,
there are patients that talk to me regularly who,
who are concerned slash annoyed that they eat edibles and nothing happens to
them, or they can, you know, they can eat a hundred milligram, uh,
THC rich, uh, edible and like get a little high.
And, and they're both frustrated because it's much more expensive for them.
And if, and if they are a patient who needs edibles,
then they're in a very difficult position. And, and,
and you said that when the cannabinoid goes through the liver,
it'll break into 11 hydroxy or,
or a second one that I, that I actually missed the name of.
So are you suggesting that,
that each human has got their own ratio of THC into the liver and then
coming out is this different percentage between these,
the 11 hydroxy and the secondary one. And,
and if it's less 11 hydroxy,
you may have to eat a whole lot more edible in order to get the results and the
relief that you're looking for.
Yeah. This is actually a problem that this is a problem that I brought up, um,
to other scientists a couple of weeks ago at an international conference for
like cannabis science and like nobody was talking about it.
Or like cannabis science and like no one had, had heard of this phenomenon.
I would not be aware of this phenomenon if it wasn't for Tik Tok, actually.
I'd never heard of it before. I think that there are three possible there,
like there are some possibilities for why this happens to people. Um, and I,
and none of these have been proven yet. Um, but they are just all theory, right?
The first one is like a problem with absorption.
There's some sort of problem where the THC doesn't really get absorbed at all.
Um, I do not think this is a,
this is a likely problem because of like how THC is it's such a fat soluble
molecule. It comes over membranes really, really easily.
So I don't think that that's a possible, like,
I don't think that's like the possibility for most people, but it's,
it's an option, right? Some people might have an altered microbiome,
for example, or differences in absorption.
And then they just are not actually absorbing the THC in the small intestine.
The next two, the next two possibilities have to do with metabolism.
So there are two phases of metabolism. Um,
phase one was the one I was talking about with, um, hydroxy, the,
the formation of 11 hydroxy phase one is normally just oxidation. Um,
so you add an oxygen and the other option was a carboxy. I,
I don't want to name the whole name cause it's just like numbers and not fun.
But the second version of it is a carboxy,
which is just a carboxylic acid instead of a hydroxyl group,
which is just another, it's basically one extra oxygen. Um,
similar to what I was talking to about, uh, THC, a, right,
a carboxylic acid versus THC in this case, though, um,
the, our bodies add the carboxylic acid to the 11 position,
which is right at the top of the molecule. Um, that one is it.
So that carboxy metabolite is inactive and the determining
factor of which one of those molecules our body makes has to do with our,
our metabolic enzymes in our bodies. Like,
so our body is absorbing the THC goes to the liver in the liver,
there are enzymes present and those enzymes determine what happens to that
molecule. Um, maybe it's a mutation in the enzyme.
Maybe it's a variation in the levels of these different
enzymes that are, that are present. Right. Um,
but it's possible that for the people who can't feel edibles,
their body is not making 11 hydroxy. It's only making this inactive version.
So they're taking, they're eating the edible,
the THC goes in and then your body turns it into something inactive. Um,
that's not to say that that metabolite doesn't have any effects. I,
I haven't seen a lot of research on it, honestly. Um,
so it could be doing something,
but it's not having the psychoactive intoxicating effects. Um,
because it's, it's not active. Right. And then the,
the other option has to do with phase two metabolism, which is the second phase.
Uh,
what our body does is it takes the molecule and it adds a sugar acid,
like a glucose molecule. Um,
it's called glucuronidation and that inactivates the molecule as well.
If you think about it, it just takes a sugar molecule.
You snap the sugar molecule on it. Boom. The thing is turned off.
It's inactive. So there's an another option,
which is that people might have a very, very fast phase two metabolism.
So perhaps someone that's taking an edible for specifically for THC,
they can't feel it because they take the edible,
their body does phase one metabolism,
but then it immediately does phase two and then everything is inactive. Um,
I would love to see research on this. Um,
and also there is the option that there's tolerance, right? Like there's,
there's some option there that, you know,
some people who are really heavy cannabis users develop a tolerance and then,
you know, you don't, you don't see these marked effects with edibles.
Although I have seen people say they've taken hundreds and hundreds of
milligrams.
And so that just doesn't add up when you take into the account that these
people also probably smoke flour and can feel a hundred milligrams of THC.
Right. Yeah, totally. They smoked it. They would, they would get hit upside.
Yeah, exactly. So, I mean, it just, it just doesn't,
that doesn't match up to me.
That it means to me that there's a problem with like absorption or metabolism.
And actually this is something I'm collaborating with another pharmaceutical
scientist on to like establish like how,
how prevalent it is in the population.
And her name's Riley and she's also a pharmaceutical scientist.
And Riley and I used Tik Tok actually to poll how many
people could feel that it's a significant population of people who can't feel
them. Um, and I think it's something worth,
worth looking into to figure out at least, at least why.
All right. So then let's thread the needle. So if we've talked about, um,
smoking on one side being a fast and heavy hitting,
and then we've hit on edibles,
which are significantly slower but can be stronger and
more, I don't know, time-released, longer acting. Um,
what about sublinguals? Because you're not smoking it. It goes in the mouth,
but it also doesn't go through the gut. It goes through your, your,
you know, your mucosal membranes. Excuse me.
So, so what, what is that intake like chemically?
Okay. So when we're talking about sublinguals,
like are we talking about like tinctures that you put under your tongue?
Yeah. Tinctures that you, or, or a sublingual spray, or normally it is,
uh, uh,
cannabis oil that has got a little bit of residual, um, ethanol in it.
So that when it hits your, your mucosal membranes are just like the, the,
the, the tissue in your mouth, the, um, the,
the residual ethanol takes the, uh, whole,
the whole plant medicine over or through the tissue.
Yeah. So like, I don't know if something is wrong with my mouth,
but I have never been able to feel sublinguals successfully.
So I'll just talk about it in theory. Um, in theory,
when you absorb something either sublingual or subucal, which is like a cheek,
there are some cheek swabby products that I've seen before on the,
on the market. So both of those methods of action should bypass first pass
metabolism. They should be really quick, similar to smoking in the lungs. Um,
and be, I guess, have comparable advantages, uh, as smoking, um,
no transformation obviously, cause there's no heat. Um, but you know,
just like personally, anecdotally,
I haven't like had tons of success with that.
And then also if we are talking about a tincture and you put it under your tongue
and then eventually you do swallow it, that then becomes an edible,
like whatever is left that didn't.
Yeah, that, that, that is true. You know, they're, they're the, the, the,
the street wisdom on this at any way is that there's,
there's a small amount of fluid in a tick in a tincture normally,
and you put it underneath your tongue and you know, you might hold it.
You might not depending on, on what the tincture is made out of.
It may burn too much to hold it there, but whatever you, you,
you put it in your mouth and you swish it around a little bit and you swallow it.
And when I talk to folks, anecdotally,
folks believe that the THC is absorbed in their mouth.
And then if they swallow it, you know, there it's,
it's a long road from the mouth to the gut and it's going, you know,
through the throat and the esophagus and all this kind of stuff on their way
down.
And that the rest of it is actually soaked in on the way down in,
in before it gets to the intestines.
And therefore it doesn't ever becomes an edible. How does that hit for you?
I don't agree with that. It's fine. It's fine for people to think that though.
I don't, I don't have any proof that that doesn't happen,
but I think it becomes an edible. That's my,
my personal opinion is whatever doesn't get absorbed in the mouth.
Then when you swallow it,
maybe there is like trace absorption and like the esophagus or the stomach.
But in like in general,
the small intestine is what's built to absorb like exogenous,
like in general, the small intestine is where our body like absorbs all.
Like when you eat food there, it's like very similar.
There is some sublingual absorption. Then when you eat it, like very,
I would say like, I don't know the statistics on this. I'm not a GI person.
But I think most of the absorption happens to the small intestine.
Yeah. Yet another thing we've hit on today that needs more study.
Yeah. I mean, I, I don't know what's wrong with my mouth.
I can't, I can't feel, I cannot feel sublinguals ever pretty much with,
I don't know. I feel them like an edible, like way later, you know?
All right. So let's, let's move on to the ever popular method of suppositories.
And you know,
even though suppositories get a little bit of a giggle cause we're, you know,
we're popping something into our rectum.
There are a lot of patients that I have worked with that you know,
it, when they discover this, they,
they literally cry with relief and joy because either they have got severe
stomach problems and they have a hard time eating anything or B they have a,
you know,
they've got an issue in the liver where they are not making the 11 hydroxy.
So they're not feeling anything. And for whatever reason, they can't smoke.
Or they're cancer patients and they're trying to, you know,
take in absurd amounts of, of cannabinoids all at once.
And, and you know,
taking it orally gets them super duper high.
And so they,
they introduce them the cannabinoids to their body as a suppository.
So there is absolutely a need for it. And,
and honestly, some people just say that they like the high better. I mean,
I've,
I've definitely run into folks who are using their cannabis recreationally as a
suppository and you know, that's pretty darn rare, but you know,
people are into all sorts of stuff. So, so let's talk about it. So, you know,
the, the, as, as I understand it, the,
the suppository will break down and then the cannabinoids are absorbed by the
tissue along the walls of the rectum.
But I really don't understand what the chemistry is beyond that point.
So I believe that suppository is also bypass first pass metabolism,
which means that it's interesting that you mentioned that the high is different
from suppositories because that indicates that there is like a difference in the
metabolism or the absorbed, like, well, not the absorption, but the metabolism,
well also the location of absorption, you know, so that there's no metabolism,
which means that it's not 11 hydroxy, right?
So it gets absorbed and then it goes to the brain.
I believe it's also faster because it doesn't have to go all the way through
your stomach to your, you know,
your small intestine and through the liver and get metabolized. You know,
I think it's like in terms of like stigmatization and talking about things that
have to do with like our private parts, like, you know,
this is a really important method that I think is very valuable for the reasons
that you've mentioned, like people who have severe nausea. It's also really,
I've heard that it's been, I'm,
I'm assigned female at birth and I have a menstrual cycle and I have heard that
suppositories are really,
really useful for people who have PMDD or who have other sorts of like hormonal
or like painful, painful issues like endometriosis or cysts.
And I've actually heard qualitatively from quite a few people. Actually,
I've I'm going to blank on her name, but there's a,
there is a research scientist who's looking into this specifically.
And I think that in terms of like method and options,
I think I would just describe it as like a very, like a very,
very useful option, a very,
very useful therapeutic method that has definitely deserves its place amongst
like cannabis products. And I actually, you know, when I see that,
they sell out here like crazy.
Like I actually haven't been able to get my hands on one ever.
They sell out like immediately.
Yeah. Demand is really high. And you know,
a lot of people go through a lot of effort online to make you know,
fancy ones with like Shea butter and coconut oil and they put them in you know,
little,
little formed ice trays and put them in the freezer so they harden.
And you know, it's always a little giggle when you, when you know, when you,
when you, when you put it there because of it being cold.
But I know enough patients who do this,
you know,
a couple of times a day where they just don't even bother making the,
the, the proper Shea buttery coconut suppository.
And they just take a cellulose capsule,
put the RSO in there and then apply it because the,
the fluid that is in the rectum is plenty to break down a cellulose capsule.
And, and, and there you go. So, you know,
you can be fancy and gentle or you can just like get her done. And, and you know,
and as we know, really sick people,
they usually just go for the get her done option.
Yeah, absolutely. And I mean, in terms of like not needing to, yeah,
that's, that's, that's fascinating.
I never thought about the do it yourself method for that.
I always thought there was some sort of fancy contraption,
like an applicator. I don't know.
I mean, I mean, there are, there are, I mean, you know,
the pharmaceutical industry, they can make everything more complex, right?
I'm sure, I'm sure there will be, I'm sure there will be,
I'm sure there's something about that. You know,
one thing that you said that really stands out for me is that, um,
you know, you said that since a suppository would skip the,
the level one, uh, uh, in the,
in the liver and so the 11 hydroxy is not being made.
A suppository would be the only non
smoking option that actually delivers
THC to the brain unchanged
in theory, sublingual too, right? But,
Oh yeah, that's true too. Right. Yeah. And then, and then I know,
and then I know, yeah, in theory for me,
other people with normal mouths that that happens. Um,
I know also that there's been a lot of research into transdermal, um,
applications, but to my knowledge, um,
no one has been able to crack the transdermal situation where it actually
enters the bloodstream. So like Tim, so, so far to my knowledge,
like transdermal, which I love topicals also, like,
I think they definitely have therapeutic validity,
but they don't enter the bloodstream. Right.
It's like a very high local concentration.
Hmm. All right. Well, that would be that, that, well, all right, let's, let's,
let's go for it. So, so, all right, so let's talk about that. So the, um,
at one point I agreed with that statement, but,
but I have come across enough people who are using a topical
that has got a, uh,
an ethanol component and they,
they use a THC rich topical. And then if they use enough of it,
they actually feel the, uh, the intoxication from the THC.
And, um,
I have heard just anecdotally that people will who don't smoke
will, will, uh,
test positive on a urine analysis after only using THC rich topical.
So are you saying you have explanations for that or, or, okay.
No, no. I'm really interested also in terms of like the ethanol topical that
makes people feel psychoactive effects. I want to talk to you more about that,
but first about, about the drug testing. Um,
a lot of the drug tests are not testing for THC.
They're testing for the metabolites. Um,
and so that's actually possibly it's possible with,
with any of the topicals, um,
because your body will metabolize them and the metabolites can stick around for
like months. Right. Uh,
it's the question of whether or not it gets in the blood and up to the brain in
like its active form.
Interesting. So wait, the metabolites,
your body will produce metabolites even if the THC doesn't reach the blood.
Or like by, I think what my thought process was by the time the THC reaches,
the blood and like is being cleared out of the topicals, um,
from topicals is that it already has been metabolized and that's why you don't
get any activity because it doesn't enter into the brain. And I'm, this is just,
that's just my like thought process behind it. I don't actually know.
I should look it up actually later. Um,
but interesting that you said that you've had people who felt a psychoactive
effect from topicals. Do you know,
did they apply it in a very specific place on their body or is there?
Well, I can give you two, I can give you two answers for that. So the,
the first answer is, um,
I normally find people say they have felt it more when they have to cover a
large area. Right.
So that this is usually people who have got back and hip or leg issues where
they're back. Interesting. They're covering their back, their shoulders,
their, their, you know, their hip bones, maybe their, their tush.
And so, so you know, it's, it's not common. As a matter of fact,
I've never come across it with somebody who's using it for like, um, like,
yeah, hands, elbow, arthritis, tennis, elbow,
stuff like that because it's a very small area.
It's always been people who are taking care of a large swath of the human body.
And then second, you know,
I have been making tinctures for myself for over a decade for my brain injury.
And I know that, um,
I had to start wearing gloves when I made my tinctures because if I had a spill
and I cleaned it up the,
the alcohol with the suspended cannabinoids in it would,
I'm assuming soak through my hands and I would get like hella high and have to
go lay down. And I'm like, Oh, all right,
guess who's going to start using latex gloves. And so,
and so that's my own personal experience. So,
my belief is certain that that THC can be carried through the skin with ethanol.
And then the topical people who I have, you know, learned from have said,
you know, you know,
the emu oil and all these other things are all good for the skin.
But if you really want to take cannabinoids to the skin,
there has to be an ethanol component for efficiency and expediency.
I'm not a topicals expert,
so I am not standing here saying that this is all to be true. Uh,
I'm just saying this to inform the question.
That is so fascinating. And I'm going to go home today,
mix my topicals with ethanol and cover my back in it. Like,
I am so interested in that. I mean, with the back that's, it's interesting because,
you know,
the spinal cord is the central place where the peripheral and central nervous
system like interact with each other. So obviously there's a lot going on there.
Um, but I, I'm fascinated by that. Also like many,
many scientists would be fascinated by that because there's been a lot of
studies about penetration, uh, like skin penetration, like specifically. And,
um, wow, that's, that's awesome information. I'm definitely gonna, you know,
I'm going to home trial that home experiment.
It's nice that,
that we happen to be working with a plant that we can home trial stuff, right?
I mean, I mean, anybody who listens to the shows knows that I'm a huge fan of
citizen science.
And I understand that often citizen science can kick out bro science.
And that's a, that's something we always have to watch out for. But, uh, you know,
the, even though we have a larger and increasingly larger, uh,
scientific community around cannabis,
we have a hell of a bigger community of cannabis
patients who are trying to do their own research at home to relieve their
suffering. And there's so much to be learned from those folks.
Oh yeah. It's exponential. Like the power is in the people.
I'm a huge believer of personal experience. Cause like when it comes down to it,
we are all different. So no one's going to know you as well as you know yourself.
Like no one is going to understand you and the way that you feel the way that
you do.
Yeah. You know, it's weird though. Not all scientists are into citizen science.
You know, I have spoken with, uh, cannabinoid researchers who will,
I'll talk to you at conventions and they will talk trash about the patients doing
their own stuff.
And I can understand their frustration because there's a lot of inaccurate
science that's handed around by patients. But at the same time,
I don't think that's a reason to discount citizen science.
It just means that it needs to be checked.
Just like I have to check regular, you know,
professional scientists to find out who's paying for their studies. You know,
any kind of research needs to be looked at, um, you know, with open eyes.
I think that that just means that we should put more effort into public
education so that people doing the citizen science are more educated in
scientific theory and like able to execute it themselves.
I think that this, like the idea that we shouldn't be experimenting on ourselves
is just naive. Like every single human in your entire life,
all you're doing is experimenting all the time. Like it's,
it's an N equals one or, or, you know, when you find your person and N equals two,
or for people who are polyamorous and N equals X, like number of people. Right.
But no, I, I think that, um,
I agree that it can be, there can be negative like myths and,
um, like what did you call it? You called it bro science, right? Yeah. Yeah.
I agree that there are problems that, that arise from that. And that, you know,
that's unfortunate that people can believe that that's true at face value.
But I also think that there's been some pretty important things that come out of
qualitative experience. And historically that was like all we had in the past,
like previous 4,000 years. Yeah, that's a good point. I mean, uh,
a lot of the new cannabis knowledge is,
is just because of the machinery that we're using to look at it with,
which comes with, with like a bunch of assumptions. I mean, I love my field.
I'm obsessed with molecular pharmacology, but I mean, we would,
we would need a whole nother show for me to just explain to you all of the
assumptions that go into what I did, which is in vitro pharmacology, right.
Which is actually like screening a drug molecule against a target.
And I did structural biochemistry of endocannabinoid system targets.
There is just an exponential number of assumptions that you make in research
science that doesn't, you know,
they call it the transition from bench to bedside, right. From,
from the laboratory bench to the bedside of a person.
And I think that like discounting human experience is,
and like invalidating it.
I think that that's detrimental to the cannabis industry as a whole,
because we have so much information out here and so much power and people who
are trying to increase the quality of lives and so much information that gets
lost because we're just going to devalue it. You know?
Yeah. You know, I, I'm chuckling to myself,
how much fun it would be to do a show called invalidating cannabinoid science.
And we just go into all the trash.
Are we going to eat some mangoes and then.
Yeah, totally. So we can be more high. All right.
So thank you for that.
Miyabi let's go ahead and take that second break and get that out of the way you
are listening to shaping fire.
And my guest today is cannabinoid pharmacologist Miyabi Shields, PhD.
There is no doubt that auto flowering cannabis plants have finally come into
their own and night owl seeds works tirelessly,
bringing you auto flower genetics that are reliable thriving and with
extraordinary terpene profiles.
Night owl seeds is an industry leader because of the focus work of their founder,
Daz.
Daz is passionate about the cannabis plant and pushing what auto flowers can do.
And cultivators know that these efforts show through in his seeds and night owl
seeds really are extraordinary.
Just take a look at the thousands of photos and by fans on Instagram,
the proof is there and obvious terpenes are complex and rich plants have
vigor. If you are a fan of Mephisto genetics, like I am,
you'll likely also love night owl seeds.
Night owl founder Daz worked with Mitch Mephisto to build the Mephisto brand for
years, including breeding Mephisto's much loved sour stomper and cosmic queen
cultivars.
I'm growing both night owl and Mephisto this year because I want the best and
night owl seeds knows how to cultivate community too.
Daz puts out great stickers,
exclusive packaging for limited runs and desirable freebies.
He really draws you in. If you love creative branding,
night owl even has the secret owl society text club.
Just text the word night owl one word to 7 6 0 6 7 0 3 1 3 0 for early
announcements and exclusive opportunities. Of course,
you can see lots of photos and find out about upcoming drops by following the
night owl seeds Instagram too at Daz.nightowl.
That's D A Z.nightowl.
You can get your packs of night owl seeds at several distributors,
including DC seed exchange, insane seeds and Hembra genetics.
That's night owl seeds. There's a difference because we're different.
Sometimes the topics I want to share with you are far too brief for an entire
shaping fire episode. In those instances, I post them to Instagram.
I invite you to follow my two Instagram profiles and participate online.
The shaping fire Instagram has followup posts to shaping fire episodes,
growing and processing best practices, product trials, and of course,
gorgeous flower photos.
The shango Lowe's Instagram follows my travels on cannabis garden tours,
my successes and failures in my own garden insights and best practices from
personal grows everywhere. And always gorgeous flower photos on both profiles.
The emphasis is on sharing what I've learned in a way that you can replicate it
in your own garden, your own hash lab, or for your own cannabino pathic health.
So I encourage you to follow at shaping fire and at shango Lowe's and join our
online community on Instagram.
Over the years,
shaping fire has been invited to sponsor several cannabis cups and I've said no
to them all.
It wasn't until the auto flower cup that I really wanted to help promote
something and the producers, Sebastian and Carla didn't even invite me.
I approached them.
I told them that auto flower cup was important to me for three reasons. First,
it was obvious that they were going for a friends and family vibe instead of some
sort of commodified cannabis vibe.
This event was going to gather really cool folks. Second,
the event had a ton of cool stuff to do and to learn and to participate in the
event. Isn't just about cannabis. It's about living life fully,
enjoying community, eating together,
laughing and listening to music and mushrooms third and most important to me
personally,
the event was authentically for the auto flower community and the auto flower
community needs a place to auto flowers about getting high. Sure.
But I find that much of the auto flower community is still focused on cannabis
patients, home grow, sharing best practices,
sharing seeds and humility.
These are the ideals that I share with the event and I wanted to make sure I did
my part to help it succeed.
Announcing the 2021 auto flower cup, August 6th, 7th,
and 8th in Lilloop, Washington, just outside of Seattle.
This over 21 event is presented by camp Ruta Rollis.
The auto flower competition is open to everyone, commercial and home growers.
So get your skills recognized and enter today.
A cup when now we'll make you a leader in the community.
Here comes the ear candy stunned in glass hookah lounge,
pop up magical butter chocolate shop,
waterfront marketplace with an array of vendors.
There will be an old school auto flower seed swap joint rolling competition,
cannabis cooking demos, solvent,
and the squishing demos and late night documentary screenings of fantastic
fungi chef Sebastian corrosive award-winning classics like elk chili,
Kobe beef, kimchi, dogs, oyster, po boys, and razor clam chowder,
wild oyster harvesting, mushroom foraging s'mores around the campfires.
Each night, Dan, Jimmy of Mandalorian presentations,
psilocybin mushrooms, presentations, camping, glamping RVs and Airbnb.
So check out camp rooter,
Rollis.com for those details and follow the Instagram at the auto flower cup.
2021. Welcome back. You are listening to shaping fire.
I am your host shango Lowe's and our guest this week is cannabinoid
pharmacologist, Miyabi shields, PhD. So Miyabi,
we got to go back to the mango, right? Like we threw it in there at the end.
We threw it in there at the end. And like, you know,
there are so many people still talking about having mangoes before you get high
because it helps. And this is,
this is untrue and let's get it directly from a scientist.
Please break it down.
I believe that if you believe it will make you higher that it will,
that's what I normally say.
Well, you know, it's, it's placebo, right?
Essentially it feeds into set and setting, right? If you believe it to be true,
your, your, your brain tends to, you know, tell you that you're right.
So let me, if I break it down to like what people normally talk about,
it's mercy and right.
People are normally talking about the terpene that is present in mangoes that
will then make you feel higher. Um,
from what I've seen about like the bioavailability of mercy and the amount of
mercy that is present in mangoes, which means that when you eat it,
like how much of it actually enters your system, um,
our body metabolizes terpenes really, really quickly,
specifically if you're going edible route of administration. Right. Um,
so I, it's hard for me,
it's difficult for me as a scientist to believe that eating a mango,
which has relatively low amounts of mercy and that are bioavailable that then
get metabolized almost immediately would like make it to the brain to have like a
significant effect. Um, but I,
I'm much more convinced of the fact that if you were to believe that that were
true and you had that in your head, that that would absolutely happen for you.
And like, I don't think there's anything wrong with the placebo effect.
Like while we're just on the topic of placebo,
like ultimately at the end of the day, what are we trying to do? We're trying to,
we're trying to have an effect. You're looking,
you're looking for an experience. So people ask me sometimes like about,
like I take CBD every day and I, it helps me a lot.
And people have asked me about it being like, how are you sure?
It's not a placebo. And I'm like, you know what?
I actually could not answer that for you with a hundred percent certainty because
no one can.
And I don't think it matters whether or not it's a placebo because it works for
me. And so I think that like coming to like mango and the science and,
um, yeah, from what I've, from what I've seen,
I don't believe like scientifically that anything biologically is going on other
than altering your expectation of what it will feel like.
Right on.
And that's in line what Dr. Ethan Russo shared with us during the shaping fire
sessions video too, when we were talking about eating food to support your,
your endocannabinoid system. He also agrees with you that it is, um,
um, it's just expectation and there's nothing going on at a physiological level,
but you know, that doesn't mean that, uh, any of this mango, um,
the mythology is going to slow down one iota. So,
so let's go ahead and move on. So, so here in set three,
I want to talk about dosing thresholds for efficacy because, um,
in serious and chronic patients, um,
this is something they're constantly struggling with. Um,
so many patients fall into like the overall bucket of immune disorders,
uh, rheumatoid arthritis, multiple sclerosis, lupus Hashimoto Epstein Barr.
I mean, there are so many of these people when you put them all together. Um,
and there, there, so many of them are using cannabis.
Now some cannabis seems to help a lot.
More cannabis helps some people,
but heroic doses are hard to determine and may not give increasingly better
results. And so even though somebody is really sick,
more cannabis may or may not be the solution,
though maybe it is because of their, their, um, tolerance. So,
so my question for you is what is the efficacy threshold point,
um, uh,
between these serious imbalances and knowing what is the maximum they should
take that makes sense because we don't want patients wasting money on too many
cannabinoids,
but the difference between 50 milligrams of whole plant CBD and 200 milligrams
of whole plant CBD really can make a difference in certain patients.
Oh, absolutely. So, okay. I also have to just say like,
just little disclaimer here, I am not a medical professional or doctorate.
I'm like a research scientist. My right,
like all of my expertise is just on like molecular pharmacology of cannabinoids
in the body. But I will speak to what I personally believe, um,
about efficacy and dosing. Right. Um, which is that,
that I think in general,
what you're looking for for every person is what's called the therapeutic
minimum.
That is the amount of cannabinoids that you need to take in so that you have a
therapeutic effect, but not any more than that.
Because when you start taking in more than what it would be,
the therapeutic minimum,
you can start getting negative effects like tolerance or withdrawal, right.
Or like off target effects. Uh, and in terms of like,
what is that therapeutic minimum? I mean, this is where, unfortunately,
it's again, with what we were talking about earlier between you and I, it's,
it's dependent a lot by the person and what therapeutic indication they're
looking for. Um, and you know what, it's,
it's so complicated because there is no one stop fill out like form for saying
you are this tall, you weigh this much. And so this much is the amount that,
I mean, you know that very well. Um,
and this is something that we've actually been struggling with, uh,
in terms of like adding like, uh, medical validity to cannabis.
It's something that's a, that's a big barrier. I think in my mind is that, um,
some people can't wrap their brains around the fact that we,
we can't actually tell you what dose is beneficial.
Like largely that responsibility is going on to the consumer or the patient,
right? Like more and more like what you were talking about with citizen science,
we're realizing that it's up to us to do this experimentation,
to figure out what it is. And a lot of people in the general public feel like,
not capable of making that decision. Right. Um,
so I'm just going to explain something that, um, and this is,
it only works for people who can monitor their symptoms with a number. Um,
but it's basically called,
it's called a titration and a titration means adding something slowly until you
reach like an equilibrium. That's like the,
I guess the layman's way of explaining it. And whenever you go to a doctor and,
and I'm, I'm thinking I'm talking mostly right now,
mental health is probably the easiest example. You go to a psychiatrist, um,
they usually start you on the lowest dose of something.
And then you go back and you see them like once a week for like a few weeks.
And then they decide like, okay, we have to increase it. Right.
And then you increase it. And then you see them once a week for a couple of
weeks. And then like, maybe you increase it. Maybe you stay the same. Um,
what they are doing is a titration,
which means that they're starting at the lowest possible dose and then monitoring
the effects of that molecule at,
on you specifically as a patient. Um,
so in lieu of being able to do that with cannabinoids, with,
with the depending on your, your medical professional,
which also if you have a medical professional that you could be honest with,
that would be the best case scenario.
And you take down the information and you give them that information and then
they give you, you know, they give you what they think about it.
But in lieu of that, you could also do that yourself.
So you keep a journal, um, or an Excel sheet or, you know, any sort of,
um, you know, it has to be written down though. And you,
and you write everything down, you write down what you're using and why,
and you give your symptoms that you're trying to reduce a number.
You, you quantify them. And I know it's going to be subjective.
And I know that it's going to be biased, right?
Cause you're the one writing it,
but it's more information than you would have otherwise. And it's, it's a,
it's a good way to look at something with numbers sometimes and see. Um,
and so then you write everything down and you see,
that's also the easiest way to decide or determine whether or not you're
developing a tolerance. Right. Um,
and eventually like for people who are just getting to know themselves for,
for people like, like you and I, who've been, you know,
using cannabis for years and years, um, you know,
you end up just kind of with a inherent knowledge of yourself, I think.
Um, but for people who are just getting started, you know, I say, start small.
Like it's always great to start small and then to increase and like give,
depending on what, what you're looking at and improving, um, you know,
you could give it a little bit of time because certain effects take time to,
um, to see, you know, there's, there's different effects level.
There's acute effects of a molecule, which is like immediate.
So the acute effects of THC would be the high. Right. Um,
but then there's like more long-term effects,
like the down regulation of CB1 receptors that might take more time.
It might take like a week or two weeks might take three weeks. Uh,
it depends on the person.
And if you're writing everything down and if you're being very intentional about
your use, and I realize this sounds like kind of a lot of work. Um,
but once you get in the habit of doing it,
it really just kind of becomes a habit.
There also are apps out there that will help you, um,
like tracking apps and habit apps and things on,
on the phone that I think are, that can be really, really useful, um, in,
in helping you to, to find out like,
what is the dose that's working and how is it working for you?
And I think that, well, unfortunately this,
this type of like self-evaluation is really useful for people who have symptoms
that are, that are outward facing, right. Like that you can see,
um, it becomes much more complicated when you talk about something like cancer
and you can't see your tumors or your mets. Right.
Yeah. Well, at least in some of those cases, um,
we can look at analytics, but we'll talk more about cancer in a minute on the,
on the, you know, what you are saying is, is accurate, right?
Essentially you're,
so you're calling for patients to tie trade up and then journal their results
to get to know their cannabinoid tone and their body, uh,
and how that matches with their relief goals.
And, and, you know,
shaping fires big fans of journaling and titration. Um,
and, and not to discount this, but at the end,
that just means that the answer is trial and error,
which is what these patients are already doing. You know,
and it's the, it's the applied trial.
That we don't have a better answer for these folks because doing that,
you know, that trial and error, that, that titration and journaling,
you're probably going to hit like over medication a couple of times and have
some crappy paranoid experiences.
You're probably going to have to be patient when you're feeling impatient
because you're, you're experiencing symptoms from whatever's, you know,
going on for you.
And you have to deal with those symptoms while you're trying to figure out if
you need 20, 50 or 200 milligrams of CBD a day.
Like, like that can take so much time, especially if a patient is got,
you know, somebody who's got, you know, Hashimoto,
Epstein-Barr and RA plus migraines. It's like,
it's a total mess of, of,
of symptoms that you're trying to work your way through. And,
and you're right. All we can do is, you know,
suggest titration and taking a journal and talking with other patients,
but golly, that's a disappointing,
that's the best I can offer folks. And that sucks.
It's honestly, one of the things that I would be,
that is most interesting to me is like formulations and understanding how
specific formulations come into play with this, because I think it's a huge,
I think it's a huge problem. And I also think that in terms of titration,
the other option is to go, is to go outside in, as I would say,
the other option that's not,
so titration is slowly increasing until you reach equilibrium, right?
The opposite of that would be outside in,
which is taking the smallest dose and seeing what you feel and taking the
largest dose you're comfortable with and seeing how you feel and then
working your way in from that. If that makes sense.
Yeah. While taking that biggest dose, that sounds sketch.
Yeah. I mean, that's, it's not, that's why I don't, I don't recommend it.
Usually I am just putting it out there as the alternative option of the,
in, in general, I believe in some ways, in some forms of engineering,
that's a fast way of finding the optimum.
Yeah. Maybe, maybe I would recommend that for all the cannabinoids except for
THC.
Yeah. I think that it's like, it's a good one for CBD or CBG possibly.
All right. So, all right. So then let's talk about, for cancer.
And unfortunately it may be a similar answer. So, you know,
taking tinctures for symptoms, right? So let's say,
you know, primarily probably THC,
but certainly there are applications for CBG and CBD,
but let's just say generally 10 to 20 milligrams a day for THC spread
out over the day is a very common dosage for folks who are
in cancer treatment, just to help with the side effects, you know, so they,
they can get back their appetite. They feel some muscle relaxation.
They've just feel better in this body that they are inhabiting. Right?
So, you know, 10 to 20 a day,
that's pretty typical versus the large doses of
full extract cannabis oil,
also known as RSO for cancer patients who are going for a cure, right?
For people who are going to a cure that 10 to 20 milligrams a day, you know,
depending on where they are in the cycle will be 300 to 750 milligrams a day,
which is like, like a whole hell of a lot of THC.
And, and the thing is, is that, you know, the,
the go to protocol has been 60
milliliters of, of cannabis oil over 90 days.
And, and that usually takes a big thwack at the cancer
and either the person will decide to do another round or
it's solved,
or the patient doesn't want to do it anymore either because they're
PSA numbers haven't gone down for example, or,
or they just can't handle that much THC in their life. It's a lifestyle choice.
So, so all of that is to set up this question, which is, you know,
how do we, is,
is it even known what the efficacy is against
big monsters like cancer for THC,
or is this simply, you know,
how it's been done in the, in the past of let's throw THC at it and see if it
sticks. And it just hasn't been updated with appropriate science yet.
So, so the cannabinoids show anti-tumor, anti-tumorgenic properties.
Like it's, it's been established, but the,
the way that we test this in the lab has a lot to do with usually, usually,
it's either a cell culture or, or animal model. Right.
And then we have all the human information out there, right?
Like what you're describing all the people with the protocol,
with the protocol and using really, really high doses of, of cannabinoids.
So like, is there science behind it? Yes. Do I know, or can we,
can we say like what dose, what threshold is the,
are the anti-tumor properties going to have effect? No.
Which is also why I think people lean towards more because in general, yes.
Like if you're going to err on the side,
if you want anti-tumor properties and you're trying to err on the side of,
of getting those, then in,
in theory more or a higher dose would be better than, than less.
I had a patient tell me that she was going to go big or go home. Right.
She's all like, if I'm not going to do chemo,
I'm going to take all the THC that I can pack into my body because that's where
all my chips are.
You know, this is, this is unrelated. I mean,
it's not unrelated from the endocannabinoid system,
but it's unrelated to cannabis. But I think one thing of interest at,
whenever cancer comes up that I mentioned is fasting and the effect of ketosis
and which ketosis is when your body runs out of sugar and begins burning ketones
for energy. Instead, it's fat. You're burning fat.
The endocannabinoid system is a fat signaling system. It's involved in this.
There's a big shift that occurs. So it is related to endocannabinoid system,
not necessarily related cannabis,
but there's a lot of evidence out there that fasting is very beneficial in terms
of it's like anti tumor properties, like anti metastatic properties.
And it also just, it's beneficial in general. This is like,
this isn't the topic that we're on whatsoever.
It's just something that I thought was worth mentioning.
Actually, it's kind of on topic here.
Let me tie it in for you because so many of the patients who are on high THC
dosage, full extract cannabis oil for cancer,
you know, it's a very common that they get sleepy, right?
They just nap all day long and their caregiver needs to arouse them to get them
to eat and to go to the bathroom.
And one of the challenges with patients is to make sure they keep their weight
up because they're spending so much time sleeping and they get over the munchies
part of cannabis really quickly.
And so generally patients lose weight in the last,
you know,
say four to five weeks of using a full extra cannabis oil for cancer.
And wouldn't that be interesting if it is the decreased calorie intake,
which in causes the boost to the immune system,
which is playing a big role in that.
I would think that it's synergistic for sure. Although I also,
like we have to mention that like obviously getting proper nutrition and like
not losing a significant weight.
The goal is to not lose weight, but it tends to happen.
Important. No, absolutely. But it's, there's, I mean, in terms of like,
so cancer is the overactive and I'm not a cancer expert like whatsoever also.
I just, but, but just in general, right?
Like cancer is what happens when there's a mutation in your cells and then
they're over, they overactively reproduce and grow and they,
they are evading the immune set. Like normally, normally.
If our immune system was to be functioning authentically or correctly,
then the immune system would identify those. I mean,
we have mutations in our cells all the time. We have, we have errors.
Every single one of us, like probably right now has at least one cell in our body.
I could probably guarantee it.
There's at least one cell in our body that's doing something wrong. All right.
Like when the, our, our bodies aren't perfect.
But we have a system in place that like identifies those errors and fixes it.
And cancer occurs where somehow the cancer cells are evading that
system. Right. And yeah, I think that,
and the endocannabinoid system is integrally linked to immune function and
to energy you know, energy homeostasis or energy balance.
And cancer cells take up a lot of energy.
They're replicating very rapidly. And so there's,
there's all the anti-tumor properties of the cannabinoids as well,
but then there's all the endocannabinoid system interaction with the immune
system. You know, it's, it's really complicated. And I,
I could not imagine what I would feel like if I was,
if I was diagnosed with cancer. So I can't, I can't speak for sure,
what I would definitely do in that scenario,
because I know that when that happens and when you get that diagnosis,
your life changes forever. And you know,
I could be saying something now that I believe I would do and I maybe wouldn't
do it. Right. Right. But it,
it is my belief currently that if I were to be diagnosed with cancer,
that I would use cannabis and fast.
And then I would also be open to chemotherapy. I mean,
I would be open to it, but I think it would not be the first
stop. Right on. I want to go back and I'm going to bite.
Like I heard you used a subtle change in your intonation when you use the word
normally. And then in your next sentence,
all the places that you would have used normally, you swapped out that word.
And I want to bite.
Why did you not choose to use the word normally to describe a function of the
body?
I don't think I, yeah, that's funny. Shango, you picked up on that.
I don't think that I don't like the word normal.
Just I dislike that word almost in every context or way that you could in any way
that you could use that word to describe human functionality, it doesn't fit.
So I think that's just kind of where that came from is that I even do,
I slip up all the time. I used the word normally. And then I think about it.
And I'm like, you know, that's not the most correct way to say that.
And that normal and using the word normal implies it implies that we have an
understanding of human diversity and functionality that we just don't have.
So it's my personal opinion that I don't,
I don't like using the word normal to describe anything having to do with
humans.
Right on. I'm with you. And and,
and it assumes that there is an established standard that doesn't exist.
It just doesn't exist. Yeah.
You just, yeah, you hit, you hit that on the head with that one. I, I slipped up.
I do it all the time. I don't believe there's a normal.
Right on. Well, cool. Thank you. Cause I heard,
you know how you can hear someone's mind thinking as they build their sentence?
And I heard, I heard you play with that. I'm like, Oh,
there's something going on there. I want to know. So,
so let's finish up this episode with a followup question from part one that we
did a few weeks back. You know,
we talked a lot about tolerance breaks during part one of,
of this endocannabinoid mechanics series. And,
and the number one question I got from folks was about taking a tolerance break
from cannabinoids that are not THC, because you said something really interesting.
You talked about how often you do THC tolerance breaks and how they're good for
you. But you also said that you don't take tolerance breaks from CBD.
And that's what everybody was asking me about. They're like,
ask her why she doesn't take them for CBD. Doesn't she need to,
you know, doesn't Miyabi need to take a break from you know,
CBD because they may be getting a,
a tolerance from CBD as well. And then I got the same questions. Well,
how about THC A and how about CBG then?
Because patients are all taking these various non THC cannabinoids and,
and they all expect that they need to take a break from them just like they would
THC.
But by your comment that you don't take one from CBD left everyone in a
quandary. So will you flesh that out?
So I realized that I actually misspoke because I use full spectrum products.
So I don't actually technically take breaks from THC either.
Because even there's even trace amounts in your CBD stuff.
Yeah. There's small amounts. And then I, I use, I smoke hemp flour, right?
So there's going to be small amounts of Delta eight in there as well. But you
know, that's, it's small. Usually it's well under,
it's going to be well under 1%.
So I don't take breaks from the cannabinoids, I guess in general.
There we go.
That would be the main way of putting it. But in terms of like THC and like
larger, like relatively larger doses of THC I,
I currently am taking like a one-to-one CBG CBD extract every morning.
And then like it has small amounts of THC present and a bunch of other things,
right? Like whatever else is in, is in the plant. But it's interesting because
like, do I need to take a tolerance break from these? Okay.
So what is a tolerance break and what is the,
what is the point of a tolerance break for people, right? Like in,
in general, the added benefit of a tolerance break,
there's a couple added benefits.
Like the first added benefit of a tolerance break is going to be to decrease
your tolerance.
That means that you are going to be able to get a larger therapeutic effect from
less, right? That's the,
that's the number one reason why people want to take tolerance breaks.
I don't use to,
from my experience with CBD and the trace amounts of THC and now CBG that I'm
experiencing with,
I don't experience a tolerance effect because I'm using them at relatively low
doses. So it just means that like, I'm not taking more every day.
I'm taking the same amount every single day and I'm still getting the therapeutic
effect. So I'm not experiencing tolerance. So for that reason,
like in number one,
like there is not really a need for a tolerance break in that one way in terms
of like, that's the first reason to have a tolerance break.
The second reason is kind of like a lesser reason to have a tolerance break
would be just to like judge your perspective of like whether or not something
is working for you, whether or not it's having a negative effect on your life.
I have taken breaks for, for that reason.
That's actually one of the main reasons why I take regular THC breaks.
It's the reason why I stopped drinking a couple of years ago. Just to like,
just to check in, right. To check in and being like,
how is this affecting my life? How is this affecting my health?
And I think that that's important to do. But for me personally,
the giant added therapeutic benefit that I get from, you know,
CBD now CBG and trace amounts of THC plus,
plus whatever else is in the plant that we're talking about, right?
Like the terpenes and the flavonoids and, you know,
bioactive fatty acids and everything like those benefits that I receive that
increase my quality of life. I mean, it far to me,
it is far outweighing any negative effect that it's having on my health of
which I don't see any negative effect on my health.
That's obviously subjective.
That's something that I'm determining for myself. Although I have seen doctors
that say that I'm healthy. So there's that.
I want to bring us back to the sharp edge point on the question though.
We're talking about you know,
we've been talking about so far in the, in this answer,
like THC and how you do your tolerance breaks.
But specifically the question is our tolerance breaks beneficial for CBD,
CBG and THC-A. They work the same way. Yes?
Yeah. And they're acting on different receptors though. So, I mean,
I think that that's like the main thing to point out is that all of these rare
cannabinoids that have different pharmacologies,
when you take tolerance breaks from them,
you'll be affecting different receptors and it'll be a similar thing though,
where you're like resensitizing your body to the molecule.
Although I haven't really seen a lot of people developing tolerance,
unless they're taking very, very high doses. I guess it just depends.
And I'm not like the most knowledgeable person on this.
I would love to hear from other people what they think about this, but you know,
developing a tolerance,
it seems like at least THC develops a pretty rapid tolerance.
Like it's easy for the CB1 receptors to be down-regulated and then for you to
get less of that intoxicating effect.
I have not seen that and I maybe with the other rare cannabinoids and maybe I
also haven't looked hard enough because to be fair,
like there's not a lot of information out there on the other rare cannabinoids.
I would be very interested to hear from people if they develop tolerance to the
other rares and like what that looks like and what it would look like for them
to take tolerance breaks. I'm interested.
The common background of this is since this whole set three is focused on dosing
thresholds for efficacy in chronic and serious illness.
These are generally folks that have got some combination of serious things like
MS and RA, lupus and RA, lupus, Hashimoto, Epstein-Barr, RA,
like people who have got serious dysfunctions in their body and these folks
describe this experience of bouncing from solution to solution because their
body adapts to the solutions quickly and their suffering returns.
And so it is incredibly common for me to hear from these high difficulty
patients that, yeah, I did, you know,
CBD worked for five weeks and then it stopped working.
And so I moved on to CBG and CBG helped decrease the inflammation for a few
weeks and then it stopped working.
And then they moved on to mushrooms and then that worked for a while and that
stopped working. And then they're like, so then I went back around to CBD.
Oh, CBD was now working again.
And so so many of these patients they hop from method to method to method to,
I mean,
and they're even switching from drugs that have different methods of action,
right? So it's not even always the method of action.
It's as if they need to keep goosing their immune system with different
solutions to refresh in it. Right?
And so it's these folks that are looking for any way to refresh their body's
reaction to these natural plant medicines and to,
you know, when you said, you know, you know,
inaccurately that you take a break from, from CBD,
people were all over this cause they're like, Oh, you know,
should we not be taking our breaks from CBD?
And I think that the answer is actually, yeah, they should be.
Well, I think it also depends.
So for people who have really high inflammatory and chronic disorders like this
is, again, I'm not a doctor, I'm not a medical professional,
I'm not a nutritionist, I am just a scientist.
And this is just my opinion of my life. But you know,
it's not just the cannabinoids that I use to manage my chronic disorders.
I have altered pretty much every other aspect of my life that you could,
that you could,
I shape my entire life around my chronic mental health,
chronic pain and chronic GI issues.
I try and maintain the lowest possible like systemic inflammation levels.
I mean, we talked about inflammation in the last one.
I think inflammation is at the heart of a lot of these problems,
specifically immune system problems.
And so I would say as just as advice in my opinion,
is that you have to find a way to potentiate the cannabinoids.
You have to find a way to make them more effective.
And there are a number of ways you can do that, right?
Like by modifying your diet, modifying your fasting or like your eating window.
I take, I take cold showers and do breathing exercises, right?
Like people who've heard of them, Hoff.
And then there's like stretching yoga, mental health work, like cardio,
like low grade cardio strength training, like working out. Like there's,
there's all of these other options that you could do that potentiate.
They increase the efficacy of the cannabinoids.
And I know that for a number of reasons,
those things are extremely difficult to implement in your life.
And they feel like this all, I mean, when I say all of them out loud,
it's like, Oh my God, I can't believe I do all of those things.
So it's really like about one at a time and certain things will work for certain
people more, more than others. Right.
But I can't tell you what has worked for me or like, has any of the,
have any of those one things work for me or is it the combination that of all of
these things that, that are somehow working together? You know, I,
I don't know.
That's actually a really good point is to,
to bring us back to the holistic nature of this. And while I,
while I know that the, the,
the inflammation patients that, you know, I've worked with would,
would howl at the idea that, that they do weight training, right.
And that they,
they lift things because most of them feel so broken and weak.
The body doesn't really know. I mean, for this application,
the body doesn't really know the difference between a one pound weight and a
20 pound weight.
All it knows is that it's,
it's being put into a stress and release of the muscle sets.
And so it is going through the, the body actions,
that, that respond to that. And there is healing and efficacy in that.
And so, you know,
I like the fact that you recognize the mental impossibility of that for these
patients. Oh, it's, and yet just find something heavier than nothing.
Or just, or just nothing, just body training. Start with what, you know,
start with what is good for you. Like I'm, I have hypermobility issues.
I injure myself really, really easily. I don't lift like, I mean,
now that I've been lifting for a while, I've been able to increase like my
weights, but you know, it's, it's,
it's all about what you're comfortable with and what actually brings things to,
to your life and that are, that are manageable to you to do.
I think that's like the starting point. And then like what you said about a one
pound weight, I mean, you do a one pound weight for six months,
it'll turn into a five pound weight. You do that for another six months,
it'll turn into a 10 pound weight and then you'll get to 20, you know?
Well, Miabi, thank you so much for joining me again on Shaping Fire.
I enjoyed our first interview for part one so much that I was glad that you were
open to do a part two in endocannabinoid mechanics and,
and people love it, you know,
to be able to hear this level of scientific detail from,
you know, from a scientist who is able to put it in layman terms,
human terms is a real joy for most of us. So,
so thank you so much for sharing your expertise and good cheer.
Well, thank you so much for having me. Honestly, I really,
I really enjoy your questions and your, your listeners must be,
they must be a pretty sharp bunch, you know? So don't, I mean,
in terms of like the lay, in terms of layman type stuff, I'm, I'm excited.
The questions are not layman questions.
Right on. Excellent. Well, yeah,
I'm pretty stoked with the Shaping Fire audience too. People,
people come here when they want to get serious and I'm grateful they're here.
So, so thank you, Miabi.
If you have missed part one of endocannabinoid mechanics with Dr.
Miabi Shields, you can go back and enjoy Shaping Fire episode number 78.
That was the part one. It is fabulous.
And you should definitely check it out if you just started with this one.
If you would like to learn more from Miabi,
I strongly suggest that you follow their social media,
which is just absolutely filled with rich content and how I found out about
them.
The more reliable platform for that right now seems to be Instagram and their
Instagram is at miabiphd and that's M I Y A B E P H D.
So Instagram seems to be the best place to go. However you know,
the secret is that the Tik Tok material is actually more fun for the moment.
And the Tik Tok,
Tik Tok keeps deleting Miabi's account,
but for now it is also at miabiphd.
So follow both the Instagram account and the Tik Tok account to stay up on,
you know, festive cannabinoid learning with Miabi.
You can find more episodes of the Shaping Fire podcast and subscribe to the
show at shapingfire.com and wherever you get your podcasts.
If you enjoyed the show,
we'd really appreciate it if you would leave a positive review of the podcast,
wherever you download, your view will help others find the show so they can enjoy
it too. On the Shaping Fire website,
you can also subscribe to the newsletter for insights into the latest cannabis
news, exclusive videos, and giveaways on the Shaping Fire website.
You also find transcripts of today's podcast as well.
Be sure to follow on Instagram for all original content,
not found on the podcast that's at shaping fire and at shango Lowe's on Instagram.
Be sure to check out the Shaping Fire YouTube channel for exclusive interviews,
farm tours, and cannabis lectures.
Does your company want to reach our national audience of cannabis enthusiasts?
Email hotspot at shapingfire.com to find out how.
Thanks for listening to Shaping Fire. I've been your host shango Lowe's.
