Compost is one of those words in natural farming that means a lot of different things to different
people, and yet we have conversations about compost assuming we all mean the same thing.
I certainly didn't grow up around compost or compost tea, and I only really started
considering it when I started focusing on natural farming techniques as an adult.
And then of course I read Teeming with Microbes by Jeff Loenfels and got really interested.
If you've been listening to Shaping Fire for a while, you've probably been sitting
right here with me as I had some of my biggest breakthroughs in understanding what compost
is and why it is the essential building block for natural farming.
Today is one of those shows, and I bet we learn a lot about compost together.
If you want to learn about cannabis health, cultivation, and technique efficiently and
with good cheer, I encourage you to subscribe to our newsletter.
We'll send you new podcast episodes as they come out, delivered right to your inbox, along
with commentary on a couple of the most important news items from the week and videos too.
Don't rely on social media to let you know when a new episode is published.
Sign up for the updates to make sure you don't miss an episode.
Also we're giving away very cool prizes to folks who are signed up to receive the newsletter.
There's nothing else you need to do to win except receive that newsletter, so go to shapingfire.com
to sign up for the newsletter and be entered into this month's and all future newsletter
prize drawings.
You are listening to Shaping Fire, and I'm your host, Shango Lose.
My returning guest today is soil biologist, Leighton Morrison.
Leighton is a lifelong enthusiast of both aquaponics and living soil.
His obsession with Biosphere 2 led him to set up an aquaculture at the Rodale Institute.
Leighton worked with world-renowned biologist, Dr. Elaine Ingham, blending his aquaculture
byproducts with compost and worm castings to prove that natural inputs could replace
synthetics in commercial cultivation.
Leighton consults widely for agriculture, soil regeneration, and commercial land management
projects throughout the United States, including recently working on the Wallace-Annenberg
Wildlife Crossing over Highway 101 in California that will be the largest wildlife crossing
in the world.
Leighton is currently founder of Kingdom Aquaponics and invented their line of living compost
and compost tea living soil products.
Leighton is a sought-after speaker and co-host of a weekly podcast on the Future Cannabis
Project YouTube channel.
Leighton has been on Shaping Fire a few times before.
Episode 54 about geology and biomimicry in living soil cultivation.
This was the episode that brought Leighton's popular Soil Horizons concept into mass adoption.
Episode 59 on water and watering.
Episode 82 about properly using aerobic and anaerobic soil amendments to meet the needs
of your soil at different stages.
And episode 87 where we do a debrief on the first cycle of the Shaping Fire indoor growing
tent where we test regenerative techniques indoors, including his Horizons model for
living soil.
So you might ask, Shango, why bring back a guest for a fifth time?
And that's a fair question, and I have two answers.
First, have you heard any of the Leighton Morrison episodes?
They're incredible.
The depth in them is hard to ignore.
Leighton has the scientific background, plus is an ardent natural farmer, and he actually
grows stuff and doesn't live in a lab.
He is kind of like Indiana Jones in a way.
He has the academics down solid, but he spends most of his time in the field applying these
skills in orchards, soil regeneration projects, research and development, cannabis cultivation,
and he's even a consultant for the Dallas Cowboys keeping their grass practice field
thriving.
Second, I looked for someone else to be on this show.
I got referrals from friends and peers.
Everyone I looked into was an expert at making thermal compost, scoping compost, and teaching
it.
For this episode, though, I needed a scientist who could look beyond this one category of
thermal compost to the larger picture of soil microbe inoculation, which is what I'm most
interested in and I think is what people actually want when they make compost tea with thermal
compost.
So, in the end, I called up Leighton and asked him to join me for this episode, and that
I wanted to go big and cover a lot in one episode.
During today's episode, the first set is a review of different varieties of compost,
their benefits and challenges, with a special consideration for the home grower.
During the second set, we talk about creating the highest amount of microbe activity in
compost, cold compost, and how to use it without fear of pathogens.
And we wrap up with the third set discussing compost grain structure, how to make premium
cold compost, cold compost extract, and even make compost shelf stable for use throughout
the year.
Welcome back to Shaping Fire, Leighton.
Thank you, Shango.
I look forward to it as always.
Yeah, man.
It's always great to have you here.
So, let's get right into it.
You know, I've been thinking about doing this show about the varieties of compost for some
time, but I really didn't decide to pull the trigger on it until you and I had that conversation
just a few days ago where you started kind of like teasing apart this compost question
I had in my head.
And even though the goal of today is to kind of talk about the science and the biology
of soil structure, I want to start with the rather mundane question that I approached
you with because even though we're eventually going to go somewhere heavier and more biological,
I can't be the only one who is a cultivator who looks at these different varieties of
compost that we have available to us and trying to figure out which ones are most viable and
which ones are garbage and I shouldn't even consider.
So let's go through the list of the six varieties of compost that I have come in contact with
in my world and let's just talk about each of them individually so that when cultivators
who come in contact with these other types of compost know how to judge them.
So let's start with the most common kind of compost, which is the bagged stuff that they
sell at the store.
And I'm not even really talking about necessarily really good quality bagged compost, which
I'm assuming there is such a thing.
I'm talking about the kind of stuff that they sell for $6 in front of the grocery store
in the spring.
And that stuff, different kinds of companies bag those up.
Where I live, there's a company that actually collects yard refuse, yard and garden and
food refuse from in front of people's houses and then they take that to their big facility
and they, air quote, make compost and then when it's done, they put it in a bag and they
sell it back to us for $6.
And so it says compost and so many people are buying it for their gardens and to make
their raised beds and lots of people putting it in pots.
But you know, when I used to buy these, you buy it and you rip it open and I would smell
ammonia and it would often have white on it and I'm all like, I don't think that's mycelium.
That looks like some kind of white rot or something.
And then as I've gotten more mature in the living soil scene and I've seen the kinds
of composts that living soil artisans make, I'm more like, how dare they sell this bagged
stuff as compost?
Is it even compost?
So let's talk about that first.
Kind of explain to me, I mean I know each company makes it different but I think that
by probably by the time it's in the bag, they're probably pretty similar.
So teach me a little bit about what my expectations should be for that compost that's in a sealed
plastic bag.
Alright, so let's start with the word compost.
The word compost is a process.
It's not a product.
So I think that that's where the real conversation begins.
That, okay, there are a lot of different types of compost and again, because I don't have
a better word to choose, we're going to use that word.
We'll get into what it really means, I'm sure, in another set.
But for the beginning, let's just say this is a compost.
So when you smell ammonia, that is part of the thermophilic breakdown of organic matter.
You said, well, you called it junk.
Well, nature doesn't make junk.
Nature just breaks down organic matter into carbon and nitrogen.
All living things are made of carbon and nitrogen along with other elements from the periodic
table.
So just for the sake of keeping it simple, when you smell the ammonia, you are still
in what we call a thermophilic phase.
You haven't shifted into the mesophilic.
So that means that active decomposition is happening and that ammonia smell is the release,
the byproduct of the thermophytes knocking the carbon and the nitrogen off.
They can't eat too much nitrogen.
They really are there for the carbon.
And so that nitrogen is being released in an ammoniacal gas, ammonia gas.
So that product is unstable.
If you apply that to healthy young plants, you're going to kill them because basically
the thermophytes are going to steal carbon and releasing the nitrogen and therefore starve
the plant out because the plant actually wants the nitrogen or I should say the mesophilic
bacteria want that nitrogen to break it down and release it to the plant so that they get
more exudates.
So you're in kind of a bind.
And the other thing, the white you saw, well, that's actually actinobacteria.
A lot of people confuse that white for mycelium, but it isn't.
It's just basically the actinobacteria and it's indicating heat.
There's still quite a bit of heat present in that compost.
So that being said, you're dealing with a product that is unstable.
It wouldn't even be considered, you know, POM, which we'll get into later.
But let's keep me on track here.
Right on.
So the stuff that's in these bags, it sounds like it'd be fair to just call it immature.
If our goal was a thermal compost, I think you're suggesting to me that it wasn't finished?
Correct.
It was unstable.
I see.
I think unfinished is a great way to put it.
All right.
So as we know from anything that's made at a scaled level, like even cannabis flowers,
if you're scaling things up, so often the product that comes out is not premium.
And so these companies are making just like thousands and thousands of these bags and
they're kind of rushing them through.
And so the fact that we are seeing that bacteria and we're smelling the ammonia and it's still
breaking down, it's essentially just saying that they rushed the process.
Absolutely.
And the other thing you have to keep in mind too, is that at these compost yards, they
don't have the ability to separate the greens and the browns.
So that's probably one of the most critical pieces of making especially biological compost
is that you have the correct ratio of greens to browns.
If you have too much greens, you have too much nitrogen.
It's going to go hyperthermophilic and there's nothing you can do to stop it.
Well, there is.
And we'll get into that, I'm sure, later.
But there's nothing you can do to prevent that thermophilic phase from continuing until
there's no nitrogen left to be broken off to steal the carbon.
So that being said, if you can manage your greens and browns, you can put a predetermined
point in time and say, well, you know, after six months, this is going to be gone through
the thermophilic and into the mesophilic.
Mesophilic means stable, safe to apply, will not steal nitrogen from my plant, and will
be a suitable source of soil organic carbon that will provide all kinds of benefits to
soil.
So, is there a use case for this, right?
I mean, you said don't use this stuff on young plants because it'll steal from them.
Well, I would naturally take that and say, well, then I sure as hell don't want to put
this in my beds and put my clones or my seed starts into it.
And then I'm like, well, I probably don't want to use this in my pots either.
Is there any use for this?
Oh boy, that's a great question.
So yeah, it's a herbicide.
It will kill plants.
Yeah, yeah.
So in my work out here in Cali, I'm working with a lot of different farmers and a lot
of different growers of different things.
When I found out that this company, compost company that I've been working with, was using
it as a herbicide, I was horrified.
I was like, oh my God, what are we doing?
And then I stopped and went, wait a minute, I don't care if it's herbicide, it's still
carbon, it's still getting put into the soil.
It's still providing a longer term source of fertility and CEC, cation exchange capacity,
which is a valuable resource for providing long-term fertility to plants, whether they're
strawberries or trees, it doesn't matter.
So the fact that they're actually taking this stuff and turning it in is actually a benefit
because when you stop the thermophilic phase by taking this immature compost and you till
it into the soil, you've basically prevented those thermophytes from producing that excess
gas.
So therefore you've actually put some ammoniacal or nitrate-based fertilizer into play because
it's no longer gassing off.
It actually has a couple different benefits.
So that being said, what do you do with this compost?
I would use it as a top dressing for a mature lawn or a top dressing for a mature tree.
I wouldn't go heavy with it, but I would definitely sprinkle on a half an inch and then just kind
of massage it in because you're going to get some benefit from it in that regard, but no
way would I put seed starts or clones or anything else into it because you're not going to get
a good result.
So it sounds to me that unless we're talking about putting a whole bunch of it on a field
or a distributed cultivation area, there really isn't much application for this in cannabis
growing, which is kind of our point.
Correct.
Unless you take it, open it, and pile it up and let it go through the phase.
So you bring it home and finish it yourself.
Correct.
Well, we might as well hit that.
How would somebody, let's say that somebody only has access to this kind of stuff, how
would you easily finish it at home assuming you don't have a farm?
So you take it back to your place and then blend it with other sources of carbon.
So wood chips, straw, or not straw, yeah, straw because straw is more of a brown than
it is a green.
It's not hay.
Hay is a green.
And leaf litter, any source of brown.
Maybe your last year's soil too.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
It'd be a great way to use up some excess soil.
So you just blend it together and then pile it up and stick your hand in there.
If it's heating up, add more browns until you get to a point where it's no longer heating
up to a point where it's uncomfortable for your arm.
I mean, if it's at 85 degrees, which in many ways is the sweet spot for biological generation,
it's going to feel kind of cool to you because you run at 90, what, 8 degrees?
So it wouldn't be uncomfortable.
Now if you stick your hand in there and it's hot, that means it's above 100 degrees.
110, 120, it begins to get very uncomfortable.
If it's 130, it's going to start to burn your arm.
So that's a good way to gauge in the field without a compost thermometer how you're maturing
your compost.
All right.
Cool.
So let's go to the next, I'm making up these kind of bullshit categories myself, so let's
go to the second bullshit category, which is home food waste compost.
Now I want to be clear.
The next variety we're going to talk about is food waste compost made by an organic gardener
who's read a book and watched some videos and they know what they're doing, right?
So what I'm talking about more specifically are people who've got their heart in the right
place, but they don't really know what they're doing.
So they're people who are producing home food waste, maybe they're getting some stuff for
their neighbors, they don't have anybody with neighborhood pigs to give them to, so they're
putting it in a pile and whenever they remember it, it'll get turned a couple times a year
or whatever.
And then eventually it does break down, it stops to smell, it's probably got some big
chunks of stuff in it, right?
So it's kind of lackadaisical compost, but I run into that all the time.
I will often post to the Vashon Island farm or food cultivators list and say, like, hey,
anybody got excess compost that you're looking to get rid of because I don't really have
a lot of space for that.
And sometimes I'll get good stuff, but most of the time it's this stuff I'm talking about
where people are making this kind of like lackadaisical pile and they're like, yeah,
come take this stuff so that I can feel good that I've moved it back into the biosphere,
but I don't know what to do with it, right?
So what are your thoughts on this kind of stuff?
I'm guessing you're going to start with it is also immature.
Yeah, and potentially pathogenic.
So that's why when you're dealing with food waste, you really only have three ways to
responsibly deal with it.
If you just take it and pile it up in the backyard, it's going to stink.
It's going to attract pests, ants, unwanted critters, raccoons, you name it.
So not really a smart thing to do.
A lot of people that have food waste will often add it to a static compost pile, which
is yard waste, leaves and chips and everything else that you've collected in the spring after
the winter and piled up.
And that's a little bit more safe way to deal with it because you're not going to attract
to those pests necessarily at the same level you would if you just piled it up and let
it rot in the backyard.
And you'll also get some benefit to adding in those browns, again, greens and browns.
Food waste is pure nitrogen.
So it's going to go hot.
It's going to stink.
It's going to gas off both methane, ammonia, and like putrefaction gas, you know, gases
that don't necessarily, you know, they're not good terpenes, put it that way.
So as far as like dealing with, you know, food waste, my recommendations is to get people
to either feed them to worms, which is a safe way of breaking them down and avoiding, you
know, pathogenic cross-contamination, which is a real issue.
If any of you have, you know, gotten an upset stomach due to something that you ate that
was not particularly healthy, then you would understand that this is not something that
you want to have happen to you.
An upset stomach is no joke.
So in handling that, it's really, you know, again, feed it to worms first, then take the
vermicompost and use that as a supplement in your compost or as a top dressing.
But again, it can't be gooey.
It can't smell bad.
It has to have had the opportunity to break down to a point where it's no longer going
to be potentially pathogenic.
So that's really the only responsible way to deal with like food waste.
Another thing is you can, you know, do something that's a little bit more, how we say, old
style, which is to dig a hole and put your food waste in there and put a lid over the
top of it and just let nature do its thing.
And that's what we would call anaerobic digestion because it's going to stink like hell down
there, but the microbes will naturally break it down and convert it back into organic matter.
So there's another way for you to safely deal with your food waste.
And you know, a lot of times you've got to keep in mind too, like, you know, people,
oh, eggshells, eggshells are great.
Well, they're also got a lot of E. coli on them.
And same with meats.
You know, those, those meats and dairies are a little bit more tricky to compost than just
fruits and veggies.
And fruits have their issue too, because they have a lot of sugar.
They can attract a lot of pests.
But when you get into these, all right, I'm going to throw everything, including the kitchen
sink, no pun intended, into my compost pile, you really got to go thermophilic.
You got to cook that stuff hard to prevent any kind of, again, attracting pests or potential
pathogenic, you know, cross-contamination.
Well, A, I never considered the pathogens and I think that's really important, but I
got to tell you, I just got to say, you really got my attention with this anaerobic compost
hole.
That sounds like a really fun project.
Is the stuff that will come out of that, like rich and delicious for my cannabis plants?
After it goes through the digestion process, absolutely.
How long does that process take?
It depends on how much you piled in there and if you continue to pile on top of it.
I mean, it's, think of it like, like you ever seen a flow through vermicompost system
where you take from the bottom and you feed the top?
In the hole, the bottom is going to be where the value is, not the top where you just added
stuff.
So basically, you have to let that sit for, because you can't harvest from the bottom
unless you try to cross tunnel over.
Probably too much work for the worthy.
I'm imagining like digging a hole, filling it with like kitchen waste and then just fill
the hole and then just cover it and leave it and then go dig another hole.
And then like maybe I've got like nine holes and I think you're about to tell me about
how long that would take.
And so like, okay, I make the holes and then after X variable amount of time, I know that
I can go back to hole one and use that.
And then like some weeks later I can go back to hole two and then when I pull hole one,
I can go refill it.
So how long, let's just say like, you know, reasonably since I don't have a backhoe, I'm
probably not going to dig a hole that's, you know, much bigger than three by three, let's
say.
I wouldn't even go that big.
Just use a post hole digger.
Right?
So just dig a post hole, you know, like maybe six, eight inches around.
Yeah, six, eight inches around.
I mean, how much food waste do you generate?
Not a lot.
Yeah, I guess that's true.
And a great way to store it is actually to freeze it so that you can just freeze as you
go throughout the course of the week.
Maybe it takes two weeks to store up enough for a one post hole and, you know, dig the
post hole, mark it with a flag and then cover it over with soil on top.
And if you go back probably, I don't know, maybe three, five months, three to six months,
you will have this amazing black organic stuff with tons of worm castings in it.
Wow.
Like, and then if they're not three by three holes, I could, you know, I could easily make
25 of these in a row, each with their own plant tag, giving me the date that I capped
them off.
Correct.
Do I need to worry about the E. coli from the eggshells when I do this style?
No, because everything is going to break down.
You're going to have rapid decomposition in an anaerobic digestion system.
So the E. coli is just going to get consumed by other biology.
What if I'm a cultivator who's in the ground and I have got like a cultivation field?
Let's just say I've got three rows of five plants, you know, and so I've got like 15
plants.
I could just make these post holes like around my garden and then just like never get them
out.
Just like put them in and just cap it and just say, you know, all of this, all these
nutrients will eventually be accessed by the root zone and they'll be pulled from, you
know, three, four, five feet away from the plants and they'll just be pulled over by
nature.
And so I'm just kind of creating these little post holes, like little caches of nutrition
for the soil and the plants.
Is that legit?
Absolutely.
And I mean, you could take it even further.
And when you harvest in the fall, you know, go next to the root ball.
Obviously, I don't want you to take that out.
It's valuable nutrition.
But go next to it and dig a hole and put it in there and next to your plant right on top
of it.
It'll have six months of digestion.
All right.
Black gold, dude.
Black gold.
That's really cool idea.
All right.
Now, there is one other piece that I left out in dealing with food waste.
It's called fermentation.
Now, that's been a big topic over the last five years.
For sure.
You know, JDOM and natural farming methods.
And so one of the other things you can do, especially if you have a situation where you
just you had a party and you have all this leftover food like, you know, hamburgers,
hot dogs, steak, chicken, pork, whatever.
But you just you're overwhelmed.
You have a trash bucket full of food.
What you can do is actually take that and cover it with water and put a like a wire
mesh or wire cloth over the top of it.
So it's held down and weighted so that the food and everything underneath it is under
the surface of the water.
Now, this is a way to basically break it down into enzymes very, very quickly.
And then those enzymes can be used in for it again in a thermal, thermophilic compost
and really make that compost explode biologically because you've got all of the secondary and
tertiary metabolites in biological food.
And so, of course, the biology is just going to go ballistic when it comes in contact with
the stuff because it's just ready to eat.
It's like McDonald's and Burger King.
So that's another component to dealing with food waste.
Now, would I recommend doing that on a smaller scale?
Probably not because it's going to be a pain in the ass.
Whereas digging a post hole and dumping some frozen scraps for the last two weeks is a
very easy to do method.
Whereas this fermentation process takes a little bit longer.
And again, now you've got this bucket that you have to let sit for a minimum of probably
seven days until you've gotten through the fermentation process.
And you're probably going to see foam on the surface of the water and other indications
that it's still very highly active.
And so you do not want to uncork this while it's in this, again, anaerobic digestion because
it's going to stink like hell.
But after a period of, you know, it depends again on the size of the container, how much
you're dealing with, how much meat versus how much vegetables, as to how long it'll
take to break down.
But after a period of time, it won't even stink anymore.
It'll be slimy.
You know, you'll probably get like a mother, you know, like a kombucha mother on the top
of it.
But it won't smell anymore.
And that's when you know, okay, this stuff is rocket fuel for biology.
Now I take this and add it to my compost pile, it will not stink.
And all of those mobile nutrients that could wash through the soil very quickly if it rained
will be consumed very quickly by the biology.
Wow, right on.
And when it's in the stank stage, do not get that stuff on you.
You will smell for days.
Exactly.
All right.
So our next category is going to be, for lack of a better term, I'll call it curated compost.
So this is the kind of compost that is made by, you know, organic gardeners, your friend
who knows better, took a class, you know, read a couple books.
They know what they're doing.
And so they're creating their pile.
And you know, maybe they're even, you know, making sure that certain types of foodstuffs
are in there so that the compost that comes out of it has a particular nutrition ratio
that they're looking for.
And it's getting turned on time and they've got a compost, you know, thermometer.
And so, you know, we're talking kind of like creme de la creme of heated compost piles.
And you're very lucky.
They like you.
They like the weed that you're growing.
And they say, hey, I've got extra of this stuff.
You know, when you want to bring over your pickup and, you know, get what you want.
And then you're like, hell yeah.
And you go over.
So tell me about this compost compared to the other stuff we're talking about so far.
All right.
So I'd have to believe that this compost curator has gone through the thermophilic phase and
into the mesophilic.
In other words, didn't rush it.
Use the proper green to brown relationship.
Whether they used food waste or manure, we call those high nitrogen sources.
As long as they're using high nitrogen sources responsibly, so less than 10%.
And they are going through the process of turning it, like you said, until it gets to
the point where it no longer continues to go thermophilic.
Now you've pushed it into the mesophilic phase.
Now you have a, what I want to call nutrient dense compost.
So there's a high value of nutrition there.
But I'm not saying that there's biology there.
And this is something that I've learned over the years.
I've, you know, been across the country.
I don't know how many times worked with clients all over.
I've worked with people that's, oh my God, I make the best compost.
You know, old hippies that, you know, they've been around for a long time.
I've worked with dairy farmers, horse farmers, you name it.
Generally speaking, the one piece that they're all missing is the biology.
Biology takes perhaps a year or two to come back into that pile after it's gone thermophilic
to a point where it would get into the realm, just getting close to the realm of what I
would call a biological inoculant.
So that guy on the farm who's, you know, through his, you know, his yard scraps and his vegetable
scraps, probably not as meat because he doesn't want to attract the pests into his pile and,
you know, turned it or left it static.
I mean, that's another way to deal with it.
It just takes longer for it to break down, but you're getting, you're going to get a
better biological compost from static versus turning.
Because every time you turn that pile, every time you expose those microbes to UV, to oxidation
through exposure to air, you're knocking them way back.
You're basically pushing them into a cyst form or into a, you know, a form where they're
being consumed by other biology.
So you've turned them into a biostimulant, which is basically what happens to thermophytes
in a mesophilic phase.
They're being consumed by other bacteria and protozoa and converted into what we call a
biotic bank account.
It's there and it will be available when the time is appropriate for the next level of
bacteria to be consumed and released in plant available form.
So you're basically like banking a biostimulant in a situation like that, but you're not producing
biological compost per se, if I was clear on that.
So this compost that we're talking about that is finished and it is stable, how are
we going to, you know, we can use that in all the ways that we normally think about
compost at this point, right?
As a top dress, as a soil amendment, all that kind of stuff.
So unlike the other ones that we've talked about so far that have got limitations because
they've never become stable, this is the first one in the list where we can feel pretty safe
doing whatever we want with it.
Yep, and again, test it.
Stick your hand in it, pile it up and feel if it starts to heat up again.
If it heats up, then you're still in what we would consider decomposition phase, thermophilic
phase.
But if it doesn't heat up or you stick your hand in there and it feels a little cool to
you, then you know you've got a stable organic matter.
All right, cool.
And then we have to introduce that at some point in the near future.
Instead of calling it compost, we need to call it like those terms that I've talked
to you about, like ground up organic matter, GOM, POM, particulate organic matter, or MOAM,
mineral associated organic matter.
Because now you're getting into that point where it's in a phase of decomposition.
So everything starts with soil and plant growing and then breaks back down into soil eventually.
Yeah, we need, especially since you pointed out at the beginning that compost is really
a process and not a product, we really need new vocabulary words for these various products
that we're talking about because people say, oh, my compost, your compost, and really people
are comparing very different things because they're not all at the same maturity status.
Dude, we did a compost cup out here a year ago, the Ventura County Compost Cup.
We brought in all of the local compost producers, everything from the family gardener to these
big companies that make it.
These experts, these are heavy hitters that came.
We had 10 judges.
One was a soil scientist from Rodale.
Others were business owners who produce large scale amount volumes of compost, all the way
down to guys that make what I would consider MOAM, mineral or associated organic matter.
We put them all out on a table and I spent three days prior to this, microscoping every
sample to see which ones were what I consider biologically inoculant.
So we had these 10 judges.
I was not one of them because I was biased because I already looked at everything.
We had them analyze it and vote on each category.
We had vermicompost.
We had food waste compost.
We had thermophilic compost.
We had static compost.
We had yard waste compost and you name it, horse manure compost.
Each one of them looked at the samples and then voted based on appearance.
Only one person out of those 10 judges actually sniffed it and that was the soil scientist.
Then when it was all done and they all voted, at the end of the competition, I stood up
and I said, hey, I really appreciate you guys taking the time to come out here and do this,
but I want to point out something that you guys basically determined the value of the
compost on appearance only.
Everyone kind of looked around at each other like, oh, fuck.
He's right.
How are we qualifying or quantifying why this one's better than that one?
By appearance.
So I point out, hey, we did no testing, so we have no idea which one's nutritional and
which one's not.
We don't know which ones could potentially have high salt or heavy metals like the horse
manure compost.
Very common to have high aluminum in horse manure as well as high salts, sodiums, both
detrimental to plants.
Also, I biologically scoped all of these, but that wasn't even taken into consideration
as to, again, stating that this was better than the other ones in that category.
It was extremely eye-opening.
The room just exploded inside conversations at that point.
Everybody was like, oh my God, I never thought about it that way.
It was really eye-opening to basically put that level of experience in a room together
and turn them on their heads because they basically had no real evidence to determine
which was better than the other ones except for visually.
All right.
So let's go to our next category.
The next one I kind of just put in its own category because I really just thought that
worm castings were just a part of all compost and that was it.
But then folks might recall Chandler from Wormies who was on the show a couple episodes
ago talking about worms.
He was kind enough to send me out a bag of the Wormies vermicompost that they make so
that I could see what a vermicompost was like.
And dude, it's unlike anything else that I would call compost.
It's smaller.
It smells sweet.
It seems more uniform.
It seems a little bit heavier.
When the, again, something that's called compost, right?
But really, you were talking about the pass-through worm bins earlier.
That stuff that comes out at the bottom, which is the worm casting, so their poop, with whatever
soil or hay that might have been thrown in there to even it out and make it a pleasant
living environment, I guess.
That stuff, while called compost, is really its own thing.
And so let's talk about that itself.
So somebody gives you vermicompost and its vastly worm castings.
Let's talk about what the attributes of that compost would be.
Okay.
That's great.
So when you are doing vermicompost at scale, you have to start with bedding.
You can't just throw food in a bin and throw some worms in there because they won't survive.
The whole thing will go anaerobic and the worms will turn to slime.
So you need to create a bedding that the worms can retreat to, to do their thing, whether
it's breed or rest, and then an area for them to work through to get their food.
They don't want to live in decomposing food.
They want to live in their bedding, but they want to be able to eat.
So think of it that way.
So, and again, thank you for observing the weight of it, because that's really, really
important to understand.
That's why vermicompost is so unlike other forms of compost, because it's pushing on
the MOAM, mineral associated organic matter side.
So mineral associated organic matter is highly stable long-term in soil and provides great
benefit to helping the soil food web to begin to build aggregates, micro and macro aggregates,
which is important for soil health, but I'm not going to go down there.
So why is vermicompost so much different?
Well, those worms have chewed through that material, consuming bacteria and pooping out
nutrients, highly nutrient dense little poops, because they're really there to eat the biology.
They don't really want to eat the nutrients per se.
They will help move those nutrients throughout the entire worm bed, which is again,
mutually beneficial because now you're getting an even amount of nutrients throughout the entire
system.
It's not like this pocket's going to be heavily laden with this nutrient or that mineral.
It's been pushed through the whole system.
So yeah, worm castings are very special because they are very nutrient dense and highly
biologically available.
In other words, if you put those worm castings into or top dress and then apply a really good
compost extract, a biologically rich compost extract or tea, those things will be broken down
extremely fast and stored in the biology so that they're not mobile.
And again, this is really important to understand.
Nutrients, if you just take raw nutrient, like a secondary tertiary metabolite, you put it on the
soil and it rains, that stuff's gone.
It's going to get washed through and down into the lower soil systems where it's no longer going to
be as available for the plants.
So you've gone backwards.
You've lost your minerals.
You've lost your nutrients.
So that's why it's so important to have that biology on high numbers so that they can consume those
secondary and tertiary metabolites, store them in their biota, in their body, so that now when it
rains, they're stuck to their biofilm.
That stuff's not going anywhere.
The only time that stuff, that nutrient in that bacteria is going to go somewhere is when that
bacteria is consumed by a protozoa or starved to death by a lack of exudate and becomes available
to the plant.
So that's why worm castings are just so special is because they are basically secondary and tertiary
metabolites ready to be consumed by a biology, which will then store it as a nutrient bank system
for when the plant wants them.
Special stuff.
Yeah, totally special stuff.
And I copped to this when we did the making friends with worm episode, like, I don't know, three or
four back with Chandler.
And I'm honestly new to worms.
Like, I like worms.
I make sure that I've got worms in my pots.
But mostly I would just have always thought about them aerating the soil.
And but it wasn't until, you know, talked with Chandler that I realized that they are these like
super efficient processing machines, biological machines that are just taking these this biology
that's not super accessible to us or our plants and running it through their bodies and pooping out the
other end, something that is rich and valuable to us.
And this is this pretty bad ass.
Yeah, it is. Yeah, it is.
All right. So let's go to the fifth category now.
We're down to our last two here.
So the fifth one, it kind of I'm not sure if it totally fits in this in this group.
But since this is where my curiosity started for this episode today, I definitely want to include it.
So for the last, I don't know, five or six years, I have been using both of the the compost tea
making products from Green Bicycles.
And Kevin Jojery turned me on to this stuff one day when I was visiting Wonderland Nursery
because Patrick, the founder of Green Bicycles, had come by and he had this huge thirty five
gallon container of this this this what looked like powder.
And Kevin says, you know, I swear by this stuff.
It makes great compost tea.
You should you should try it.
And so I have and I love that I got great results and I've been using it for years.
And so so the stuff from Green Bicycles, though, is very unlike the other stuff that we've talked
about so far today, because the Green Bicycles products is is not like food refuge or
gluon clippings or cuttings from my cannabis plants.
It is a blend of what I think of more as soil amendments.
Right. So there's, you know, there's there's guano and feather meal and crab shell and, you know, the
kinds of stuff that that we all in the regenerative scene are known to use to build our
soil. And and so he's got two versions of the product, one of it with molasses that's dried in
there and then one that's not.
And the one without the molasses is kind of seen more as a soil amendment.
And the one with molasses is is as used more as a compost tea.
And so so I've been using this stuff for years, but it wasn't until again, I started following,
you know, the Wormies Instagram and Chandler's Instagram.
I think it's Jet Gardens that I that I really started realizing that the stuff I was making
compost tea air quotes out of was not it didn't look like compost to me anymore.
It was it was a bunch of amendments with molasses.
And so I would always like take that and put that in my my bubbler that I got from T Lab and
in a bubble up. And it makes this like beautiful compost tea that smells great.
And and my plants have have done well on it.
But but but I I'm like, where's the biology part of it?
And and is this its own category, which I have just started calling a nutrient tea, which that
category may or may not exist.
But like I'm on my own path, right?
I just came across it my own and everybody else probably already knows about this.
So so I've been using this.
And so so, A, I know it works.
B, I love the ingredients.
But C, I don't know if bubbling it is actually doing me any good because there I don't think
that there's any living biology.
But there's got to be biology that is sisted up that was, you know, on the feather meal, on
the crab shell, you know, contained in the bat guano.
So so there's like like there's like sisted up sleeping biology in there, I'm guessing.
And then I go ahead and, you know, fire it up.
And then I get nutrition with, I'm guessing, some amount of biology.
So so please speak to that, which is a very different it's a very different product to put
in in the same bucket as compost.
But I really feel like it's got its own personality.
And I don't know how to resolve it with the rest of this stuff.
Oh, it definitely has a personality.
And I appreciate the term nutrient solution or nutrient tea would be the appropriate way to
describe it.
The big difference between compost extract and teas versus a nutrient tea would be the lack of
humic acid, the lack of fulvic acids.
Those are biological superfoods.
So basically, it's like a one stop shop for for your entire soil food web by using, you know,
these these compost extracts that are very high in humic or fulvic acids.
So that being said, now we've we've separated these two by that one critical ingredient.
Now, let's talk about the two different varieties, one with molasses, one without molasses, I would
tend to believe the one with molasses would be working a lot quicker.
So a short term, whereas the one without molasses would be more of a long term nutrient tea.
And by that, I mean that when you apply that nutrient solution onto the soil, you're assuming
that that solution is going to be absorbed by the existing organic matter.
And then slowly released by the bacteria that are mining it and storing it in themselves.
And then they become available to the protozoa, which pooped out to the plant, etc.
So one is a short term, one is long term.
The short term one with the molasses is going to stimulate all kinds of microbial activity.
We know for sure that the bacteria just love molasses.
Years ago, it got explained to me and I forget what it is, but it has something to do with the fact that the sugar has only been processed to a certain point.
It hasn't been refined yet.
And that's why the bacteria love it so much, because there's again, the secondary tertiary metabolites haven't been refined to a point where that they're more difficult to break down.
So you're going to have biofilms built up on all of those nutrient inputs.
So just recently, NASA came back with an article about how they had slapped some biofilm on the outside of the space station three years ago.
And they scraped it this year and brought it inside.
And yes, it was still alive, even though it had been living in space, which is, you know, how could anything live in space?
Right. Well, it goes to show that biology is incredibly resilient.
But it also goes to show that the biofilm is so powerful that it can protect those organisms pretty much in any environment you can possibly come up with.
At some point, I tend to believe that we will find that perhaps life even exists in flames.
That there's some kind of biology that we haven't quite uncovered yet.
But that's a whole other story.
Yeah, that sounds like a whole different meaning for the Shaping Fire podcast name, right?
Right?
We'll get there someday, hopefully.
But anyway, to stay on topic here.
So that being said, that yes, when you add the dry molasses and you put it in water and you bubble it, you're going to get a bacterial explosion, a plume, for lack of better words.
And you're going to be pluming out the organisms that were consuming, that had created their biofilm and their protection, their home, on those individual nutrients.
Whether it's crab meal, horse, whatever, feather meal, crab meal, calcium, whatever it is.
But they will have bacteria that specifically mine those components and now you've grown them out.
So guess what?
When you pour them on your soil, you're going to have an explosion of the biology that has that nutrient stored up in its pantry that is now going to be consumed by the protozoa and nematodes that you have present in your soil system.
Or the micro-orthopods, so not forget about them.
And the worms, don't forget about them, right?
Because they're all working together to release these nutrients back to the plant.
And so that's what I would say to this green bicycle nutrient solution.
It's an amendment, but yes, it does have some biological constituents that are available on those nutrients that mine those specific nutrients.
So very targeted biology.
Right on. Cool.
And I started with it just because Kevin Jodry said so, right?
And I trusted his opinion and it's worked for me for years.
And it's funny that now, five, six years later, now I'm really getting to the point that I can even think about more what it is.
So it works for me even without knowing exactly what it is.
So I like that kind of product.
Before we go on to the next topic, I want to clean up a couple of the things that I got wrong.
So Wormy's Instagram is obviously easy because you know how to spell Wormy's.
But Chandler Michalski, who was a guest for the Getting Friendly with Worms Shaping Fire episode like three back, I got his Instagram wrong.
I looked it up real quick.
It's actually Jet House Gardens.
Nothing worse than you plug somebody whose Instagram is very educational for you and then you plug it wrong.
I didn't want to interrupt you, but I was going to clarify that.
I'm glad you did.
Right on. Cool.
I want to do Chandler solid.
So I wanted to clean that up.
And then anybody who is interested in looking at that Green Bicycles products, it's kind of weird because green is actually spelled G-R-E-A-N.
That's tricksy and will totally destroy your Google results without it.
The two products that I've used all these years is the Happy Endings Compost Tea Mix and the Ocean Bounty Flowering Mix.
For anybody who wants to look into that.
You can get that stuff on Amazon and their website.
Moving right along.
We're coming up here to the end of this huge first set.
The compost we're going to talk about next, number six, this is actually going to set us up for set two.
Because we're going to talk about this variety of compost during most of, probably all, of set two.
So just set us up there, Leighton, and then I'll take us to commercial.
The sixth category is the stuff that you sent me, man.
I had a problem.
I know you're a compost expert.
You consult for all these people.
You have this crazy ass lab in your garage and another one in Connecticut.
I know you're a mad scientist compost guy, but I had not actually ever seen what you make.
I've always appreciated you for our friendship and conversation, but I'd never seen any of your compost.
I had a fungus snap problem, which we'll talk more about in the third set.
You're like, hey man, let me send you something to fix that.
You shipped me up two different bags of this compost, which was unlike any other compost that I had ever come across.
It was small, granular, and it was rich, and it smelled so good I wanted to eat it.
Not to sound too woo-woo, I feel like I felt it alive.
I felt like I was getting vibes off of it.
When I opened it, I got a hit of the smell, and I'm like, whoa, what is this?
This is very unlike anything else that I have been given as compost.
Then you told me to just brew it, and then I put it on, and it caused all of this immediate biological change, which we're going to talk about more in set two.
After talking to you more about it, you explained to me why this kind of compost is in a category all of its own.
Please explain what's different about this category of compost that I had never even considered.
Set us up, and then I'll take us to commercial.
We'll get into the process in the next set, but bottom line is it's a biological inoculant.
The foundation of it is POM, particulate organic matter.
You noticed that really fine particulate, but you also noticed it was super fluffy.
That's the key to this.
That fluffiness allows for gas exchange.
It allows for heavy colonization of very, very diverse biology in a way that does not force competition.
Not everybody's fighting for the same resource.
They're just there in suspension just to be woken up by you, whether you're brewing them or top dressing with them.
Basically, look at it like condominiums.
Every one of those tiny little particulate is a giant condominium, a city full of all different types of biology that are there.
Basically, just waiting to be provided with the environment that they can really expand in and thrive in.
That's why that's different.
We'll get into the ingredients and the process in the next set.
Hit the key thing for me, though, which is the fact that it's not a thermal compost.
No, it is not.
In most ways, it would be considered immature.
The reason it would be considered immature is because when I take this start product, which is the biological compost that I made, non-thermophilic, we call it cold composting,
I screen it numerous times.
I'm screening out the big stuff.
I'm using forces to break off all of the organisms, the hemic and folic acids, to break down the little pieces that tend to be clumped together or sheared off of a bigger piece of organic matter.
It's those mechanical processes and then the screening that allows me to get that poem, those fine little particulates, and suspend them in a solution so that they can be colonized by all the different diverse bacteria and biology that I've put into play.
This idea that it's a cold compost, I haven't heard that term before. I like it.
When we talked about this earlier in the week, it was interesting because you said all of the other composts, probably not the vermiculture, but most of the other composts that we have talked about today, they have all been heated to 165 or something because people are trying to kill the seeds and make it a little more inert.
But really, that's also killing all the microbes, which is really what so many of us natural farmers are chasing after.
It really astonished me to realize that I'm always thinking about using my compost teas because I want to pour microbes into my soil to help buoy the rhizosphere.
But really, if it's a thermal compost, it means that stuff's mostly been wiped out already versus this cold compost where, even though we'll talk more about this in a second, it sounds like it's dangerous because it's all wild in there.
But what I imagine I'm doing with a thermal compost tea really is happening at a much smaller level than if I were to use a cold compost tea.
Correct. And the one thing you're missing, too, is the most important reason to go thermophilic is to kill pathogens.
So they kill weed seeds, yes. That's a byproduct of the process. But the goal is to knock back all of the potential pathogens.
Remember, a lot of compost is based on manures, high-end anaerobic digestion, which is the other piece that we did talk about.
But the thermophilic component is to basically provide the same thing as an anaerobic digestion. You're killing everything and then starting over, starting fresh.
So, yeah, that's why I went to cold composting was because I could not get the biological diversity that I was looking for when I went thermophilic.
But again, I don't use any manures. I don't use any food waste. I use purely vegan compost. So this is just plants.
Alright, so we will dig into that even more for Set 2. And if you're still with us, I appreciate you. This is a solid hour for Set, which is the longest First Set I've ever had.
But I care very much about this topic, and there's no way that I wanted to do this topic short shrift. If we're going to do it, let's freaking do it.
And so if you're still here with us and you're caring about all this, you're our kind of people. And I really appreciate that you're here.
So we're going to go ahead and take a short break and be right back. You're listening to Shaping Fire, and my guest today is soil biologist Leighton Morrison.
And you know, without these advertisers, Shaping Fire would not happen. So please do support them and let them know you heard about them on Shaping Fire.
Once you've discovered the benefits of using cannabis, it's a very small step to start making your own edibles, gummies, lotions, tinctures, and concentrated oils at home.
Magical Butter has been helping cannabis consumers become self-sufficient for over a decade. With the easy-to-use Magical Butter countertop botanical extractor,
you can create high-quality cannabis products to your exact specifications at a fraction of the cost of store-bought edibles.
I talk a lot on this show about the importance of home-growing so you don't have to rely on others to feel healthy.
Well, the Magical Butter machine can empower your personal health by putting you in control of how you use cannabis in your daily life.
I've been making my own butters and oils on the stove for years, and I much prefer the ease of using the Magical Butter machine. I just set it and walk away.
With just a touch of a button, the Magical Butter machine grinds, heats, stirs, and steeps your herbal extract all at the correct time interval and temperature for the perfect infusion every time.
As a result, you achieve your desired infusion easily, safely, and consistently.
Check out the Magical Butter Instagram to see the machine in action.
There is a huge community on Facebook called Magical Butter Users United sharing recipes and best practices so you can learn at your own pace from others who are already doing it successfully.
Now is the time to get your own Magical Butter machine and save money while enjoying cannabis.
Use the discount code SHAPINGFIRE, one word, no caps, to get 10% off. Visit MagicalButter.com today.
One of the reasons why no-till cannabis growing is so valued by farmers is because the mycelium networks in the soil remain established from year to year.
And we know these fungal networks are essential because they are the nutrient superhighways that extend far and wide in the substrate to feed your plants.
The trouble with growing in new living soils or blended cocoa substrates is that it takes most of the plant's life just to create these mycelium highways.
Dinomyco Endomycorrhizal Fungi Inoculant reduces that time and gets your plant eating a wider array of nutrients faster.
And it's three times the concentration of the other popular brand in the US at 900 propagules per gram of two fungal species selected specifically for cannabis cultivation.
Dinomyco is the result of 30 years of research and trials at the Volcani Agricultural Research Institute in Israel.
It's also been vigorously trialed by cannabis and food growers across the US.
Dinomyco is now available at grow shops and on Amazon in the United States.
I love using Dinomyco to both speed up the growth of the mycelium networks in the soil, but also as a biostimulant to make clone cuttings more virile.
You can see side-by-sides showing the comparative growth on their Instagram at Dinomyco.
If you demand reliable growing results and appreciate the importance of an active root zone in creating a thriving plant,
I encourage you to check out Dinomyco.com and use the store locator to find out where you can get yours.
That's D-Y-N-O-M-Y-C-O dot com.
Shaping Fire listeners can get 10% off any size of Dinomyco on Amazon or Dinomyco.com by using the discount code SHAPINGFIRE, one word, no caps.
Whether you are starting with new beds or pots, or if you want to add some zing to tired soil, choose Dinomyco to maximize your plant's potential.
Dinomyco, endomycorrhizal, inoculant.
As cannabis regulations become more demanding and consumers become more educated,
it is increasingly important to avoid the use of chemical pesticides when cultivating cannabis.
Beneficial insects have been used for decades by the greenhouse vegetable and ornamental plant industry,
and today many cannabis cultivators are moving from sprays and chemicals to beneficial insects.
COPERT has the beneficial insects, mites and nematodes, microbials, sticky cards, and air distribution units you need to partner with nature to defend your garden.
Whether you manage acres of canopy or have a simple grow tent in your home,
COPERT is ready to help answer your questions and help you transition away from chemical sprays towards clean and natural solutions.
Since 1967, COPERT has assisted growers in identifying pests and devising reliable solutions while providing healthy insects and mites that will protect your yield.
Since the 1990s, COPERT has been a leader in cannabis pest and disease control worldwide
and have highly trained consultants to assist you in Canada and the United States from coast to coast.
With their global network of grower support, COPERT can help.
Visit copert.com, choose your country, and get detailed information.
That's copert, K-O-P-P-E-R-T dot com.
For the most up-to-date cannabis-related biological control information, you can also check their Instagram at copertcanada.
You know getting away from pesticides is good for health and good for business, and COPERT is ready to help.
Visit copert.com today.
Welcome back. You are listening to Shaping Fire and I am your host, Shango Lose.
And my guest today is soil biologist, Leighton Morrison.
So, here we are at set two.
During set one, we looked at a wide variety of the things that we come in contact with that is labeled compost.
And we did our best to make sense of them.
And we found ourselves at the end with focusing on the kind of compost that I think I am usually looking for.
Much of the other types, the curated compost, the vermiculture compost, the nutrient compost,
all of that stuff are things that I use in my garden.
But most of the time, myself as a natural farmer interested in regenerative cultivation and feeding the rhizosphere,
I am really wanting to feed and add microbe life.
I want to add biology.
And so we ended the first set talking about cold compost that have not been heated.
Where all the biology is still alive.
And so in this set, we are going to talk a bit about the difference between that and the other composts and the biology.
And also I am very interested in, you know, if one of the reasons we heat thermal compost is to get rid of the pathogens,
that makes this unheated microbe inoculant, this cold compost, sound like wild, like the wild west.
So let's just start with the difference.
You have spoken on this show before briefly about the difference between soil science and soil biology.
And my back of the envelope is just like soil science is nutrition and minerals and soil biology is living stuff.
But honestly, we haven't gone into it in depth so far.
So I could have it wrong.
So why don't we start there and then we can start to hang the rest of the conversation on that, Leighton.
Alright, that sounds good.
And you know, thank you again, Shango, for doing this.
Because we are having a conversation that has needed to happen for many years now.
About whether compost should be called compost or whether it needs other names.
And just recently in the last couple of years, I have seen particulate organic matter and mineral associated organic matter come about as words that provide value.
And this next part, which is also equally as important, is the understanding that soil is actually three components.
It is the physical, sand, soil, clay and organic matter and their relationship, which is very important.
Second is soil chemistry and third is soil biology.
Soil science bases everything on two of those three pieces, which is the physical and the chemical.
And this is due to economic based systems.
And like human reductionism, right? We always value life last, right?
Seems to be the way, Shango. Really seems to be the way.
Especially if you look at where we are as a species at this point in time.
We won't go there.
Alright, but basically soil science is chemistry heavy.
Everything has been based on building fertilizers to grow more crops, to feed more people.
Regardless of nutritional value, which makes no sense to me.
The only real way to achieve nutrient dense food is through biology.
It's that critical biogeochemical interactions that allow that plant to pull up these nutrients
and regulate itself as to what it wants instead of being force fed NPK.
So that is why there is this huge disconnect in soil science versus soil biology.
Until Dr. Lane Ingham made the world aware that there is life under their feet,
people didn't even consider soil biology as a real thing.
And so in many ways she's pioneered the eye opening of the masses
to the fact that there is more going on in the soil than just physical and chemical.
That there is this critical bridge called biological that allows the chemistry
to flow in and out of the physical components and into the plant directly.
So that's an important conversation that needs to happen.
The soil science world has got to knock down the ivory towers of just chemistry
and really start to open up to this interdisciplinary mode of operation
that will unlock these really important secrets.
I sent you a paper recently which I'm sure you're going to enjoy reading time and time again
because there is just so much information in that.
That basically kind of explains that this organic matter,
we're not going to call it compost anymore, it's organic matter.
It's just in different phases of decomposition.
Provide this incredibly powerful home, city, globe.
Consider it a planet. That aggregate is a planet.
And inside that planet is all of this magic that's going on
that's protecting itself, it's evolving,
it's producing more inoculant for more expansion,
for better soil structure to accept moisture.
The more moisture that goes in, that gets held in those aggregates,
the more densely populated they can become.
The more they can clean the water, the more they can provide foods for other organisms.
So it's really the foundation of everything is that biogeochemical processes
that are occurring inside that aggregate.
Now is that aggregate palm or moam?
Well, that's the thing.
When you get into mineral-associated organic matter,
you get into an environment where you're compacted now.
You don't have the gas or air exchange, I should say.
You don't have the CO2 leaving and the oxygen or the atmospheric air coming down.
You don't have the same ability to aggregate.
That's why it's so much more stable than palm.
So, I'm sorry, I got way off track there.
I think that's important to really differentiate the difference
between these phases of decomposition.
Sure, I'll bring you back in.
But since you mentioned the paper that you sent me yesterday,
we might as well plug it.
I will also have a link to it on the page for this episode on the Shaping Fire website.
But the science paper, which was a fantastic read last night,
is called Will Fungi Solve the Carbon Dilemma?
It's by S. Emilia Hanula and Eli Morian.
Anyway, it's a fascinating read.
We'll be talking more about the fungal aspects of this paper
towards the latter half of this set.
But what you're saying, Leighton, is spelled out very specifically.
They're talking about having an increase in soil biology,
especially with fungal-heavy compost,
creating all of these soil opportunities
that are not available to the soil
when not using biologically and fungally active agricultural soils.
Anyway, that's the paper, so we'll get back on topic here.
So, we were talking about the difference between the soil science
and the soil biology,
and how most of compost and everything is looking at the chemistry
and the physicality of the soil and not the biology.
I would like you to speak to this idea of the variety of biology,
because NPK is so reductionist.
Most of us in cannabis were brought up thinking,
hit our NPK numbers, feed the plant,
or if we came from the bottle, forced feed the plant.
What we are trying to tease out is that the compost,
which is the focus of our topic,
we want it to be as biologically active as possible,
and the way for us to do that is to not cook it like a thermal compost.
I would like you to speak to what that process is like
to produce a compost that has not been cooked,
because creating a cooked thermal compost is the only thing that I've ever heard of.
So, again, let's not call it compost, let's call it organic matter.
Fair enough.
Organic matter is probably the largest source of nutritional holding capacity.
This is where biology meets chemistry.
Most people understand what a cation exchange site is,
or cation exchange capacity.
That capacity is the ability for nutrient solution to be held on the bond site
so that it's not mobile and therefore safe and secure
for later harvest by the plant and the biology.
So that's really important to understand.
So that being said, trying to reel it back into understanding
the thermophilic process of breaking down organic matter.
I think that the best way to approach it is to understand that
when you get over 120 degrees, you are losing biological diversity.
When you hit 130 degrees, you have lost pretty much everything.
It's now just thermophytes that are living in that organic matter,
on that organic matter, I should say.
So that's why if your goal is to achieve a biological compost,
you have to be below 120 degrees.
Now, back in the day when I was studying under Lane,
there was always this issue of, well, you can bring in pathogens,
you can cause plant problems, deficiencies, and all of these other things
because you've brought something in from somewhere else
and you've applied it perhaps inappropriately into this pot or onto this plant.
And my argument's always been that diversity will out-compete reductionist.
So if I've reduced this down to just thermophytes,
the potential for a pathogenic outbreak is way greater
than if I had a very biologically diverse compost system.
This was one of many conversations that Lane and I agreed to disagree about
was the fact that for her, she has an incredible reputation, celebrity status,
so she has to be very guarded about what she says
because people will inappropriately be morons and use more
because a little is good, oh, more is better.
That's how you get into these problems with pathogen cross-contamination,
with nutrient deficient issues because what happens is
you've created a newt log or you've created a pathogenic inoculation.
So that's why it's critical that she maintains
that the only way to make safe compost is to do it thermophilically.
And I agree with her because humans are just humans.
They tend to do stuff without really thinking first
and making sure that they are crossing the T's and dotting the I's responsibly.
It tends to be, oh, whatever is easy and quickest for me is what I'm going to do
and that's not the appropriate approach when you're dealing with
these critical types of biological exposures.
There's some composts that I've made that are definitely,
potentially very dangerous to play with because if I have underlying health issues
and I'm playing with Pseudomonas bacteria,
the potential for me to actually make myself very sick is real.
I think that in many ways I've benefited from my work
playing with anaerobic fish manure
because I, early on, was getting exposed to this stuff.
And like you said earlier, if you get that stuff on you,
it's days before you don't stink anymore.
So there's some serious issues to it.
But I learned very quickly.
I never got violently sick.
I definitely had some stomach issues early on when I was playing with this stuff
because I didn't completely understand about the difference between
anaerobic digestion and aerobic microbes versus anaerobic microbes
and the potential for them to make us very sick.
So that being said, let's delve into
what is a cold compost versus a thermophilic.
In a cold composting situation,
the sweet spot for massive protozoa production,
and the reason I'm using protozoa is because
they're the ones that are doing all of, or the vast majority of nutrient cycling.
In other words, the nutrient cycling is that this bacteria
has all this good stuff locked up in it, including nitrogen.
And this protozoa wants to eat that bacteria
because it wants the carbon to make itself grow and get bigger.
It doesn't want the nitrogen.
It doesn't care about what's in the pantry of that bacteria.
So it consumes that and it poops out pure nitrogen
and all of these other elements in a plant-available form.
And that's critical.
In pretty much all soil systems that I look at,
the number one issue is the lack of protozoa.
That would be the flagellates and the amoeba.
Those are the aerobic ones.
The anaerobic ones are the ciliates.
And then you get some facultatives, which we're not going to get into that.
It's just too deep.
But bottom line is the sweet spot is 85 degrees
and 70% moisture content.
So when you squeeze this stuff, you will get water drops
forming in between your fingers.
That tells you that it's above 50%.
If you get no moisture, you're about 50%.
If you get drops, now you're pushing into the 60, 70, and 80% moisture.
That's the sweet spot for protozoan production.
It is also generally a sweet spot for what I want to call
fungal sporulation and germination.
In the soil system itself,
plants don't like it that humid or that high a moisture.
That's when you get into root rots
and you get into other disease-causing potential pathogens.
Whereas in a compost pile, it's a different animal.
Now we're not dealing with plant life yet.
We're just dealing with protozoan production.
And when I'm applying this,
well, I probably need to go through the process of how I do it.
So I'm taking these vegan composts.
So it's just plants, no manures, greens and browns.
The ratio is always 66% browns, 33.5% greens.
And you are using a tremendous amount of water
to get that to begin what I call the thermophilic rise.
We never want to get to the thermophilic process.
That's 130. We've got to keep it below 120.
I generally tell people keep it below 115.
If I get to 115, I've got to flip it.
As a matter of fact, I've got to flip a pile this afternoon
because I'm at 115 right now.
That being said, I'll let the temperature go up to a certain point.
115 is max and then I flip it.
If it doesn't get to 115, then I never flip it.
I just let it do its thing.
And I watch it until it starts to come down.
Not quite to ambient.
Ambient would be the temperature outside environment.
So today it's 75 as always and sunny.
So when it's 75 degrees,
then I know it's gone through the biological process
or the thermophilic rise that never got to thermophilic phase.
So I brought it up, but I kept it in the mesophilic.
Now that's considered immature compost
because it's not really well broken down.
So how do I break it down at that point?
That's where I get into these mechanical forces.
I use agitation, aeration, vibration.
Spin.
So gravity.
All of these things to get that immature compost
to harvest the things that I'm looking for
which is the biology and the smallest bits of poem,
particulate organic matter that I can get through that process.
And then whatever's left goes right back into the compost pile again.
So it continues to break down.
You're describing mechanical processes
that you submit the immature organic material to
that replaces what is normally done by breaking down with thermals.
Or time.
Because again, you can stack up a pile of chips
or any organic matter for that matter.
Any organic matter for that matter.
And it will go through a decomposition phase.
Whether it gets hot, whether it goes thermophilic or not, it doesn't matter.
I mean, I don't know about you, but growing up in New England,
we had to rake leaves every fall.
And we would take those leaves and dump them over at the edge of the swamp.
And that pile would be like five feet tall.
And me and my sisters would jump in it.
We'd have a blast throwing these and running down the hill
and fast as we can trying to dive into the pile.
But come spring, that pile was gone.
It was just this low lump of what was left of,
we call it leaf mold nowadays,
but just what was left of all those leaves.
So that went through a breakdown process, but it never got hot.
We never saw those piles steaming.
There was no major heat exchange,
but there was definitely some minor heat exchange in order for that to break down.
When you add the water, the 85 degrees and 70% moisture,
that's a lot of moisture.
Is the water involved because it's there to keep the temperature from spiking?
I think you called it a thermophilic rise.
I'm not very familiar with that.
What happens during the thermophilic rise?
And why so much water?
So the water is broken into H2O.
So we have oxygen and we have hydrogen.
There are a lot of bacterial constituents that thrive on hydrogen.
So they consume hydrogen as a fuel source
to break apart the nitrogen and the carbon off of the organic matter.
There are also other forms of bacteria that consume the oxygen
to do their part in breaking the nitrogen and the carbon off of each other.
Does that make sense?
Yeah, it does.
So water is the food.
Water is life.
There's no joke to that.
Water is life.
Without it, nothing ceases to exist.
So that water is just a fuel source.
It has nothing to do with regulating temperatures.
We're not putting out the fire.
We're just providing a food source for the biology to do their part
in breaking the nitrogen and the carbon off of each other.
I'm going to try to do a summarization to this point.
What we're trying to do with the cold compost
is that we are going to A, use only plant matter
so we don't have to worry as much about pathogens like E. coli.
And then we're not going to let the temperature go above 85 degrees,
but especially 120, but 85 is really our goal
so that the pile gets warm naturally from the breaking down,
but it doesn't get hot enough to kill our microbes off.
And we can get away with that because we're only using plant material
instead of animal material, which can cause the pathogens.
And then we are also going to do mechanical processes
to this organic material that will further break it down
to create more of these biological opportunities in the soil for life,
which also breaks down the compost in some of the ways
that we would get from a thermal version as well.
So we're choosing to not use the heat of a thermophilic compost
and instead we are using safer inputs
and also massaging the soil in ways that opens up opportunities.
And so we have what is essentially, yes, a riskier,
what you said earlier, a dangerous compost,
but we have decreased that risk by not using animal products in there
and we are making it more diverse and more effective
by doing some of these mechanical preparations too.
Yes, and I think the other thing is that you missed the seeds, right?
When I harvest greens and browns, and I harvest greens and browns,
I don't harvest plants that have gone to seed
because I don't want the seed in my compost.
What I want is flowers, but I don't want the seed pods.
So that's another piece of this that's important.
And the other one, which we're missing on, is diversity.
I collect every type of green I can find, every type of brown I can find,
and then I use those proportionally, volume, not by weight,
to make my pile.
And the reason it's so important to get the diversity
is because of endophytic biology.
It's a little bit deep, but we gotta go there.
So the endophytes that live inside those green leaves and in the browns...
Luckily, we just did the Jeff Loewenfeld show on bacterial endophytes,
so anybody who just listened to that show is already going to be up to speed on this.
So folks who want to hear more about this,
go back and listen to the show about the new Jeff Loewenfeld's book.
With that, please continue.
Alright, so there's both endophytic bacteria and there's endophytic fungi
that live inside the plant itself.
So when that leaf, fall comes and it dries out and falls to the ground,
if it lands on the ground, it's going to release saprobes.
That's a type of fungi that decomposes organic matter.
But it's also going to release decomposing bacteria.
Say it lands in the water.
Well, it's now going to become aquatic microorganisms.
Now you've heard me talk about the great mass migrations
before the great human expansions.
And this here again is a subject that is somewhat debating or debatable
that there is microbes that can live both terrestrial and aquatic.
I'm a firm believer of it.
But there's plenty of people out there that would say I'm batshit crazy on this.
But that being said, I have proven it to myself many, many times
in the products that I've done.
One of the key things that I focus on is diatoms.
Those are a specific organism that lives, generally speaking,
in aquatic environments.
And it produces, or they produce oxygen via two different sources.
That's why they're so powerful.
One is through photosynthesis.
And the other is through consuming biology, consuming bacteria,
consuming nutrients that are in the water system.
And then using their own internal biological factories
to take that nutrient out of the water and build their shells,
and build their, I should say, divide, and continue to expand as a population.
So I've applied diatom-based,
well, it's one of my ingredients.
It's called fish brew, for lack of better ways.
Let's get right after it.
Fish brew, the farm on Cape Cod, has freshwater diatoms
like I've never seen before.
And I got so excited when I found this stuff
because diatoms are a great indicator.
I can apply diatoms to your soil,
and I can come back next year, the year after, the year after, the year after,
and I'll be able to find them.
If they're healthy, they will have a chloroplast,
and I can see their nucleus and their other oregano.
If they're not healthy, if they're dead,
they're just an empty shell made of silica.
And silica has a tendency to last quite a while in the soil.
So there's a great indication that I can take aquatic organisms
and put them in a terrestrial environment, and they will survive.
So that being said,
when I take my low-temp compost,
and I throw it into a situation
where I'm using agitation, centrifugal force,
aeration, soft collision,
and I'm breaking off all of these pieces
of what I want to call pre-digested organic matter.
So it's in the digestion process,
but it hasn't been completely digested
into like a palm or a moam.
There's still very much a lot of organic matter
that has not gone through any kind of decomposition.
So now I've taken that,
I've banged it against each other,
I've pulled off all of the little bits that have decomposed,
and I've done this in an aqueous environment
with fish brew and some worm castings.
So now all of a sudden I have all of this suspended stuff
in the water column.
It looks like chocolate water,
so it's very, very rich with hemic acids,
which we've talked about as the biological superfood.
I've introduced all these microbes from fish brew,
which is incredible if you look at the DNA sequences
of what they've done.
It's called metabarcoding,
where you're getting a general idea of who's present
or who's been there,
which gets deeper into horizontal gene transfer,
which we can't go there today.
But that being said is now I have all of this diversity.
I have all the endophytes
from the decomposed organic matter.
I have all of these biological constituents
that came in on the fish brew.
And then I have all of these secondary
and tertiary metabolites from the digestion of the worms
that is called worm castings.
So this in many ways,
when I started this journey,
I had no idea what the fuck I was doing.
But now 14, 15 years later,
I'm really seeing like that was like,
what do you call it?
Intuition, instinct drove me down that path of,
well, everyone talks about how great worm castings are.
I should add some of those.
Oh, and I know how good fish manure is
because every time I play with it
and I appropriately aerobically stabilize it
and I pour it on plants,
man, those plants explode.
And I also know the value of compost
and the fact that it brings in these super foods
like humic and fulvic acids,
as well as all these secondary and tertiary metabolites
that are happening during the decomposition phase.
So bam, there's a grand slam home run for you
by adding all these things together,
using mechanical forces to separate them
and then using what I call dewatering techniques,
which is through vibration,
vibrating the organic matter
to shed all of the liquid off of it.
Now I have a biological super sauce,
secret sauce, whatever you want to call it.
Now, if I want to make that shelf stable,
then I have to press it
so take the dewatering to another level
and then I take that and fluff it up
and that's what you got
was that inoculated poem
that's easy to work with.
Just put it in a glass of water, stir it up.
As a matter of fact,
on the podcast a couple of weeks back,
I actually drank some.
I put some 11-year-old product in a glass of water,
stirred it up and drank it on camera
because I've been telling people
that I eat this shit all the time.
Every time I work with it,
I get it in my mouth, my ears.
My fingernails are always dirty
so I'm just constantly being inoculated with this stuff.
So I proved that, hey, it's not going to hurt you.
It's actually really super beneficial
to your entire digestive tract
because you're putting in microbes
that aren't there or weren't there
or haven't been there for a long time
that are doing, again,
all these crazy biogeochemical reactions
that we have only begun to discuss
because science is moving into an interdisciplinary mode
because the reductionist side of it has realized
we can't just keep reducing everything down to nothing
and then not talk to anybody
about how does this affect their work
or how does this affect that process.
So it's an interesting time to be alive
as these things are happening,
but we don't have the technology yet
to really delve down what those processes are
and why they're so important
and how they are affecting everything around them.
So again, if you don't have the technology
but you have the know-how,
well then that's the key to the whole thing
is, all right, I don't know why it works,
but I know it does work,
so I'm going to keep doing it.
And that's...
Go ahead.
Okay, so bringing this home a little bit
to how it can be used by the cultivator,
it sounds like this cold compost inoculant
does all of the things
that we think a thermal compost will do.
We use a thermal compost as an amendment.
We use a thermal compost as a top dress.
We use a thermal compost to make compost tea.
Why do we do that?
Because we want to add life vibrance
to our plants,
but we know because they've been cooked so hot,
because that's a smart thing to do
when there's pathogens,
that it's actually not as vibrant with life
as we would hope it would be in our gardens.
And so what we've done with this
is we have used a lower temperature
and we have gathered our microbes
and protozoa and other biology.
We've gone through the effort to bring them together
from these three different directions
and we are actually creating a, air quotes,
compost, which is essentially organic matter
that is actually what we think of
when we think of compost,
but the common form of compost that we get,
which is thermal,
actually is not supercharged
the way we really want it to be.
And so this cold organic matter,
because of the care we've put into it,
is actually what we idealize about compost.
Yeah, biomimicry, right?
We talk about biomimicry all the time.
I've had arguments with people that say
there's no such thing as compost in nature.
And I'm like, no, you're wrong.
Every time there's a flood,
that's all piled up, all the sticks and brush
and algae from the bottom of the river
is piled up and that's float sand.
That's a compost pile.
Underneath the forest, that's a compost pile.
That's just a giant compost pile.
Dead animals, dead sticks, leaves,
plants that have come in and gone out,
they're all creating compost.
Now, that compost doesn't heat up in the forest floor,
nor does the float sand,
the pile that's left by the side of the river.
Those don't heat up.
Those would be considered cold compost.
Do they heat up to some degree?
Oh, I'm sure.
In the pockets of it,
when it's really dense and compressed,
that's going to heat up.
But is it going to go thermophilic?
No, it's not.
It's not going to ever get to a position
where it could combust.
That is the end of the thermophilic phase
if you let it run wild, is combustion,
is when the microbes start to produce alcohol
and then it can self-combust.
Again, thermophytes are important to understand.
Getting your head wrapped around the fact
that you do not want to cross-contaminate,
you do not want to deal with pathogens,
you do not want to deal with seeds,
thermophilic process is a great way
to bypass that potential problem.
I want to go back to talking about
the actual physical structure of good compost.
During the third set,
we're going to talk a little bit more
about your actual manufacturing techniques,
all these ways that you massage it.
You made a special point to talk about
you're breaking the pieces down to a small size
using these other methods that we're going to talk about.
But you were very specific that the reason
that you're doing it is to make these
organic matter grains have lots of housing
and community opportunities for the microbes
and protozoa and amoeba and other denizens
of the rhizosphere.
Talk a little bit about that, would you,
about the actual physical structure of good compost.
This goes back to POEM,
particulate organic matter,
and MOEM, mineral-associated organic matter.
Mineral-associated organic matter is going to be very dense,
kind of like worm castings,
except for even more dense.
Think of bulk density,
how much something weighs by volume.
Those weights are going to be indicators
of how long that material, that organic matter,
is going to last in the soil system,
as well as how quickly it will release its nutrient.
POEM will last two to three months in an organic system.
MOEM will last two to three years.
There's a big difference between the two.
What do you mean last? What does last mean?
Let's say you throw POEM down on an orchard,
and three months it's going to be gone.
It's going to be decomposed by all of the biology,
not the thermophytes, but the other decomposers,
whether that's fungi or bacteria.
But it's going to go away.
It's going to have been used up as a nutrient
for the plants that you've applied it to.
Does that make sense?
Yep, I do.
Okay, so again, the MOEM is going to last years,
and the POEM is going to last months.
So what that tells me is that if I colonize that POM
and I apply it, then what's going to happen
is we're going to have a fast nutrient release.
Within three months, it's all going to be gone.
It's going to be consumed and released plant available,
or at least stored in the biology, in the bacteria.
Whereas MOEM, you're not going to get that fast release.
You're going to get a really, really slow release,
which is good for soil structure,
because you want concrete foundations.
You don't want to build your palace on bamboo stilts, right?
But if I'm trying to get inoculation,
I want to get those microbes that have set up shop
and in these condominiums on this POEM,
then the best way to do it is use the POEM,
because I know it's going to have released
all of that biology into the soil relatively quickly.
And to be honest with you, MOEM is so dense,
the bulk density is so great that, again,
you don't have the ability for mass colonization.
It's too dense.
It doesn't let the oxygen in to feed the bacteria
that in turn are providing food sources for the protozoa.
And it gets complex, but I think I explained it okay there.
Yeah.
And so you want to have these small, fluffy, granular...
I guess it's probably the outside of them.
Also, we don't want anything smooth.
So it creates all these small micro hotels
for all of these microbes.
That is essentially the point.
Exactly, dude.
Remember when we were smashing up rocks?
Yeah.
Oh, God.
Yeah, I remember smashing up rocks
to make my regen tent with the soil horizons.
Oh, my God.
Yep, yep.
So no smooth surfaces.
Think of it like if you polish something,
it's very difficult for oxidization,
for any kind of mechanical force to break it down.
So that polish is protection.
And yes, you want porous, you want surface area
as much as you possibly can get
so things can get into the cracks and set up shop
and set up their biofilm and start to expand out.
But they can't do that on a smooth surface.
They don't have the benefit of the protection on three sides.
They're basically exposed on 180 degrees on a polished surface
where if they're in a little crack or a crevice,
there's a very small exposure to the outside environment.
All right, that makes sense, especially with the word porous.
That gives me the picture I'm looking for.
So the last thing I want to talk about here in set two
is what is essentially the point of the paper we referred to earlier,
which is talking about how in this cold compost that we are creating,
we want to have there be a variety of fungals there.
Of course there are basic fungals that we're all familiar with, like mycelium,
but this paper goes into depth that there is a wide variety
of different fungal participants that the more of them we have,
the more combination of fungals and bacterias and nutrients.
It becomes this kind of wild mix and match, like a buffet,
where everybody can get what they need.
But I've never really heard anybody talk too much about the variety of fungals
except for, like, do you want to make a bacteria-dominant compost tea
or do you want to make a fungal-dominant compost tea?
That's about as far as I generally hear it.
So would you please address the fungals in the cold compost,
their importance, and as much as you can tell us what they're doing there.
Okay, so you hit on a couple of really important parts.
The first one is IMO, right?
Everybody's like, IMO, IMO, and IMO is the foundation of natural farming.
What is IMO?
Well, I'll be honest with you, it's yeasts.
It's not saprophytic fungi.
It's basically the precursor, the successionary system that has to be in place
in order for saprobes to do their work, to come out,
to have an environment where they can survive.
So it goes back along the same understanding principles of soil succession.
So you start with a very low F to B ratio, swamp, non-associated plants,
more bacterially dominant, and then you move all the way up into the conifers,
which are very fungally dominant and a wide variety of different constituents that are in play.
So in order to build that foundation or that roadway so that you can bring in the groups of,
following the successionary groups into play, you need those yeasts.
You need those lower successionary fungal life forms.
I'm going to use that term because there are so much we don't know, so little.
In that paper, they talked about knowing about 0.01% about what the fuck is really going on in these biological
When I read that, I actually screenshot it and circled it and sent it to some of my compost friends.
I'm like, do you know we only know what 0.01% of the microbes even are?
I was astonished to realize that we know almost nothing about what's in our soil.
And then worse yet, the interactions.
And those interactions are the key to the whole thing.
Like, why does a thermophyte heat up?
Why is that getting out of control?
Why is it because I put so much nitrogen in there that this pile is going to combust?
What is that biogeochemical process that's happening that's creating so much heat?
It gets crazy.
That being said, IMO works so great because it's putting all of the foods and the successionary species that need to be present
for some of these older, later succession species to come into play.
In understanding the compost process, in getting a fungally dominated compost,
you've got to have those yeasts to even begin to get the sap ropes to come in and do their thing.
And we're not going to get into mycorrhizae, but we're going to stay with decomposing fungi for right now.
And the yeasts and the molds, those are decomposers.
So they're good guys to have to bring in.
Think of prey predator.
We talk about this all the time.
So the yeasts and the molds are like deer.
And the sap ropes are like the saber-toothed tiger or the leopard that's going to come in and eat them.
So that's how you get that system to start functioning is by creating the prey so that the predators come in.
So where are we going to get our predators from?
Well, we get them from old rotten wood chips.
That's one of the major sources for getting decomposing sap rope fungi.
You call them psyllium.
A lot of people don't understand that psyllium is actually like a cord.
It's filled with hundreds, if not hundreds of thousands of different individual organisms that are all working together like a Internet superhighway.
And that white coating on the outside, that is actually a protection against oxidation.
So that when, if that individual organism, that individual sap rope actually got exposed to oxygen, it would disintegrate.
Or exposed to UV, it would disintegrate.
So that white coating is actually the, basically think of it as the wrapping around your electrical cord.
It's to prevent something from going catastrophically wrong.
And the most interesting component of that is that when you find that mycelial cord in your year old, two year old wood chips, and you pick it up and all those other little pieces of organic matter are hanging on like a web underneath it.
Now you know you've got many, many different later successionary species of sap ropes.
So that's why again, if you take the time to actually harvest these chips that are loaded with mycelium and you heat it up over 120, you just wasted all your time.
You killed everything.
So that's why it's so important that you keep this at a lower temperature so that they will colonize your organic matter.
So that when you go to actually strip it or use it, they have gone through a sporulation phase where they have gotten to a point where they grew out a ton of spores or clubs or feet.
Depending on which camp you want to talk about as far as what the different sexual methods that this fungi do to produce their offspring.
So I want to ask you about these different sources for these mycelium, these varieties of fungals because we know we want them and we know we want as wide of a variety as we can.
And we know that using IMO, indigenous microorganisms, that's a simple low-level version that will evolve some fungals, which is great.
But then we're also going to throw wood chips into our pile because we want to capture these hundreds if not thousands of varieties of fungals.
I'm guessing though that we probably want to pull our fungals from a couple different sources.
So our IMO box is fantastic.
Our wood chips, that's fabulous.
What are a couple other places that I want to hunt for wildcrafting these fungals to bring it back and put it in my pile so I can have it be not only fungally dominant, but hella diverse fungally dominant?
Alright, so let's clean up the Achilles heel of IMO.
So it is taught and most people understand or believe that that IMO collection, IMO 1, is going to have all of the fungal constituents that you're looking for.
It does not.
It only has the foundation, the yeast, and yeah, it's probably got some spores, but it's not nearly as diverse as one would think.
Generally, you see the microscope slides people post on Instagram.
Those are called pin molds.
They're very important foundational creatures for succession to occur.
So you're producing a shit ton of pin molds, but when you introduce IMO 3, which again is going to be very pin mold heavy, and you introduce that into a IMO 4, which is when you blend it with soil, that's when you're really going to get your fungal colonization.
That's when you're going to get your sap robes, your more later succession fungi to come into play because there's the food there for them, right?
There's all those pin molds doing all their thing that are providing the foundation or paving the highway for the sap robes to come into play.
So if you're looking for a slow version of getting to a fungal dominance, then yeah, that works great.
But the problem is if you don't have super healthy soil to blend with your IMO 3, you're not going to get the kind of fungally dominant compost or organic matter that you're talking about.
So back to how do I get this into my low temp pile?
All right, so number one is finding the old one to two year old punky wood chips with the mycelium.
That is going to have tremendous diversity in it because that cord, the thicker the cords are and the more long and webby the cords are, the more different organisms you're getting, sap robes.
The other piece of this puzzle too is foods.
Like what are fungal foods?
Well, we know like steel cut oats.
There's a bunch of them and you can research this on your own.
But the other wonderful place to get sap robes are from leaf duff.
So I talk about prevailing wind, right?
So everywhere you go, there's generally what we consider the wind's direction.
The most days is going to be blowing in this direction.
So basically you go to wherever there's a stone wall, a downed tree, a crick or a depression, and the leaves that blow across the yard will fall in a natural pile either behind that log or in that depression.
There you go.
There's an incredibly diverse indigenous sap robe fungi factory for you to add to your compost.
So again, diversity, diversity, diversity.
Leaves, chips, hay.
Hay is another good one.
Or not hay, straw.
Straw is already going to have decomposers attached to it.
And then, yeah, if you can add some hemic acids, they're also a very good, again, biological superfood.
They're good for both bacterial and fungal kingdoms.
Then you're going to have incredible success.
And then there's one last piece of this puzzle.
If you're in a place where you don't have access to these kinds of things, you can go to your local mushroom producer and ask him for a spent mushroom block.
You do not want mushroom compost because mushroom compost has gone thermophilic and they've been forced to kill all of the biology because that's what the USDA requires of anybody who's making commercial compost has to hit that temperature.
Usually it's 150 three times over the course of X amount of days depending on what state you're in.
So if you get mushroom compost, you're not getting organisms.
If you get the mushroom block, now you're getting the organisms.
Wow, that's really cool.
I have access to many mushroom blocks, which I will now go get.
So this idea of wildcrafting it, I want to apply what you just said to my world and then everybody can do that in their own heads for where they live.
You're talking about collecting these leaf collections that have naturally come together in indentations and along tree lines and stuff like that.
So if I'm wanting to do that kind of collection in my neighborhood so that I have got the widest diversity of fungals in my cold compost as possible, for me, I would, for example, my neighbor has got a long fence.
And so the leaves, like we have all seen in suburban neighborhoods, even though I live way out, the leaves blow against the fence and they collect at the bottom.
And so I can imagine going over there with a five gallon bucket and just like smooshing all of these leaves together and filling that bucket up.
I've got a collection from this particular bio region along my neighbor's fence.
I also have got this huge ass tree in my yard.
And because the base of the tree kind of swells up because of the old root structure, there's always a whole bunch of magic sitting in there too.
Plus, as you've talked about before, there's all of these yeasts, these IMOs that actually kind of fall from these trees, these fungal dusts that fall from the trees.
So, all right, I will collect all of the leaves that are at the bottom of the tree as well.
And I'm going to get a little of this, little fir bits and some leaves and, I don't know, random organic matter debris.
And so I'll fill a bucket with that.
And then maybe I would go over to the estuary here on the island, go over to Fern Cove, because there's all these different leaves that get collected in the brush that is along the salt water.
So maybe I'll get some salt spray and a different variety of funguses because that's yet another different environment.
And I'm thinking to myself, I want the environments to be different because these different biological environments are going to have different fungals.
So now I've got like these three buckets full.
And of course, this could be, you know, you could do as many as you want.
But for this example, I got these three buckets.
And I'm now going to put those in the pile along with my IMO.
And so I've got the very basic IMO yeasts, and I've got the way more complex fungals from three different areas near where I live.
Plus, I've got all this higher-end, cool mycelial action going on and all the hangers on that you mentioned.
And so, boom.
Is that my ideal?
Yes.
Just a couple little points.
When you're collecting leaf duff, you really want to scrape back the dry leaves on the top.
And you want to get down into the layer where they're kind of slimy.
That's where the magic is, not in the top layer that's dried out.
The top layer that's dried out will then get covered by this year's crop of leaves.
And that'll press down and then become the wet, nasty, slimy underneath for the following season.
So, again, you're looking to get partially decomposed, naturally decomposed organic matter in the form of leaves that have started to break down.
And I always encourage people tomaybe this is the perfect place to use that commercial compost for six bucksis to wildcraft responsibly and bring something in and leave that in place of what you've taken out.
So that way, if you've taken out, say, six feet of this top inch or two of this leaf mold, you can then spread that commercial compost down and then cover it back up with the dried out leaves.
And you've not just totally disturbed or fucked nature by leaving a big scar.
Oh, I love that.
And we've already talked about how, while it might not really work well for compost, it actually works great as a fertilizer.
Right.
And so we are helping diversify that area.
Right on.
Yeah.
Wow.
Yep.
All right.
Cool.
And then one other piece for mushroom blocks is that people have to understand that when they take that mushroom block and they leave it, it's going to get this liquid, slimy stuff in the bag.
That's actually a biocide.
That's produced by the fungi to protect from bacterial infections and or yeast infections or anything else.
That fungi is doing everything it can to build a fortress with the white cake around the outside edge, but it's also releasing these biotoxins to fight off anybody that could possibly compete with them.
So what I generally tell people to do is take the bag and run it over with your car on soil.
So you smashed it and then just leave it in the bag so it gets nasty.
It should get all different colors in it, but it shouldn't have any real liquid buildup because that's the biocide that you do not want to add to your compost pile because you will knock back your diversity.
So dealing with mushroom blocks is a little bit more creative than one might think, but the longer you let those blocks dry out, and if it's raining, it's raining.
It doesn't matter.
Just don't allow that biocide to build up in the bag.
Run it over.
You don't want to rip all the plastic off.
Leave the plastic on it until you're ready to actually introduce it into your compost pile.
And then when you're going to introduce it into your compost pile, it's going to have this funky smell to it.
And again, remember, our noses are there to protect us, to warn us from dangers.
So when you smell it, you're going to kind of like pull your head back and go, oh, that smells really funky.
Yeah, that's okay.
It's kind of like when you ferment things.
It smells funky.
Like you're not going to want to eat this stuff, but when it has that funky smell to it, you know it's ready.
It's going to be providing all kinds of secondary and tertiary metabolites for everything to kick in.
The only part of that I want to tease at is running over it with your car.
I believe that the car is the onlyour goal is to break up the cake so that the white on the outside that is providing the protective barrier for the cake gets destroyed, right?
Disturbed.
Okay, so the cakes that I have come in contact with actually break up very easily in the bag by hand.
And so it would be just as effective if I just take the bag and I hold it well with my two hands and just twist my hands in different directions and so break the exterior of the cake up a bit and then just go with that, right?
That's the only goal of it, right?
There is something to do with the pressure.
I can't explain it, biogeochemical process that's occurring, but I have noticed that when I do run it over, again, I'm not trying to break it up.
I'm trying to just kind of like squish out any of the biocide and disturb that outer coating so that now the local indigenous biology can come into play and have fun with it as well.
Because there's still a tremendous amount of resources in nutritional value that's locked up in that block that that fungi is trying to protect.
So I want to expose it to my local environment so I'm getting all of my indigenous microorganisms to colonize it as well.
So that's why I'm saying like just run it over.
Again, you don't want to tear the bag off of it.
You just want to pop it so that, again, air exchange can come in, the biocide gets squished out, and then let it sit and get funky, man.
The more funky it gets, the more diverse of microorganisms that you'll get from your microenvironment.
Does that make sense?
Yeah, I totally follow.
All right, so we're going to go ahead and take another break and then we're going to finish up with set three.
We are going to talk more about the mechanical massaging that Leighton does to create these community opportunities in the inoculant organic material.
And then we're going to talk a little bit about how to actually use this in your garden.
You are listening to Shaping Fire and my guest today is soil biologist Leighton Morrison.
For decades, Americans have enjoyed cannabis flowers in joints and bongs and bowls.
And now, with the normalization of cannabis use increasing across the country, we have the opportunity to enjoy smoking cannabis luxuries that simply were not attainable before.
North Coast hand rolls blunts, cannons, rosin-infused donuts, and cannagars available in the state of Michigan.
North Coast focuses on flavor over everything else.
Instead of growing their own flower, North Coast goes out into the cultivation community and creates relationships with the best growers working with the best new cannabis varieties available.
Surely, heavy THC is a factor, but North Coast focuses on aroma, complex terpene profiles, and taste that continues throughout the entire smoking experience.
The North Coast team curates flowers like others curate art.
They seek out the best talent, build relationships, helps them take their product to the highest levels, and then buys their well-cured flowers in order to hand roll them just for you.
I really like their hand-blown glass tips.
And North Coast has branched out beyond cannagars into rosin-solventless THCA diamonds and exceptional hash rosin carts for on-the-go cannabis connoisseurs too.
North Coast provides you with attainable luxury, offering you an ultra-premium smoking experience at a price that seems reasonable and repeatable.
To find out more about North Coast's line of cannabis products, visit their Instagram at NorthCoast.Rolling.
That's NorthCoast.Rolling.
And when in Michigan, ask for North Coast at your favorite shop.
North Coast.
There is no doubt that auto-flowering cannabis plants have finally come into their own.
And Night Owl Seeds works tirelessly, bringing you auto-flower genetics that are reliable, thriving, and with extraordinary terpene profiles.
Night Owl Seeds is an industry leader because of the focused work of their founder, Daz.
Daz is passionate about the cannabis plant and pushing what auto-flowers can do, and cultivators know that these efforts show through in his seeds.
And Night Owl Seeds really are extraordinary.
Just take a look at the thousands of photos by fans on Instagram. The proof is there and obvious.
Terpenes are complex and rich. Plants have vigor.
If you are a fan of Mephisto genetics like I am, you'll likely also love Night Owl Seeds.
Night Owl founder Daz worked with Mitch Mephisto to build the Mephisto brand for years, including breeding Mephisto's much-loved Sour Stomper and Cosmic Queen cultivars.
I'm growing both Night Owl and Mephisto this year because I want the best.
And Night Owl Seeds knows how to cultivate community, too.
Daz puts out great stickers, exclusive packaging for limited runs, and desirable freebies.
He really draws you in if you love creative branding.
Night Owl even has the Secret Owl Society text club.
Just text the word NIGHTOWL, one word, to 760-670-3130 for early announcements and exclusive opportunities.
Of course, you can see lots of photos and find out about upcoming drops by following the Night Owl Seeds Instagram, too, at daz.nightowl.
You can get your packs of Night Owl Seeds at several distributors, including DC Seed Exchange, Insane Seeds, and Hembra Genetics.
That's Night Owl Seeds. There's a difference because we're different.
For years, organic cultivators have been looking for a peat moss replacement.
Peat moss has long been the go-to soil amendment for water retention and container growing,
but organic growers are recognizing now that peat moss is an unsustainable resource,
and the mining of peat bogs destroys wetland habitats and releases sequestered carbon.
But peat moss works so well that many have continued to use it.
Now, there is finally a revolutionary replacement for peat moss that provides better benefits while being a sustainable choice.
Pit moss sounds and acts like peat moss, but instead of being mined from fragile ecosystems,
is actually made from upcycled organic paper and cardboard headed for landfills.
Pit moss is excellent at retaining water in your substrate and creating air pockets and tiny living environments for microbes.
Pit moss instantly increases aeration, nutrient absorption, and water conservation too.
Carefully and locally sourced, pit moss is the result of decades-long research into the use of recycled paper fibers.
Pit moss is lightweight and easy to use, and pit moss is inert, so it won't change your pH.
Available in a range of preparations, including a nutrient-enhanced blend and an organic soil conditioner with no added nutrients,
Pit moss is also available as an animal bedding for horses, chickens, and small animals.
You can save 15% with the discount code SHAPINGFIRE, one word, no caps, when shopping on pitmoss.com.
So go to pitmoss.com now to learn more.
That's P-I-T-T-M-O-S-S dot com.
Growing healthier, stronger, more sustainable plants.
Pit moss.
Welcome back. You are listening to Shaping Fire. I am your host, Shango Lose.
And my guest today is soil biologist, Leighton Morrison.
So, during the break, Leighton and I were talking about the inputs for this cold compost.
Because when I visited him there in Ventura, I don't know, right before COVID-E started,
he had all this stuff in his backyard that he was growing, it all looked like weeds and shrubs and stuff,
and I'm all like, oh, what are these plants? And you're like, oh, I'm growing this stuff for my compost.
And I didn't think much about it and moved on.
But it's not until today that I realized, whereas most of us will wildcraft our inputs for the compost,
or we just produce it, like, you know, air quotes, accidentally, on our property,
Leighton, you actually are growing green inputs that you know you like for making your cold compost.
And the idea of growing specific things intentionally just to kill it for your compost is really interesting.
And I found it kind of inspiring, and I'm probably not the only one.
So before we move on, why don't you just hit on that?
Like, what are you growing for your compost, and why do you bother?
Well, that's a good question, Trago.
I've found that, again, diversity, diversity, diversity is the key to making some incredible end products.
And so, yeah, I grow indigenous grasses, pollinator plants, flowers, even some little shrubs.
And basically, I don't kill them. I just cut them back from time to time.
I don't let things go to seed that I put into the pile.
So if I see something that's going to seed out, I either just let it seed out and then wait until it's done seeding
and take the brown, because the plant dies after it seeds out,
and just make sure that I'm getting all the seeds off of it and leave them in place in the soil.
And then the greens, of course, I trim back the grasses. I love flowers in my compost pile.
I think they just bring a whole other level of biological superfoods to the decomposers that they wouldn't ordinarily get.
So, yeah, I think that everybody, if you've got a little corner somewhere, you can obviously just buy green manure seeds or wildflower seeds
or whatever is locally grown or locally responsibly grown in your area.
Why wouldn't you? And again, I'm blessed. I don't go through a harsh winter here.
Yes, we have certain plants that do die back in the colder weather.
But for the most part, everything pretty much grows year-round. So I'm very blessed in that regard.
But if I was to, say, do this in New England, I typically would build a pile in spring and I'd build a pile in fall.
So I'd be harvesting whatever I could get my hands on in the spring, like the new stuff that was popping up.
And then in the fall, I would obviously be collecting stuff throughout the summer to build the pile in the fall.
So it's a little bit trickier in an area where you have a true hard winter to do this.
But even if you only built one pile a year, you'd be fine.
But yeah, there's no reason why you can't harvest the local or grow whatever you feel is important for your area
and then use the biomass in your compost pile.
I like the idea because you kind of put it on its head, right?
Because I grow flowers and all this kind of stuff on my property too, and they naturally find their way into a pile.
But the fact that you kind of went backwards and you're like,
Okay, what stuff do I like in my compost?
And now I'm going to grow that.
It's a subtle but important difference from,
Oh, I grew all this stuff because I just like the flowers and I hope it makes good compost,
versus I want good compost, so I'm going to pick the flowers and grasses that make good compost that also I happen to like.
It changes the direction of the decision making, and I find that kind of delightful.
Yeah, and don't get me wrong.
I'll actually pull up roots and use those in the compost as well.
So if something seeds, I'll let it seed out, and then I'll pull that plant because I know I've got seeds that are going to pop next year.
And I'll compost that root ball because that's got the rhizosphere in it.
Right on.
So here we are in set three, and the two main things I want to talk about is,
First, you have talked about the mechanical ways in which you manipulate the organic matter to make more porous community opportunities for all the life forms in the rhizosphere.
And we've kind of just hit on that a little bit, and then I've referred to it as massaging.
But I've been to your workshop and seen all the stuff that you do, and I think so far we've given everybody a pretty good roadmap for how to make this at their house, except for this part.
So would you take us through the different mechanical manipulations that you work the organic matter through so that it is optimum for an inoculant process?
Yeah, sure. As a matter of fact, I recently did a video, a one-hour lecture and outline with a friend of mine, Jimmy Perkins, who's actually going to put it up online at some point.
And we talked about charging 50 bucks for it, but it would be a great resource for people to actually physically see what I'm talking about and how I go about it.
So that's something that was designed for the homeowner. So it's using mechanical forces on a smaller scale than what I do.
But needless to say, these mechanical forces are scalable.
So I have an 85-gallon yogurt maker that I converted into one of my strippers. And actually, I call her Raquel.
And my other stripper, I call her Sandy because I went through Superstorm Sandy and Sandy Hook in New England, and I said, you know what? Poor Sandy's got a bad name. Let's make something good out of the name Sandy.
So the one that I travel with is Sandy, and it was basically an older washing machine that I converted to do this, what I call, soft collision.
So in a soft collision, think about the two of us standing in a pool, up to our neck in water, and underwater, I punch you.
Like you're going to feel it. You're going to feel the force of it, but it's not going to hurt you.
Like if we were standing in the air and I did that, you'd feel some serious pain.
So that's the kind of philosophy that I want you to think about when you are talking about soft colliding organic materials or matters together in a way that you're brushing off the loose pieces, the fungi, the biology.
You're not damaging it. You're basically using its own biomass to break off the pieces that are suitable and ready to be used as poem to inoculate your soil.
All right. So number one is soft colliding using a washing machine. Would you give a quick description of your retrofit of that washing machine?
Yeah. You have to find a really old machine. The newer ones have a lot of different sensors and computers, thanks to China, which I've tried desperately to convert to many, many lost hours and frustration.
Because as soon as I get rid of this control, that sensor is tripping and now the machine won't go on or I keep this control, but I get rid of that sensor because I don't want it.
And then now this control will no longer function properly. So you have to find a very old machine.
Like I don't think you can get them anything after 2000. You're probably not going to be able to convert.
So that being said, there's not a huge pool of these pieces of equipment that have survived that long in a junk pile.
So it's not a particular easy way to go about this. I mean, I did this conversion back in about 2010 was when I made it.
But I had access to used appliance stores that had plenty of older inventory that I could manipulate.
So bottom line is you have to gut it. So you have to take the whole thing apart, power wash the inside, get rid of all the residues, all the soap scum.
You got to replace bearings, check for wire frays. But you're basically looking at taking all of the wiring out of it.
So you basically have two functions, spin and agitate and no time restriction.
Like all those little control, that little dial, you bypass that whole thing.
So it's not something for the lighthearted. You've got to be somewhat of a mechanical or high mechanical aptitude and somewhat of an inventor to actually do this.
But it's possible. If I did it, anybody could do it.
So that being said, the more simple way for a user-friendly small scale application is to just use a paint mixer or a compound mixer and a cordless drill on a low setting.
And that's where I did this video with Jimmy so that people could see, oh, wow, this is really actually quite simple.
And in my work, I've taken it a little bit further because I'm really trying to produce the most powerful inoculant I can.
So I also use, along with agitation, I use aeration.
So I have a little air pump that pumps air down into the agitator.
And on the agitator, I created these whips out of polyethylene pipes that go all the way out to the edge of the barrel.
So when that's going back and forth, those are basically acting as a sweep to sweep the material off the floor of the washing machine.
And with the aeration now, as it sweeps, it's blowing the stuff up into the, you know, higher up into the water column and then only to sink back down in the center and repeat, agitate and repeat, repeat, repeat, or what is it, rinse and repeat.
So by doing that, I'm adding another level of physical force to this organic matter.
So it's colliding on the way up. It's getting swept. It's getting ground. It's getting pushed into each other.
And then, of course, I'm adding a tremendous amount of oxygen, dissolved oxygen, into the aqueous solution of fish, brew and water.
So I'm really getting another added benefit by doing that. But again, without a proper piece of equipment, it's a lot more difficult to do that.
The yogurt mixer has sweeps on the outside pushing in. It's a cone bottom.
And of course, I've used a tremendous amount of oxygen blowing up through the center of that.
So that's creating that same aeration agitation that I did with the washing machine.
And then on top of that, I have two impellers opposing each other.
So one impeller is pulling from the bottom and throwing it up. And the impeller above that is actually throwing, pulling from the top and throwing down.
So I'm getting three levels of agitation with that piece of equipment.
And the reason why is because I'm trying to do it as efficient and as quick as possible.
So I'm using all the different forces possible to, again, produce a high volume of super powerful inoculant in a short period of time.
So if this washing machine that you have messed with, it's got the organic material and water in it, what's coming out of it?
All right. So inside the barrel, you'll see that it's got holes, little tiny eighth inch drill holes all the way around it.
So those drill holes are acting as a screen.
So when I'm washing my compost, anything bigger than an eighth inch isn't going to get through those holes.
It just stays in the barrel.
And when I spin it, I'm now pulling all of that moisture out of that product or out of what's left in the barrel.
And then what's left in the barrel, I just scoop up and I throw it right back in the compost pile again.
So that's the first level of screening.
And so, and the water that's coming out of it, that is not a waste product.
No, that's actually the, that's the goodies.
That's the point.
So you're using the water and the agitation to strip everything out of your organic material.
And while you're still going to throw that organic material back in the pile, the goal is to have the organic material give up its goodies.
Right, right. And release all the humic acids, fulvic acids, secondary, tertiary, aminobytes, along with all of the biology that went in there.
And again, I'm using fish brew in that process.
So I'm basically using about a gallon and a half of fish brew and about three and a half to four gallons by volume of compost in that one process.
Now, on a smaller scale, you can do this in a compound bucket and, you know, buy a quarter a gallon of fish brew.
Add that in there with a couple handfuls of compost, agitate for 15, 20 minutes on slow, and you'll get the same end results.
You just won't have been as efficient in removing all of those organisms and components that you're looking for.
Right on. And I know you and I both share a love of the fish brew product, but I'm always trying to make people self-sufficient.
So if somebody doesn't want to buy the fish brew, they can go their own way and collect fish poop.
So find themselves an aquaponics company or whatever.
The point is that fish brew is the easy way to go, but you can also do this if you use your aquarium water.
Oh, absolutely. Aquarium water is wonderful.
I mean, personally, I don't know why every farmer does not have at least a friggin, you know, aquarium.
And instead, why not a fish pond? Why not?
You know, I always promote aquatic microorganisms as so important and one of the biggest missing pieces from the soil because we don't have mass migration anymore.
The soil used to get inoculated every time a migration occurred, but that doesn't happen anymore.
So AMOs are, in my mind, the foundation of creating regenerative, healthy soil.
So without them, what are you really accomplishing?
So another way to get aquatic microorganisms is to do a wild craft of kelp or algae, duckweed, any of those things.
And you basically, in aquatic plants, you put them in a bucket, put the wire mesh on top, put a brick on it so that the plants are all submersed below the water, put it in the hot sun for three to five days.
Depends on where you are and what temperature you're at.
But what you'll see is a white, frothy foam that raises to the surface.
And again, it's going to have a funky smell.
So your body's going to be like, oh, that's weird.
What is that?
So you're going to kind of get a reaction to it.
It's not going to smell like poop, but it's not going to smell like forest floor either.
It's going to smell funky, kind of like those mushroom blocks.
But that is a very powerful aquatic microorganism inoculant that you can pour on your compost pile.
And you know what?
It's funny that you say that about fish brew.
And I just traveled the entire country.
And we did soil awareness classes.
I think I did seven of them across the country.
And I had the same answer at every one of them.
I'm like, dude, you need fish brew.
Dude, you need fish brew.
And I got to the point where I was like, man, these people probably think I own fish brew.
And in reality, I don't.
I have no stake in it.
All I can tell you is that I've been using that product since Rodale, since the inception of trying to do this.
Actually, before Rodale, I'd come to realize that there was something really special about fish manure.
Because every time I poured it on a plant, I'd see plant reaction.
That's the whole reason I went down to Rodale to talk to this woman named Elaine, who I had no idea who she was,
and show her this stuff and put it under the microscope.
And she came back and goes, holy shit, where did you get this?
So it is the missing piece of the pie, the biology.
Just like in soil science, they're missing the biology.
Everybody's missing the biology.
And can you do this with your own compost?
Absolutely.
You have two choices, time or money.
How much time you got?
If you don't have a lot of time, then you need to spend the money.
If you don't have a lot of money, then you've got to spend the time.
But can you do it without fish brew?
Absolutely.
But it's going to take time and trials and learning how to work with aquatic organisms.
All right, so back to how you are mechanically breaking up and stripping your soil.
We've got the first one, which is your soft colliding washing machine.
What's another one?
Okay, so soft colliding, aeration, dissolved oxygen in the water, again, adding those other elements,
because every time that bubble comes up, it's pushing something out of the way and displacing
and putting it back into a mechanical force position.
So then after you go through those basic or I want to call beginning processes of pulling apart the organic matter,
the next would be through dewatering.
So by dewatering, there's a couple of different ways to do it.
There are some really cool screw presses where you'd feed in this slurry at the top of it,
and it has a big auger in it, and it presses that material until the liquid oozes out the sides.
And eventually, you just get this cake that comes out the end, where when the screw pressure has gotten so great,
that the end of it will kind of open up a little bit and let some of the dewatered organic matter
to spill out into the waste pan.
I've also used, personally, I've went toward what's called a concrete vibrator.
It's used to mount on the walls of foundations so that you're vibrating the concrete to get all of the air out of it.
And I use that in conjunction with a metal or wood frame and with a stainless steel mesh screen that I string like a guitar.
And then I suspended on these rubber isolators so that the vibration is only occurring on the screen
and not vibrating everything else around it.
So I've basically isolated the vibration.
And when I hit the certain, if you do this, you get the variable speed, and you turn it up or down,
and you'll get this point where it's called resonance, when everything is vibrating and the liquid just pours out of it.
If you're not right, what's going to happen is the top is going to start vibrating,
and you're going to see all this air, bubbles and stuff coming up.
But when you hit that sweet spot, that resonance, you're not seeing any surface action on the top,
but you're just hearing the water pouring out of the bottom.
That has a couple of different advantages.
First of all, yes, you're getting the maximum amount of liquid out of that organic matter that is otherwise oversaturated.
But through vibration, you're exciting electrons, and this gets really fucking deep.
But excited electrons tend to want to interact with each other.
They want to hold, they want to bond.
So one of the most interesting phenomenon behind this process is that I noticed after I've vibrated it,
and say I want to sift out some rejuvenate or some alliance, which is one of the two products, the solid products that I make,
I will see the liquid goes through, and then the clumps on the surface start to clod.
They start to attach. They start to form microaggregates almost immediately.
It's crazy, Shango.
And I've noticed too that when I take it to the next level and stabilize or completely dewater the alliance or the rejuvenate,
I basically put it in a giant press, a screw press, and I just keep cranking it until I squeeze out what is literally pure fulvic acid.
I then take that cake and I again run it through a vibrating screen to create that soft, fluffy stuff that you talked about earlier in the show.
When you put that stuff on soil, oh my God, automatically, clay platelets, sand particles, they just start to bond together and create these microaggregates.
I can only explain it through my understanding of quantum mechanics that when you stimulate electrons and protons,
that you can actually create these paramagnetic charges that begin to want to attract or repel based on their charge.
I know that was a deep one.
No, no. It makes sense though.
So I've got five of these so far.
Soft cladding washing machine, aeration bubbles, dewatering press, concrete vibrator, and then a vibrating screen.
What else? Is that it?
I would say that's the majority of it.
I mean, again, your goal here is to lower the moisture value of the product if you're trying to make it shelf stable.
If shelf stability isn't an issue and you just want to make it and use it, then you don't have to go through all of these processes.
You can just literally just take it, mix it.
I poured it into a paint strainer, which was stupid.
I should have used an insect screen because in turn we're only putting it in a watering can and watering it.
So I don't need to take all the big chunks out of it.
The more chunky it is, the better and higher level of inoculation that you can create quicker.
So again, the chunkier, the better.
So I think those are pretty much the primary forces.
And then it's just a matter of, all right, how are you applying it?
And that'll drive you to, all right, I got to screen it to this level because I'm running it through a diaphragm pump.
Please do not use centrifugal force.
Centrifugal force creates cavitation.
Cavitation kills biology.
So you don't want to have any kind of mechanical pumps that will create cavitation or centrifugal force.
You want to use a diaphragm pump.
So if you are using a diaphragm pump and you've got spray rig or nozzles that you've got to deal with, then you have to screen to that level to get it out there in the field.
So I want to take a pause here.
And for people who possibly like me, these last five steps that you have mentioned are very off-putting, right?
Because I wouldn't do this stuff, right?
And I think it's important to point out that the point of the show was to encourage folks to make a cold compost, which is essentially an organic material microbinoculant.
And you don't have to do this last part.
All you needed to do was just put the care into collecting your plants and then not let the pile get too hot.
That's it.
That's the whole point of what we're encouraging folks to make.
But to do it right, you need to do things like make sure you avoid your pathogens by using plant material only.
And make sure it doesn't get too hot.
And the stuff that we talked about during set two, these things that we're talking about now, number one, they remove the water to make your final material shelf stable.
But also by breaking it up, it creates lots of places for microbe life to attach to the soil.
It means that the compost will be quickly integrated into wherever you place it.
And also increases the places for community, right?
Because there's all these 360-degree ridges everywhere.
But if we lost you here at the beginning of set three with this mechanical stuff, don't lose heart.
Because you don't have to do this part.
This is really just a way to finish it if you need to make it stable where you can make it once a year and then let it sit all year, right?
You don't have to do this.
No, you don't have to do this.
But the reason that this is important to understand is all about delivery.
So we've grown these organisms.
We've done the work.
We've made this beautiful, biologically rich compost.
How do we get that biology into the soil effectively and efficiently?
The only way to do that is with liquid.
Because the liquid will help move those organisms down into the soil profile.
You take your compost, this amazing stuff that you made, and you top dress, well, 50% of it's going to get oxidated and die or exposed to UV and die.
So how effective did you get those microorganisms down into the soil?
Not very effectively.
You lost 50% of them.
So you're actually making two products here.
The one product is the actual low moisture inoculated compost that even though you've removed most of the water, it is still brimming with life.
And it's essentially a dry good that you can sell in a bag.
But then there's a secondary product or useful product, which is the water that keeps on coming out of this stuff, which is just also brimming with life.
And we don't care about it being shelf-stable.
You're just going to pour that on your plants.
Right.
And that's the key again is delivery.
So how do we get these microorganisms into a condominium where they have food, water, and cover?
And then how do we get them down into the soil profile where they're going to be safe and sound and continue to grow and inoculate?
So the other product that we're talking about is Harmonize, highly unstable.
Like if you leave this in a bucket for a day, maybe two, it's going to go anaerobic.
You're talking about the water, right?
Yeah, the liquid.
It's going to go anaerobic because there's just so much what's called biological oxygen demand, BOD.
Because there's so much going on in activity, they're stripping the dissolved oxygen out of that water at such a fast rate that it can't survive.
And if it goes anaerobic, well, now I've defeated my whole purpose.
My purpose was to get minerals, nutrients, biology into the soil so that it could do its work and it was no longer mobile.
In other words, if it rained, it didn't wash away.
But if I go anaerobic, I've basically made a nutrient solution that's all the plant needs right there in that liquid, even though it smells like hell.
If I pour it on that plant, the plant's going to be able to take it up really quickly.
But if it rains or I water, I've washed it all out of the profile.
So I think that's the real missing piece is mobile or not mobile.
What am I producing?
And my goal was always to produce non-mobile nutrients that in the form of biology that could be there as a nutrient bank forever, for thousands of years.
So that's, again, the mechanical side of this is how to effectively and efficiently deliver this very sensitive biology down into a place where it is safe and it has food, water, and cover.
And if you are somebody like me who is very interested in a cold compost, but I'm not going to do the mechanical aspects of this, it is also fabulous and way better than your thermal compost.
If you were to just make this cold compost pile and then make a compost tea with it and just pour it on your plants and get right to it.
That's essentially what we did.
We made a compost extract, not a tea.
Like, yeah, you could take this biological compost, throw it in your brewer, whether you put it in a bag or free brew it.
Personally, I would free brew it, which is basically just throw handfuls in there, bubble it for 30 hours.
Again, we need to touch base on that, why that's such a critical point in time.
But now I've made a compost brew.
So I've taken a handful of this compost that I made, the cold compost, threw in a little bit of sugars.
Again, you want to make sure you're using unsulfur blackstrap molasses, no more than one ounce per 20 gallons.
If you do use more, you're going to raise the biological oxygen demand, BOD, and you're going to have an anaerobic shit show.
So you've got a very, very little bit of foods.
You bubble it for 30 hours and then you use it up by hour 36.
The reason being is that between hour 20 and hour 24 is when you start to get your high level of protozoan production.
In other words, you've provided the bacteria, you provided the deer.
Now all of a sudden the lions, the bears and the wolves are coming in and they're breeding like crazy because there's so much food in the source.
And that's why it's critical that you wait till hour 30 so that you've had a good six to eight hours of high level of protozoan production.
Because at the end of the day, everybody's missing the protozoa.
It's all about the protozoa.
We all have bacterially dominant soils.
So what is the missing piece?
Protozoa.
They're the ones that are eating the bacteria and releasing that plant available.
The other point is that if you just took this cold compost and you threw it in some water and agitated it with your hands and then poured it on your plants, now you've basically made a compost extract with it.
So do you need the mechanical stuff?
No, you can use your hands.
But if you're going to take the time to actually massage it with your hands for a period of time, wouldn't it have been easier to use a power drill?
Go ahead.
I was going to say, it's all about delivery.
How are you getting those organisms into the soil the most effective and efficient way?
And I think the key to this is go ahead and make your cold compost pile.
And once you have that, there's a whole bunch of different ways that you can apply it.
But we're encouraging you to make the pile and don't overheat it.
And once you have that, you can do it the easy way, which is how I will be doing it, which is to take a few handfuls and bubble it up for 30 hours and put it on your plants.
You want to take that further because maybe you're scaled and you want this to be available to you in a few months?
Well, then go through more of the mechanical stuff, press out the water, and then you can put that compost on the shelf and it will be ready for you when you need to use it in a few months.
And you can use that water now.
But really, it's all about getting that pile made and not having the pile get hot.
Amen to that.
It's all about making ingredients.
One interesting footnote I would like to throw in here is that people will be astonished at all the unexpected benefits that come from using a biology-rich cold compost.
And the one example that I want to have, because it's really hard to say, oh, my plant's color got so much better.
And oh, the flowers were so good.
And oh, my gosh, the flowers tasted better.
I felt like it had a wider terpene profile than I normally get.
All that's true, but it's really hard to measure that.
What I can tell you is, if you go back in the Shaping Fire Instagram, we've got this 4x4 indoor bed that, even though I'm using electricity for LED lights, I'm trying to use regenerative techniques indoors.
It kind of is an experiment, because doing regenerative stuff indoors has got its own challenges.
I did that, and I ended up with a fungus gnat breakout for whatever reason.
I'm talking with my providers about the beneficial insects I want and all this kind of stuff.
And I call you to bitch, because we're friends and we do that.
And I'm like, I got this situation.
And you're like, oh, let me send you up this cold compost that I've made, and then bubble it up and pour it on your bed.
And I'm like, I don't understand how a fricking compost tea is going to get rid of my gnats.
If anything, it's going to make the soil more wet, and I'm going to get more fungus gnats.
And you're like, well, first of all, it's not a tea.
It's an extract.
And I'm like, oh, all right.
But then you said, just do it.
And I'm like, all right.
Well, I trust you enough.
Very often, I will just do the stuff you say and then watch for the benefit.
And so that's what I did, and I'll be damned.
I made this, and I put the five gallons of it.
First, I sprayed it on the top, so I made sure that I got all the top areas.
But then I just kind of poured the rest in, and I had no fungus gnats within 48 hours.
I was flabbergasted.
And I called you, and I'm like, what kind of sorcery is this?
And how did you explain it to me?
It is sorcery.
Basically, what you did was you threw down a bunch of hungry microbes with a food source of fungal gnat larvae all over the place.
So they just went to town.
It was like buffet time.
So, yeah.
So the predators, essentially, that were in this highly inoculated extract, they went and they ate all the larval of the fungus gnats.
I never even considered that approach to fungus gnats, and it worked nearly instantly and was very economical to do.
But that is just an example I want to give folks for once you start...
I mean, we all love the microbes, right?
And we all believe in IMO, and we all believe in using nature as our ally.
But this is kind of next level, and I encourage folks to do it.
So in bringing us to a close here, Leighton, we talked about what kinds of compost or things that are called compost are available to us.
And we talked about what those options were like.
And some of them, like vermiculture compost, we freaking love.
And some of it, like the bag stuff, we don't really love.
But the one thing was that we wanted to encourage folks to not heat their piles.
And so people go ahead and they don't heat their piles.
They're using clean, non-pathogenic green materials and browns.
And they have this, and they make it.
And so now they've got what?
What is going to be the nature of the pot container or the soil, if you're going right in the ground?
Kind of bring us home here by describing the nature of the soil after this application versus the nature of their soil before the application.
And we'll end with this.
Okay, that's probably the whole point of this conversation is soil aggregate.
That's the reason you use compost.
And that's the reason we use microbes is because they actually form aggregation.
And what is aggregation?
Aggregation is like a little clump of sand, silt, and clay and organic matter.
Inside that clump is waterfalls and ponds and cities and walkways and parks and all kinds of different creatures and organisms.
Consider it a zoo.
And so inside that, and it's in this article that talks about the magic, the biogeochemical reactions that are happening inside that aggregate.
We don't have tools to measure this yet.
We don't have the technology to test it or monitor it or actually scope it in situ.
There is a new instrument that was invented, I believe, last year that is a microscope that you push into the soil and you can leave it there for days, weeks, and monitor this shit.
Those are the kinds of tools that we're going to need to really advance our understanding on how valuable soil aggregates are.
And aggregates are a combination of fungi, bacteria, protozoa, the physical side of it, as well as the chemical side of it.
It is the triple threat.
It's the physical, the chemical, and the biological coming together.
And that's why the aggregates are so important.
Again, aggregates let the oxygen down, lets the CO2 out, back up to the plants.
It holds water.
It allows water to infiltrate into the soil so it's not just running off and creating erosion.
So aggregation is the critical foundation to soil health.
You can't have aggregates without good biology.
It doesn't exist.
You have compacted soil because you don't have the biology.
But once you have the biology and the organic matter in play, you will begin to form aggregates.
So again, that's why I went through this whole process of vibrating shit and exciting the electrons.
So they will form these aggregates extremely quickly.
That's the whole purpose of taking this biological compost and manufacturing it, for lack of better words,
so that you're getting a faster response in building the soil health and building those aggregates.
Fabulous.
So, you know, it's not lost on me, and I think this is one of the reasons why,
as I learned more about cold compost extracts,
why I kept on pursuing this until I figured out what this was enough to do a show about it.
I really think that this is the future of regenerative farming.
I think that thermal compost has been a great tool for the times,
but we are sophisticated enough now to know how to work with the microbes
and to know that our biggest role is to, A, stop fucking killing all the microbes,
and then, second, add microbes and help incubate them and make more of them as much as possible,
because we're not really the ones that are going to clean up the mess we've made.
It's really the microbes that are.
And so, if we are dedicating ourselves to not only working within the natural forces of the Earth,
but also to play our role to maximize them, I think that's the only direction that makes sense.
Agreed, 100%. I mean, we've learned how to break shit down.
Now we've got to learn to put things back together again, the way nature would have,
through biomimicry and not through our ego, for lack of better words.
I think that is the best word, man.
Layton, thank you so much.
I always appreciate you, both our friendship and then having you on the show,
but this was extra special today.
I appreciate you sharing these insights, some of them pretty damn revolutionary,
and also slogging through three hours of this.
I'm exhausted, and I'm not even the one that was talking.
So, thank you so much, man. I really appreciate you.
I appreciate you too, Shango.
You've been doing a lot of hard work for many years,
and you bring a very important message to the community as well as the general population as a whole.
And so, it's an honor.
It's a pleasure for me to be able to share what I've learned and my experiences with you and your audience.
So, thank you.
Right on.
So, if you want to follow along with Layton's exploits, there are two ways to do that.
The first way is on Instagram.
You can follow his Instagram profile at kingdomaquaponicsllc.
And I'll tell you straight up, he's not a huge social media guy,
because he's usually filthy and in the field,
but he does post stuff to Instagram.
It is always interesting, and when he goes on tours, you'll find all that stuff.
And if you have some reason you want to reach out, he does check his Instagram messages.
So, that's kingdomaquaponicsllc.
And then, you can also find Layton every Thursday,
co-hosting his own show on the Future Cannabis Project on YouTube.
You can find more episodes of the Shaping Fire podcast and subscribe to the show at shapingfire.com
and wherever you get your podcasts.
If you enjoyed the show, we'd really appreciate it if you would leave a positive review of the podcast wherever you download.
Your review will help others find the show so they can enjoy it, too.
On the Shaping Fire website, you can also subscribe to the newsletter for insights into the latest cannabis news,
exclusive videos, and giveaways.
On the Shaping Fire website, you will also find transcripts of today's podcast as well.
Be sure to follow on Instagram for all original content not found on the podcast.
That's at shapingfire and at shangolos on Instagram.
Be sure to check out the Shaping Fire YouTube channel for exclusive interviews, farm tours, and cannabis lectures.
Does your company want to reach our national audience of cannabis enthusiasts?
Email hotspot at shapingfire.com to find out how.
Thanks for listening to Shaping Fire. I've been your host, Shango Los.
