One of the most difficult aspects of cannabis cultivation is learning how to use light at
an expert level.
The sun is pretty much always the same and reliable, and that's one of the reasons
I prefer greenhouse growing.
However, most artificial light sources traditionally used for cannabis certainly got the job done
even though they were inefficient and gave off a ton of heat.
But the application of light to plants, whether it be from sunshine or electricity, actually
is just one part of the skill set a cannabis cultivator needs to understand in order to
perfect their craft.
If you want to learn about cannabis health, business, and technique efficiently and with
good cheer, I encourage you to subscribe to our newsletter.
We'll send you new podcast episodes as they come out, delivered right to your inbox, along
with commentary on a couple of the most important news items from the week and videos too.
Don't rely on social media to let you know when a new episode is published.
Sign up for the updates to make sure you don't miss an episode.
Also we give away very cool prizes to folks who are signed up to receive the newsletter.
There's nothing else you need to do to win except receive that newsletter.
So go to shapingfire.com to sign up and be entered into this month's and all future
newsletter prize drawings.
You are listening to Shaping Fire and I'm your host, Shango Lose.
Today my guest is former NASA lighting engineer Robert Soler.
Robert Soler has worked at the Kennedy Space Center where he helped design and build the
Cultivation Module and the first LED light for use on the International Space Station.
Additionally, he served as subject matter expert for NASA's Circadian Lighting System.
He holds a master's degree from the Lighting Research Center at Rensselaer Polytechnic
Institute and has begun a PhD in behavioral neuroscience where he received a fellowship
from the National Science Foundation for investigation in circadian lighting paradigms.
Robert is presently vice president of biological technologies and research at BIOS Lighting.
On today's show we're going to talk about some of the key threshold points in the relationship
between the light spectrum and cannabis plants that impact all cultivators, clear up some
botanical myths that persist in cannabis cultivation, and talk a bit about how working under artificial
lights impacts the lives of professional indoor cultivators.
Welcome to the show, Robert.
Yeah, thanks for having me.
Awesome, man.
I know that you're a busy guy and I appreciate that you take some of that valuable time and
share it with us.
And I really appreciate that you've got the NASA Space Station in your background because
it's an interest of mine having worked on the space shuttle program and the space station
myself.
And I just generally think it's really cool still.
And so before we go into a lot of the more light and botanical questions I've got for
you today, would you just tell us about the grow op in the space station?
Yeah, I worked on a project called ABERS, which is an advanced biological research system
that grew Arabidopsis.
So I was on the team that worked on that.
My role is the LED lighting expert.
So it wasn't probably as sexy or anything that this audience cares too much about.
But Arabidopsis is pretty cool because it's almost like the white mouse of laboratory
experiments.
So a lot of experiments, a lot of fundamental science is done with Arabidopsis.
So it's kind of groundbreaking research for growing plants in outer space.
And that's kind of evolved into growing flowers on space station, growing vegetables and herbs
on space station.
So things that are good for us both nutritionally and psychologically.
So when I think about the space station, I'm thinking about everything being incredibly
compact.
How large is the growing area?
And were you finding that you were having to devise smaller versions of the technologies
just to get them on the station?
Oh, absolutely.
That's exactly what NASA loved about LED specifically, was that it was small.
You could put it in pretty much any form factor you wanted.
It was rugged.
So when it goes up on a rocket or a Soyuz rocket, it's going to last.
It's not made of glass or anything.
It's very rugged.
But the team that we had was basically the space flight experiment team.
So scientists would come from all over the world and basically to fly their science on
space station, they would come to us and we would basically develop the hardware and shrink
it down to what's called a mid-deck locker sized box where that experiment would run.
So basically you have minimal space to have all your HVAC, your cooling, your nutrient
deployment, your lights.
Everything was all kind of in a really, really compressed space.
And astronauts would be able to open it up, kind of check on everything.
Some of them were camera based.
It was all very high tech, trying to get as much science as we can autonomously.
Yeah.
So yeah.
And as compact as you could imagine.
And of course, lightweight, because I think things cost about $10,000 a pound to send
into space.
So weight is a huge issue.
Sure.
Sure.
You know, I think most of us who picture plants growing in space from either movies or just
imagination, we imagine there being like a table somewhere and it's got green plants
growing out of it that are just kind of like in the air and sharing air with the astronauts.
Is that how it is?
Or is everything all like super sealed behind plastic because all the environments are separate?
Oh yeah.
You don't want any cross pollination.
Everything's an experiment.
So it's really not designed for life support at this point.
So it's really just, it wants to have its closed environment, it's gasketed off.
So whatever is going on and recirculating in this one environment doesn't co-mingle
with any of the other hundreds of experiments that are going on at the exact same time.
I'd assume that you guys are probably running some kind of rockwool substrate and feeding
liquid nutrition rather than any kind of living soil, which would have a ton of variables.
Is that true?
Oh yeah.
So it is.
So the nutrition system is all kind of predetermined.
Some of the stuff that's recently done is in these little pods, these soil pods where
all the nutrients is already contained inside that.
And then you have to syringe in water because as you know, water in microgravity doesn't
go where you want it to go.
It goes everywhere.
So you have to have a very specific delivery system to make sure that it's getting in.
So everything is very well contained in order for it to work.
I know.
So you also worked on the Grow Lab in Antarctica, didn't you?
Yeah, that's right.
So they were looking in, it was the McMurdo Sound Station Grow Facility.
They were looking to kind of see if they could go into LED technology.
So we did this probably about eight years ago, growing the fresh fruits and vegetables
that are down there in Antarctica.
So pretty cool stuff.
Yeah, that's really great.
And I'm sure they're thrilled to do anything to get fresh fruits and vegetables there since
everything's shipped in a couple of times a year.
They probably get really tired of whatever their version of MREs are.
That's right.
Yeah, it was really important from a psychological, mental stability standpoint to see something
growing, to see kind of some semblance of what's normal in most people's perception.
Yeah, right.
Oh, go ahead.
You know, I just think that we talked a lot about space.
And I think there's one thing that's really fascinating about space is we look at the
spectrum of light, kind of going back to what we're going to be talking about.
But plants are hyper-efficient to red light.
And we now know it's a balance of red and blue.
One of the first discoveries about kind of phototropism is that if you grow plants in
space under only red light, plants grow in every single direction.
They don't have any up or down.
They just kind of, they just grow outward, if you will.
And so just adding a little bit of blue light gives them some orientation so that they'll
actually grow up towards the light because otherwise they have really no understanding.
There's no gravity.
There's no buoyancy to kind of tell them what's up and down.
In fact, blue light tells them which way to go.
And I think that that's a really interesting story as we kind of think about how we deliver
blue light here on Earth and in more normal cultivations.
Yeah.
And maybe even strategically how it could be used.
And I don't know this to be true.
I'm just positing here.
But like, you know, maybe red light will give you a shorter, bushier plant that's growing
out, whereas feeding it more blue light will make it more erect.
I don't know if that's true, but I bet you there's lots of people researching that right
now.
That's right.
Yeah.
I mean, it's actually kind of the opposite.
Blue light is kind of the natural signal for more light availability.
So when you're depleted of blue light, plants will actually grow out longer and stemmier
to try to search for kind of more light availability.
And so it's actually a blue depleted light will create a longer, stemmier, kind of lanky
looking plant.
So that's generally why a lot of the strategies are around kind of a blue enriched early in
the early stages of plant growth.
Right on.
So let's go ahead and make our transition to the stuff that I asked you to come and
join us with.
Because while you are an LED specialist for both your company, BIOS, and formerly for
NASA, the things that I've heard you interview about, which I'm most interested in, is actually
the relationship between the light, no matter its source, and the plant as a living organism.
And this time of year, a lot of people have got transition concerns from taking their
plants from the indoors and moving them outdoors.
And so a lot of us are talking about light cycles.
So let's go ahead and start there.
Let's go ahead and start there.
So indoors, the lights are weaker than the sunshine, but the day is usually longer because
most folks have their lights on 18-6 or 24-0 to help get them established and getting growing
before they go outside.
Yet, so often when the plants go outside into the more intense sunshine, but this time of
year, depending on where you are in the country, it's about 15-9, they start to flower for
a lot of people.
And we know there's clearly a relationship between the day length, the light intensity,
and flowering.
But, you know, for so many of us, we try to figure out where that threshold is to cause
flowering so we can better manage our cultivation.
So somewhere in there between like taking a plant from 18-6 and bringing it outside
to 15-9, somewhere in there, there is the threshold where, oh, now your plants you brought
outside are going to go into flower versus, oh, your plants transitioned outside without
flowering.
Can you kind of like teach us a bit about that so that we can make better cultivation
management decisions?
Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, it comes down to exactly what you're saying.
I mean, I think the interaction with light intensity is an interesting one.
But, you know, the evidence points that photo period really drives, you know, all of that
kind of seasonal cue of when to start flowering.
So, you know, plants are basically going to strategize around taking all the energy from
the summer months.
They see a long day, they think of it as a summer month.
Well, then when you shorten that period, that photo period, it's thinking it's going to
interpret that information as, OK, now the seasons have changed and this is fall and
this is the time where I'm going to take all the energy that I've created, that I've harvested
from the summer months and convert it into flowers.
So it really is that transition from a long day to a short day.
So as long as what you see, so if 15-9 is what you get outside and that was compared
to, you know, 18-6, as you said before, that might elicit a flowering event.
If it was 15-9 inside and 15-9 outside, it won't.
So I think that when you, you know, if you think about how you want to do this when you
convert from inside to outside, think about what that photo period is going to be when
you take it outside. And do you want to, you know, elicit flowering at that time or not?
And if you don't, you want to basically set that time period inside to be similar to a
photo period that you're going to see outside.
Well, the million dollar question, of course, is what is the similar, right?
So if 18-6 to 15-9 is very much going to be a precipitous drop to cause flowering, how
close to 15-9 would you say we want to get to be sure that we're not going to lose our
clones by suddenly kicking them off?
Well, so what you, I mean, what you want to do is you really want to make sure that you
hit it all the way, right?
So usually what people do is a 12-12.
So, you know, it's a relative difference.
But I think that if you really want to do it, if you really want to initiate flowering, it's a
12-12 is what you kind of want to shift over to.
But I do think, you know, there's going to be something really interesting.
So there's, you know, hacks that get you all over the place.
But I think that what I've seen, at least in the literature, is that, you know, different
strains come from different regions and their seasonalities are different.
So what's going to change, initiate the flowering response for one species might be
different than another species.
So I think that really there are ways to, you know, if you want to elicit flowering, 12-12 is
going to do it. If you want to kind of play with the different thresholds, I think that
that's something that's really interesting to see how those impacts, how those photo period
effects are going to change, you know, the product that you put out.
I think the idea of where the cultivar is from is a really interesting idea.
The equatorial strains of cannabis may well, you know, have different lighting responses
than the, you know, the mountainous ones or the Pakistani Valley ones.
Let me ask you the question in a slightly different way, though, because normally for most
of us who are coming outside right now, we're not trying to cause them to flower as we take
them outside because really we're going to let the natural world, yeah, we're going to let
them do it. And, you know, depending on where we live in the country and the, you know, the
cultivar, it'll all start kicking in around, you know, mid-ish of August.
Right. So for most of us, we're taking, you know, 12-18 inch plants outside now and we want
them to veg for another couple of months and double or triple in size or more before it
flowers. So, so, you know, I tell people, you know, if you can try to have your flowers at 15-9
before you take them outside.
And the problem is, is like almost nobody does that because a lot of people, they'll start
their, they'll pop their seeds or start their clones at 24-0 or many people at 18-6.
But then the time from when they start their plants at 18-6 and suddenly they're going
outside at 15-9, you know, it's hard to step down that far.
I mean, for myself, I try to step them down, you know, about a half hour a week so that
after, after I've had them inside for, you know, a month or six weeks, I've brought it down
two or three hours.
But every time I drop it down a half hour, I'm like concerned that I'm going to accidentally
flower them indoors.
So with, with overlooking that whole challenge, where do you think it's best for us to, to, to
play with our particular cultivars?
Do you think that they think that it's going to be more effective for us to, you know, start
the plants on a shorter day or do a step down?
Or maybe instead of taking them out at 15-9, maybe we take them out at 17-7 and like you're
like, ah, two hours isn't going to matter.
So, so like where, where in that variable process are the ones that you think we're most
likely to find success, you know, jiggering with?
Yeah, I, I mean, I really do think that, uh, as I mentioned before, some of these species
may be a little bit more sensitive than others.
Um, so, so how you, um, you know, I, there's not one answer that's going to cover all of
them, but really what I would say is to try to match.
So start with a shorter photo period indoors is the way that I would absolutely do it.
Cause as you step it down, as you said, you know, those little steps might initiate a
flowering event.
And if that's not the outcome that you want, um, then you've just, you know, kind of
ruined your whole crop.
So, so what I would do is I would, um, absolutely keep the photo period as closely
matched to that, the time that you expect to go outdoors.
So you're suggesting maybe just kind of like get off the myth that's normally for, you
know, traditional prohibition era, indoor growers where they're like, Oh, 24, 18, 6,
12, 12.
Right.
Cause because, you know, when you're, when you're running lights, you can, you're God,
right.
You can do anything you want.
Whereas if, if the plan is to go outside, maybe just pop, pop your seeds or make your
clones at 16 hour days.
And even though you're running your lights a little less long, um, you will make up for
that in having clear headed knowledge that when you go outside, your plants are going
to be safe.
That's right.
That, that would be my, that would be my recommendation.
And the reality is, you know, the energy expenditure is pretty much the same.
Um, I think that, you know, yeah, I'll speak only on led lighting.
Led lighting could, could hit those light levels, um, to, cause you still want to hit
the DLI's the, your daily average light intensity, um, the integral of the light over
the, the photo period.
So you want to, in order to go to that, that 16 eight, um, you're going to have to use
higher light levels in order to still get the growth that you want.
Um, meaning intensity of light.
Yeah, that's right.
Got it.
Um, so, so most of these, you know, with, with some of the old, you know, high pressure
sodium metal halides, you know, you, you get what you get.
There's no, there's no ideas of dimmers or any ways to, to reduce lights or, you know,
do anything like that.
But with LEDs, you have infinite dimmability capabilities.
Um, some of these things are pushing out, you know, 1750 micromoles, um, per second.
So it's, you know, these things are getting really impressive in, in light output.
So you could, you could crank up the light levels.
Your energy expenditure is going to be pretty much the same, uh, because you know, you're
using the same amount of energy over a shorter period of time.
All right.
So this plays in right into a question.
This was probably the question I'm most excited about asking you today.
Um, and it's about the 24 hour light cycle.
And it's, it's always interesting to watch folks who are, who are growing outdoors
versus indoors and how we were taught by our mentors.
And then nowadays when, when indoors and outdoors and people are going back and forth
because it's, it's generally safer to grow in both, in both environments.
Um, there's kind of a clash of, of myth and what people were learned.
And one of the most watched videos on the shaping fire YouTube channel is an interview.
I did just a quick one.
I did with Dr.
Karuna Chowdhury explaining that the 24 hour light cycle is not beneficial for plants
because without a dark period, microbes in the soil will starve because it's during this
dark period that the plants feed the microbes in the rhizosphere with their exudates.
They, you know, they push them down through the roots.
This was the first time I really considered the give and take between the plants and the
microbes.
And for so many people, they run, especially in hydro, they'll just run their plants 24
hours, um, to have the plants grow faster.
And for many people, they actually can sneak another cycle in their year because the plants
grow about 20% faster with a 24 hour light cycle and no break.
But Dr.
Chowdhury was very clear.
Like, you know, you are growing plants faster, but you are growing plants that are weaker
because you don't have strong microbes and this back and forth before the plants don't
work as well.
But again, my talk with her was only about eight minutes.
So, so does this sound like this makes sense to you that the plants need this dark period?
And if so, what do you see happening to benefit the plant during the dark that is so
essential?
Yeah.
So I'm a light nerd, but I'm also a circadian nerd, which means that there needs to be a
24 hour cycle and plants respond to a 24 hour cycle, which means that it has to be both
light and dark.
So, you know, cell respiration occurs in darkness.
A lot of beneficial things occur during darkness.
So I think that there's a lot of things that we probably don't know.
You know, I'm not a plant physiologist.
I'm a lighting scientist.
But so, you know, the idea of having a light and dark period is going to drive the
circadian rhythm of that plant.
So I think wholeheartedly that we need to really respect that dark period.
And if it's two hours at a minimum, I would like to at least see the idea of 24 zero going
to at least 22 two.
And again, as I kind of mentioned before, there's infinite expandability with the newer
LED lighting technologies that that could allow for the same kind of grow rates because
you could just have higher light outputs and still have some sort of a dark period.
Now, I think the idea of the.
Of, you know, microbial interactions is really interesting, but I think that there is
going to be a lot more going on in that plant that's dictated by that light dark cycle
that is really, you know, it always comes back to what what nature is doing, right?
There's not too many environments that are 24 zero.
And so so plants have evolved around a an environment that's both light and dark.
And so the better we could do with that, the better off your plant is going to be as a
result. I think that.
My testament would be that that you should strive to do that as much as you possibly
can. That's interesting that actually even expands what I what I feel like I want to
continue to look into, which is not you're saying that, yeah, this is probably all true
with the microbes in the rhizosphere.
That makes sense. But also there are unique botanical, I don't know, housekeeping that
happens during the dark period that the plant needs itself.
It's not like a like a, you know, just a photosynthesis machine and you just turn it on
and it runs infinitely.
It too needs to take out the garbage and do cell transpiration and and these other things
that it does during the dark period.
Yeah, I mean, there's there's some species of plant that will, you know, co-evolve with
its predators and will change its nutritional content over the course of the day so that
it, you know, quote unquote, tastes yuckier to plants are to its predators.
Yeah. And then there are plants that will co-evolve with their their pollinators so
that they'll, you know, emit some odors to to kind of attract pollinators at a very
specific time. And so there's all these things that happen over the course of the day,
biologically speaking, and without a dark period, that plant's going to have no
reference for when the day starts and when the day ends.
So I think that we're probably going to find out that there's some interesting things
that that are happening as a result.
I think that historically, though, that, you know, it's always been one parameter.
So you get longer hours, you get more light, you get better growth.
But if you were to compress that same amount of light from 24 hours into, you know, a
shorter photo period and just increase the intensity of the lights, I think you're going
to get a better response.
Right on. That makes a lot of sense.
So so let's move on to a different line of thought, but still talking about light and
dark period. So so indoor cultivators are very careful not to let light hit their
plants during the dark period.
And for some, that means simply not entering the grow room.
For others, it means duct taping any holes in their indoor tents.
And for outdoor folks, it means not turning on the floodlights off the back of the house
at night. Right. But how do we know how much light leakage will actually impact a crop?
Where's the threshold of where the interruption will cause, you know, the plant's
biological confusion?
Yeah, that's a that's a great question.
I mean, you know, I don't I don't know that there's a real threshold.
I gather that it's actually not that not that low.
It's not like, you know, the, you know, a small incandescent light.
It's going to really do a whole lot.
You know, the the likely light leakage, if it's minimal, coming through the cracks is
going to be that much.
But I do think that, you know, general practice to make the night environment as dark as
possible is a good thing.
I don't think that there'll be biological confusion, but it may, you know, halt cell
respiration. It may help halt some of the nighttime activities which are going to be
vital to to the success of that crop.
So if we were to think about which would be worse, like, you know, the the intensity of
the interruption of dark or the length of the interruption of dark, I want to know if
you have anything to say about that.
So in comparison, say walking into your like, let's say, you know, your sister in law is
in town and she walks into your grow room and turns on the light during the dark period.
And suddenly now there's, you know, there's all these bulbs that are on and she's like,
oh, I'm this is not the room I'm supposed to be in.
And so she turns off the light.
So it was short, maybe 10, 12 seconds.
But it was a whole bunch of, you know, shop lights that may have come on versus, say, a
tent that's got a handful of like pinprick holes in it.
So you've got this tiny, tiny amount, but it's in your living room.
So it's constant.
Right. So so are they both potentially troublesome or really does because perhaps some
hormone or something needs to build up in the plant, the short burst really isn't going to do
anything. And it's more what happens over the longer term.
It you know, it's both.
So the so the plant will acclimate to the dark period is, you know, that constant day, you
know, that constant like.
Threshold, low threshold day in, day out, it's going to acclimate to that as being kind of
the standard for what nighttime is, as opposed to the bright light may may alter it for that
one night. And, you know, maybe it will it'll actually shift the clock to to maybe like a
quote unquote different time zone for the next day.
But after about two or three days, it's going to come right back to it.
So that single event is probably in both cases, neither one's really that bad.
It's really just kind of you know, if you do something where you got a lot of light for a
long period of time, is it is it going to have a detrimental impact?
I guess that's probably not a very satisfactory answer.
So if I if I have to pick one, I think that the the short burst of lots of light for one
period of time is going to have a longer lasting impact than kind of the like really dim
light constantly.
Right on. And actually getting to that, you said something I found very fascinating.
The idea that if you've got a small dribble of light coming into your growing area, whether it
be indoor or outdoor, that so long as it's, you know, a low amount that that could become, if
you will, the new normal.
It reminds me of what, you know, shooting photography and you set the white balance on a
camera. It's like, hey, this is what light is today.
Camera. Right.
And so if you do have a tent in your living room and you're a patient and you're you know,
you're just doing what you can to grow your medicine.
And if you have an imperfect tent, if you've got a low level of light that goes in there
regularly, your plants are just going to go, OK, this is what night's going to be for us.
So let's do our night stuff when it gets to this point.
That's right. That's right.
They'll acclimate. That's super interesting, Robert.
Now, I want to make sure that that that doesn't mean like, oh, you could just kind of crank
on the ambient lights as long as you're doing the standard practices to make that that
environment pretty dark.
That's that's kind of what you what you want to do.
It doesn't give you freedom to to just keep the lights on around your plants.
You definitely want to try to make it as dark as you possibly can.
But but given that, it'll absolutely know what the threshold is.
It'll acclimate to that that low light level.
I've never heard anybody say anything about the light cycle and how it may impact plants
during a full moon.
Right. I mean, I understand a little bit about the the biodynamic stuff from from those
folks about, you know, full moons.
But as far as there being, you know, air quotes, all of this light during a bright night,
is that I mean, we experience it, you know, as human animals, as a bright night and
because we can see and that makes us feel safer.
But does a bright moon night really impact the plants at all?
No, no, not at all.
That's that's way below threshold.
You know, that's like point zero zero one lux on a full moon.
You know, there is really what we're talking about.
I mean, even you go outside and you see streetlights.
There is evidence of, you know, trees that are right next to that streetlight will have a
significant impact.
But the ones that are, you know, kind of some distance away, those light levels just kind
of think about that light level.
That's not impacting.
That's below the threshold of what of what that plant is seeing.
And of course, back to the original point, when it sees that every single day, it
acclimates and goes, all right.
Yeah, this is this is my nighttime scheme.
Right on. I follow this.
All right. Good. So one more question before we go to our first commercial break.
You know, some indoor growers use a green headlamp to work during the dark periods.
And other growers are like, no, that's totally bullshit.
That like if you even if you use green lamp, it is interrupting the dark period.
So so you're the scientist is using a green headlight lamp, legitimate tech, or is that a
myth? Well, so what a green headlamp will do is if you're trying to assess the plant and
see how they're doing, they're going to reflect that green better.
So you could get a sense of what's going on with a lot less light.
So it has to be a really, really dim green light.
If it's a super bright green light, then, you know, you're you're absolutely getting
giving them that bright burst of light at a time that could actually throw off their
their circadian rhythms and their night phase.
So I think that it is a good idea as long as you're not blasting those headlights.
And the main reason is because you're you're using the spectral reflectance of that plant.
The fact that it's reflecting a lot of that green light, it's using a lot of it, but it's
reflecting the most of it back.
And you'll if what you're trying to do is see the plant, you know, assess an issue and
then go away, you want to use as little of it as you possibly can to make sure you can do
that, do it good enough and then go about, you know, go about your other business.
So it's not a fail safe.
It's not going to not interrupt that plant.
It absolutely can do that.
But the green light helps you see that plant a little bit better using the least amount
of light you possibly can.
All right. That's interesting.
All right. So let me see if I can break that down to two rules of thumb for everybody.
So would it be correct if I were to say if you're going to use any light, green is a good
choice, but you want to use as small amount of it as you can and only use it in a small
area like with a headlamp.
In contrast to I've even seen people using green as a light source.
To I've even seen people using green flood lamps in their grow at night so that they can,
you know, clean and things like that.
Whereas that that's a terrible idea because the intensity is more and longer.
Green is not a magical color spectrum that doesn't interrupt sleep.
That's right. That's absolutely right.
Yeah. Right on.
Cool. Well, thank you very much for that, Robert.
We're going to go ahead and take our first short break and be right back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire and my guest today is lighting scientist Robert Soler.
There are lots of good seed makers out there.
Every once in a while, someone becomes legendary.
The Mendocino, California, cannabis breeder called Mandelbrot is one of these people.
Mandelbrot was also known as Ras Truth and his cultivars are known as the foundation for the
Emerald Triangle's world famous gasoline scented terpene profile.
Back in the day when it was really hard to find quality genetics and education,
Mandelbrot was advocating for organic growing techniques and providing exceptional seeds that
would sell out as soon as they hit the shelves.
Mandelbrot lived too short a life, dying in 2015, but while he was with us, he created several
connoisseur level cannabis masterpieces like Oil Spill, The Truth and Royal Kush.
No matter if you approach growing cannabis more as a toker or a breeder, you will find something
that delights you in Mandelbrot selections.
Because while some strains are better to grow or to smoke, Mandelbrot's creations excel in every
category and that's why people keep talking about them even today.
Emerald Mountain Legacy continues the Ras Truth tradition by preserving these coveted genetics
for future generations unchanged as they were originally created in the mid 2000s.
Emerald Mountain Legacy also creates tasteful modern crosses to Mandelbrot's classics.
These lines, worked by Mandelbrot's brother Ben, furthers their family's genetics and a spirit that
Mandelbrot himself would approve of.
Check out the Emerald Mountain Legacy Instagram and website to see photos of these plants and
learn more about Mandelbrot and his infamous strains.
Emerald Mountain Legacy seeds are available online from seed banks and distributors, including
Labyrinth Seed Company, The Regenerative Seed Company, and Pure Sativa.
Emerald Mountain Legacy, keeping Mandelbrot's legacy alive.
Pre-rolls have come a long way since the early days of normalization.
When you choose Saints joints, you are smoking all flower top shelf pre-rolls with terpenes that
will sculpt your high in a way that dry old pre-rolls just can't.
Whereas most brands release pre-rolls as an afterthought, for the last five years, Saints
joints has focused on their line of exotic curated joints.
And while some companies just chase the hype strains, Saints joints goes deeper, searching out
hard to find strains, unexpected crosses, and nearly forgotten land races and classics.
And some hype ones too.
Not only does a joint from Saints smoke incredibly well, they have fine tuned every step of the
process so you don't get runs in the paper.
The joint is just the right density to have a nice pull and the joint stays lit, even if you get a
bit chatty. Saints joints boxes are works of art and will spark conversation when you pull them
out at a party. Saints award winning boxes change with every release, feature edgy outsider art,
and often raise awareness of important issues like equal rights.
Saints boxes are so desired that many collect them and display them in their homes.
Ask your bud tender for Saints joints and have a premium joint experience.
Now, if you are a licensed cannabis cultivator, I have an extra message for you.
Saints is looking for partners in legal cannabis states to expand the availability of the Saints
joints brand.
Do you grow exceptional cannabis flower but are less excited about all the effort, cost, and risk
of launching your own brand?
Saints joints may be just the partner you are looking for.
Already established in California, Washington, and Oklahoma, and recognized by Entrepreneur
Magazine and Green Entrepreneur as a cannabis industry leader, the Saints joints brand will set
you apart in your home market.
The best thing I can recommend is for you to visit their Instagram at Saints joints and look at
their patented drawer design boxes.
Become that brand everyone is talking about without having to build it from scratch.
Check out the Instagram at Saints joints and then visit Saints joints dot com to find out more.
If you listen to shaping fire and you grow your own cannabis, chances are high that you are very
particular about the inputs you use for growing.
People like us painstakingly self-educate on cannabis nutrients and techniques so we can
cultivate the best tasting and cleanest flowers possible.
And when we go to purchase those nutrients, we want to be sure that our supplier shares our
values and is providing exceptional quality.
This is why I recommend buildasoil.com to my friends who care about quality.
Build A Soil empowers organic growers to do their best work by sourcing and shipping only the
finest cannabis growing supplies.
From organic inputs, soils, soil testing and pots to lights, growing tents, sprayers and cover
crops, Build A Soil founder Jeremy Silva doesn't just stock his store with what's available.
He goes deep to personally vet each product for quality and determine that there isn't a better
version of the product that he could be selling.
Because of this arduous process, you know that your options on buildasoil.com have been
carefully curated to create the results you are looking for.
Not only that, but the Build A Soil way is a philosophy that will permeate your interaction
with the company.
From website design to pricing and shipping to after purchase support, Jeremy and his team
always strive to do their best and give you the best customer service in the business.
Check out buildasoil.com today for top tier quality cultivation supplies and a friends and
family buying experience.
And check out their educational videos and extraordinary social media while you're there too.
Quality organic growing supplies at buildasoil.com.
Welcome back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire.
I am your host, Shango Lose.
And our guest this week is lighting scientist Robert Soler.
So Robert, you know, during an interview with soil educator Jeff Lowenfels, he suggested that
sunlight has a very powerful effect on the soil microbes and soil life generally.
It isn't just the plants that's taking up the light.
It's actually the soil and everything that's living in it that is also taking in the light.
And he continued to say that this is one of the reasons why indoor cultivation pales when
compared to outdoor generally, because the sun is so much more intense that it has, I don't
know, a deeper reach into the soil, I guess I'll say.
So, you know, what is it in sunshine that provides life to the soil and how difficult is
that to attain nowadays with lights indoors?
Yeah, I, you know, I would think any of those benefits, you know, could come from the
penetration.
But I would probably stand to guess that it has a lot more to do with the spectrum.
So, you know, indoor lighting has the opportunity, you know, to do whatever.
But but for energy efficiency, it's always putting all the energy, at least the energy
efficient ones, LED specifically, will put all the energy in the PAR region from 400 to 700
nanometers. You know, the sun puts out stuff, you know, from 300 nanometers, you know, on up.
So there's stuff in the UV, there's stuff in the infrared spaces and the interaction of
those things with sunlight and daylight is probably pretty profound.
So I would probably stand to guess that that it has more to do with the the idea of, you
know, it could be a circadian component of temperature, but probably also, you know, the
far reds and the ultraviolets that come from that that solar exposure that that's going to
have the impact on microbes.
And I would probably say that that doesn't mean that interior lighting is inferior.
It just means that we got to get smarter about how we do interior lighting because we could
absolutely recreate any of those spectrums.
We could create far reds, we can create UVA, UVB.
So it really just comes around to playing around and really getting into the research of
what we could do to to kind of find out what those what those benefits are.
Yeah, that's interesting.
And, you know, it's it's taken me a long time to come around to this idea that it really
depends on what you want for your output.
I mean, there's crappy outdoor and there's crappy indoor.
Right. And I've had good indoor and I've had good outdoor.
But in the end, it's it's what you're actually looking to produce.
And if and if you can find a combination of, you know, a an appropriately efficient indoor
light that can sustain the proper, you know, microbe life and also give the plant what it
needs, you may not need the entirety of the sunshine spectrum.
But there's no there's no doubt that when you're outside that, you know, there's there's
all the spectrum you need and more for your plants.
So there's some kind of combination between, you know, the the knowledge of which parts of
the spectrum helps sustain microbe life in the rhizosphere and along the top layers that
the light can penetrate.
And also, you know, I guess just bang for your buck.
Right. Like if the goal is to produce a, you know, a good tasting, good looking plant that
thrives and resists pests, we may we may be able to do that without the entire spectrum
of the sun.
That's right. And you hit on a good point there is that, you know, as someone who makes
lights, you know, you could make a light with all these things, but it's going to cost you
a lot more to have that that capability.
And, you know, you're going to give up efficiency.
So so really, if you wanted UV light for your soil, you know, get like a supplemental UV
light, UV LED light or a fluorescent tube and put it on the soil and test it out and see
what what you get out of it.
I think that there are things you could do, kind of add on features that you could you
could throw on to test stuff out and really kind of see what what is going to work for
your individual grow.
I think that's probably the most important thing is to for us to all kind of be
scientists with what we're doing.
Well, I appreciate you saying that.
I mean, this show is very in favor of citizen scientists.
And it's funny because sometimes I'll have, you know, either guests on the show or
scientists I'll meet at conventions or whatever, and they really don't like the, you
know, the regular folk messing messing with the science.
And they're like, oh, you just, you know, just read the white papers and do what we
say, you know. But especially when it comes to cannabis, when for so long, all of us
growers were on our own because, you know, good educated folks like you were, you know,
were not available to us.
Right. And so I appreciate the fact that, you know, you encourage us to experiment as
well. And speaking of experimenting, you know, I was in preparation for this interview.
I went and I watched all your your prior interviews that I could find.
And during one of your interviews, you mentioned that you have some secret sauce on
using light to improve cloning success.
And and during that interview, the interviews blew.
They blew right over it.
But I'm like, oh, that's totally what I want.
The part of it I wanted to hear.
So. So will you share that with us?
Like, how can we better our cloning success with something about lights?
Well, I think that it's I think that most people kind of have an idea of what's going on.
It's really kind of meeting the blue light thresholds.
You know, people will talk about, you know, they'll just use metal highlighter.
They'll use cool white fluorescent to do this.
And really, it's a matter of making sure that you meet the blue light threshold, because
if you don't, we talked about this early on.
If you don't have enough blue light, the plants will basically feel like they're they're
starved, they're in shade or something.
And so they'll elongate trying to get more blue light until they meet the threshold.
And so so it's really important to get a light that has that blue light that meets that
blue light threshold. It's usually about kind of rule of thumb is about 30 micromoles per
meter squared of blue light is what's required.
So if you're trying to put out, you know, 300 or 400 micromoles per meter squared, that
means you're going to probably want about eight to 10 percent of blue light.
And so this is kind of where a lot of this stuff, if you had high pressure sodium, high
pressure sodium only puts out about five percent blue light.
So this is kind of where some of the the ideas have stemmed from.
But if you if you figure out that threshold, which is generally about 30 micromoles of
blue light, now you could really kind of maximize that spectrum for efficiency.
And so once you maximize the efficiency, then you're going to get tremendous yields
because you could you could really kind of create something that has that spectrum meeting
the threshold. But but putting all the energy in the high efficiency photosynthetically
active region, you would not be able to do this with with either the traditional lights,
you know, HPS or metal halide.
Right. You're going to need some sort of LED to do this nowadays.
Right. Yeah.
Yeah. You know, there are manufacturers that I'll talk about.
You know, they've got a special high pressure sodium or something that has more, you know,
more optimized for for growing.
But the reality is the spectral the spectral power distribution of these things, the way
that they put energy is pretty much the same.
HBS versus a different HBS metal halide versus different metal halide.
It's really only LED that has this almost infinite.
Well, I would say it is absolutely infinite modularity of and
configuration of what spectrum you could possibly have.
So for a cloning area, you could have exactly the right spectrum that you need for
a vegetation area.
Exactly what you the right spectrum that you need for flowering, just the right spectrum
that you need. And it all really kind of stems from a very specific blue light threshold
. It's all kind of the same.
So the reason why HBS works out well in a in a in a flowering room is because the light
levels are so high.
If you're giving, you know, 600 plus micromoles per meter squared, if 5 percent is
blue, you're still hitting that threshold of 30 micromoles of blue.
So that's that's why it still works there.
If you were to use lower light levels than that, then you actually start seeing
morphological effects and and not good ones, bad ones.
They start getting lanky.
Or leggy, if you will.
So I know that I'm about to suggest a really janky hack, but I've seen it.
And so I'm probably going to ask you, you know, I've seen people have HBS lights and
they read something that they needed to increase their blue.
And so they took those, you know, the like the lighting, the blue lighting gels from
like a rock, you know, like a stagecraft, like like going to see a band or something.
And they will put one of those, you know, over that.
And they're like, look, I just covered up 20 percent of my light with blue.
I just got a bunch more blue.
Is is that science?
No, no, not at all.
I mean, if you didn't.
So you get, you know, if you didn't get 30 micromoles of blue without the filter, the
filter just remove it, subtracts it, doesn't add anything.
Oh, it's the opposite direction even.
So so, yeah, it's it's shifted or it's removes the a lot of the red component out
there, but your light levels have just dropped significantly.
So I'd love to find someone where that actually worked, but that that's not going
to work. That is.
That is that is not a good idea.
Right. Well, you know how it is with bro science, right?
I mean, it's kind of it's kind of the other side of the coin, just being a citizen
scientist, right?
It's like, you know, trying a bunch of stuff is great.
But then also, you know, a lot of the stuff that had been handed down from us, from our,
you know, from our mentors doesn't pan out long term.
Yeah, yeah, for sure.
So I know a lot of your work with light involves humans, and it was actually really
interesting to listen to your interviews about, you know, human lightings and
circadian rhythms.
And then also then to hear you talk about the same thing in plants.
So I thought that was pretty cool.
But, you know, cultivation employees spend a lot of time under a wide range of lights
from, you know, from classic HPS and metal halide to LED.
And, you know, now even some folks are spending for the plasma lights.
So what impact does working under these sorts of artificial lights have on the humans
that work below them?
And I'm assuming that we can't just group them all in one category.
So like go category by category, if you will, because lots of cultivators listen to this
show. And I think they'd be curious to know what the lights they work under may be
doing to their to their human.
Yeah, well, I would say that generally speaking from a from a human circadian standpoint,
I guess that most people aren't very well educated on this, but, you know, there's a
lot of talk about blue light and its effect on on our sleep.
But basically, there is a newly discovered photoreceptor that drives our circadian
rhythms. And and really what the problem is, is not so much the these grow environments,
but the the regular dim lit office environment.
So we really kind of need to have brighter days and darker nights in the built
environment. If you're in a grow space and in and you're getting, you know, what call
it, you know, six, seven hundred micromoles per meter squared, that's a ton of light.
You don't need to be convinced the fact that that is a ton of light.
So as if you are working a day shift in those spaces and you're getting a ton of that
light, that is a fantastic way to get the dose that you need of of light for your day.
Now, if you're on a shift work schedule where you're going in after hours, that light
could absolutely destroy your sleep.
If that's a time that you're supposed to not be getting, you know, just like we talked
about before, plants could get altered.
Their growth could get altered.
That could completely throw off your circadian rhythms, making it really hard to to to
sleep that night, but also the next three or four nights afterwards as a result of it.
It's kind of like that will be enough light to shift you to another time zone up to three
hours later. So so that is something that could dramatically impact your sleep.
So if you're getting that light exposure, what I would actually recommend, which is
pretty simple, if you're doing it after hours, there are blue blocking glasses that
exist. You could buy them anywhere.
And actually, we got some friends at True Dark that make make some really good ones that
block out all the blue light.
That would be a really good approach to to protecting yourself from getting too much of
that daytime exposure at a time that you don't want to get it.
Right on. So let me unpack that a little bit.
So so I think you're saying that if if you're under all that light, that's a good time to
sleep. So let me unpack that a little bit.
So so I think you're saying that if if you're under all that light during your regular day
daytime, let's say nine to five shift, you're actually winning because you're getting a ton
of light.
You know, you will not need a seasonal effectiveness disorder light box like you're
getting all that at work and you're getting it at the right time in relationship to your
sleep cycle so that when you go to sleep, you'll be good to go to sleep.
Yeah. And and and then but if you if your second shift in the afternoon and you're still
hoping to sleep at night, you're kind of jacked because it's going to shift you off by
three hours and disturb your night.
But let's say you're working the night shift.
If you work the night shift and you're sleeping during the daytime, so your whole life is
upside down, will you be in good shape again?
Because, again, you while you might be on an artificial sleep cycle that's not in jive
with the planet, you're actually set resetting your own circadian rhythm to night shift
and you'd actually be OK again.
Yeah. So that's a that's a great question.
And it's it's it's the quandary that has plagued pretty much all shift work in all
industries, which is, you know, that's great.
We could totally do that.
And in this case, you'll absolutely shift.
Now, the problem is what happens when you like live your normal life on your off days
and stuff like that? Yeah.
Because now maybe you're aligned with that that night shift.
But then you go out and normal life has a regular sun that goes at a different time.
So now the sun is the thing that completely throws off your schedule.
So so, again, it could be the exact same thing.
You wear those glasses when you go out in the sun to try to to try to minimize the
disruption that the solar cycle is going to have on you.
But really, from a health and wellness standpoint, what you want to do is try to create
that same pattern, same wake up and sleep times over and over again.
And unfortunately for some people, that means you're you're kind of looking like a
vampire on your off days.
So the protection mechanism in all scenarios is to have some sort of blue, black and
glasses to try to to try to make it to that light exposure at the wrong time.
Doesn't doesn't throw your sleep cycles off kilter.
While we're talking about glasses and the eyes, you know, I don't spend a ton of time
under cultivation lights, but I know when I go and I get tours and stuff and the tour goes
especially long that when I leave, sometimes my eyes feel tired, like they've been
worked too much.
And and I'm curious what being under intense light like that as a full time job might
degrade the eyes.
Are these are these spectrums that we're growing under potentially dangerous for the
eyes or is it just that I'm not used to that intensity?
And so when I go in it for a little while, it tires my my eyes out.
Yeah, it's so I think that the the bigger thing is it's not the intensity, it's not the
spectrum. It's really kind of more of the the gradient or the contrast.
It's you have a lot of bright and dark and your eyes are constantly trying to adjust to
those. If you think about being outside, you know, it's usually you're usually either
shaded or you're in this bright, ubiquitously bright space.
So it's nothing about the it's not nothing about the intensity and it's nothing really
about the spectrum that's that's particularly harmful.
Well, what's causing this fatigue is that your eyes are constantly going from a bright
spot to a dark spot and is trying to acclimate to these multiple locations.
And and there's a little bit of, you know.
Your eyes are acclimated to to that, so there's a little bit of that, but we know from
the visual science standpoint that high contrast ratios like, you know, it's just like
when you when you watch it, when you're watching TV at night and all the lights are off,
it could be, you know, kind of glaring and off putting.
But you just put a little bit of ambient light on and it makes that screen a lot more
comfortable to see. A lot of it has to do with the contrast ratios of light and dark that
you see. So if I understand that right, what you're suggesting is that actually it's the
my like my my pupils are tired, that muscle or whatever it is that that mechanism in my
eyes, it's it's it's opening and closing so much.
So it's closing when I'm directly under the light, but then it's opening.
So when I go away from the light for a minute to take something off of a shelf and bring
it back to the light, now it's back under.
So it's it's that back and forth that's making my eyes tired.
That's right. And that that's super cool.
Well, like there's a, you know, there's actually a lot more fatigue on the cones itself
because it's called lateral inhibition, which is the contrast.
It amplifies the signal when it's contrasted against darkness.
So it's you're really giving your your cones in your eye a roller coaster of of emotion.
So it's a combination of that and the pupil.
Your irises are kind of going going back and forth.
So we talked about the the true dark glasses for people to help with their circadian cycle.
What what kind of a recommendation do you have for people who work under lights?
And so they have this experience of going back and forth from the bright environment to
the darker environment. And so their their pupils are potentially getting tired at work.
Is there is there a hack for them?
Yeah, I mean, it should be just glasses.
I mean, you want so like the same kind of thing.
Are we trying to cut out the blue or is it a different kind of glasses?
Now, like the Method Sevens or something?
I'm not sure if I know the Method Sevens.
What are those do?
Oh, so they're just often used for for folks and not only to to darken the eyes, but from
what I understand about the technology, it's it's it's taking out particular spectrums.
The only the time that I experience it most is when I'm trying to take photography in a
grow and I get those those black bars on the photographs.
And so I while I have not used the Method Seven glasses, I actually do use the Method
Seven lens on my camera.
So it sounds like we may have waded into an area that that.
Yeah, so.
But I think that what's interesting, those black bars are actually just a it's the DC
ripple on your electrical current that interferes with with the camera exposure.
Usually I've seen on like iPhones and all you have to do is kind of change the aperture
exposure and it'll it'll kind of wipe out.
I think iPhones really kind of fix that in software recently.
But that's that's actually a really, really interesting phenomenon on ripple current in
your lighting system.
It it's nothing wrong with anything that's going on, but it's it's a it's just a conflict
between the two electrical devices.
But I would say back to the main question is what you do to try to if you're going on
that back and forth is really just try to have overall intensity glasses if you can.
I don't think trying to filter out any spectrum.
So that blue light is going to is what drives your your what's called a sustained pupil
constriction. So you probably don't want to have like a blue blocking glass because, you
know, while that keeps your eye open, it's also, you know, letting a lot of that that
light come in. So so that's not good.
You really just want to lower the light level.
So what you're seeing in your office and what you're seeing in the grow space are close
to the same. So most most standard off the shelf glasses will cut 90 percent of the light
level. And that's probably what you want to do there.
Would then even though it certainly would increase the the price of the the operation
just for the for the just for the scientific basis, would it would it then also make sense
to say that you're in a warehouse and you've got, you know, some part of it that is the
artificial lighting for grows?
Would it also make sense to pick up the, you know, the ambient lighting of the entire
space so there's less contrast, just like your example of watching television in the
dark is not like the greatest idea, like perhaps the whole warehouse shouldn't be
black except for the grow area.
Yeah, yeah. I mean, that that is that's a great idea as well to to try to minimize those
contrast ratios. I mean, I know this is a a non grow out.
Example, but like in in buildings, at least well designed ones, they'll actually put if
you have windows, they'll put light on the on the walls in between those windows to try
to make sure that that's as that wall in between the bright windows is as bright as it
can be to minimize that contrast ratio.
Well, that's interesting.
You know, it's it's it.
I bet you it's only a matter of time before we start to see, you know, OSHA regulations
around how bright the ambient environment in cultivation warehouses have got to be just for
the health of the employees.
Yeah, yeah, I think that's that's interesting.
I mean, I would say because we also do some work with the Department of Energy that they
would probably suggest that the glasses is probably the better solution than wasting all
the extra electricity.
Yeah, yeah, exactly.
Yeah. All right.
Cool. Well, let's go ahead and take our second short break.
We'll be right back. You are listening to Shaping Fire.
And my guest today is lighting scientist Robert Soler.
In times like these, when so many cannabis companies are growing their flower in gigantic
warehouses and fields using synthetic nutrients, it is good to know that there are authentic
California heritage growers using natural farming techniques and sunshine to cultivate
cannabis flowers for you.
California has produced the best cannabis in the world for generations.
And the idea that massively scaled industrial cannabis production could produce the same
quality as small batch lovingly cultivated flowers is just silly.
Moon Time Medicinals is located in Humboldt County on the lush South Fork of the Eel River
watershed in the epicenter of the American cannabis heartland.
Moon Time Medicinals grows under bright California sun in greenhouses using only natural
farming techniques like hugelkultur, compost teas, whole food fertilizers and fermented
plant juices.
Every part of their growing process plays its own part in nature and nothing synthetic
is injected into the process.
The result is big, beautiful cannabis flowers with wide ranging terpene profiles that
tastes like great cannabis should.
If you live in California, ask your bud tender for Moon Time Medicinals and visit Moon
Time Medicinals on the web and Instagram.
Moon Time Medicinals is also available as part of the Redwood Roots family.
Moon Time's whole flowers appear in Redwood Roots curated joint packs alongside other
heritage cannabis cultivators like Lady Sativa Farm, Ridgeline Farms, Humboldt Redwood
Healing and others.
Moon Time Medicinals, top shelf cannabis grown in harmony with nature.
One of the reasons why no-till cannabis growing is so valued by farmers is because the
mycelium networks in the soil remain established from year to year.
And we know these fungal networks are essential because they are the nutrient super
highways that extend far and wide in the substrate to feed your plants.
The trouble with growing in new soils or blended cocoa substrates is that it takes most
of the plant's life just to create these mycelium highways.
Dinomyco Endomycorrhizal Fungi Inoculant reduces that time and gets your plant eating a
wider array of nutrients faster.
And it's three times the concentration of the current leading brand in the US at 900
propagules per gram of two fungal species selected specifically for cannabis
cultivation. This new product called Dinomyco is the result of 30 years of research and
trials at the Volcani Agriculture Research Institute in Israel.
It has also been vigorously trialed by cannabis and food growers across the US since the
product first arrived here last year.
You may have already even heard about Dinomyco by its original name, Dinomyc.
Now Dinomyco is available at grow shops and online in the United States for the first
time. I love using Dinomyco to both speed up the growth of mycelium networks in the soil,
but also as a biostimulant to make clone cuttings more virile.
You can see side by side showing the comparative growth on their Instagram at Dinomyco.
If you demand reliable growing results and appreciate the importance of an active root
zone in creating a thriving plant, I encourage you to check out Dinomyco at Dinomyco.com
and find out where you can get yours.
That's D-Y-N-O-M-Y-C-O.com.
Whether you are starting with new beds or pots, or if you want to add some zing to tired
soil, choose Dinomyco to maximize your plant's potential.
Dinomyco Endomycorrhizal Inoculant.
Growing cannabis in greenhouses is taking over the cannabis industry.
An efficient and effective blend of sunshine grown terpene profiles and the controlled
environment of indoor, greenhouses can be the best of both worlds.
For many greenhouse operators, though, building their greenhouse before gaining insight into
how cannabis greenhouses differ from ornamental crops can be the start of a world of hurt.
Eric Brandstad and his team at Greenhouse Advisory Group have the experience and technical
know-how to help you avoid these pitfalls.
Eric Brandstad has been helping cannabis growers find locations, design, build, and equip
their greenhouses for over a decade, first starting in Northern California, but expanding
over the last five years to helping clients throughout the world.
He has an impeccable reputation for both depth of knowledge and kindness in communication.
You can hear Eric explain some of the challenges facing cannabis greenhouses and how to
overcome them in episode number 41 of the Shaping Fire podcast.
No matter where I go in the country, good people with smart backgrounds still are making
the mistake of building without knowing cannabis, and it causes them to burn through
capital and time fast.
Everyone has their own failure point.
For some, it is improper ventilation planning.
For others, it is surface temperatures of the building or the plant's leaves or both.
Some folks that build their greenhouse from scratch make really basic errors like placement
of the greenhouse on the property or not understanding the natural environment where the
greenhouse sits.
Some have even built a decent greenhouse but are inefficient in their deployment of light
deprivation techniques and never really hit their target yields.
It's great when you learn from your mistakes, but it's even better when you learn from the
mistakes of others.
When you bring on Greenhouse Advisory Group, you will learn from the mistakes of their
many clients and you'll take advantage of the best practices developed by Eric Branstad
over his years of working with clients just like you.
From location development to choosing a builder and tricking out your new greenhouse or
retrofitting or rescuing your failing greenhouse, Eric will help you through it.
Visit GreenhouseAdvisoryGroup.com to learn more and connect with Eric and his team.
That's Greenhouse Advisory Group.
Welcome back. You are listening to Shaping Fire.
I'm your host, Shango Lose.
And our guest this week is lighting scientist Robert Soler.
So, Robert, one of the things that I've heard you say a couple of times in your other
interviews is that, you know, people and plants see light differently.
And that seems like the kind of phrase that you like kind of throw out there, but that
there's a whole hell of a lot behind it.
And so I just want to go on a little fishing expedition with this phrase that you use
often. What do you mean by plants and humans seeing the light differently?
Oh, yeah. I mean, so I guess anyone who's familiar with early day LED light will show,
you know, it's a purple light, right?
So or pink light. And it's just comprised of blue and red.
Well, that's because plants, which are green, reflect green, see blue and red most
efficiently. And people actually see green most efficiently.
So on a high level.
So there are things that are what people see, which are kind of lux or lumens.
That's how we see light.
This is how we quantify how bright something is.
Well, plants which use PPFD see things differently.
But I think that it's even more complicated than that, because when we talk about, say,
comparing different light fixtures like a high pressure sodium light fixture or a metal
halide or an LED, the way that those spectral compositions are, we'll see them maybe
we could have a metal halide that looks like we'll call it a 5000 Kelvin color, which is
very cool white light.
And we could get an LED that matches it.
And so they look they could look the same to us.
But the plants actually will look at those lights and they're very, very different.
And so it's all about the spectral power distribution of how that all works out.
That that is really what you want to think about when you're deciding what kind of LED
light or whatever kind of lighting technology you have to that's going to work best for
your growth. So when you look at high pressure sodium, that doesn't mean you need an LED
replacement that looks the same.
That means you might get better performance out of something that doesn't look the same.
Same goes true with the with the metal halide is that what the plant sees and what we see
are fundamentally different.
And so we can't look at a light and say, oh, that's going to perform really well or really
poorly just because what my eye sees.
And this is really true as we start getting into the infinite possibilities that LED light
provides for us.
So if we can't use our eyes to judge the spectrum and while that makes intellectual sense
to me, I've been in plenty of grow rooms where the cultivator has told me that, you know,
that they're, for example, like bulbs get tired over time.
Right. And they'll tell me, oh, the bulb's getting tired.
I can tell because the spectrum is different.
And while I certainly defer to their experience and it's their grow room, is that enough of
a subtlety and change of an old bulb changing spectrum that they will actually be able to
see with this technology we have that our eyes?
So with the older technology, absolutely.
A metal halide will change its color once it gets, quote unquote, tired.
And that's a visible change that we can see.
That is a visible change.
And those changes will.
So a new metal halide versus old metal halide will get a little bit of a shift, but that's
not nearly as significant as what it's going to have versus an LED light spectrum.
And so what it comes down to is really kind of understanding the buckets of light that
they have, how much percentage of blue light you have, how much percentage of red light
you have. And so when you're thinking about it, you got to think about it.
In those terms.
And it all comes back to kind of hitting this threshold of, you know, a certain number of
blue. And this is really kind of what drives most of the morphological effects is I need,
you know, again, rule of thumb, about 30 micromoles as my minimum of blue light.
So when I measure light and when I think about how much light I'm going to put out there,
you know, if I have 20 percent blue light, you know, that's probably going to do good
enough. If I have 5 percent blue light, that's probably going to be pushing the boundaries
of what I'm going to get.
And so, as I mentioned before, hypersodium has low amounts of blue.
Metal halide has, you know, higher amounts of blue.
Fluorescence will have higher amounts of blue.
And LED could be absolutely anything.
It really depends on what you what you're trying to do.
And LED is much more of an engineered light source, an engineered solution to try to bring
the benefits of those other technologies, but in a very targeted way that's giving the light
on the plant the right spectrum that it needs at the right time and just trying to tailor
that spectrum to what the plant needs and at the basically benefit of energy efficiency.
All right. So let's take this back one step.
So if if there are limits to the usability of our eyes to determine spectrum, for those of us
who are not lighting nerds, what are the tools that a cultivator would use to measure these
light attributes that the eyes cannot handle?
So if you know you've got these, you know, you've got buckets and you've got intensity, what are
the tools of the trade, if you will, for those of us who don't spend a lot of time with lights?
Yeah. So, I mean, it's pretty simple.
If you have high pressure sodium, there are rules of thumbs.
Metal halide is about 15 percent blue.
High pressure sodium is about 5 percent blue.
And so just think about it like that.
And then if you're thinking about, you know, what LED is going to do to replace either one of those,
think about what's going to have a similar blue light percentage as those two things,
5 or 15 percent. And that's what you want to match.
And so when you go to any credible LED lighting manufacturer,
that's the number that you want to have.
They should have published on there the percentage of blue light on their specification sheet.
And that's what you need to think about is if you're thinking about it for a
flower space where you're going to have high pressure sodium normally,
you want to have at least 5 percent blue, which the majority of them all do.
And if you want to have something that is for a metal halide or a cool fluorescent space,
you want to make sure that you're north of 15 percent.
So you actually took that in a different direction than I thought.
I thought you I didn't realize that, you know, I mean, I knew that the lights were sold with
full spec sheets. I mean, I get that part, but I actually thought you were going to say,
oh, we use these handheld technologies to to measure the the buckets of, you know, the spectrum.
And then we go back and we adjust our lights.
But what I'm kind of getting the idea is, is that this the spectrum is going on most lights.
The spectrum is going to come hardwired. And so you want to buy the spectrum from
the jump from day one. It isn't like you're going to buy your light and then tune your
spectrum for what you personally like in your grow. That's right. I mean, there are ways that
you could do it. But again, you're going to pay through the nose for it. You know, those meters
that that can do it are, you know, a couple thousand dollars for a meter that that could
tell you what the spectrum is and then you don't really know what to do with it afterwards.
Really, it comes down to very simply saying, OK, if this is I just need to meet a minimum
minimum criteria so that things don't get weird in my grow. And so it's just a matter of looking
at the spec sheet. And usually what I've seen is that. Every LED light has kind of hit the threshold
of what the minimum need is, minimum needs are for either one, you might come across one that,
you know, doesn't have enough of the blue light content, but by and large, they almost all do
nowadays. Well, that's nice. That way it's a lot harder to screw up. That's for sure.
Yeah. So so as you and I talked about before, before we got going today, you know, I do a lot
of work with patients. And and, you know, while while a lot of folks are, you know, focused on
commercial cultivation, my my passion will still always be with like these little home growers
trying to give themselves relief. And it is incredibly common for them to have these like
like these little plastic greenhouses or hoop houses where they've they've taken some kind
of skeleton of wood and they wrap it around in plastic. And, you know, you know, I know from
interviewing Eric Brandstad, the greenhouse specialist, that, you know, at the very least,
we want to use four year horticultural plastic. But a lot of people are still using plastic
sheeting, you know, just from Home Depot, thinking that, well, it keeps the plants dry.
Would you tell teach us a little bit about what what the different plastics will do to the light
when it hits our plants? And maybe even more importantly, how we will experience that in the
plants that we're growing for our medicine. Yeah, so that's that's a really good question.
So generally speaking, plastics are designed plastics don't do well with UV. And we kind of
talked earlier, one of one of the key benefits of sunlight is the UV that's going on the other stuff
that's happening out there in the in the non visual region. So a horticulture grade lighting
is going to is going to do better. I'm sorry, a horticultural grade plastic is going to do better
is going to understand that those far ends of the spectrum are important and try to allow them
through. The cheaper plastics are not. And they are not going to consider what those ends of the
spectrum are going to do for for the plant. And generally, they're going to be not the best
outdoor rated. And what will happen, you'll notice that they'll start yellowing over time,
they'll start becoming very brittle. And so that yellowing is going to take a lot of the blue out
of the spectrum, it'll drop the overall intensity, but it's going to take out all the UV, all the
blue light. Is the yellowing in the plastic or in the plants? I'm sorry, yeah, the yellowing is
in the plastic. Okay, please continue. Yeah. So the plastic will yellow and that that means it's
attenuating more of the UV, it's attenuating more of the blue light. And so it's, so now the plant's
not getting things that are vital for its for normal growth. Right on. So I would strongly
advise to get a horticultural grade plastic. I love it. That's that is the the decision rule
that I was looking for there because you know how it is like when you're working with, you know,
any kind of a home grower, whether it's cannabis or vegetables, there are so many variables and so
many people don't have complete knowledge that you go and you see and you're like, okay, they've got
they've got the they have non horticultural plastic, and their their plants are not doing well,
but it could also because they screwed up some other variable, right? Sure. So it's good to hear
without any question that not only does it make a difference, but it makes a big enough difference
where, you know, it's definitely worth springing for the extra money to get the proper plastic.
That's right. Yeah, right on. All right. So hey, before we before we wrap up here, I want to,
I want to ask you one question, specifically about LED. So you know, you know, even though you're an
expert, you know, I really wanted to have you on the show today more because you are a lighting and
and horticulture scientist and at the same time, you know, there's a big competition in our scene
between LEDs and and the traditional light mediums. And, you know, they're, they're kind of
like street gangs, like they do not play soft, like people get get angry if they are dedicated to HPS.
And and you do and put out any kind of LED content. And then on the flip, the LED people
all find themselves, you know, much more sophisticated and educated, and they talk all
this trash about the HPS people. And I'm all like, Hey, man, I've had really kick ass flowers of both.
But I do know that LED has kind of just kind of come into its own, right? There's a lot of flowers
over the last 20. I'll say 12 years that that I've had from LED that just just didn't rock my
world, right. And so as as somebody who, you know, does LED engineering, and you know, but also
understands the fundamentals and and why people choose HPS. What are your thoughts on the threshold
point? Like, have we passed that threshold point now, where LEDs have gotten to the point with
spectrum and intensity, efficiency of electrical usage and, and price competition, where even the
most hardcore HPS people should start to like, like, you know, at least read some websites about
the LED stuff, because we've passed this threshold, because, you know, I have now had LED
flower that is fabulous. And and while there's this whole secondary thing about electrical usage,
in my mind, I'm looking forward to the day where we can have solar powered indoor, right? And I
know we got we got a while we got to, you know, there's there's some technologies that need to
get developed. But, you know, I prefer growing outdoors because the sunshine is free. But the
day will come where we can do solar powered indoor. And so then, so then it's all going to be
on the technology and it's going to decrease the question of efficiency will be out the door. So
with that very significant and yet potentially convoluted setup, where do you see that
threshold point is? And have we passed it? Yeah, so the threshold point really was,
can LED lighting serve as 1000 watt HPS replacement? And I think until just very
recently, the answer has been no. And so what I think that the majority of people who have
kind of been naysayers of LED have either been burned from generations past, or they've just
kind of heard about it, or they've, they've, they've kind of got this stigma that it just
can't put out the output. And anyone who's who said that, say, five years ago, were 100% correct.
I think that the lighting industry did them. Well, some people in the LED lighting industry
did themselves, just gave themselves a black eye by trying to say it was 1000 watt HPS
replacement by, you know, putting a meter directly underneath it and going, see, you get the same
light levels, but no one's thinking about what happens at 10 degrees from underneath that,
that light source. But now, they have reached that threshold where they can and it has been,
you know, not everyone could do it. It's a thermal exercise to try to get all that heat out.
So, there's a fundamental difference between how traditional lights work, like high pressure
sodium versus LED. High pressure sodium, you know, it has a certain amount of efficiency,
and whatever else is waste heat is heat, and it radiates that heat. LEDs are different because
what is waste heat is actually conducted away. Sorry, do I need to go over that again?
Did you hear my phone ring just now? No, no, I didn't.
Okay. I apologize. No, no, we got it. Okay. So, and what happens is when
that heat is conducted away, it takes a certain amount of a thermal, like, device in order to get
that heat away. But what I could say very certainly is that LED has been able to hit that
threshold and go over that hurdle of really, truly being a thousand watt high pressure sodium
replacement. So, there's, you know, I have a company and my company does it, but we're not
the only one. So, there are, you know, kind of these tier one manufacturers that can absolutely
hit these thresholds. And if you, you know, if you were a naysayer, you know, you're a smart man,
but the time has come for LEDs to kind of hit that threshold. And I would say if you're looking
for a very specific threshold, if it could get over 1600 micromoles per second, preferably 1750
micromoles per second, that is going to be something that you're going to have a really
good experience with. Fantastic. That is a great answer. So, Robert, our time is done. Thank you
so much for all of this interesting information and some of the, you know, atypical insights that
we don't usually hear when, you know, people are either talking about strictly the botany or
strictly the light technology, your ability to kind of weave those two together to provide some
answers that straddled both disciplines was really enjoyable. So, thank you very much.
Yeah. Thanks for having me. I really had a good time.
Excellent. So, if you want to find out more about the kinds of lights that Robert helps
develop, you can check that out at bioslighting.com.
For more information on me and where I will be speaking, you can check out shangolos.com.
Does your company want to reach our national audience of cannabis enthusiasts?
Email hotspot at shapingfire.com to find out how.
Thanks for listening to Shaping Fire. I've been your host, Shango Los.
