Farming has always been a risky business.
Interacting with nature is fraught with potential dangers leading to crop failure.
Some of them, like deer or even spider mites, you can see and do your best to prevent.
Some threats, though, are nearly undetectable and will decimate your plant before you even know it is there.
Today, we're going to talk about some of those unseen threats.
If you want to learn about cannabis health, business and technique efficiently and with good cheer,
I encourage you to subscribe to our newsletter.
We'll send you new podcast episodes as they come out, delivered right to your inbox,
along with commentary on a couple of the most important news items from the week and videos, too.
Don't rely on social media to let you know when a new episode is published.
Sign up for the updates to make sure you don't miss an episode.
Also, we're giving away very cool prizes to folks who are signed up to receive the newsletter.
This month, we will randomly choose four newsletter subscribers to receive three packs of seeds
from Pride of the Lion Seeds in Mendocino County.
Check out their Instagram profile at prideofthelionseeds
and request their new catalog of over 150 photo period and auto flower seed varieties.
There's nothing else you need to do to win except receive the newsletter.
So go to shapingfire.com to sign up for the newsletter
and be entered into this month's and all future newsletter prize drawings.
You are listening to Shaping Fire and I'm your host, Shango Lose.
Today, my guest is Cora McGee.
Cora McGee is a PhD candidate in plant science at the University of Connecticut.
Her research focuses on the association between microbial communities and pathogens causing root rot.
She holds a degree in horticulture and a master's in plant science.
During the first set, we will talk about Fusarium wilt, its causes and prevention.
During the second set, we'll do the same thing with Pythium.
And in set three, we'll cover proper tool cleaning, a bit on root rot in rockwool systems,
and the importance of microscopes.
Welcome to the show, Cora.
Happy to be here.
Fantastic.
So let's jump right into it.
You know, one of the things that caught me off guard right away
when doing my advanced research on this show about Fusarium and Pythium molds
is that Pythium actually isn't a mold,
which caught me off guard because we certainly talk about it as one.
But I understand there's some taxonomic discussion about whether it really is a mold.
And it seems that they've even created an entirely new kingdom for it,
which for me seems to be like a pretty big deal.
So would you hit on that a bit before we go into Pythium's characteristics
that matter to us as cultivators?
Yes, of course. It's a really good question.
You know, it's brought up a lot because we tend to group Pythium
with all the rest of the fungal diseases
because it's very similar in the way that it grows and other types of infection.
But the biggest difference is that, you know, true fungi have chitin in their cell wall
and Pythium and different oomycetes is what we categorize Pythium in.
They don't, so they lack chitin in their cell wall.
And that's a big difference when we're talking about characteristics of fungi.
And it's funny because, yeah, Pythium's not a mold,
but we tend to categorize it as a water mold because it thrives in water.
It loves water. So it's kind of an informal way that even plant pathologists talk about Pythium.
But when you talk about classification, no, it's not a true fungi.
It's an oomycete and you could even think of it as a protist.
But, you know, if you grow it in culture, it's still got hyphae and it grows very similar.
If you see it, the mold anywhere on a plant, you know, it really does look like a fungus.
But, you know, being technical when we talk about it, it's not.
So they're in their own little world and category of the oomycetes and not the true fungi.
So, yeah.
Do we find that that happens, like to have them recategorized taxonomically is kind of common?
My only experience with it is, you know, I kept aquariums for years and occasionally we'd get one of these,
you know, small schooling fish or something where they would change the name of it from what we knew to a new one
because they're like, oh, yeah, we moved where it was on the species chart.
And I always thought that was such a, I don't know, kind of cool and odd thing to have happen.
I know that you study a lot of these, I don't know, I guess I'll call microorganisms.
Are you finding that these things like jump around on the chart regularly?
Yes. Yeah. And it's funny, like most plant pathologists, you know, it's kind of annoying because we'll call something their scientific name or Latin name for years and years.
And, you know, someone who studies even a pathogen, you know, it's got the same genus and species.
And when it changes on you, then, you know, the correct way is to call it by its proper name, even though, like, you know, you know, it is the name that you've been calling it for years.
And I have a really good example of a pythium that I worked a lot with.
And then all of a sudden, 2014, the genus of the pythium changed.
So it's not even pythium anymore. We call it Globus barangium, which is like a much longer name for pythium.
Irregular is the is the species that I'm talking about.
So instead of being pythium irregular, it's Globus barangium irregular.
So that's a really good example. And I attribute it more commonly.
The more we learn about these organisms, I think sequencing and molecular technologies have really helped correctly classify them and keep classifying them.
And it's not just microorganisms, tree species and, you know, even woody ornamentals go through this as well.
And there's a whole board. It's actually a whole formal process of people getting together and trying to figure out how to reclassify.
And it can turn into a headache. But, you know, you just go with the flow.
And then you accept its new name and and keep going with it.
But I can imagine that it it does separate the old school scientists from the new folks coming up, because some people know the old name and some people knew the new name.
But let's let's let's cycle around and focus on cannabis now.
So is there just one species of pythium that is of concern to cannabis cultivators or or are there a variety of them?
Because I mean, I know there's a lot of different pythium varieties, but I don't know if all of them are concerned to we cannabis lovers.
Yeah, that's a good question. So, of course, you know, as cannabis is becoming a way more popular crop and we're still learning a lot about what types of pythiums that we're finding within infected plants and infected substrates or soil that people are growing the cannabis in.
And my personal experience, I'll start with I've personally isolated pythium myriotilum from infected cannabis plants and have also extracted what I was just talking about, pythium irregulare.
But it's really Globus pharyngeum irregulare.
But, you know, they look very similar and you can still think of it as a pythium, even though the genus name has changed.
So I've identified both of those at a commercial marijuana facility within infected infected plants.
However, going into the literature, there's a lot of reports, not just from one state, but multiple states in which they're finding pythium aphanidermatum within cannabis production, whether it's marijuana or hemp.
We're seeing that, you know, it doesn't really matter the difference.
You know, cannabis is cannabis.
So, so, yeah, those are the three main pythiums that I have that I've been seeing, not just in the literature, but in my own experience.
And out of all three of them, pythium myriotilum seems to be the most virulent, which means basically causing the most damage and the most symptoms within the plants.
And and and it's not just mature plants that you can see these pythiums and pythium.
You have to actually look for throughout the whole production stage because pythium is also known for attacking really young seedlings as well.
They're very susceptible. That classic kind of wilt damping off symptom is pretty classic of pythium.
So something to look out for, not just within mature plants and in the soil of those plants, but also within the seedling production as well.
So does does pythium live in all soil or.
Let me ask this question differently.
You know, very often cannabis cultivators are are thinking about keeping their plants sterile from these pathogens, which, you know, since since we mostly talk about living soil on this show,
of course, keeping a living soil pot somehow sterile is kind of an oxymoron.
But but people kind of think like I don't want any pythium in my garden.
So I'm going to guard against having any pythium.
And I suspect that pythium is probably in every single pot.
But the question is, is we want to keep our pot in balance so that it doesn't fall out of balance and and create a living environment that lets the pythium out compete.
Like, I don't know whoever it competes against.
And so so what is that?
What is that like?
Is it is it pretty sure that pythium is already present everywhere and it's just about keeping it in check?
Right.
So so that's a question that I've actually asked a lot.
It's like, where is it coming from?
It seems to be everywhere.
And and so now, you know, myself and other extension agents and I'm sure pathologists have kind of gotten to the point where now we tell growers just imagine that pythium is always there.
It's pretty ubiquitous.
It can be found in lots of different growing operations, lots of different hosts.
And that doesn't exclude cannabis.
So I would say, yeah, just just keep in mind that it may always be there.
No matter, you know, you should keep, you know, doing your practices, keeping everything clean and and and trying to keep everything sanitized.
However, I always say it really comes down to not creating conducive conditions for the pythium to be very happy.
And like you said, really outcompete all those other microorganisms that may be antagonistic to the pythium that's in that living soil.
Which brings us to the crux of all of this, right?
Let's go right.
Let's go right to it.
What are the living conditions that create this opportunity of imbalance and gives pythium a chance to take over our pot?
So the biggest one that I really want to bring up and we kind of hit it on it earlier is pythium loves water.
It's it can infect really easily in water.
And so waterlogged soil conditions really creates this awesome environment for pythium to take off.
So so anytime that you're not managing your soil moisture properly and your soil moisture is is too saturated and you're really waterlogging your soils because that not only creates, you know, less oxygen getting to the roots and a really, you know, kind of stressed out unhappy root zone within the plant.
It's also making this pythium very happy because it's got infecting propagals called zoospores that are very efficient in swimming and solution and they'll swim right into your roots.
And another thing that makes pythium really happy is high nitrogen levels and excess fertilizer because that can really break your root cells open.
And then the pythium is very efficient at swimming and going towards your roots and infecting in that way.
So you really want to create a healthy and happy root zone to stop that pythium from coming in in the first place.
So again, it's like always act like the pythium is going to be there in the pot with you, but don't don't allow those conditions that make pythium thrive within that pot.
Let's let's talk about the mechanics of that really specifically because cannabis cultivators are an ingenious lot and they are always looking for their own solutions.
So let's talk about this mechanic.
So the way that you said it was that you don't want to have too much moisture in the pot because the pythium will swim towards the roots and infect that way.
Like there's got to be more to it.
Right.
Because like the I imagine the root actually has got a membrane of some sort on the outside.
How does the water create an opportunity for the pythium to air quote swim into the roots?
Well, it's not just the water.
It's the water that that too much water is having an effect on the roots.
So roots also need oxygen to survive just as we do.
So if you're not allowing adequate oxygen to get to the roots and always having too much water bound around those roots, then you're already kind of creating an effect where you're rotting out your roots.
And then that that's where pythium can really take the opportunity to come into the roots.
So you're saying like the the root is wet.
And so the root starts to like literally rot.
And so there are like fissures in the roots.
Well, yeah, if that if that root cell burst open, it'll it'll start leaking out.
We call it leaky roots.
They'll start leaking out root exudates and that and those sports can can sense that and swim via in the root chemiotaxis via chemiotaxis can get into the root.
So so that's why I also mentioned not just waterlogged conditions that are not allowing adequate oxygen within the root zone, but also excess fertilizer can also like high salt concentration within your growing operation can also really affect those roots, stress them out, break them open, kind of like cause some root necrosis, root damage, especially at the tip level.
And then again, you're just allowing this entry point for the pythium to get through really easily.
That's right.
I've never heard an explanation for what what I'm thinking we all refer to is root burn.
Then people say, oh, you don't use what do you want to want to use to me first because you'll burn your roots.
I bet you this is what we're all referring to when we use that common parlance.
Yeah, yeah.
And I guess we call it leaky roots because like they're leaking out those root exudates that's making, you know, all these plant pathogens are waking up and be like, oh, yeah, we have an entryway now.
And then once they get into that tissue, then, you know, they really have something to feed on and they start multiplying.
Your populations just get higher.
They have now they have a host so they can survive efficiently, dormant and not need a host within soils and things like that.
But they can really take off an increase in population when they have that host and those those tasty roots to feed on, I guess, if you want to think about it like that.
So really, it's not that Pythium.
It's not that Pythium has come in and attacked your plant as much as it is that the cultivator has over watered its plant or doesn't have enough drainage for long enough that the roots are rotting and that the smell of the exudates, if you will, like wakes up the Pythium and it
goes into the root via those those cracks in the root structure.
And so the Pythium is just going to sit there and be dormant.
Thank you. Dormant. I was gonna say hibernation.
I'm like, that's not right.
Pretty much. It's a good way to put it.
Yes. Like hanging out.
Yeah, just hanging out.
Right. Right.
So that's interesting.
So we really can't like blame Pythium.
Really?
Like it's like we're creating this attractive nuisance, essentially.
Yeah.
Yeah. Over watering and over fertilizing.
Like they really, really do not help and they really help.
And they don't help the grower, but they help invite the Pythium to infect.
So those are the two huge things with the root rots that, you know, pathologists really can't stress enough because you can stay as clean as you want.
But, you know, those root zone conditions, you want white plump roots.
So anytime those are compromised, you are kind of, you know, alluring all these, especially Pythium diseases to come into the roots.
Yeah.
So, you know, for both Pythium and Fusarium, the main way that most cultivators recognize that there's a problem is because they get what, you know, people will call either Fusarium wilt or Pythium wilt,
where the plant droops in a very severe way that looks unlike a regular wilt when they get thirsty, right?
This somehow looks more dramatic.
And, you know, once you've seen it a couple times, it's really, you don't really confuse them anymore.
But is there, are there other ways that we can find signs to discern if we have Pythium, like before it takes the plant?
Are there other signs that we can look for?
Yes.
And that's a good way to, we always say, you know, scout early.
So, so I'll go back to my previous statement.
You want to really start with inspecting all the healthy material coming in, all the material and making sure it's healthy when it comes into the facility or coming into your yard, what have you, like wherever you're growing your plants, make sure those are healthy and that you're not starting off with like any rotted plants, things like that.
And if we're talking about like a, you know, more mature potted plant and what are signs that you can look for?
It starts in the roots.
So, so once you get that wilt and that dramatic droop, like there really isn't going back or saving that plant, which, which I hate to say, but it's all about prevention.
So once you get to that level of you're getting the wilt, then, then, then it's a goner.
But since it starts in the roots and it, you'll, you'll start getting kind of brown necrotic roots.
That's the first step.
And something that's telltale about Pythium that's not so much for Fusarium is that with Pythium, it's called a rat tail.
So you can like, if you see that your roots are looking kind of necrotic or browning, as a go way to put just kind of like dead, not healthy white roots, you can take some of that root tissue, pull it apart.
And if the outer cortex or just like the outer membrane, however you want to say it, of that root comes off so easily and exposes that internal, that inner vascular tissue within the root, the inner cortex, we call that rat tail.
That's pretty telltale Pythium.
If it just easily sloughs off right when you like break that root apart.
That's a, that's a good tell that you have Pythium bruit rot.
And hopefully you can catch that before you start getting the wilt symptoms.
And then another characteristic sign is reduced growth.
So this is a big one because, you know, say you've got six plants on a table and you're seeing, you know, they, you want to look for uniformity.
And, and if there's some plants that are just looking like really smaller, you're like, I bought these like around the same time.
Things are looking, you know, more reduced growth.
They should be probably bigger with how much you've been fertilized and are watering.
And you're like, man, it's weird.
I just feel like they're growing really slow.
That's another telltale sign that you've got a root rot issue because it's just that plant, its roots are compromised.
So it's just not growing as vigorously as it should be if it had white healthy roots.
And then another symptom that you can see within both, you know, Fusarium and Pythium is yellowing of leaves.
So you can see we like to call it chlorosis, chlorotic leaves, yellowing.
It's the same.
And that's a big symptom as well.
So, so before you even get to the wilt stage, because the wilts like the final, you know, the, the, the roots have been totally compromised.
And that, that pathogen just totally took over and, and it's done.
Those are three big ones to really look for.
And it starts with the roots.
So, so you really just want to be checking, making sure like you have white healthy roots.
It's very exciting when you can like, you know, kind of pull the pot back and see like, yeah, I have white roots.
Like, and it's, it's kind of root bound too.
Like they're, you know, they're growing, there's a lot of them.
But when you're not seeing many roots within your root ball and when you're seeing that the roots are turning brown, that's a good sign that you should maybe bring that plant back.
And add a production so that your other plants don't get infected as well and that you're not spreading that infection.
You know, that's a, you know, I have heard that people pull small plants.
I mean, I even pull small plants just because they don't look, they are like, they're going to yield enough to justify their space in the greenhouse.
But I had never really thought about it as the runts might just not be, you know, seeds with phenos that are not as rambunctious, but they actually could be sick.
I mean that, you know, making a decision to get rid of a runt based on yield is, you know, is a lot more of a passive decision than potentially getting rid of a runt because it's a very good sign of, you know, root rot.
That seems like it's way more pressing than, you know, than just yield.
Yeah, yeah.
And, you know, if you really don't want to get rid of that runt, like say like, oh, well, I could get something out of it.
Again, just check those roots because like that, that'll tell you really quick, is my plant happy and healthy and are the roots thriving?
Because if they're not, then it's a really good sign, you know, yeah, I have root rot.
Like that's why this plant's not doing well.
It's because not enough water and nutrients are getting uptaken through these necrotic, you know, these browning roots.
It's, you know, it's compromise and it's the plant's really struggling to get to high yield.
So right on.
Let's talk a little bit about the best practices of that.
So as I'm picturing, you know, looking at my roots, first thing, you know, a lot of folks grow in, you know, huge cloth pots, you know, have hundreds of gallons and clearly you're not going to like flip that over in your palm and knock out the plant into your hand.
So you can look at the roots.
So if you're growing in huge pots, that probably isn't for this solution.
And also, if you're growing in, you know, generally fabric pots, they don't really slide out as elegantly as they do when you're using black plastic landscape pots.
So it's probably not for, you know, fabric pot people either.
But if you're growing in a plastic pot that is of a size that you can realistically turn the plant over and, you know, give it one shake so it dislodges from the pots and you look at it, that would seem to be your best case, if maybe the only case where checking for that works.
So let's say that I am using, you know, a five or 10 gallon and it's dried enough that it's not going to fall apart and I turn it over and I've got it cradled in my hand so I don't break the stem and I give it one quick shake and it slides out.
And now I'm looking at the roots.
What are we looking for?
So what you want to see is really white, full, plump roots.
So you don't really want to see much brown, kind of dead looking roots.
And you want to see a lot of them too.
So, so depending on how old the plant, you know, what we, what we consider a healthy plug or, you know, a healthy potted plant is you want to see, you know, it root bound almost.
Like not, not too much where it's unhealthy, but you really want to see those white roots like all the way around.
And what I've seen too many times with Pythium root rot is you'll look at that root ball and you barely see any roots around that soil media or, you know, whatever media you're growing on.
It just looks like, you know, and the roots you do see are brown.
You'll see like maybe some white roots, but they're attached, you know, a part of them is brown.
So, so it, you should be looking for a white, healthy roots and then you can feel better about like, oh yeah, like I don't think there's much of a problem.
And, and, you know, I, I'm always for, for testing.
So that's also like a good time.
You know, it's, it's especially depending on how many plants you have and you don't want to compromise your operation or all your grow, you know, it doesn't hurt to also get a soil test.
And, and since you're not sending tissue to these labs and it's pretty inexpensive, you can tell really quick like, yeah, but I'm getting yellowing of my leaves.
Like, isn't that a symptom of Pythium or my plants aren't growing that much.
You can at least kind of on your checklist or what have you get away with, oh, I have a nutrient deficiency because at least if you send the soil, you can see, oh, I have adequate nutrients.
Like my pH isn't a good range.
So, so, so say, you know, you're getting the yellowing and it's, it's deficiency of nutrients.
You know, at least you'll know that because I'm sure it can be confusing if you have yellowing plants and your roots are looking really healthy and you're like, oh, but what's going on?
Like, so, so I feel like that's one good, that's, that's one tool that you can put in your toolbox for sure.
Just to eliminate it.
Because I don't expect all your growers to just become plant pathologist overnight.
And I think that's a little bit of the stressful part into where I think research and extension and services need to really match the industry and the home growers and the popularity of cannabis because we really want to help.
And, and a lot of these things, you know, I can name out symptoms, but a lot of them can span across, you know, Pythium, Fusarium symptoms look very similar.
And I wouldn't, you know, I wouldn't expect growers to know the difference between them.
Just, just looking at, you know, even cuttings or mature plants, like you can definitely get a idea of like, oh, is this, is this unhealthy?
But I wonder if it's disease or I wonder if it's environmental or nutrient.
And I feel like that's the first question you should be asking yourself truly not what disease is it, but is it a disease?
And then the second question, once you've figured out, oh, it must like, I think, or, you know, this is from a pathogen, these symptoms, then okay, what pathogen now?
So I think there is, I do want to stress like the steps of diagnosis in general, when working with any crop, because even if you presented me with two plants, one had Fusarium wilt, one had Pythium wilt, I wouldn't feel confident within my diagnosis or assessment unless, you know, I was putting those roots under a microscope slide.
And like looking at the structures, like, you know, you can even go as far as molecularly identifying it, which, you know, usually isn't isn't needed for certain cases, and things like that.
But again, like, I don't think growers should have to bear that responsibility.
I think there should be resources that can help with that.
Yeah, well, as we get into better relationship with the federal government and are able to take advantage of, you know, more, you know, resources within the agricultural industry, like extension agents and stuff, we'll have a lot more help.
I mean, for years, cannabis cultivators have been pretty much on our own.
So let's say that we do have a plant and it's already Pythium wilting, and you've already clearly established that once the plant has gone full wilt, that it's done.
And so what do we do to dispose of this plant?
Because I'm not thinking I want to take that plant and just throw the substrate back into my compost pile and take the risk of increasing the overall amount of Pythium in my soil supply.
So, like, I probably want to take it away from my whole property, right?
Yes.
Yeah.
Bag it, tag it, double bag it, get it out of there.
Don't compost it.
Make sure you get all the debris.
I think that's why it's really important, like, not just, you know, take it out, but really, like, bag it, contain it.
Like, you know, you don't want that soil particle going anywhere.
You don't want any of those infected leaves falling anywhere.
You just, just to be safe, just bag the whole plant and, yeah, get it out of your growing operation and do not compost it is the best situation.
If you get a Pythium outbreak or, you know, a plant that's fully wilted, you don't want it to be around the rest of your plants.
Man, the thing that irks me and you'd be surprised that you see it is, you know, someone will have a wilted plant.
Now, it doesn't even matter if it was from Pythium, but if you have like an infected plant or a plant that's wilted or just any debris that you're not growing with or just like some plant that's sitting in the corner that you're going to deal with later, like, deal with it as soon as you can.
Because the more that, you know, dead tissue just sitting or dead debris sitting near your healthy plants, there's lots of plant pathogens that like to feed on dead tissue, decaying organic tissue.
And, you know, we're going to talk about Fusarium in a little bit.
Fusarium's, you know, very efficient saprophyte.
And it would love to stick around and hang out on all those wilted leaves kind of sitting in the corner.
And Botrytis is another one.
You know, we start getting to more foliar pathogens that you could really avoid just by bagging that plant up, getting it out, like deal with it right when it happens.
And, you know, your past self will thank future self.
So, yeah, my my growing mentor, Hector, he would love hearing you say this.
And he'd feel so justified because, you know, I was brought into this scene and he was meticulous with any time we were removing leaves from the plant to put them in a bag that was then removed from the property.
And, you know, I always found that a little tedious and time consuming.
And then when I got into the regenerative growing scene, I felt like a bit vindicated because so many regenerative growers will remove leaves off the plant and then put them on top of the container down at the soil near the base of the stem so that that leaf can degrade.
And, you know, the idea is that the nutrition goes back into the soil as well as making home for, you know, little, you know, small organisms that live on the top of the soil and things like that.
But what but what you're explaining to me is that this is absolutely increasing risk of pathogens without a question.
Yes. And, you know, I I've got to applaud the person who wants to take, you know, be sustainable and not want to waste like tissue.
But there is a place for that tissue and it's in a compost.
It's in a compost that's going to be like treated and away from your healthy plants.
Because, yeah, right. When you take any type of debris and put it, especially like in a nice moist place, like on top of the soil where your healthy plants growing, you know, I could imagine I could honestly already see the botrytis or like diseases like coming for that tissue like within, you know, a couple of days.
Like it it really doesn't take long for another issue to occur for for when you have any plant debris, any type of organic matter, even soil that's hit your floor like, you know, that's where cleaning really comes in as a good, proper preventative.
So not just getting rid of the plant debris, getting rid of soil debris and anything that can just kind of hang out around your healthy plants.
Because, you know, not only like insects, but lots of lots of pathogens will hang out there, stay dormant until, you know.
So they're given an opportunity.
Yeah, totally.
Until they, you know, that little piece ends up on your shoe and then that shoe goes trudging in your side garden and, you know, like so it's just better to sweep, get all that stuff out of there.
And it's just yeah, it's the best, best procedure.
Right on.
So we're going to take a short break and be right back when we come back.
We're going to do this same thing again, but with Fusarium.
You are listening to Shaping Fire and my guest today is plant pathologist Cora McGee.
For 20 years, Humboldt Seed Company has been family-owned and providing reliable, high-yielding seeds originating in Northern California.
While the current trend is to slap one super male into a line of hype strains, Humboldt Seed Company continues to breed with precision and care by doing large sifts and back crosses to emphasize the absolute best traits that a line has to offer.
This kind of breeding takes time, talent, and space to work.
No matter what kind of aroma you are particularly into, Humboldt Seed will likely have something you'll love.
If you love fruit, you can choose from banana, mango, apricot, papaya, blueberry, blood orange, melon, and lemons across their various strains.
They have all gas, glue, and classic sour diesel lines as well.
Of course, there are the heritage California strains like OG Kush, Jack Herr and Headband, and their award-winning blueberry muffin is one that delights just about everybody's palate, especially when concentrated.
Humboldt Seed Company is proud to bring to market the infamous freak show Cultivar II, which has a great THC high but looks so much like a fern that some folks can't even identify it as cannabis.
It's a plant that really needs to be seen to be believed.
If you're looking for well-balanced CBD seeds, Humboldt Seed Company can turn you on to CBD strains that actually have flavor like the dill and pepper terpenes of Willie G's Lebanese landrace.
Whether you are looking for regular, feminized, or auto flowers, Humboldt Seed Company has the gear to make this your best growing cycle ever.
Visit humboldtseedcompany.com today to check out their line of vigorous genetics, download their catalog, and find out where you can pick them up.
You can also check out their Instagram at thehumboldtseedcompany to check out their gorgeous flowers and the extraordinary freak show plant.
Humboldt Seed Company. Let them know Shango sent ya.
For years, organic cultivators have been looking for a replacement for using peat moss.
Peat moss has long been the go-to soil amendment for water retention and container growing, but organic growers know that peat moss is an unsustainable resource, and the mining of peat bogs destroys habitat and releases sequestered carbon.
But peat moss works so well that many have continued to use it.
But now there's finally a revolutionary replacement for peat moss that shares the same benefits while also being sustainable.
Peat moss sounds and acts like peat moss, but instead of being mined from fragile ecosystems, it actually is made from upcycled organic paper and tree bark.
Peat moss is excellent at retaining water in your substrate and creating air pockets and tiny living environments for microbes.
Peat moss instantly increases aeration, nutrient absorption, and water conservation too.
Carefully and locally sourced, peat moss is the result of decades-long research into the use of recycled paper fibers.
Peat moss has the fluffy nature of peat moss and handles exactly the same.
And like peat moss, peat moss is inert, so it won't change your pH.
Available in a range of preparations including a nutrient-enhanced blend, a coco coir blend, and also as an organic soil conditioner with no added nutrients.
Peat moss is also available as an animal bedding.
So go to pitmoss.com now to learn more.
That's P-I-T-T-M-O-S-S dot com.
Growing healthier, more sustainable plants.
Pit Moss.
Businesses everywhere are striving to reach people through advertising.
We all know, though, that trying to reach a cannabis audience with a quality message is pretty difficult.
That's why many people choose to advertise on the Shaping Fire podcast.
Advertising on this show allows us time to talk about your product, service, or brand in a way that really lets people know what sets your company apart from others.
Bold people who own companies know that getting into relationship with their customers is essential.
And that is what we offer.
We will explain your service or product, what sets it apart as desirable, and help our audience get in contact with you.
It's pretty simple, really.
Advertising does not have to be all whiz-bang, smoke, and mirrors.
Nowadays, I find that people prefer just to be spoken to calmly, accurately, and with good intentions.
If you want to make your own commercial spot well, you can do that too.
During these pandemic days, conventions and cannabis events are pretty poorly attended, but podcast listening is skyrocketing.
With a commercial on Shaping Fire, you'll reach your customers in the privacy of their headphones right now,
and will continue to reach new listeners as they explore the Shaping Fire back catalog of episodes again and again for years.
A spot on Shaping Fire costs less than a printed postcard per person,
and the Shaping Fire audience is full of smart cannabis enthusiasts, cultivators, and entrepreneurs who are always curious to learn.
Do yourself a solid and contact us today for rates on podcast and Instagram advertising.
Email hotspot at shapingfire.com to find out more.
Welcome back, you are listening to Shaping Fire, I'm your host, Shango Lose, and my guest today is plant pathologist, Cora McGee.
So, we are essentially going to do second set like we did with first set,
where first set we were focusing on Pythium, the non-mold, root mold,
but now we're going to talk about an actual mold which is called Fusarium.
And honestly, I would say that Fusarium is probably more commonly known in cannabis because, you know, pretty much anything that wilts,
we say, oh, it's got Fusarium wilt.
And I bet you that a good share of the plants that actually die from Pythium,
when the story gets retold later that night over beers, that Pythium is actually being sold as Fusarium,
because, you know, Fusarium wilt looks an awful lot, if not exactly like Pythium wilt.
So, you know, what, like, let's start the same way.
Are there multiple Fusarium species that cannabis cultivators run into problems with, or is it really only just one?
There's some main ones that researchers and pathologists have been identifying down to the species level within more commercial greenhouses,
but, you know, it stays true to gardeners as well.
So, Fusarium oxysporum, that is a really common Fusarium that a lot of people have started seeing in cannabis,
including myself.
So, Fusarium oxysporum is a Fusarium wilt.
It causes Fusarium wilt, and it's pretty common.
It's a pretty common Fusarium across all host species.
So, I guess we weren't too surprised when, you know, we started realizing cannabis was susceptible to this pathogen.
And another Fusarium that causes more of a root rot is Fusarium solani.
And I haven't personally seen this in cannabis, but Dr. Punja, he's a pathologist in Canada who's been surveying,
I feel like he hits a, he comes out with a new paper every like six months,
with all different pathogens that he finds in commercial marijuana facilities as well,
from, you know, soil to hydroponics, you name it.
And it seems that Fusarium oxysporum and Fusarium solani are the two biggest that he finds in abundance
within these facilities, and that's mostly the roots, the root rots, the crown rots, and the wilts.
And it's funny, you know, Fusarium oxysporum can be found in mature plants causing the wilt,
but I've also encountered it within cutting production, so at the younger tissue stage.
And I just wanted to say real quick, Fusarium doesn't just affect roots or cause wilt.
Fusarium can also be a fungus that attacks the buds of the cannabis plants as well.
So just like you were saying, you know, it sounds like Fusarium is getting a lot of the credit,
where Pythium may be involved, but I think the same goes for the Fusarium that a few researchers,
not just myself, but I saw Cornell has seen this as well within cannabis buds,
is Fusarium is detected on that as well.
So I'm sure when growers see mold growing on the bud, they immediately are like, ah, Botrytis.
Because that's a common one, and I've seen Botrytis on the buds as well.
But I just wanted to let your listeners know, you know, again, just going back to where testing is really important,
that could also be caused by Fusarium.
And there are some differences between them, but again, you know, it would really help
if you had diagnostic tools or if you had a pathologist that could help identify it.
I'm not expecting, you know, home growers or even some commercial growers to really tell the difference
with that mold, because it looks similar.
Does Fusarium on the buds look like Botrytis or will it present differently?
So it's hard to say because it depends who's looking at it, right?
So if I were to look at it, from afar I probably couldn't tell, but once you start getting more up close,
like Botrytis is, you know, it's called gray mold because the conidia and the spores,
the actual way you see the mold fuzzy part on your plants,
it has kind of like a grayish color to it for Botrytis.
And then also the way Botrytis grows, it grows in like chains.
So that's something that I would know and that I would try to look for when looking at it.
But when I've seen Fusarium grow on bud, it has more of a white color.
It has more of like a white thread-like growth versus like spores and chains,
which Botrytis kind of, that is characteristic to Botrytis.
So I would say yes, to me I saw a difference.
But to tell you the truth, when I first saw Fusarium on the bud,
I'm not going to lie, I was like, oh, well maybe it's Botrytis,
because I really haven't seen many reports of Fusarium on the bud.
And that'd be kind of crazy because you do want to really look out for that
because Fusarium head blight on corn is,
some species are known for producing mycotoxins,
and those can be harmful toxins if humans ingest them.
And so again, it's not something you should just kind of forget about.
You really want to get a good diagnostic take on what you're looking at within that bud.
But anyway, going back to the story when I was looking at that bud,
right when I put it under the microscope though,
I mean, the structures are very different between Botrytis and Fusarium.
So I immediately was like, whoa, I have a Fusarium.
And then I went further and I not only looked at the Fusarium under the microscope
that I saw in the cannabis bud, I put it in culture.
So when I say I put it in culture, there's a nutrient media that you can put in Petri dishes.
And that's how we can grow out different pathogens
to really see morphological characteristics and culture, and that can help identify.
So Fusariums in culture are well known for creating vibrant, colorful pigments, right?
So when you put Botrytis in culture, you're going to see those kind of like gray,
gray spores in the Petri dish.
And then they'll also go on if it sits longer in the culture, it'll create Sclerotinia,
which are their resting structures that can survive and, you know, substrates and things like that.
They almost look like tiny mustard seeds, almost like black little rocks.
That's what their structures look like.
But Fusarium can create these gorgeous, well, I say gorgeous,
but very like vibrant colors and pigments in culture.
So Fusarium oxysporum, as we were saying, which is common in cannabis,
that can create in culture a very pretty kind of purple lavender color in culture.
And the Fusarium that I picked up on the bud had this very striking kind of orangish red color in culture.
And then I actually had that Fusarium sequenced.
You could tell I was like very curious.
So I was like, okay, I'm also going to, I'm going to sequence it so I can, you know,
not just morphologically identify it, but also, you know,
but I also want to molecularly identify it again.
Like, you know, Fusarium structures can look very similar depending on species.
So I was like, ooh, I wonder like what species this is.
And it was more of a curiosity thing.
And when we had it sequenced, it turned out to be Fusarium spirotrigoides.
And that's also been known as a Fusarium head blight on like wheat and more cereal crops.
So that's a long story to say.
Yeah, Fusarium is not just seen within the roots.
It can be within the bud.
And that's just one example of a personal story of how I've diagnosed to species level one on the bud.
And I think just as more pathologists get their hands on these different pathogens,
different production sites, like maybe more reports will come out to see how common that is.
Because that's something I can't really speak to is was that a rare occurrence?
It was in our research facility at UConn.
Or, you know, is that, is that a common, common pathogen we see?
I read something Cornell has seen similar things on outdoor hemp production.
And it actually, they went as far as they saw that some Fusariums they saw on cannabis buds did produce mycotoxins.
And I thought that was very interesting.
And something that the cannabis industry should keep its eyes and ears out for, for sure.
I'm feeling so schooled and humbled at the moment because I, here on Vashon Island where I live,
you know, I help a lot of patients with their grows because I'm kind of the local expert.
And we have been experiencing what I now think is Fusarium all over the island the last two years.
And for me, as I saw it, I'm like, wow, this Botrytis is really presenting differently this year.
Right. Which now in retrospect, that sounds so, so novice.
But, you know, your, your explanation of it was so good.
Normally we would see Botrytis, which is, you know, the, the gray spores and they kind of look like, you know, little gray clouds inside of the flower.
But then about two years ago, we started getting these, you know, these white strands that you describe that to me kind of looked like, like white cotton strands.
And in my head, I'm like, oh, it's like a, a spider mite got in here and did all of these white, you know, webbing instead of the kind of webbing they do on the crown. Right.
And I'm like, there are all these like straight webbings of white and cottoniness inside the flower, which is clearly a mold and clearly not something I want to smoke.
But also wasn't something that I had seen a lot of before last year, which is interesting because the weather here for the last two years has been significantly wetter and colder earlier.
And it's interesting that you would say that all of these, what are essentially beautiful colors come out when you put it in the Petri dish.
Because the main way that we are identifying what I now will call fusarium in the buds, because, you know, they're on the inside of the flower.
So the flower will look great more normally until you crack it open and you're like, oh, God, what's all this cottony stuff that's all white.
But the telltale sign, which, you know, if you know your garden well, you can see from across the greenhouse is that there will often be a part of the bud that is actually white.
There will often be a part of the bud that has gone incredibly colorfully necrotic.
There will be like one leaf that will go like bright maroon or purple or pink or orange or something.
And you're like, oh, look at this fantastic, gorgeous bud.
But there's that one sugar leaf on there that has gone, you know, royal purple or something.
And then when you crack that bud open, suddenly you see all of these cottony white strands.
A. Have you had that experience with the sugar leaf turning colors on the bud?
And second, what causes the change in the color?
What we say, you know, in the garden is like, oh, you know, all the anthocyanins are showing, right?
Which would suggest that the chlorophyll has left the leaf.
And like, I don't know, that could all be bro science, but I'm hoping you understand my example enough that you can just kind of generally speak to it.
Yes. So in my experience, I did not see any different coloration around where I had saw the fusarium bud rot on the on the bud.
And I think I caught it pretty early, too, because I didn't see a lot of dead tissue around the signs of the pathogen on the bud.
So there's one and then two.
So I haven't had a lot of experience with the bud rot.
And and I'm not sure I'm not sure what produces the increase in pigments within the tissue.
And it's interesting because at UConn since about twenty eighteen, twenty nineteen, we have multiple researchers like looking at these types of interactions and seeing like how to different pathogens that are infecting these plants, like affecting pigmentation.
How is it infecting genes? How is it infecting trichomes?
So those are all questions that I can't answer, but hopefully are starting to get answered as research has been opened up for this crop, because that's the thing.
It was kind of this crop we couldn't touch for years.
So that answer made the answer to that question may be answered within other crops.
But but I'm not sure if it's been answered within cannabis and it would be a very interesting research question because that could really be applicable to growers.
You know, that could be maybe an early sign.
I've been seeing like a different pigmentation.
Is that something that Puzarium is causing?
Unfortunately, it seems to be a late sign because any time we're talking about after the necrosis.
Yeah, we see that by the time we see that color, it is time to either remove the whole plant or or just the crown.
And actually, you use this term crown rot earlier in the show, which I had not heard before.
And that sounds like the perfect phrase for what we've experienced these last two years where we've got this beautiful plant with this killer cola and the cola gets a few Saria.
And then it shows one sugar leaf that changes color and we crack it open and it's it's got advanced cottoning, you know, these cotton white cotton strands on the inside.
And and, you know, calling it crown rot.
It's you know, that's a pretty cool name for it.
Well, I would call that bud rot.
So when I mentioned crown rot earlier, crown has to do with the crown by the root zone.
Oh, I thought you meant the top of the plant.
No. So so I was so I think and it's totally easily misunderstood because when you talk about crown rot, it's more at the base of the plant.
So that the crown of the root, which Puzarium can cause.
So there are Puzarium crown rots out there, such as like Puzarium solani.
I'm pretty sure it's been reported as one.
However, when we're talking about the bud rot, we wouldn't pathologist wouldn't call it crown.
We'd call it bud like a bud rot because it's on the bud of that, you know, part of the plant.
Yeah. So just to clarify that for.
That's good. That's good clarification.
I appreciate that.
So, all right.
So circling back around to like the main thrust questions.
Puzarium does is it in the soil all the time, just like Pythium is and it is also just looking for an opportunity to take over.
Yes. Well, unfortunately, yeah, it's a soil borne pathogen.
So so you want to imagine it can be around, especially, you know, you're growing and these living soils and there's lots of nice microbes in there and.
And you you don't want to create conditions that are conducive for the Puzarium to to increase in population and then cause infection and get into your roots and then get into your stems.
Because, you know, Puzariums can also cause vascular issues, vascular stem rots and wilts within your plants as well.
So, yes, you know, everything I said earlier about not to do within your pots to avoid Pythium is very similar with Puzarium, such as you don't want to overwater.
You don't want to damage those roots.
You don't want to have you want to have optimum nitrogen for your plants because, you know, cannabis or heavy, heavy feeders.
Yes, they're heavy feeders.
Thank you.
But you don't want to have too much nitrogen.
You don't want to have too much compost on your plants because it can really again, like we talked about, create those those leaky roots and create a really opportunistic time for that Puzarium to infect.
And and the symptoms are really similar as well.
However, Puzarium, since I said it can cause vascular wilts and basically like within the stem is what I mean when I say that you can sometimes see discoloration.
And the vascular tissue and even sometimes on the bottom of that stem, you can sometimes see like a discoloration of a brownish or sometimes like a reddish brownish color at that bottom.
And, you know, if you wanted to sacrifice the plant, if you're really having a feeling like, oh, this plant is looking sick, its roots look compromised, what have you.
If you cut open that stem and you kind of see this hollow or discoloration within your stem tissue, then that's a that's a good telltale sign.
Yeah, I may I may have Puzarium.
Within my plant.
I'm assuming that, you know, if if if the Puzarium is in my soil on a day to day basis and would it be fair to say that it is dormant like we talked about the Pythium?
Yes.
Yeah.
All right.
It has.
So it'll be dormant.
And then we make it wet, which which, you know, causes it to get active.
And then we keep it wet, which means that it's starting to thrive in a anaerobic environment.
And then the roots are rotting and creating opportunity for it to get inside of the plant.
Like like like anywhere along this line, this plant isn't coming back.
And so by the time we see the wilt, I'm guessing we're in the same situation we were with the Pythium where what did you say?
Bag it and tag it and get it off the property.
Yeah.
Yep.
Correct.
Oh, that's so sad sometimes.
I mean, it's like one thing if you're if you're scaled right and you've got 500 plants.
But for you know, since I don't do a lot with scaled growers and I'm more focused on on smaller patient gardens, like sometimes that can be, you know, one plant can be, you know, 20 percent of somebody's entire grow during the summer.
And it's there's so much resistance to just throwing away the plant instead of trying to revive it.
But so the longer that plant stays in your garden, the higher the pathogen pathogenetic load to your garden, the more likely that those pathogens will hop over to another plant.
Right.
And I mean, there is if you have less plants, hopefully you can try to optimize their root zone and their health as closely as you can to avoid this this occurring in the first place.
And, you know, I know your listeners are really into the microorganisms, the beneficials within the living soil.
Like, you know, if if you have a really good microorganism buffer, I should say within your soil, like hopefully that's another preventative defense that's, you know, can can be good to have into place.
And then you're right.
It's it really is like do not over please try not to over fertilize and over water because, yeah, that can, you know, eventually be a death sentence to a plant.
And and it and it is very sad because there's no corrective control measures.
You know, it's all organic.
And and so it's all a preventative game.
And and I know we've been talking about that, but that that really is, you know, cleaning and just making sure those conditions are really good for the plant to avoid it from coming in in the first place and taking over.
It's interesting to think about the mechanics of that, that death spiral and specifics, right?
Because if your microorganisms and the other, you know, living folks in the rhizosphere are actually one of your defenses against Pythium and Fusarium.
And first thing you do is you pour all this water in there and or maybe you maybe it's the right amount of water, but you have terrible drainage, whatever reason you've got really damp soil.
So the first thing that's going to do is create an overly water environment that is going to wipe out a whole bunch of your microorganisms that are supposed to be part of your defenses.
And then, you know, you're creating this low oxygen and environment that's going to rot your roots.
And then, like, essentially, it just leaves the field of play open for a big old Pythium party.
Right, right.
All right. So, so we understand the living conditions and that this is all a preventative game and that, you know, once we've gotten to the point that we actually see the wilt, like, don't even try just like get, you know, bag it, tag it and get it off the property.
So, so I want to take all of this and put it on its head before we before we leave this second set.
And that is, you know, sometimes you got to try to save it.
And this is the example that I want to give you.
It's kind of an impossibility, but but I want us to like kind of work it out anyway, because I know that there's people, including me, who grow this way.
And let's imagine you've got a four foot by eight foot raised bed that, you know, let's just say it's like 18 or 22 inches deep.
And you're going to put multiple plants in there.
And the whole point is that you're going to be growing, you know, you're going to have living soil and companion plants and you're going to have multiple cannabis plants in one bed so that, you know, all of their roots can talk to each other and they can share nutrition and information.
And it's just this big, sexy, regenerative success until one of the root zones gets Fusarium or Pythium.
And suddenly you see like, let's say one of your six plants in this bed.
You come in in the morning and it is wilted and you know it's not water.
Everybody else looks good.
But this one plant is totally screwed.
And, you know, the idea to bag it and pitch it is great in theory, except for the fact that it's in this shared bed.
So let's say that, you know, as the cultivator, you really don't want to cull the entire bed because, you know, if you've done it right, you've got tons of rocks in the bottom and then silt and sand and you're like building your layers of substrate up.
And it's just this beautiful thing that took all this effort.
But now you've got this, you know, essentially this like out of control pathogen that's in the root zone of one plant.
If we needed to try to at least try to save the bed, what would your radical prescription be for trying to extricate that one plant and revive the bed so that perhaps it doesn't spread to the rest of the bed?
So this might be really unpopular what I'm about to say.
So I apologize in advance to all the growers who don't want to gut the rest of the plants that were sharing the soil.
So it's really important, first off, to make sure that that diagnosis is a fusarium, right?
You want to make sure that you have fusarium in the bed in the first place before you make these really dramatic calls.
But say it's like, oh, like, I think it is.
I don't want to risk it.
What I would do is at first, of course, take the plant that was showing symptoms, wilt or what have you, get it out of the bed, bag it, get it out of your operation.
I would also, I would get rid of the rest of the plants in that bed too, because really you're just creating a happy habitat for that fusarium to now go to those roots and feed on those.
And, you know, if you've had a plant already wilt in that same bed, you probably have pretty high populations of that fusarium already in that bed now.
So you don't want to increase that population even more and make it even harder down the road to be growing in that high-raised bed or what have you.
So I would get rid of all the plants.
Say you've got six plants in the bay.
One went down.
Get rid of all of them.
And then at least you may have like moderate populations of the fusarium because it hasn't had time to really feed on all six.
And now you just have like a crazy amount of fusarium structures and infecting agents within that soil.
So there's two things that come to mind once you've gotten rid of all the plants.
And now you're just left with this bed with, again, like you said, all these layers.
I've really been adding to my soil and making it healthy.
There's two things I'm going to say.
I'm not going to guarantee it'll work, but you could at least try and see if it could eliminate if you want to keep growing in this bed.
So one I would say is that you could try to cook the soil.
So when I say try to like cook the soil, I'm saying try to create an environment where you're going to try to get a lot of temperature, get the temperatures really high within that bed.
So it can hopefully kill those infecting propagals and those structures.
So a way to do this is you can get some plastic, some clear plastic so the sun can penetrate through.
And you want to really seal it around in that bed, like make sure there's no air pockets.
You really want to get that clear plastic on top of that soil layer.
Put a bunch of bricks around it, what have you.
And it really helps when it's a hot summer day as well because if you do it right, you can get temperatures up to like 120 degrees Fahrenheit.
That can really help penetrate and kill some of those infecting propagals within that bed.
So that's one.
And again, just depending on how bad the populations are, it may be effective.
So it's something to try.
And then another option, which I've heard other extension agents talk about this within cannabis, is crop rotation.
So I know you really want to put cannabis back in that bay really badly.
That's where you grow your cannabis plants.
But since you know that there's fusarium right now in it and it's compromised, but you don't want to gut the bed out, you don't want to waste all that good substrate,
you could try to plant another crop that season in that bed.
So I've heard hairy vetch.
Some people see it as kind of like a weed, but it has a really pretty purple flower, kind of pea-like leaves.
So it's called hairy vetch.
And it's actually shown that if you use it as a crop within fields where watermelon get fusarium, it's shown to show suppression of fusarium within that field.
So you could try something like that, putting another crop that can help suppress the fusarium over time or that just isn't cannabis.
So you're really just trying to decrease those populations now in that soil so that you can eventually put cannabis back in it and feel more confident that you're not going to have another outbreak.
Wow.
That's actually a pretty novel idea, using a plant, kind of using it as a beneficial.
I really was expecting you to talk more.
When you did that apology at the beginning, I really thought you were going to go into antifungal drench or something like that, which isn't really how you went with it.
So I guess I will.
Are there any organic or Omri-certified fungicides that you think might solve this issue?
Now, granted, this is a nuclear option, right?
Because it's also probably going to take down your mycelium networks and everything else.
So this is not what we want to do.
But people do all sorts of radical things when they've got an infested bed.
So I figure it's worth asking.
Yeah.
So there's actually quite a bit of biological fungicides that are out there that I'm pretty sure you can now use within cannabis.
But there's three that come to my mind that are more efficient towards fusarium.
And they're all biological fungicides.
So a good way to think of it is good microbes versus your bad microbes, which is your fusarium is the bad microbe.
And the good microbes that I have in mind are pseudomonas species in biological fungicides.
So you can just look.
It'll say active ingredient when you read the label.
And if it's a pseudomonas strand and if it's labeled for fusarium diseases, then that's a good contender that you could use.
Another one that's really popular that I've used because it's really efficient within suppressing pythium is root shield.
So that's a trichoderma, which is a beneficial fungi that can micro parasitize other bad fungi or my seeds.
So it's really efficient in that.
And bacillus.
So bacillus is a bacteria.
So a pseudomonas, the one that I said earlier, those are both beneficial bacterias.
And there's a lot of products such as triathlon.
BA is a bio fungicide that comes to mind with bacillus in it.
And in companion.
Now, I think they just came out with a new formula like companion max.
So these would all be good formulations that you could use that are organic.
They're OMRI certified, like you said.
And you could like try to try to put those in the bed.
But it just depends how high those fusarium populations are to see how effective those biological fungicides will be on helping colonize that fusarium that's in the bed and prey upon it.
But yeah, like that's another good solution that you could try out.
And those are the three that come to my mind that have been pretty efficient towards fusarium.
Right on.
And then after you use them as a nuclear option, you're going to be left with a bed that's like out of balance.
And you're going to have to spend some time, you know, like rebuilding the biology, which is why, you know, it is considered a nuclear option where you're just trying to, you know, save.
Maybe not save the living part of the soil, but just not have to replace the soil and the silt and the sand and the rocks and and like start over with a clean slate.
Like you're like, maybe you can maybe you can save your inputs, but you're going to have to rebuild the biology after you use something like that.
Right. And I don't think it's a bad thing.
So I think we see it as, oh, if we add these products, they'll be so dominant.
Like we'll just have like bacillus in the bed or we'll just have pseudomonas.
But I think we need as researchers to really look into what will happen when we just add these products to it.
Because, I mean, we're talking about like outdoor beds, even if they're indoor.
It's like, you know, you got silt, you got rocks, you have you have soil that you had there previously.
I'm not so sure if adding these biological products would totally dominate, you know, this microorganism community in there.
If anything, you know, I would hypothesize that adding them may recruit other different organisms to make up in the bed and things like that.
Like, I think we underestimate how complex these microorganism communities are within all these different living situations.
So I think that would be like a really interesting thing to study.
Like, you know, if I have a bed that had high populations in fusarium, if I added a biofungicide, how does that reduce the populations?
And how does that change the microbial makeup of that bed?
I think all these are very like unanswered questions that hopefully in the next, you know, five, ten years with all these researchers now getting grants to study cannabis,
like something that we'll have more answers for, because that's that's something I just I just don't know.
Hear, hear. I love that answer. I love that. I was doomed.
I was dooming about the whole thing. And you're like, oh, you know, let's trust the microbes, which is usually my answer for things.
So I love that. So. All right. Cool. Well, we're going to take another short break and be right back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire. And my guest today is plant pathologist Cora McGee.
There are so many seed banks nowadays that you really have options in who to choose.
Not only that, if you pick the wrong seed bank, you could be in for a really sketchy ride.
And that's only one of the reasons I recommend HEMBRA Genetics Collection to my friends and listeners who are looking for a seed bank.
That's HEMBRA spelled H E M B R A.
HEMBRA is not just another seed bank.
HEMBRA is a woman operated boutique cannabis genetics provider that only sells thoughtfully curated seeds from the top names in cannabis breeding.
With over 50 breeders and over 500 strains to choose from, you will certainly find something you'll love.
HEMBRA genetics has something for everyone with over 350 feminized strains, 200 regular varieties and over 100 auto flowers to choose from.
Names you know you can trust like Humboldt Seed Company, Night Owl, Canerado, in-house genetics, Fast Buds and Gnome Automatics.
We both know that there are other seed banks who will take your money but have no customer service.
I invited HEMBRA to advertise on Shaping Fire after hearing so many good stories about them from my friends.
They have A plus customer service with lightning fast response times.
In most cases, Helene and Caitlin will get your order out the same day you place it and you'll usually receive your seeds in just a few days.
Most seed banks are simply not this organized or interested in getting your seeds to you this fast.
But HEMBRA cares. You even get free seeds with every order.
Helene and Caitlin get it. They have been in the cannabis growing scene for over a decade.
So save a few bucks by using this discount code too. Use the code ShapingFire, all one word, at checkout to save 10% off your order.
Buy seeds from good folks who will get you great seeds reliably every time.
Visit HEMBRAgenetics.com today. That's HEMBRA genetics.
One of the reasons why no-till cannabis growing is so valued by farmers is because the mycelium networks in the soil remain established from year to year.
And we know these fungal networks are essential because they are the nutrient superhighways that extend far and wide in the substrate to feed your plants.
The trouble with growing in new living soils or blended cocoa substrates is that it takes most of the plant's life just to create these mycelium highways.
Dinomycoendomycorrhizal fungi inoculant reduces that time and gets your plant eating a wider array of nutrients faster.
And it's three times the concentration of the other popular brand in the US at 900 propagules per gram of two fungal species selected specifically for cannabis cultivation.
Dinomyco is the result of 30 years of research and trials at the Volcani Agricultural Research Institute in Israel.
It has also been vigorously trialed by cannabis and food growers across the US.
Dinomyco is now available at grow shops and on Amazon in the United States.
I love using Dinomyco to both speed up the growth of the mycelium networks in the soil, but also as a biostimulant to make clone cuttings more virile.
You can see side by side showing the comparative growth on their Instagram at Dinomyco.
If you demand reliable growing results and appreciate the importance of an active root zone in creating a thriving plant,
I encourage you to check out Dinomyco.com and use the store locator to find out where you can get yours.
That's D-Y-N-O-M-Y-C-O dot com.
Shaping Fire listeners can get 10% off any size of Dinomyco on Amazon or Dinomyco.com by using the discount code Shaping Fire, one word, NOCAPS.
Whether you are starting with new beds or pots, or if you want to add some zing to tired soil, choose Dinomyco to maximize your plant's potential.
Dinomyco Endomycorrhizal Inoculant.
Cannabis folks are innovators and problem solvers, and we like to make money.
Have you developed a tool, technique, or plant that you want to protect and monetize?
You'll likely want legal representation that is experienced, accessible, and shares your values.
Plant and Planet Law represents a wide variety of clients who choose to respect the environment while pursuing their business goals.
Have you invented a machine or gizmo that you're bringing to market?
Did you discover a breakthrough, environmentally-friendly pesticide or fertilizer formulation that you're about to start selling?
Have you bred a cannabis plant with attributes not found anywhere else?
Attorney Dale Hunt and his Plant and Planet team have established genetic patents in over 30 countries.
Working to help entrepreneur scientists throughout the life sciences, Plant and Planet represents environmentally positive clients in cannabis and other botanicals,
fungi, water purification, clean energy, emulsions, and medical applications.
Plant and Planet helps people protect what they've created.
If you are an early-stage company with an established idea and are in the process of fundraising,
often the investors require intellectual property protections happen at the same time.
Plant and Planet can be your sole representation, or they can integrate with your existing legal team and plug in their specialties.
Plant and Planet is made of scientist lawyers with a real passion for cannabis, inventions, and the environment.
They have the scientific and legal depth to help you establish patent protections for your great idea.
You don't have to go it alone. Friendly, qualified, and honorable legal representation is available to you.
Contact Plant and Planet Law today to start the conversation.
Email info at plantandplanet.com.
That's Plant and Planet Law. Our clients make the planet better.
Welcome back. You are listening to Shaping Fire. I'm your host, Shango Lose.
And my guest today is plant pathologist, Cora McGee.
Alright, so Cora, we have already talked a lot about prevention, which is essentially don't let your soil be too wet,
because all hell breaks loose when the soil is too wet.
But a couple times you have mentioned not causing the pythium and fusarium to spread by keeping things clean, right?
And while, how do I want to say this? While lip service is given to, oh, you know, wiping down your scissors or whatever in, you know, the cannabis cultivation scene.
I got to admit to myself, I don't even know if I'm cleaning my tools right.
I mean, I just clean my tools the way that my mentor taught me to clean my tools, but I didn't learn that anywhere.
So let's start with that. What tools should we be keeping clean and how do we clean those tools properly?
Right. So, so pruners and shears and things like that, things that you use to prune or take cuttings, those definitely need to be sanitized.
And you can sanitize those by, if you have isopropyl alcohol, some people spray down their tools and wipe them.
I'm saying, I'm not saying anything's wrong with that, but personally I would fully submerge the tools in the isopropyl alcohol just to make sure you're getting, you know, it's covering all the surface area and whatnot.
And you're not missing anything when you just spray. I think that would be one thing I would say.
And then you can also use a solution of 10% bleach to also clean your tools, which is pretty effective.
However, I would give a contact time to sit in that 10% bleach before you use them for all your plants for, you know, about five to 10 minutes to really make sure that it's getting any, any infecting propogals that may be on those tools really, you know, give you security that, that they should be clean.
When you say the contact time, do you mean that the bleach solution should be like, it should be soaking in the bleach solution for 10 minutes? Or are you saying that don't put it on your plants for 10 minutes after you do it?
That's a good, that's a good question to clear it up.
So I'm saying you want to, you want to let your tool sit in the 10% bleach solution for about five to 10 minutes, and then you can just wipe them off and use them. But you just, you do want to make sure that within the 10% bleach solution that the contact time is enough to where the cleaning solution is actually doing its job for the tools.
Does that 10 minutes also work for using the isopropyl or ethanol solution?
So it's interesting. So speaking from, I know not a growing side, but in the laboratory, when I'm doing anything like very sterile, or if I'm putting isolates into long term storage, you know, I do let my scalpels and my, my metal tools sit in alcohol for, for at least 10 minutes just to be safe.
And then I'll flame them. However, I understand that I haven't seen this a lot within growing operations. I know definitely the contact time for the 10% bleach is very important, but it's really up to you. Again, my preference, I would say I'd want to fully at least submerge them. But I don't, I don't think that it's necessary for that, that 10 minute contact time with the isopropyl alcohol.
So let's get really specific because, you know, I am usually using either isopropyl alcohol or ethanol because as a cannabis enthusiast, these are things I have a lot of in my life around. And normally I would have a washcloth that has got some isopropyl or ethanol on it. And I will simply wipe the scissors on the four blade sides and just call it good.
I am thinking at this point that that's not enough contact time.
Well, it's not just that, but you're not truly like, so if you're just kind of wiping the blades of the scissors, like that, the scissors may have other parts of it that haven't gotten exposed to the alcohol that now you're clipping and, you know, it could be a source of contamination.
So just to totally eliminate that, you know, in my opinion, I think spraying can be effective, but, you know, also submerging the tools and alcohol can also be effective just to make sure that you're covering all parts of the tools.
So I'm trying to think of the best practice for this because, you know, putting all of my tools into a bath at the end of the day and walking away and even leaving them overnight, like that sounds like easy squeezy.
But I'm also using those scissors on multiple plants during the day, and I'm pretty sure you're going to tell me that there should be some amount of cleaning before I go plant to plant because that's how I spread infection, right?
You should. Yeah. I mean, if you, especially if you've been having issues with disease in the past and you just like want to be very sure. I know within the apple and pear industry, they, I mean, they plant to plant. I mean, five minutes soaking between plant to plant. Like it's pretty serious within that industry.
So, yeah, you could also take a page out of what other crop producers or other. Yeah, pretty much other crop producers do and other growers do by, you know, you could have multiple shears and a jar of ethanol and, you know, kind of rotate them out as you go plant to plant. So you're not waiting forever or, you know, I like that.
That's a pretty good best practice because like one thing that we cannabis growers have are lots of fricking scissors, right? Like because we go through them and, you know, we're all trimming at the end of the season. And so I probably got 17 pair, you know, the hardest part would just be finding them all at the same time.
But I like the idea of if I'm going down the row and trimming all of the plants of everything that's necrotic or unnecessary or big leafing or whatever to have like, you know, six or seven pairs in a bath and just work my way down the line and use a pair of scissors and put them in the back and then grab the next pair for the next plant. And by the time I get to the first pair again, they will well have been have the contact time that they need.
Yeah. Yeah. And and, you know, better to be safe than sorry, too. So it might seem like overkill, but, you know, if you're not getting diseased, then at least, you know, it's a good pat on the back where it's like, oh, well, it might seem really excessive, but I really don't want to get diseased because then once I have it, there's no way to control it.
Yeah, I would say that that's a no brainer. Yes. To anybody who is scaled for sure, because you've got a lot of room for loss. But then also anybody who's not scaled because it like the example earlier, if you've only got five plants, one of the benefits is that you can go slow and you can scout every day and, you know, you can, you know, do do soaks like this because every plant is precious.
So whether every plant is precious or you've got a lot to lose from sheer numbers, it really does sound like a best practice for anybody who's actually just a conscientious grower.
Right. And I would also say, you know, it doesn't just stop with pruners and shears. You could also if you're reusing a bunch of pots, like even spraying down those pots and getting all the loose soil out and just really starting clean with with with everything that you're using within the production is also a pretty good idea as well.
So do you mean like spray down the pots with isopropyl?
Yeah, you could do that. 10 percent bleach. Yeah. Let them. But make sure you let them dry before you put soil in.
Sure, sure. But yeah, like just another way. You know, I'm sure you reuse like seedling trays or I'm sure that's true. I don't do stuff from seedling, but you know where you put your cuttings or just any type of plastics is a good way to put it. Pots and things like that that you keep reusing.
Yeah, that also it does not hurt to to get, you know, empty them out, kind of kind of brush them out, get all that like any like, you know, roots that may have been in there, get them out of there. Any like old soil. You could even do a dip within the 10 percent bleach, let them dry somewhere. And then once they're dry, they're ready to go. And you've got clean pots that you can reuse. It's a good a good sanitation procedure.
Right on. So, so I'd like you to speak briefly to the other cross contamination that you've just kind of alluded to a couple of times. And so I'm going to give you just a couple of data points and then just kind of let you run with it.
One is that, you know, you mentioned how the you can get an infection from pot to pot. And so I would like to know what the mechanism for that is. And then you mentioned, you know, stuff getting on your shoes and the floor. And so it sounds like we need to be careful with pot to pot prevention. And then also, you know, litter. Maybe maybe we're even using a 10 percent bleach solution on the floor.
So so kind of speak to that, if you would.
Yes. So so it's it's easier. So say you're growing kind of more on an indoor facility. It can be a little easier to sanitize surfaces, as you will, with, you know, 10 percent bleach or, you know, I don't know how big the operation. A lot of commercial growers will use xeritol or sanitize some of these oxidizers that can really cyst open and kill infecting propagals really efficient on surfaces.
So so that's one. And you don't want like excessive splashing going on everywhere. And yeah, if you have debris on your floor again, like you really want to get rid of all that plant debris, that soil debris, root debris that may fall out from plants that you've harvested and you're trying to get rid of.
Because, yeah, those you know, we talked about earlier how these pathogens can survive and, you know, decaying tissue and soil and just kind of stay dormant. So so it it's easy to spread that around when it's just kind of sitting on the floor, sitting on your bench and it's not and it's just sitting there and not getting swept up, taken care of, put in the trash.
And even after you sweep up, it's a good practice to, you know, even sanitize those floors, sanitize those benches. If you have a canopy, you know, like cleaning that canopy off every now and then can can really help. Again, like your your whole goal is to lower the contamination, is to lower these pathogen populations within your growing operation.
What did what do you specifically mean by splashing? That's kind of that word seems kind of out of context.
So splashing, there's multiple ways you can splash. So a lot of people within cannabis industry that I've personally seen, I don't know if it's for everyone, does a lot of hand irrigation.
Yeah, we do a lot of it.
Yep, yep. You do a lot. And so within other crop production at a higher scale, it's a lot of drip irrigation to avoid the splashing that I'm talking about. Because say, say I have a bunch of debris or I've got debris somewhere.
And now, you know, I'm I'm splashing everywhere and the water is getting on the floor and it's, you know, you don't want anything to splash into your your healthy, like, you know, uncontaminated soil from a potential contamination source.
So that's one. And also, you know, with boots, like you can get things on your boots and then you're walking around in the water. And then, you know, say you've got multiple stages. One thing that I really want to stress is you don't want to go trudging around and say you've got a section where you have more mature plants, older plants, and there's a lot of soil and you know, you're working within that.
You know, you're irrigating, your boots are all muddy, what have you. And then you go into your cutting or, you know, younger tissue seedling bay, you really want to make sure that that stays really clean because those young cannabis plants are a lot more susceptible to these diseases.
So like even at, you know, a lower population, they could they could be compromised and get an infection. So you you want to be careful of how you're even contaminating, you know, bay to bay or, you know, garden to garden, you know, bringing any soil and really bringing contaminants with you in different sections wherever you're growing as well.
So it's something to really keep in mind. And even like cleaning your boots off, you know, that's a you get into the habit of it, spraying them down after each day and, and, yeah,
I am so guilty of that splashing from a hand watering, I had not even ever considered that because I am one of those people that hand waters from a hosed with a water wand on the end. And I just go plant to plant. And, you know, so long as the soil isn't hydrophobic, it will almost immediately soak into the soil.
But there is a moment there that it does kind of collect on the top and and I'm doing, you know, using the rain setting. And so there's all these micro splashes, and it's probably aerosolizing all sorts of stuff from the top of the pot that is, you know, very likely going to be spread to the nearby plants.
Oh, yeah, that's me. So all right. All right. So sorry. So before we move on from like cleaning stuff, is there is there anything that I have missed that that I should ask?
I think we've covered a lot of it. You always want to inspect your new plant material. Like I said, you know, the lung, the youngest plant materials super susceptible to these diseases. And I know you know, if you take cuttings from mother plants, you always want to inspect that mother plant. I know within commercial facilities, they don't they don't want to keep a mother plant for more than two months.
They always want to be starting with really clean plants because, you know, it really starts in the beginning, you want to start with healthy plants and end with healthy plants. And and yeah, just make sure you get all that debris off the ground. You're not, you know, bringing contaminants from one field to another field.
And you're properly sanitizing your tools and all the equipment that you're using to grow again, just as another safety net as that prevention umbrella we've been talking about. So sort of really help your your grow right on be the most successful you can.
We're all on the same team. We all just want the plants to be as happy and as as healthy as they can be. So just putting these things into place it, it seems like a pain, but it always pays off when you don't have disease issues. So it's all good practices to keep in mind.
Right on now. See, that is such a great summary. Right now would be a great time for me to like wrap up the show and thank you and everything. But there's one more question that I want to ask you. When you and I were first on the phone and talking about whether or not we thought this was going to be an episode we wanted to do together. You said something in passing that totally, you know, got my attention and and I wanted to ask you about it.
And you were talking about your research there at University of Connecticut and you were all excited because you said that you had just killed a whole greenhouse of cannabis for research and you were all excited about it. And so like, would you tell us the story? Like, why did you kill an entire greenhouse of cannabis and why were you thrilled about it?
That's a total like, there's like any plant pathologist listening. They're like, yeah, it's like we only feel that way. It's like when we see sick plants, we like get really excited. So, so I want to give a little context. So at UConn, I, I predominantly study the root pathogens within leafy greens or vegetable crops. That's, that's what I focus on. However, since the doors have really opened for cannabis and not a lot of people have been working on it.
We had gone to a commercial facility in 2019 and they had symptomatic plants with the same symptoms that we've just covered in this show, reduced growth, yellow tissue. They even had one plant that fully wilted that they bagged and was like trying to get it out of there. And at UConn, at any research facility, we can't take the tissue. So I wasn't allowed to actually take the roots and take any of the infecting tissue. So I took.
Because these are cannabis plants, be clear. These are not leafy greens. You got to go to a commercial cannabis facility.
Yes, yes. So you're right. Thank you for clearing that up. So, so we had gone to a cannabis facility because they're, you know, having some issues. We're just checking it out. And we ended up taking the, they were growing mature cannabis plants in coconut core.
So we had taken the coconut core surrounding the roots of all the symptomatic plants, brought them back to the lab. Well, we had actually ended up getting 26 organisms.
Wow, that sounds like a lot.
It was. Yeah, it was a lot. We did serial dilution plating. Some people can get like more, but we had collected from a good bit of plants. So within that, fast forward. So we had identified them morphologically and molecularly. We got 21 of those isolates were Pythium Myriotilum.
The one that I spoke about earlier, that's very, the causes very severe symptoms within cannabis. And we've seen that. And then three were this Globus Ferrangium Irregulare that was formerly the Pythium Irregulare.
And then one was a Fusarium Oxysporum that we actually got from a cutting in Rockwool. So, so fast forward, we've got these isolates and as a plant pathologist, in order to actually publish and be confident about our findings that these organisms were the ones that were causing the symptoms within these plants, we have to do what's called Koch's postulates.
So we have to isolate those organisms and then we have to reinfect the same crop with those isolates separately. So we can see the effect of each one of these isolates on the cannabis plants to see if they cause disease. And they caused a lot of disease.
And I mean, I've been working with root pathogens for about six years now and I really haven't seen this type of virulence or severity within seedlings as much as I have with cannabis. When I had introduced these Pythiums that I had gotten from the facility.
So just to kind of wrap it up, we had a whole greenhouse with a thousand cannabis plants and they were, I had inoculated them at two weeks old after I'd grown them from seed. So, so they were pretty young and they were growing pretty well. And then we'd inoculate them.
How tall were they? I want to say, I want to say they grew to about a foot. So these are about foot, kind of young cannabis plants and we got about a thousand of them. And all of the 21 Pythium myriotilum isolates that we had gotten from that facility that we introduced back onto healthy, we couldn't do marijuana plants, so it was hemp plants.
All of them went down. I mean, chlorosis, they all wilted only, you know, some as soon as a couple of days after that Pythium was introduced to them. So it really showed, wow, yes, these, these Pythiums that we got from the facility are very pathogenic, pathogenic to cannabis and cause high virulence or high severity when we put them back on the plant.
So then as, you know, as scientists, it's like, okay, so now, now we're going to report it. So, you know, you can't just take a disease from a plant and be like, okay, it causes disease. You know, you have to, like I said, make it happen. Yes, you have to prove you have to, like, I didn't just randomly get this organism.
You have to prove that can actually cause symptoms and infection when the plant that you got it from. So yeah, I guess it was very exciting because like I said, I, cannabis is very susceptible to Pythium and that just kind of opened our eyes to like, wow, like research really, you know, it's exciting because I'm sure there's going to be a lot more research projects and opportunities coming up to help these growers and help everyone really not only identify but help control the disease.
And the things you're talking about and understanding more about it because it seems, you know, I always, I work with poinsettias a lot too within our lab. We do some with ornamental growers and poinsettias like really susceptible to Pythium as well. It's, you know, if you talk to any growers who grow poinsettias, it's a big pathogen they look out for. And I'm like, who like cannabis is the next poinsettia when it comes to Pythium because Pythium is pretty severe on it. So, right on.
Well, I appreciate you sharing that story and you know, props to University of Connecticut for doing whatever legal like hoops they had to jump through in order to be able to do, you know, cannabis research, whether it's hemp or type one is, you know, doesn't matter because it's the same plant.
It's just nice to know that we've got university ag departments working on our side now and that people like you are doing that kind of work and killing thousands of plants so that we can all, the rest of us learn best practice. So, shout out to University of Connecticut for that. And I guess in wrapping up, thank you also to you, Cora, for joining me here on Shaping Fire and sharing your experience.
You know, since you work with us on a daily basis in a university setting and you know, you're getting ready to defend your own PhD, it's really nice to have somebody who has got such specific examples and easily accessed metaphors and knowledge where you can go right to the point instead of dancing around it. So, thank you so much for coming on the show and sharing your expertise.
Thank you for having me. It's been very fun and you've been also awesome, Shango, and just it's been a pleasure.
Excellent. So, if you want to learn more about different molds and how they involve with the cannabis plant, I recommend that you go back and check out episode 28 of Shaping Fire, which is all about Botrytis and powdery mildew in scientific detail with Kevin McKiernan.
And that is a bit more of a genetic approach than this show was, which was more about usability and best practices. But, oh my goodness, you will know a lot more about Botrytis and powdery mildew after that show from a genetic level and best practices to try to control it.
And if you have enjoyed Cora and you want to keep up with her and her exploits in the lab, you can follow Cora on her Instagram and that is Cora McGee with an unusual spelling. So, I'm going to give it to you. That's Cora McGee, C-O-R-A-M-C-G-E-H-E-E. So, that's Cora McGee on Instagram.
You can find more episodes of the Shaping Fire podcast and subscribe to the show at shapingfire.com and wherever you get your podcasts. If you enjoyed the show, we'd really appreciate it if you would leave a positive review of the podcast wherever you download. Your review will help others find the show so they can enjoy it too.
On the Shaping Fire website, you can also subscribe to the newsletter for insights into the latest cannabis news, exclusive videos and giveaways. On the Shaping Fire website, you will also find transcripts of today's podcast as well. Be sure to follow on Instagram for all original content not found on the podcast. That's at shapingfire and at shangolos on Instagram.
Be sure to check out the Shaping Fire YouTube channel for exclusive interviews, farm tours and cannabis lectures. Does your company want to reach our national audience of cannabis enthusiasts? Email hotspot at shapingfire.com to find out how. Thanks for listening to Shaping Fire. I've been your host, Shango Los.
