It is truly humbling to read or hear about a human who totally defines an area of life
that their biography is indistinguishable from a discipline, that their history is also
the history of an art.
Dr. Raphael Mishulam is one such person.
Dr. Mishulam was a titan of cannabis research and his breakthroughs were breakthroughs for
all of us.
His setbacks set all of cannabis science back and his successes were to the benefit of all
humanity.
Today's episode is unique.
On Shaping Fire, we don't do company profiles or product profiles or cannabis personality
profiles.
We always focus on a topic and then I curate a guest who is an expert in that area.
Shaping Fire is always in service of education instead of cannabis business.
But today is different.
Today we are going to look back on the life's work of Dr. Raphael Mishulam and in doing
so you will not only get an idea of the expansive work and discoveries of Dr. Mishulam, but
at the same time you will get a really engaging history of the last 60 years of cannabis research.
Even if you don't fancy yourself someone who listens to biographies, you'll likely
find that your interest in cannabis medicine and the history of our favorite plant is plenty
to engage you in the scientific work of Dr. Raphael Mishulam who passed away last week
on March 9, 2023 at the age of 92.
Today's episode creates a portrait of a man whose curiosity and unbreakable stamina for
research opened the doors for all of us interested in cannabis medicine and made whatever cannabis
normalization we are experiencing now possible.
If you want to learn about cannabis health, business, and technique efficiently and with
good cheer, I encourage you to subscribe to our newsletter.
We'll send you new podcast episodes as they come out, delivered right to your inbox
along with commentary on a couple of the most important news items from the week and videos
too.
Don't rely on social media to let you know when a new episode is published.
Sign up for the updates to make sure you don't miss an episode.
Also we are giving away very cool prizes to folks who are signed up to receive the newsletter.
There's nothing else you need to do to win except receive that newsletter.
So go to shapingfire.com to sign up for the newsletter this week and be entered into this
month's and all future newsletter prize drawings.
You are listening to Shaping Fire and I am your host, Shango Lose.
My guest today is Dr. Ethan Russo.
Ethan Russo is a board certified neurologist and former senior medical advisor to GW Pharmaceuticals.
He served as study physician to GW Pharmaceuticals for three phase three clinical trials of Sativex.
He has held faculty appointments in pharmaceutical sciences at the University of Montana, in
medicine at the University of Washington, and as visiting professor at the Chinese Academy
of Sciences.
He has been president of the International Cannabinoid Research Society and is former
chairman of the International Association for Cannabinoid Medicines.
In 1995, he pursued a three month sabbatical doing ethnobotanical research with indigenous
people in Peru.
He is author of several books of cannabis medicine and has published over 30 articles
in neurology, pain management, cannabis, and ethnobotany.
Dr. Russo has joined us before on Shaping Fire, episode 22 on treating traumatic brain
injury with cannabis and mushrooms, and episodes 11 and 27 about his famous research papers
on cannabinoids and terpenoids, and episode number 67 about treating migraines with mushrooms
and cannabis, episode 80 on cannabis hyperemesis syndrome, episode 83 on cannabigerol, CBG,
and of course, the Shaping Fire sessions on the Shaping Fire YouTube channel.
Today, Dr. Russo joins us to talk about the life's work of his good friend, Dr. Rafael
Mishulam.
Welcome back to Shaping Fire, Ethan.
Thanks.
It's unfortunate that this has to come up due to this event, but I hope that the message
that we impart today will be valuable to people.
Yeah, I think so too.
I think that making sure that this story is preserved for people coming up behind us is
important, and it's important to show the respect for Dr. Mishulam too.
Thanks for joining me today for this very special topic.
I know you and Dr. Mishulam were very close.
To get us started, for context, would you give us a little bit about your relationship
with him before we get started looking at his career, just so people know from what
perspective you're speaking?
Sure.
I knew of him by reputation a long time before, but we actually met for the first time in
1999 at the International Cannabinoid Research Society meeting in Acapulco, Mexico.
This is the first time we had the opportunity to meet one-on-one, chit-chat.
He recognized my name as one that could be an Israeli name.
I knew that he had been born to a Sephardic Jewish family in Bulgaria and pointed out
to him that my father's family had come from nearby, in what is now North Macedonia, a
town called Monastir, then currently called Bitola.
There was an immediate rapport there.
Also, I was afforded some respect beyond that which I had earned at that time by virtue
of being a physician who was interested in cannabis and the endocannabinoid system.
That was a bit of a rarity then.
It gave me a little bit of an edge in people taking me seriously.
I'm going to ask you a lot of questions today, asking you what Dr. Musholam thought of this
or that.
I know it's a hard thing to speak for somebody else, but you worked with him so much over
the years and were also social, even family friends, I think it's fair to say.
You were pretty familiar with his thoughts on both medicine and the world writ large.
I know that some of the questions will be more challenging for others because it asks
you to say what Dr. Musholam thought.
I appreciate the extra effort you need to put into that.
I also appreciate that you're speaking for somebody else.
If I come across something that you're like, I don't think I would know what he would have
to say, feel free to just move me on.
Sure.
It's a responsibility, but one I take on willingly.
Excellent.
Good.
Thank you.
Let's start.
What initially inspired Dr. Musholam to study cannabis and its compounds, and how did he
become interested in the field?
I think he nicely explained this in a resource I think all your listeners would find very
worthwhile to take an hour and see the film online at YouTube called The Scientist.
So if they enter The Scientist and Rafael Musholam, they'll find this.
But to answer your question, it was pretty clear to him.
He seemed to be the kind of person that wanted to do something novel and important.
Because of his good education, he was well aware of the fact that cannabis had remained
a mystery for at least 150 years.
For example, morphine was isolated from the opium poppy circa 1804.
Similarly, cocaine was identified from coca leaves in the 19th century.
But try as they may, scientists around the world were unable to really get isolation
of the quote active ingredient unquote of cannabis.
In the 19th century, there was some isolation of a red oil they called cannabinol, but it
wasn't quite right.
So he wanted to try to figure out what cannabis had in it.
It just wasn't something that people were paying attention to in the early 1960s.
So that was it.
And it wasn't an easy thing to do.
There were some real challenges that he faced.
Yeah, I can imagine not only you're describing how scientists around the world were having
a hard time isolating things, but of course it was all very much illegal internationally
too.
And comparatively, it's relatively easy to research cannabis during this kind of creeping
normalization that we're experiencing right now.
A lot different than when Dr. Mishulam began his research in the 1960s.
So what were those challenges that Dr. Mishulam faced in his research due to the fact that
it was not only not legal in most places, but it was also demonized worldwide at the
behest of the United States?
Yes, absolutely.
So at the time, cannabis was by no means widespread in Israel.
In fact, early supply came from Lebanon.
The way I understand it, people on the Lebanese side would come to the edge of the border
and throw the parcel of hashish over the barbed wire to someone on the other side, presumably
with an exchange of cash.
But there were seizures of hashish, and so that's where he got his supply.
It was initially from the police.
He used to tell a very funny story about getting help to go to the police and requesting five
kilos of hash, which he put in his briefcase and got on a public bus and became quite odiferous,
apparently, en route.
But at the time, people just didn't recognize the smell.
He figured out subsequently that what he had done was illegal on both sides and that
in future he had to go through the police to get a supply of hashish.
But basically, from that first five kilos of hashish, they used the latest techniques
to get a separation of different components and found, isolated, identified the structure
of THC and also synthesized it in ANOVO.
That was in 1964.
Prior to that, in 1963, they had found cannabidiol.
So cannabidiol was actually first.
But shortly thereafter, we can go through a whole list of other discoveries that came
from those initial investigations.
Before we move forward, I have a side question on him getting his research supply of hash
from the police.
I have seen how traditional hash is made in Lebanon, and you described them chucking
it over the fence.
I imagine that the hash that was being gotten from the police was dirty and maybe had other
items and hairs and straw from wherever it was made.
Did that really matter with this kind of molecular research?
Because you're going to do an isolation and just pull out the parts anyway?
Was it harder to work with that kind of product?
Yeah, no, you're right.
It absolutely had to be.
There would be all these impurities in one way or another.
You'd have to get through the crudity of the initial material to get down to the isolates
of the compounds of interest.
I have no doubt it was more technically difficult.
Yeah, I can believe that.
In 1963, Dr. Mishulam started researching tetrahydrocannabinol, aka THC, specifically.
Would you explain how he suspected it was present and the process by which he discovered
and isolated it?
Yeah, basically, they used separation columns.
It was well, well known that hashish and cannabis were psychoactive.
It was a matter of identifying which compound or compounds were responsible.
That includes a series of steps of fractionation and then fractionation again to get down to
the pure compound, hopefully, that really is responsible for the activity.
At that time, testing would have to be done in animals.
They used monkeys, for better or worse, for a lot of the initial work.
They found so many things.
It wasn't just THC.
Also in 1964, they isolated cannabigerol.
They published on that with his partner, Yehiel Gayoni.
Even at the time, in reading Professor Mishulam's old work, I'm just struck with the prescience
that he had, his predictions about things.
Very quickly, they identified that cannabigerol had to be the parent compound to THC and CBD.
That same year, they identified the acid cannabinoids, which ultimately were identified later as
the actual parent compounds in the fresh plant before decarboxylation.
Then in 1966, they found cannabichromine.
Then there were a whole bunch of minors like cannabicyclol.
They didn't stop there.
This is one of the things I always appreciated about Rafi.
He was a chemist.
Most chemists are happy to stay in their lane.
That was never enough for him.
He always wanted to do more.
What was the biological function?
How can we figure out what this does?
By 1970, they had tested all of these compounds and basically found that THC was mostly responsible.
They made an important distinction.
Even today, some 60 years later almost, people make the mistake of saying that CBD or CBG
are not psychoactive.
This is absolutely wrong.
Both of them are.
What they should say is they're non-intoxicating.
Back in 1970, Professor Mishulam knew that.
He said that these other substances were not psychotomimetic, which was a fancy way of
saying that they didn't make you crazy when you took them.
That was true throughout his career.
Again, he did not confine himself to the lab and was heavily involved in clinical pursuits
with his discoveries.
You said that he discovered cannabidiol before THC.
When he started looking at cannabidiol, was his first thought that that might be the substance
that was causing intoxication and it wasn't?
I don't think so.
There had been some prior work actually done in the United States by a German refugee named
Lowe.
Cannabidiol had been identified almost perfectly in 1940, but they didn't nail down the actual
three-dimensional structure until Professor Mishulam in 1963.
In science, there are often these incremental developments.
We'd have to say that that was one of them.
From the timeline that you set up of the different labs discovering the different cannabinoids
and figuring out their structure and isolating them, it sounds like this time between 1960
and the early 70s, it was like bang, bang, bang, one cannabinoid after another.
That must have been not only an exciting time to be doing this initial research to
finally crack the cannabis secret, but also THC was something that people could immediately
tell there was going to be medicinal use for.
What was the significance, both in science but also perhaps in society writ large, of
the discovery of THC and impact at that time?
I'd like to take this on a couple of levels.
Its first notoriety came as an intoxicant, certainly.
Again, being an extremely educated and well-read person, Professor Mishulam was very familiar
with medicinal uses of cannabis throughout the ages.
I'm sure that the wheels were turning with him very quickly.
But people have to understand how earth-shattering these discoveries were.
For example, most psychoactive drugs prior to this time were alkaloids, so they were
water-soluble substances.
The cannabinoids were absolutely a different kettle of fish because they were lipid-soluble
and not alkaloids.
They had no nitrogen in them.
So this really was a bit strange, and it made the material very hard to handle.
We usually dissolve things in water, and instead you have these lipid-soluble, sticky substances.
They're sticking onto the glassware and everything else.
It's never been easy to work with this stuff.
And again, he quickly pivoted into looking at clinical indications.
And probably the first one that really came to the fore was the idea of cannabidiol as
an anticonvulsant.
So at this time, he was isolating these different components from hashish and sharing them with
other scientists.
And there was a great collaboration between the Israelis and the Brazilian scientists,
Drs.
Cunha and Carlini.
In 1980, they published the first clinical study of cannabidiol as an anticonvulsant
in nine patients, and very successful.
And I would point out that these were all people that had failed treatment with available
drugs at that time.
Now, people may be really struck by the fact that was 1980.
We didn't get approval of cannabidiol as an anticonvulsant, as epidiolex in this country,
until 2018.
So there was this huge gap of time that he was very surprised and outraged by, that this
work had gone on, had shown such great promise, and yet got ignored for all that time.
This might be as much of a question about the scientific method as it is about Dr.
Mishulam.
But what about cannabidiol caused Dr. Mishulam to, air quotes,
suspect that cannabidiol was an anticonvulsant?
Was there something in the nature or something that he had seen in people who used hashish?
Or was it the structure of the molecule itself that he could look at and envision how that
would interact with the human body?
No, I'm really going to attribute to his open-mindedness.
What I mean by that was, he was very aware of historical references to cannabis as an
anticonvulsant coming from the Arab world.
And these dated back many centuries.
So there was a suspicion that hashish could work as an anticonvulsant, and then it was
a matter of seeing what component or components might be responsible.
And why he honed in on cannabidiol probably was because they were aware at that time that
it wouldn't be intoxicating.
And so it would have an advantage if it worked.
It wouldn't have the liability that can be attached to THC.
Yeah, we still experience that difference even today.
Sure.
So I talk with a lot of research scientists on shaping fire, and more or less they fall
into three different groups.
Scientists that study an intoxicating substance, but they never touch it themselves because
they are not the kind of person who enjoys intoxicants.
And then in the middle, you've got scientists that don't use whatever it is regularly, but
they have used it to understand what the human experience is.
And then you've got researchers that research drugs, and they like using them as well.
Did Dr. Mishulam use cannabis or have any personal appreciation for it?
I'm going to have to equivocate a bit.
He would tell a story of first human experiences in trying THC, and it went something like
this.
He had invited friends and colleagues to a dinner party, and his wife Dahlia, who is
a wonderful person, had made a cake, and there were portions of 10 milligrams of THC.
I think that there were 10 people involved.
Five didn't show any obvious effects.
Five did.
One, an anxiety reaction.
The others felt something or felt different in ways that you might imagine.
One said nothing had happened, but was laughing outrageously every few minutes.
And another one said nothing happened, but never stopped talking.
So, you can draw your own conclusions.
What he didn't say in relating this story was whether he was one of the 10, but I imagine
he was.
I can attest to the fact that he was not a regular user of cannabis.
Right on.
Thank you for that story.
That's great.
Another key cannabinoid that Dr. Mishulam is credited for and we haven't brought up
yet is actually one of my favorites, anandamide, and he discovered it in 1992.
Would you tell us about the discovery of anandamide and what it meant for endocannabinoid
science and patient health generally?
Sure.
Yeah, I think we just have to back up a little bit to 2018.
At that time, William Devane in the lab of Alin Howlett at St. Louis University had
discovered a cannabinoid receptor.
So, and I'm going to back up a little more.
Prior to that time, people had no idea how THC worked.
The working theory was that it somehow disrupted the membranes of the neurons in the way that
alcohol, ethanol does.
But there were synthetic cannabinoids that were being made and these were stereoselective.
That's a way of saying that if the molecule had one configuration in three-dimensional
space, it worked.
It was intoxicating.
However, if it didn't have the right one, it didn't work.
That implied that there must be a receptor where the thing was working.
So, the search was on for a cannabinoid receptor and again, that was found in 2018.
Subsequently known to us now as CB1, the cannabinoid one receptor.
So, after that, there was an all-hands-on-deck search for endogenous ligands.
That's a way of saying that people were looking for molecules within us, endogenous cannabinoids,
now called endocannabinoids, that would bind with this receptor.
But again, it was super difficult.
The thing that set Professor Mishulam apart was he thought the endogenous molecules, rather
than being peptides, short amino acid molecules, rather would have to be a lipid to lodge on this
receptor.
So, analogous to THC.
And then things get really interesting because there they were in Israel.
This is in the lab, again, with William Devane and Lumir Hanoush, his associates at that time.
And they looked for these endogenous cannabinoids in pig brains.
Now, again, that's anachronistic for sure.
I can tell you that Jerusalem, where the work was done, is a very kosher city.
But there was a place in Tel Aviv that they could get the pig brains.
They said each time they went back, the price went up.
But after painstaking work over a couple of years, they had a tiny fraction of this material
that they identified chemically as ericodonal ethanolamide.
Then they had fun deciding what the common name of the molecule should be.
As it turned out, William Devane was a Sanskrit scholar.
And he knew that the Sanskrit word for bliss was ananda.
So, they called it anandamide, which is a great name, a beautiful coinage.
And they kept looking.
They found other related molecules.
And in 1994, they discovered another called 2-ericodonal glycerol, less flashy name,
just 2-HE for short.
That was in 95.
Yeah.
But then again, didn't stop there.
They found hundreds of related molecules that seemingly didn't do a lot on their own.
But in putting these together in different combinations, by 1998, they figured out
that there was synergy when you had the main players
with these less active or inactive related molecules.
Hence, the concept of the entourage effect was born in 1998.
So far, we have discussed maybe even a dozen, at least 10 different cannabinoids and
functioning aspects of the endocannabinoid system that Dr. Mishulam is credited for.
To round out this group, is there anything of significance,
any other cannabinoids that he discovered that we should make sure we mention at this time that
we haven't so far?
Well, again, just to make sure we do justice to his work, his discoveries included CBD, THC,
CBG, CBC, the acid cannabinoids CBNA, CBDA, CBGA, cannabicyclol, and likely a few more.
That's a great answer. I couldn't have asked for anything better. Thank you.
So, as we wrap up the first set here, I know the entirety of the first set has been how
we've been talking about how Dr. Mishulam's research changed our understanding very
specifically of cannabis and the endocannabinoid system on a level of perspective, kind of like
one level of magnitude up. What impact did this entire body of research have
on both the scientific acceptance and interest in cannabis and in the attraction of more scientists
to dive in because Dr. Mishulam's research opened up the area?
Yeah, in a word, it affected it profoundly. What we see, if you track the number of publications
on cannabinoids and the endocannabinoid system, there was a huge growth in the early 90s,
which has continued for some time. Once these molecules, particularly endocannabinoids,
were identified, it then was a matter of experimenting them to see where they are
and what they do. The fascinating thing, in retrospect, is every organ system, every type of
physiological function that was examined, there was a role for the endocannabinoid system.
So, again, we had discovery of cannabinoid compounds, then the endogenous cannabinoids.
They had to figure out how they were made and broken down, the metabolic and catabolic enzymes,
how they were regulated. So you can see how there was this expansion, sort of a pyramid effect
of research opportunities, and they were pursued around the world. Now, unfortunately,
that has not extended to enlightenment on the political side, nor did it totally break down
the barriers to research, which still remain in this country. Admittedly, it's easier to
study cannabis now than it was then, but it still remains very difficult.
Yeah, that is certainly the case. I can imagine after Dr. Mashulam's earliest discoveries,
he never wanted for funding, though, during his career. It sounds like he was an early celebrity,
and I just assume that he was well-funded at that point. Is that accurate?
Up to a point, but only after a certain point. His first application of the National Institutes
of Health, which then has now been the main funder of biomedical research domestically
and internationally, but his first application was turned down with the explanation that
nobody uses cannabis here. This is circa 1963. Then the tune changed, partly it was because of
this discovery, but additionally, there seemed to be a political rationale, something to the effect
that a senator's son was busted for, quote, marijuana, unquote, and wanted to know if it
was going to make him permanently crazy. All of a sudden, NIH was more interested
in cannabis and cannabinoids, and for the subsequent 40 years, Professor Mashulam had NIH funding annually.
That's a good story. All right, so we're going to take a short break and be right back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire, and my guest today is Dr. Ethan Russo. Without these advertisers,
Shaping Fire would not happen, so please support them and let them know you heard them on Shaping Fire.
The cannabis seed market is filled with big name and hype breeders fighting to get your attention,
and occasionally you discover a breeder who is breeding because it is the only thing they care
to do, and they would be doing it even if they never made a dime. That's my friend Craig Hartzaw,
who makes seeds as magnetic genetics. Craig comes from five generations of farmers and is earning
his master's degree in horticulture right now. He's been growing cannabis for 15 years and been
breeding for nine. He hasn't sold many seeds because he really isn't a sales guy, but I've
personally been growing his seeds for years, and I know I can always rely on his seeds to germinate,
thrive, and smell and taste great. I suggested to Craig that he should probably sell some seeds and
asked if he had enough stockpiled to bother. Much to my shock, he was sitting on five full
menus in cold storage that he produced in the last two years and hadn't even tried to sell any of
them. He was simply too busy breeding. Well, we his friends convinced him to make his damn seeds
available to the people, and now they are. For the first time anywhere, you can now buy magnetic
genetic seeds at Neptune Seed Bank and on strainly.io. Neptune Seed Bank has just picked up
magnetic genetics for a trial to gauge your interest. They are carrying three strains from
his Mean Mug, Prominence, and Turpinado menus, which are exclusive to Neptune. It's an easy way
to score his seeds. You can pick up those menus plus his Hillbilly Skunk and Candy Breath crosses
and more on his profile page on strainly.io. If you want very affordable seeds that are exceptional
quality with rare terpene profiles from a good guy, go to neptuneseedbank.com or strainly.io.
Sometimes it is fun to buy the hype thing from the brand you admire,
but when you're ready to buy the strain you'll love from an obscure mad scientist,
you're ready for magnetic genetics. Magneticgenetics.org and on Instagram. Magnetic Genetics.
One of the reasons why no-till cannabis growing is so valued by farmers is because the mycelium
networks in the soil remain established from year to year, and we know these fungal networks are
essential because they are the nutrient superhighways that extend far and wide in the
substrate to feed your plants. The trouble with growing in new living soils or blended
cocoa substrates is that it takes most of the plant's life just to create these mycelium highways.
Dinomycoendomycorrhizal fungi inoculant reduces that time and gets your plant eating a wider
array of nutrients faster. And it's three times the concentration of the other popular brand in
the US at 900 propagules per gram of two fungal species selected specifically for cannabis
cultivation. Dinomyco is the result of 30 years of research and trials at the Volcani Agriculture
Research Institute in Israel. It has also been vigorously trialed by cannabis and food growers
across the US. Dinomyco is now available at grow shops and on Amazon in the United States.
I love using Dinomyco to both speed up the growth of the mycelium networks in the soil,
but also as a biostimulant to make clone cuttings more virile. You can see side-by-sides showing the
comparative growth on their Instagram at Dinomyco. If you demand reliable growing results and
appreciate the importance of an active root zone in creating a thriving plant, I encourage you to
check out Dinomyco.com and use the store locator to find out where you can get yours. That's
Dinomyco.com. Shaping fire listeners can get 10% off any size of Dinomyco on Amazon or Dinomyco.com
by using the discount code SHAPINGFIRE, one word, no caps. Whether you are starting with new beds
or pots, or if you want to add some zing to tired soil, choose Dinomyco to maximize your
plant's potential. Dinomyco, endomycorrhizal, inoculant. There are so many seed banks nowadays
that you really have options in who to choose. Not only that, if you pick the wrong seed bank,
you could be in for a really sketchy ride. And that's only one of the reasons I recommend
Gaslamp Seeds to my friends and listeners who are looking for a seed bank. You probably already know
Gaslamp Seeds as Hembra Genetics. Hembra recently changed their name to Gaslamp Seeds.
Gaslamp Seeds is not just another seed bank. Gaslamp is a female-operated boutique cannabis
genetics provider that only sells thoughtfully curated seeds from the top names in cannabis
breeding. With over 60 breeders and over a thousand strains to choose from, you will certainly find
something you'll love. Gaslamp Seeds has something for everyone with over 650 feminized strains,
300 regular varieties, and over 200 auto flowers to choose from. Names you know you can trust,
like Compound Genetics, Humboldt Seed Company, Night Owl, In-House, Fast Buds,
Gnome Automatics, and Ethos. And we both know that there are other seed banks who will take
your money but have no customer service. I invited Gaslamp to advertise on Shaping Fire
after hearing so many good stories about them from my friends. They have A-plus customer service
with lightning-fast response times. In most cases, Helene and Caitlin will get your order out the
same day you place it. Most seed banks are simply not this organized or interested in getting your
seeds to you so fast. But Gaslamp Seeds cares. You even get free seeds with every order.
Helene and Caitlin get it. They have been in the cannabis growing scene for over a decade.
Want some extra freebies? Use the code SHAPINGFIRE, all one word, at checkout and they will give you
an additional set of Gaslamp provided freebies. That's an extra $30 in free seeds. Buy seeds from
good folks who will send you great seeds reliably every time. Visit GaslampSeeds.com today.
That's Gaslamp Seeds. Welcome back. You are listening to Shaping Fire. I am your host,
Shengo Lose, and my guest today is Dr. Ethan Russo. So during the first set, we talked, you
know, mostly about the timeline of Dr. Mishulam's discoveries and clearly how it impacted not only
the research of cannabis itself as a drug, but in a larger form, the endocannabinoid system,
and then the impacts that it had on medical research for humans as a whole. Where I want
to start out here in the second set is that, you know, how has Dr. Mishulam's research impacted the
development of cannabis-based medicines and what potential therapeutic applications have derived
from his work so far, you know, contemporarily? Yeah, that's a great question. I mean, the first
obvious ones are, you know, the classic cannabinoids, phytocannabinoids from the plant.
So at this time, in terms of cannabis-based medicines, we have synthetic THC as maranol,
which has never had big impact, but Sativex is an extract of two different chemiverses of cannabis,
one rich in THC and one rich in CBD, and that's approved in 30 countries around the world for
treatment of spasticity and multiple sclerosis, but not in the U.S. In the U.S., for the last few
years, we have had 98% pure cannabidiol as epidiolex for treatment of severe epilepsy syndromes,
but again, we're looking at future developments related to cannabigerol, cannabichromine,
and many others, and I need to extend the conversation to talk about the semi-synthetic
analogs that Professor Mishulam made, and perhaps we could run through those.
Yeah, please do, because I'm not sure what those are.
Okay, well, you know, chemists like to take a molecule and see how it might be
quote, improved, unquote, meaning different, meaning patentable, or longer-lasting, or more
potent. So, a good example there would be what's called HU210. So, the HU medicines were
all discovered by Professor Mishulam at Hebrew University, so that's where the HU derives.
So, HU210 was a dimethylheptyl derivative of THC. So, instead of just a five-carbon side chain,
it was a seven-carbon side chain with two methyl groups on it, and that made it
more potent and longer-lasting. So, HU210 is something, I believe, on the order of 50 to
100 times more potent than THC, and it's been a very important agent in laboratory studies of the
endocannabinoid system, but not a drug for clinical use. It has appeared occasionally
in synthetic cannabinoids, but it's not something I would ever recommend anybody taking.
I have a colleague who did and spent the whole weekend with a very bad experience.
Let's leave it at that. I'll never tell. A closely related molecule was HU211. Now,
this one actually got into the clinics, but wasn't approved, and that's a bit of a sad story.
This had the name dexanabinol. This was investigated by a now-defunct company called
Pharmos, an Israeli company. They developed this for treatment of severe head injuries,
the idea being that they would give this intravenously after someone had a severe head
injury, and hopefully it would help prevent damage from the head trauma. However, after this
was licensed to the company, they never consulted Professor Mishulam again. I think that they made
a big mistake in that because they, again, only used this once after the onset of the head injury
and not subsequently. It worked in phase two clinical trials, but in phase three, nothing.
It just didn't work. I wonder, in retrospect, whether they had administered it multiple times.
The result could have been different, but that's probably a done deal at this point.
And then there were a variety of agencies developed that yet could make it to the clinics.
Professor Mishulam was very active in research on CB2, the non-psychoactive receptor that's
important in pain and inflammation. He thought that one of the things the endocannabinoid system
did was provide protection from non-infectious insults or non-immunologic insults.
He developed a medicine called HU308, which is very active at the CB2 receptor, but not active
at CB1, so it wouldn't be intoxicating. And that's been investigated for arthritic conditions.
And then more recently, in 2018, he came out with HU580. So what this is, is they took the
cannabidiolic acid molecule, which is unstable, CBDA, and they made it a methyl ester. What that
means is they put this group on it that made itself stable, and it could be a prodrug. In other words,
when taken to the body, it would break down spontaneously into CBDA, which in testing has
shown very powerful activity on the serotonin 1A receptor, where CBD also works, but it's somewhere
between 100 and 1,000 times more potent. So this may have application in treating nausea of different
causes, among other things. It also might have a role in treating anxiety, but that really hasn't
gotten to the clinic yet. There still could be developments there.
So I have a two-part question. It's a request for a vocabulary clarification,
but then also I would like you to explain its use in the lab. And here's what it is.
You began the answer talking about the cannabis analogs that Dr. Mishulam had created. And so
when you said that, I'm like, all right, that sounds like synthetic cannabinoids to me. And
we've discussed, both you and I, and then on other episodes about how synthetic cannabinoids can be
useful in the lab, but it's not as great when they get out of the lab and people try to take them as
if they're from nature and they're not. So you started by describing these analogs that Dr.
Mishulam was making, and then you described these agents that Dr. Mishulam was making,
and then you seem to contrast and say, and also synthetic cannabinoids, where
if he made them, it sounds like they're all synthetic cannabinoids. So the first part of
the answer, I'd like you to tease those apart. But then second, for people who have never thought
about the use of synthetic cannabinoids in research, in the lab only, but not actually
used out in the real world, would you explain what that lab tool is for?
Sure. So again, of the ones I mentioned, HU210 was the only one that was a CB1 agonist,
so would cause intoxication. So HU210 and related drugs in the lab would be used to look at binding.
So say you had an unknown substance, you wanted to compare its activity to something,
it could be compared to HU210 as one example, whether your new substance could displace
HU210 from the receptor, compete with it. So it'd be a measure of potency.
And you're correct, I have decried the use of high-potency CB1 agonists as
potentially quite dangerous. But these other agents, HU211, 308, 580, were all for entirely
different purposes and really would have no activity on the CB1 receptor.
I see. So it sounds like analog, agent, and synthetic cannabinoids are probably in the same
bucket, but we delineate between them because some of them are for use solely in the lab
and should not be used outside for people for either medicinal or recreational reasons.
But then the other ones are also synthetic, but they're also promising as actual healthy medicines,
and so we just refer to them differently then. Quite right.
Okay, great. Cool, thank you. So while Dr. Mishulam's role was clearly set in pharmaceuticals,
you and I have spoken on this program often about both of our beliefs in whole plant medicine,
whole plant cannabis resin. What were Dr. Mishulam's personal thoughts about whole plant
medicine and using the whole resin instead of isolating compounds and then mix and matching
them to make something patentable since he worked in the pharmaceutical realm,
but also his heart was in pure medicine? You know, he straddled both worlds.
Part of the time that we worked most closely together was between 2003 and 2014. We were both
working actively with GW Pharmaceuticals. They would have an annual research meeting, which
he attended, I attended as a senior medical advisor at that time to the company.
So we worked with people at the company and also with other cannabinoid scientists,
mainly European, and get together and talk about projects and plans. A lot of what we know now
about cannabidiol, cannabigerol, and the others came from that research. So he absolutely
understood and aided the development of these whole plant medicines, Sativex and Epidiolex.
At the same time, he was working on the semi-synthetic analogs. I would highlight a
point of difference, perhaps, he and I. I'm not so sure he was absolutely convinced
of the role of the terpenoids in cannabis. You may recall I pointed out in 1998,
he had coined the term with Professor Ben Shabbat of the Entourage Effect, initially applied
to endogenous cannabinoids. The next year, the same pair published another article and pointed
out that the same thing could apply to cannabis, the idea that plants might be better medicines
than their single components. Well, I already felt that way, and I really seized upon this,
and although some people have misattributed coining the term, the Entourage Effect, to me,
I didn't. I may have popularized it through my efforts to show the synergy between terpenoids
and cannabinoids. I think he needed a little more convincing. At the time, in 1999,
they pointed out that this idea that plants could be better medicine than single compounds
was a theory, but in the ensuing 24 years, we've had a lot of proof for that theory.
A good scientist is thinking about possibilities and also retaining an air of skepticism. I think
that's necessary. Sometimes you have to play devil's advocate with your colleagues or with
yourself. Well, yeah, because the whole point is that we're hypothesizing. We don't want to go
into it assuming we're right. We have to be our own devil's advocate. So much has changed in
cannabis research in the last decade of Dr. Mishulam's life. What was Dr. Mishulam's opinion
on the current state of cannabis research and the potential for new discoveries in the field?
Well, he never stopped working. He continued throughout his career to find new things to do.
We've mentioned many of his accomplishments, but in more recent decades, he worked with the late
E. type Bob on endocannabinoids and their role in treating osteoporosis. He did some clinical work
on cannabidiol for graft versus host disease that affects transplant patients. It really never ended.
Again, the more recent work on making the methyl esters of the acid cannabinoids to make them more
stable and also the important work on the CB2 receptor done with Paul Pacher, who's at the
National Institutes of Health, and the idea that the endocannabinoid system provided protection
from non-infectious insults. It never ended.
So the wording of this question is kind of, I guess, juvenile, but I think the point of it is
good. As cannabinoid research expanded here in the last 15 years or so, was Dr. Mishulam
at all annoyed that there were people who were not approaching cannabis medicine properly in some way
because there were so many people do it? Or was he generally thinking that this was badass,
that there were all these different types of scientists looking into it?
He was not prone to criticize that often. However, he was quite willing to decry the
dearth of clinical work that had gone on in any number of areas. This is certainly manifest by
the fact that, again, here's a bench scientist with a lifetime record of accomplishment, and when
the International Association for Cannabinoid Medicine's clinical group was begun in 2001,
he was right there at every meeting and contributing and encouraging people to do
more work. So that was another place that we got together. All told, I tallied it up
after word of his demise, and he and I were together at meetings or working together in
at least 14 different countries. That actually must have been a pretty
heartfelt list that you worked on after his passing last week. You bet.
To wrap up this set, I was curious, you told that great story about the cake, but how did Dr.
Mishulam view the use of cannabis for recreational purposes in society, and has his research affected
his stance over the years? Yeah, a little bit of a tough one. It's not something he talked about a
lot. My impression would be that he thought that a lot of it was a distraction, and he was laser
focused on clinical applications for this system. So he wasn't a prohibitionist overtly in any kind
of sense. But I think far more interesting to him was how can we harness these substances
to treat disease. Yeah, I can see him being all, listen, I'm trying to get the labs going, I'm
trying to get funding, and you guys getting busted for illegal weed is in the news that it's not
helpful. So not that he's necessarily against the use. Right. He was never so overt about it, but
I'm sure he may have harbored internal feelings of a similar nature. Yeah, I can follow that. All
right, thank you. So we're going to take another short break and be right back. You're listening
to Shaping Fire, and my guest today is Dr. Ethan Russo. There are a lot of good people launching
new businesses in cannabis, psilocybin, and other psychedelics, and it's a very strange time for us.
In the same moment that psilocybin mushrooms are illegal at the federal level,
they are becoming increasingly legal in states across the country.
These businesses leading the way into the future of plant medicines require specialized legal
representation by attorneys who have depth not only in litigation, mergers, and acquisitions,
but also in psychedelic and other plant medicines. Green Light Law Group has been empowering cannabis
businesses since 2014, and as the market has diversified into psilocybin and other plant
medicines, Green Light has been right there, evolving with their diverse clients to provide
legal expertise with a high level of legal acumen, creative strategy, and precision that comes with
an intimate and specific understanding of both business law and plant medicine.
If you are a business owner trying to navigate the layered local and national drug laws on your own,
you are at risk of fumbling. These confusing and quickly changing laws complicate everything.
Green Light Law Group is ready to help you when hit with a lawsuit, or because you were shafted
by a vendor or business partner, or simply because you want to stay legal and could use
some preventative guidance before cultivating a controlled substance as an entrepreneur.
Green Light Law Group is a collection of folks who care profoundly about their work,
and I know this is true because I know the folks from Green Light.
There is a huge difference between a big legal firm who has decided to start representing a
few drug companies, versus working with a collection of high integrity, passionate lawyers
who are personally interested in new plant medicines and firmly believe in their power to heal.
Contact Green Light Law Group today and learn more about the services they can offer your
industry-leading cannabis or psychedelics company. That's Green Light Law Group at
greenlightlawgroup.com.
Online cannabis seed distributors often seem to be all the same, but Multiverse Beans constantly
works to provide you with cannabis seeds and a buying experience that you won't find elsewhere.
Multiverse Beans works directly with the breeders to secure as many packs of your
favorites as possible so that they have your favorite beans long after others have sold out.
Some shops simply buy breeder minimums, but I get messages all the time from breeders saying
some version of, Multiverse asked to buy my entire line of Beans.
At multiversebeans.com you can find rare cannabis seeds from Night Owl Seeds,
including the Dark Owl sub-label, Mephisto Genetics, Square One Genetics,
Robin Hood Seeds, and Ethos and so many others.
Multiverse also initiates projects with breeders to secure exclusive packs
that you simply won't find elsewhere.
Multiverse founder Paul Lal sees himself not only as a curator of the best cannabis seeds available,
but also as a collaborator with breeders trying to bring novel crosses to the market that his
customers are asking for.
Multiverse Beans also creates exclusive stickers for their popular seed varieties
that are available free only when you order those seeds from Multiverse.
Check out their stickers like the badass recent slap for Mothman by Gnome Automatics
on Instagram at multiversebeans.
And finally the freebies.
And finally the freebies.
As you'd expect, Paul sends quality freebies with every order.
And when you spend at least $150, Multiverse allows you to choose your freebies from their
special selections.
You can get a 10% discount off regularly priced items when you use the discount code
shapingfire, all one word, at checkout.
Sign up for their mailing list to be eligible for their monthly seed giveaway worth $250.
So go to multiversebeans.com now for a buying experience you won't get anywhere else.
As cannabis regulations become more demanding and consumers become more educated, it is
increasingly important to avoid the use of chemical pesticides when cultivating cannabis.
Beneficial insects have been used for decades by the greenhouse vegetable and ornamental
plant industry, and today many cannabis cultivators are moving from sprays and chemicals to
beneficial insects.
Copert has the beneficial insects, mites and nematodes, microbials, sticky cards, and
air distribution units you need to partner with nature to defend your garden.
Whether you manage acres of canopy or have a simple grow tent in your home, Copert is
ready to help answer your questions and help you transition away from chemical sprays
towards clean and natural solutions.
Since the 1990s, Copert has been a leader in cannabis pest and disease control worldwide
and have highly trained consultants to assist you in Canada and the United States from coast
to coast.
With their global network of grower support, Copert can help.
Visit copert.com to learn more about Copert and its benefits.
Your country and get detailed information.
That's copert.
K-O-P-P-E-R-T dot com.
For the most up-to-date cannabis-related biological control information, you can also check
their Instagram at copertcanada.
You know getting away from pesticides is good for health and good for business, and Copert
is ready to help.
Visit copert.com today.
Welcome back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire.
I am your host, Shangolos, and my guest today is Dr. Ethan Russo.
So, Ethan, how has Dr. Mishulam's work impacted the development of new drug therapies beyond
cannabis?
I can imagine that there are other areas of medicine that are benefiting from his research.
Again, the endocannabinoid system is ubiquitous.
It is the major homeostatic regulator of human physiology and that of all higher animals.
So, it's had a huge impact.
Unfortunately, that hasn't extended towards education of medical students on the system
and its importance.
So, again, you know, this idea that there were these lipid molecules rather than water
soluble molecules, the cannabinoids, led to a real expansion.
You know, the endocannabinoid system isn't really confined to the two known cannabinoid
receptors.
It's become a much broader concept and includes a number of the TRIP receptors and even some
of the serotonin receptors, particularly serotonin 1A, which I'm happy to say was an
extension of work that I did with colleagues at the University of Montana back in 2005.
So, it's been an ever expanding, it's like the tendrils of the plant have extended in
all these areas of science.
It's been an amazing thing to see.
Over the 30 years since the discovery of the endocannabinoid system.
You know, that's one of the reasons why some people are even skeptical or suspicious of
cannabis because they say, oh, you people talk about it like it's a panacea.
It's like as if it's going to solve all these things.
And that only comes from people who don't understand the endocannabinoid system because
that is the whole point.
It's everywhere.
And so, by working with cannabinoids, you can work on all these different ailments.
And I don't think that the skepticism for that is going to be overcome until more people
are familiar with how the endocannabinoid system actually functions.
Quite right.
You know, again, it's important to say there really aren't a lot of things that cannabis
cures.
However, there are a tremendous number of things that cannabis treats effectively, at
least as an adjunct, if not directly.
So, what did Dr. Mishulman feel was the most rewarding aspect of his career?
His list of recognitions and awards, it's a long list, but the list of what he achieved
is different than the achievements that he himself was most proud of.
Well, you know, that's a hard one for me to say.
He was not the kind of guy that rested on his proverbial laurels.
There was always more work to do.
So, I don't think it's something you'd dwell on.
You know, when we look at this list of accomplishments over the course of six decades,
it's astounding.
But the obvious pattern is the guy never quit working or thinking about what's next.
So, to me, he was a role model in that regard.
You know, to an extent, if I can compare myself, it's the same thing.
When I get a paper accepted for publication, I'm happy for a little while, but thinking
about what's next.
Fair enough.
It's sort of the restless mind syndrome.
While Dr. Mishulam was involved in cannabis policy creation in Israel, much more than
ever in the United States, what advice do you think Dr. Mishulam would give to U.S.
policymakers and regulators regarding the regulation of cannabis and cannabis-based
medicines?
I think it'd be really concise, and that would be to follow the science.
Again, I have no doubt that he had pervasive skepticism about the ability of politicians
to incorporate the kind of scientific knowledge that was going on in this area.
But I don't remember him wasting a lot of time with criticism of that.
There might be some remark in paper that he would have made, but I don't remember him
passing.
But again, his concentration was always on advancement of the science.
So looking forward, clearly Dr. Mishulam mentored so many, and he even mentored so many
people who never met him, who knew him through his research and his interviews.
What advice do you think that Dr. Mishulam would give to young researchers interested
in studying cannabis and its compounds now?
Well, I think the first thing he'd say was expect to work hard.
It is a very deep and difficult field.
I mean, the thing that attracted me when I really got into it circa 1996 was, boy, this
is complex, but it's also exciting.
And boy, I became addicted to cannabinoid knowledge very quickly and led to a career
change.
And that's happened to plenty of other scientists and physicians.
But I have to really identify his personal role in this, because the thing that most
people who met or corresponded with Dr. Mishulam will tell you was how availing he was of
his time in helping them with whatever question they posed to him.
So I've met hundreds of people, not just scientists, who said, you know, I wrote to
him and I was shocked.
He got back to me.
Or even we talked on the phone or Zoom, and he gave me all this time, and people are just
blown away by that.
But that's the way he was.
As he explained, he didn't have a lot of hobbies, but he was always willing to talk
about this.
So it's kind of an amazing set of circumstances that Dr. Mishulam even got to be a researcher
His family was persecuted by the Nazis.
His father was placed in a concentration camp and survived.
And eventually, Dr. Mishulam found his way to Israel, where we all know his research
blossomed.
Of course, as a Jewish person, this would have been part of his culture and his awareness
his entire life.
In what ways do you think it influenced his life choices or even research choices that
he grew up in persecuted times?
Yeah, you know, because we had so much one-on-one time, these are things I got to talk to him
about, you know, his early experiences and what they went through in the war.
You know, basically, Bulgaria was occupied by the Nazis early on.
There was a certain, well, definite level of collaboration.
A very strange situation developed in that King Boris in Bulgaria decided that they
would protect the Jews of Bulgaria to an extent, but they had invaded Macedonia next door and
basically allowed, even collaborated with the Nazis in sending the Jews of Macedonia
to the death camps, Treblinka, in most instances.
There went all of my family on my father's side, with the exception of my grandfather.
So, you know, it was a difficult situation.
As you mentioned, his father spent time in a concentration camp, but when it burned down
and he helped the people that were victims of that, they decided to let him go.
But after the war, Bulgaria became a communist country.
There was, again, increase in anti-Semitism, and that's when he emigrated to Israel in 1949.
What came out of this?
Again, it's not something he dwelled upon.
However, I think that it probably caused him to take nothing for granted in life.
He was an extremely open-minded person.
He also wasn't tainted by politics, which is so easy to have happen.
You know, I can give a lot of examples.
In 1999, when I met Professor Meshulam, I also met Professor Mahmoud El-Salih from the
University of Mississippi, who was an Egyptian.
I wondered, geez, how are these guys going to get along?
But in fact, they've been colleagues forever, and the politics of their
nations never entered into their relationship.
Also, when I went to do research on cannabis in Morocco in 2002,
I was delighted with how curious people were about Professor Meshulam there and the reverence
that they had for him.
So, it really transcended politics.
Finally, Professor Meshulam had Palestinian researchers in his lab.
You know, and again, there, the business was science, it wasn't politics.
It reminds me of how you referred to his thought that he wasn't as interested in the,
he thought that science should inform regulations and policy.
I can imagine him having that same idea about politics and race and how he interacted with
others, where it's like the science was the priority, and it's better for us to all be
all be friends and focus on the science than letting the rest of the world into our lab to
slow us down.
You bet.
Yeah.
So, I'd like to finish this episode with a bit of a personal question for you.
I really appreciate the time that you've offered us and sharing your personal stories of Dr.
Meshulam.
You know, obviously, the two of you were such good friends as to feel like family.
And I'm curious, what was Dr. Meshulam's impact on you as both a cannabis researcher,
but also as a human being?
Well, he was a role model in every respect.
He was a very magnanimous and magnetic guy, very warm, funny.
You know, I mentioned we had this immediate bond as fellow Sephardic Jew.
I considered him like my surrogate uncle.
He was 22 years older than me.
He looked a little bit like my father.
You know, for all I know, we could have been genetic cousins on some level,
because there was interchange during the Ottoman era between, it was Bulgaria and Macedonia were
all part of the Ottoman Empire at that time.
But, you know, it was a great relationship and I miss him.
I was really proud that he asked me to write the first chapter of his last book in 2005.
He thought that they needed an article on the history of cannabis and that
should begin with one of the oldest cannabis cultures in India.
As it happened, I had this huge amount of data I'd amassed with nowhere to go.
And here he asked me to write a book chapter.
And so I was very pleased with that.
Also, he provided me with what I think is one of the best compliments I've ever had in my life.
It was probably about 2008.
We were at a conference in London together and he tried to introduce me to somebody I
already knew, Georg Gersh, the Swiss scientist.
And he said something to the effect that of, I'd like you to meet my friend, Ethan Russo.
And then he said, he has many crazy ideas.
And I laughed like hell because if he knew Rafi, that was a great compliment and I certainly took
it as such.
Yeah.
That's a beautiful story.
And I can imagine that right now in this week or two after his passing, those types of thoughts are
heavy on your heart as you look back and appreciate your friendship.
So thank you, Ethan, for taking the time to discuss Dr. Mashulam with us and sharing your
personal stories because as we all know over time, history changes and people forget.
And it's very important to record these people who mean so much to us so that we can remember
them as they were.
So thank you, Ethan.
Amen.
All right.
So you, dear listener, if you would like to hear more from Dr. Russo, and I think you do,
I've got a bunch of places for you to check out.
At the top of the list is you can go check out Dr. Russo's company where he does research.
That's Credo Science and that's credo-science.com.
You can also find ethanrusso.org.
And if you go to the library tab, you can see all of Ethan's papers there under that tab,
which is really convenient if you want to look at his work without trying to find out
where the papers are online and trying to get permissions to download them and all that kind
of stuff.
Ethan's a big fan of having as many of his papers available as possible.
If you would like to reach out to Ethan directly, he always offers his email address,
which is ethanrusso at comcast.net.
And I just want to say that Ethan, I think, gets back to everybody, or at least tries to get back
to everybody, but also realize that he is an active, everyday researcher still.
And so sometimes it takes him a while to get back with folks.
And you might not get the reply you want until he's stuck in an airport somewhere for a couple
hours.
And then there's a great series on the Shaping Fire YouTube channel, the Ethan Russo Shaping
Fire Sessions, which is a series of 10 short videos on an array of topics that I thought
were being under considered in cannabis.
And so Ethan and I sat down in his front room and he addressed those various topics.
And then finally, I don't think anybody has appeared on Shaping Fire as much as Ethan
has.
I think there's either six or seven just fantastic episodes where Ethan shares his
research on a range of topics from cannabis terpenes, the endocannabinoid system, psilocybin,
migraines.
I mean, it's all really juicy stuff.
So I recommend you go back and check out the Shaping Fire catalog of episodes.
It's easily searchable if you just put Ethan Russo in and it'll pop them all up for you.
You can find more episodes of the Shaping Fire podcast and subscribe to the show at
shapingfire.com and wherever you get your podcasts.
If you enjoyed the show, we'd really appreciate it if you would leave a positive review of
the podcast wherever you download.
Your review will help others find the show so they can enjoy it too.
On the Shaping Fire website, you can also subscribe to the newsletter for insights into
the latest cannabis news, exclusive videos, and giveaways.
On the Shaping Fire website, you also find transcripts of today's podcast as well.
Be sure to follow on Instagram for all original content not found on the podcast.
That's at shapingfire and at shangolos on Instagram.
Be sure to check out the Shaping Fire YouTube channel for exclusive interviews, farm tours,
and cannabis lectures.
Does your company want to reach our national audience of cannabis enthusiasts?
Email hotspot at shapingfire.com to find out how.
Thanks for listening to Shaping Fire.
I've been your host, Shango Los.
