Synergy is something that gets talked about a lot nowadays. It comes from the Greek word
for working together. The idea that a few things can come together and become something
better than the individual ingredients is something that can apply to lots of things,
like sports teams, musical arrangements, and even natural farming. When the right ingredients
with the right attributes come together, wondrous things can happen that we may not have expected.
Sometimes bringing those things together incorrectly can be bad, too. As we move through our lives,
we try to put together more good synergies than we do bad ones. Cultivating cannabis
is essentially a practice in creating good synergies. Today we're going to talk about
creating good synergies in Korean natural farming.
If you want to learn about cannabis health, business, and technique efficiently and with
good cheer, I encourage you to subscribe to our newsletter. We'll send you new podcast
episodes as they come out, delivered right to your inbox, along with commentary on a
couple of the most important news items from the week and videos, too. Don't rely on social
media to let you know when a new episode is published. Sign up for the updates to
make sure you don't miss an episode. Also, we're giving away very cool prizes to folks
who are signed up to receive the newsletter. There's nothing else you need to do to win
except receive that newsletter. So go to shapingfire.com to sign up for the newsletter and be entered
into this month's and all future newsletter prize drawings.
You are listening to Shaping Fire and I'm your host, Shango Los. My guest today is Chris
Trump. Chris is a master natural farmer certified by Master Cho of Korea. He has also studied
microbial analysis under Dr. Elaine Ingham. Many consider his YouTube videos explaining
Korean natural farming techniques to have been the key to cannaf's wildly increasing
popularity in the US. It is especially helpful that Chris is a certified cannaf educator
who actually speaks English. You can take Chris' courses online at naturalfarming.co
and in person across the US. Chris has been a guest before on episode 35 explaining the
basics of cannaf and its sudden rise of popularity in the US. Today we'll be discussing how to
blend cannaf preps in order to use them properly to create synergies.
Welcome back to Shaping Fire, Chris.
Hey, thanks for having me, Shango.
Right on.
Good talking with you.
Yeah, good to have you back. So since I started studying cannaf a few years ago, I have both
made a few preparations and I've actually received a lot of them from friends too. And
I have enough now that I really actually need a small fridge to store them in besides my
kitchen fridge, right? What that means even more though is that not only do I have ferments,
but like I've got enough to get myself into trouble. When I took your nutrition cycle
course online last week, I realized that much of what I thought I knew was actually wrong.
So let's start by knocking down some of those misconceptions that are being repeated
by well-intentioned people online. The one that stands out for me is the idea that cannaf
preparations should only be used one at a time. I really thought that was the case.
So what do you teach about that that you learned from your teacher, Master Cho?
Yeah, it is. It's really common and it's actually not good. Some of the preps by themselves
are so far from a balanced nutrient that we can get into trouble. Yeah, so with natural
farming, there's not a single thing we use by itself. So if you've got a natural farming
prep, you're in need of the complementary nutrients or I call the individual preps inputs
and the combination of solutions. So you're never using an input like an FPGA or an OHN
or something by itself. You're blending it into a solution for a balanced nutrient.
So it's important. FPGA by itself, for example, probably the most common one used by itself
is imbalanced enough that you're potentially and likely going to create a bug problem.
It's like candy coating or fattening, over fattening your plant and it's just asking
for critters. So yeah, it's a big deal. Definitely. So let's break out that term
balanced nutrient. So tell me a little bit at the real basic level, what is a balanced
nutrient versus an imbalanced nutrient? What are their characteristics and how will I know
the difference when I see them? Yeah, so we use vinegar and kind of as a base, it's one
of the core inputs needed for making anything in natural farming. And so the basic preparation
that most things are kind of added to would be vinegar, rice vinegar, preferably OHN,
oriental herbal nutrient and FPGA fermented plant juice. You would mix those to get your
maintenance solution or seed soak solution. I have a video, I think on YouTube on seed
soak solution or SES. But that is kind of your starter, if you will. You start with that and
then if your plant's in need of nitrogen for vegetative growth, you're moving into adding,
you know, fish amino acid. But the balance comes in the vinegar, that pH, that sourness,
that acid plays well with this kind of compost extract or liquid compost that FPGA is. And then
OHN is this, you know, we use it so little, there's such a tiny amount. But the little bits
of alcohol in the OHN actually promote or foster kind of a good reaction in the circulatory system
of a plant, being able to take in nutrients like FPGA. And there is a nutrient in the rice vinegar
or grain vinegar. There's nutrients in other vinegars too. And if you don't have rice vinegar,
it's okay. But that complimentary kind of dynamic that happens in these multiple types of inputs is
really what makes this work. And using any of it by itself, you're off in experiment land with an
untried system and something that none of us have seen good results from. So yeah, it's kind of like
don't bother making FPGA if you're going to try and use it by itself. You're better off, you know,
I mean, yeah, maybe you can mix it in some water and drench it on the ground with some other things
that you like. But generally speaking, keep it away from a foliar application by itself.
It's interesting. I actually really like, I don't know, the level of magnitude that you answered
that question in about a balanced nutrient. If I was talking to someone else, let's say a
reductionist scientist, I might actually hear like, oh, well, you know, a balanced nutrient is one
that has these amino acids and these other inputs. And then when you put them together, you get this
whole chemical. But instead you answered it very much based on how we're going to use it, like
tactically, right? You're all like, okay, well, if you spray the FPGA on its own, you're spraying sugar
all over your plants and you're probably going to attract bugs. But if we balance it with a vinegar,
the vinegar checks the sugars is what I'm assuming that is the thought behind that. And so you have
made something balanced. And it's not really balanced based on what is necessarily under a
microscope. It's balanced in how these two solutions play out in nature. And, you know, that's
one of the things that I really like about KNF, even though, as you've said many times, the, you
know, how it's taught in Korea, there's a lot of what, you know, Americans might consider
mysticism. Really, it's taught by like story almost, how it is actually used in real life instead of
what's happening at the microscopic level.
Yeah, yeah. I think that's the part I play in this too, Shingo. I love, you know, scientific papers
I've spent, you know, a lot of time just enjoying and going down the rabid trails of understanding
with the work and the research people have done. And so much of what we are asking nowadays with the
microbiological world hasn't been comprehensively studied. And so there's these pieces and bits and
you got to understand one thing to even access another. And I've really enjoyed the journey of
learning in that way. And getting to talk with a great, a lot of great scientific minds and people
in different universities around the world. But for me, though, I kind of think of myself as a
scientist, I'm a farmer. And this teaching of this, the communication of this and the application of this
is for farmers. And so, yeah, we can get into the, you know, the amino acids in or fatty acids in the
cell wall tissue of the, you know, plant that you're FPJing and how that gets pulled out through osmotic
pressure. And that there's these, these complex nutrients that are made plant available because it's
micronized through that fermentation process or being broken down into such fine particles. But really, for a
farmer that doesn't help them. Or it can, it can with understanding. And that's valuable. But so much of what's
needed is just succeeding. And in using tech that's been proven, and being able to apply it effectively. So
it's definitely where I focus because if there's not a billion scientific papers in natural farming in the next 10
years, I'm okay with that, as long as we're starting to take over the world and, and real quality of food and, and
medicine production.
Right on. You know, historically, too, one of the reasons that, you know, lessons of all kinds, whether they be
like religious parables, or, or, or scientific stories of the balance of nature between different animal
populations that you get from, you know, historical farmer anecdotes and stuff. In the end, what we're trying to
do is often package, package the learning in ways that everyone can understand, because there's no doubt it's
good to have the universities backing up the Korean natural farming teachings with actual repeatable results,
scientific results, but not everybody who is who, who wants to be a natural farmer is interested in that level of
detail. Sometimes they are more interested in knowing what works. And, and I think that that, you know, that
storytelling approach or, or, you know, as we've already said, balancing the FPJ with some vinegar, that may be all
somebody needs to know to be able to feed their family and their community.
Totally. Or, or make their bottom line work.
Yeah, or make their bottom line work. So, um, let's, let's hit on some specifics for a moment for the folks who are
like me, I, you know, I've been spraying FPJ on its own since I started making it. Right. So I know I'm wrong. I'm
willing to cop to that. So, so if I'm going to spray my fermented plant juice, how much vinegar should I be matching
it with so that I get that balance and I don't turn it into a massive bug attractant?
Yeah, at the very minimum, if you had just, just FPJ, and you're wanting to start natural farming, and you didn't have OHN,
you couldn't buy any, and it's three months to make it, you can do a 1 to 500 FPJ in water, and a 1 to 500 vinegar. So it's the
same amount of vinegar and FPJ. They're equal in the solution, but they're also used at a very small amount. And you don't
want to overdo it. Very, very typical American trait is if you know, if I hear that 1 to 500 is good, then 1 to 250, you know,
double that will be better. And it's just not the case. It's not how it works.
Dude, I'm that guy. I am totally that guy. I can. So so would you would you, you know, go a little deeper into that? Like, how
can such small amounts be so effective? And how can a difference between 1 to 500 and 1 to 250 that small of a change actually
make a difference?
Yeah, it's, it's, um, it's how we get these nutrients. It's how the it's the process to make them. That's important. You know, the,
um, the word micronization, or micronize, it's a real word, I didn't make it up. And, and microbes are incredibly effective at
micronizing complex nutrients. So and, and, and big things. There's a lot of, you know, biochemicals that are that are really not plant
available, they're tied up in these long chains. And roots don't have the ability to, nor does the kind of plant tissue surface have the
ability to break those down or eat them. It's kind of like, it's kind of like that plastic packaging, you know, when they send you like a
flash drive, and, and you nearly kill yourself trying to open it, you know, it's, that's, that's the the level of tied up that a lot of the
nutrients in say, a stick or a blade of grass are, you know, so so that's not food to my plant, it can become food, if it's broken down, if it's
composted, or if it sits on the surface of the soil, and the microbes get to it there. Those are great, they can be great nutrients, but as they are,
they're, they're not plant available, or they're not readily eaten by roots, roots are able to kind of take in they have minor acids, roots do for for
kind of like, creating space, if you will, they can they can push in between a rock or create cracks, you know, for so for, for kind of physiological
movement for physical, like creating space for their roots to continue to push down. Plants have the ability to do that. But as far as breaking down what
they're coming in contact with, it's just not not possible. So what you're doing is you're taking this really great food, you know, these plants that you're
seeing that are always lush and green and rich, maybe a wild weed or something. And you're taking it through fermentation, which causes it to be
micronized. So all that beneficial biochemicals and, you know, mineral content, and carbohydrate, and then fats and acids that exist in the structure of
that plant become broken apart, that they start to break down these chains. And all of a sudden, this this really kind of full nutrient, albeit small, I mean,
we're not using a whole lot of this is is really available to a plant and you can, if you overdo it, even a little bit, you can make your plants drunk or kind of loopy,
overfed, kind of like, you know, too much of a good thing. You'll see it in the plant reaction. I made this mistake. I, my wife's grandmother had orchids. And she, sweetest lady, we named
one of our kids after him after her, Ruth, Ruthie. And anyway, she loved her orchids. And so I brought her over some liquid IMO that was freshly made, well made, and had all kinds of great
nutrients for plants. And I'd been using it successfully on trees and vegetable gardens. And so I had no worry giving it to Ruthie. Well, orchids are far lighter eaters than so much of what we're encountering in the kind of
plant kingdom. And her orchid keeled over like it was drunk as could be, and, and never recovered. And it was it wasn't like we fed it poison, or, you know, gave it anything that would cause that, you know, because it was wrong for the plant. We just gave it too much of a good thing.
What an orchid needed was that normal dilution I use on plants to be diluted probably 1000 times and just have this really feather light meal. And so that's, that's just one of the plant kingdoms kind of interaction with it.
But, you know, these, these mixes, these recipes aren't new. They've been around a long time. And they've been played with a lot in with plants in the plant kingdom to come up with the right ratios for plants. And so and it gets into the philosophy of what we're doing to which we can go into more later. But
go ahead and go ahead, finish, finish that thought. What what is the philosophy and how does it play in here?
Yeah, so so it's the it's the right amount of nutrition at the right time. This is kind of core to the the nutritive cycle theory. And I say theory because though it's been used all over the world on many different crops, there's still more to do. When I when I do when I give out a handout, kind of laying out what a potential feeding program is,
what a potential feeding program would be for a crop I lay I give rice because I was taught with rice because that's very Korean crop, you know, they grow it all over. And it's really incredible. You drive down the highway in Korea and the medians and those little triangles in between overpasses. They're full of, you know, solid, beautiful, you know, full heads of rice that somebody's cultivating.
And it's really neat. And I think we could we could definitely learn something from that. But no, it's it's this this kind of concept that, you know, and again, back to story time, we we teach it when we teach this and we're introducing kind of a new mind, if you will, to what we're talking about, because it's so foreign to how we do agriculture.
Currently, or kind of our traditional conventional agriculture in the US. I use human life cycle to kind of talk about it. And so like, you know, a newborn baby, you know, what, what is the first, you know, if it's, you know, getting its food from mom, what's the first food it gets?
That's a question.
Oh, I thought you were being rhetorical. Sorry. Well, mother's milk, of course.
Mother's milk, but not the mother's milk will get for the rest of its, you know, breastfeeding journey, it gets a very different first meal.
A baby gets something called colostrum. It's it's a mineral rich, low nutrient kind of meal. It doesn't have all the fats and proteins of mother's milk. It has very little of that. And it's full of mineral, you know, kind of minor nutrients that the child will use to kind of do their daily activities.
Do brain development and get it all systems going in a new way. And, you know, when we take a seedling, you know, where it's barely popped its first true leaf, and we're feeding it, you know, with the big guns, we're giving the wrong level of nutrient to that plant will actually stunt the growth.
And we've done side by side trials on this where, you know, you think, oh, feeding it a ton as soon as it pops is the best way to get it to rush towards development. And we've proven out that it's not. You're actually stunting your potential growth by overfeeding a seedling.
And so I teach that all we're putting on in the beginning of a plant's life is maintenance solution, just that tiny bit of nutrient that comes from the FPGA. But we're giving them that that kind of mineral and balanced nutrient of that vinegar.
So, so what I'm hearing and please do correct me if I'm if I'm not understanding how I'm understanding this is that going back to your example of a stick, you're like, OK, the nutrition in this stick, there is nutrition in this stick, but it's all it's all wrapped up.
It's all, you know, hard into this stick, just like trying to open packaging from Best Buy or something like that.
Whereas what the can F prep is, is the removing of all of that packaging, which gets us down to the essential life force nutrition of whatever it is that we are fermenting or breaking down, which kind of makes it like a super potent.
I don't want to say the soul of the plant, but but it's most essential, nutritive part of the plant. And so you're suggesting that the reason why one to five hundred or one to a thousand is appropriate is because it's so out of it's so out of my U.S. farming experience where we're used to adding volumes of stuff.
And this the Korean technique is actually reductive in the other direction where they're removing everything that may not be necessary. And then through the fermentation incubating the most essential nutrition to increase it.
So we've got only the part we need and it's incubated to be super strong. And so it's it's so reactive that we actually have to be really careful with it because it can be very impactful on the plant. Am I getting it?
Yeah. All right. Yeah. Let me let me re-say that to you, though. So so in conventional agriculture, if I buy it for my orchard, say 30, 30, 30 nutrient NPK nutrient, you know, just a chemical fertilizer. I apply that expecting and is very common and hoping that I'm going to get about a 20 percent uptake in my crop this year.
Meaning I will benefit from that application at about 20 percent of the poundage I apply. So if I apply a pound, I'm getting one twentieth or one fifth of that in.
That's that's normal. And that might not be common knowledge, but that's that's normal in conventional agriculture. We're we're looking for hopefully getting about a 20 percent uptake. That's because the rest of it goes into the soil, becomes locked up.
That's how we get hard pans is they go down. It goes down about 12 inches, 18 inches and just sits there waiting to be made plant available by microbes, because even 30, 30, 30 isn't really plant available unless it gets broken down to some degree.
You know, chemical fertilizer still needs the microbiological world to make it available. The less alive your soil is, the less of that, you know, total poundage applied is going to become plant available this year. And yeah, in the converse or alternately in natural farming, we have fully available, so available that we can apply fully early.
And it's taken in through the leaf tissue where the plant can actually absorb it through its leaves and in a really effective way. And so it's kind of like.
It's kind of like mainlining nutrients. I'm sorry for the, you know, crass reference, but it's like it's like putting IV where it's going right into the system rather than, you know, needing to be digested before you get access to those nutrients.
Yeah, I get it. There's no buffering through the rhizosphere and the roots and coming up and all that kind of just buffering and changing. You're going right to the underside of the leaves where it just like sucks it right in and boom. Then now it's in the now it's interior.
Yeah, you'll see you'll see results in 24 hours. 24 hours. You'll see those plants react to that nutrient or in less time sometimes.
All right. So let's talk about the size of the nutrients at this one to one thousand one to five hundred or so in your in your earlier example, you were saying, you know how the roots interact with it.
And I've only known you to teach foliar. So is would we ever use these these preps as a as a soil drench as well? I mean, I know some people. Oh, definitely. Okay. Well, I've only ever really used it as a foliar except for occasionally I'll have a little bit, you know, left in the in the bottle and I'll pour it on a couple plants, which is probably but not a good idea.
Now that I've heard what you just said, but so if these are the ratios for foliar, are they the same ratios for a drench? And when you do a root drench, you know, generally, I mean, by the word drench, you're going to use a lot more, you know, material water when you pour it on the roots.
Whereas when you foliar it's at, you know, it's generally pretty light because even even though some products specifically call for you to make get the plant so wet that it drips most of the time. That's not what we're looking for. And so so what is the is there any difference in the ratios for a drench approach than there is from a foliar approach?
Yeah, that's a great question, Shingo. And, you know, just starting, I guess, and from the beginning, starting in the back with cannabis community and with your crop that, you know, we don't recommend foliar in flower.
Maybe in the first couple of weeks, you can do it. But then where everything goes to root drench throughout the flower cycle, because you don't want to bring in additional microbial life and you don't want to affect flavor in any way negatively.
And so, yeah, everything's soil drench after that. And in soil drench, you don't really change the recipe at all. But you can use more.
Also, speaking of foliar, when I talk about a foliar application, you are wanting them to get to the point where they're just barely dripping. But you're also I call it treating the whole acre where I'm spraying the stem, the leaves to the top of the plant all the way down to the whole surface of the soil around the drip line of the plant.
So the whole area is getting fed, not just a few fan leaves or water leaves on their underside. You want to get kind of the tip of the plant all the way to the kind of root zone, the feeder root zone around the drip line.
So it's interesting that you would I mean, because I know that we're we should not be spraying foliar on the evolving flowers, right? I get that. We don't want to add any taste to the flowers. And we also don't want to spike unexpected microbe activity either. So so I got that. But for me, I usually just tapered off my my KNF after week two and just generally went without it in flower.
And yeah, well, clearly I'm doing it wrong. But but you know, this is this is what happens when you know, I learned things a little bit here and a little bit there, right versus taking a course that is integrative and putting it all together. But luckily, you know, I get a chance to talk with you today.
So so how what volume am I going to be at? So after week two, when I have switched to these same same preps to a drench, how much of the water with the the preparations in it should I be using? For example, you know, when I make my compost tea, I get myself a big old bucket.
And I get a, you know, I've got this, this, this, this mug that's about the size of like, you know, one of those red party cups. And I go down the line and I put a put a cup in each one, you know, and so, you know, I at least if it feels like, okay, I'm not adding too much, I'm not adding too little. And I'll do this, you know, occasionally, maybe maybe twice a week with compost tea. But with something as powerful as these can F preps, you know, I don't I don't know whether I'm going to be using it.
Whether a cup would still be appropriate, or if it should be ways well, way lesser amount, and then I just water it in with raw water.
So yeah, good, good question. And this is this kind of a hard, hard one.
I should get double results.
I grew up, you know, conventional organic, where you still are aiming at all those NPK numbers and trying to get your soil and tissue tests to, you know, be corrected by all the inputs you're putting on. And, you know, this just isn't the case in in natural farming. It's not what we're chasing.
And so I do want to caveat before I go into this, though, that natural farming, and I've, I've felt the need to repeat this. So if, if this has been said before, somebody's heard this, I'm sorry.
But I feel like it's the it's the necessary thing to kind of correct. Maybe the the skewed, the skewed science that happens on the internet.
80% of natural farming is the IMO process. So IMO for applied a week before planting and mulched and watered in is 80% of what you need from the natural farming protocols. And if you're not doing that, then you can still play with the 20%. But just know that that is the case.
Because what's happening is so much of the soil nutrition is getting cycled into the plants kind of feeding program because the microbes are breaking down sand, silt and clay and making it plant available all that silica.
Everybody's chasing silica in, in cannabis. And if you have sand in your soil, and fungi to eat it, like you don't see silica issues or need silica because there's plenty of it. It's just not plant available unless you have the fungi that can eat sand.
I throw away all my microscope slides. I never clean them because I deal so much with fungi that even if I wash them with alcohol, I come back to use them a week later and they're all etched because the fungi has eaten the glass so it's cloudy.
So yeah, there's IMO is amazing. Just a little plug there. I know we're talking about nutrients. So the protocol for natural farming is that, you know, so the right amount of nutrients, we're talking about that and then at the right time.
And so one of the things kind of people get wrong is they just put it on all the time every day or every two days. And really we're putting on once, really twice a week, or every other week, sorry, every other week we're applying nutrients, and sometimes every week.
But that's really, you know, that's really strange to people that are used to feeding all the time. But if you have IMOs in process in your system, then the nutrient is like this little bit of an encouragement and kind of production booster in your kind of whole system you got going there.
So for example, if I was in flower and I wanted to feed every week, I would apply maintenance solution every other week and a targeted feeding solution the alternating weeks.
So maintenance solution is that really simple recipe FPJ 1 to 500, brown rice vinegar, just rice vinegar, 1 to 500 and OHN 1 to 1000. Really simple nutrient. And that would go on once a week or once every other week.
And then I would watch my plants. And if I'm thinking they need some nitrogen, and but maybe some background calcium and some background potassium, then I would do my maintenance solution FPJ OHN vinegar.
And I would add in some fish amino acid, maybe the main need is man, these these girls need to be fed. Then I would put a 1 to 1000, which is the full strength of FAA. But then I'm like, and I think they could use some balancing still or I need to help them a little bit put on structure.
Then I would bring in a 1 to 2000 half strength WCA, which is a calcium. And then specifically cannabis and flower really benefits from a prep called WSK, water soluble potassium. And so I bring that in at 1 to 2000.
And that would be my soil drench. And I wouldn't I would be liberal. So I might do a whole watering with the liquid or half a watering and then a flush if I was for the gating.
And, and because of the amounts, everything's in balance and it'll work out. But I'm also not doing that every day. I'm not creating this glut of nutrients in my soil.
I'm putting a little bit on it'll it'll kind of ramp up or activate the soil microbial life as well as give a ton of great nutrition to the plant that's highly available for them to take up through all their feeder roots.
So that's kind of an example of how you might go about following the natural farming protocol. Now, does that mean you can't also increase that interval or decrease that interval to, you know, every, you know, every four days you can.
But I would just be aware that you might get the same results by doing it once a week. And because of how these nutrients work and how easily, you know, they are to for a plant to kind of digest or take into their systems.
And yeah, so so that additional applications might just be spending you, you know, you spending time and money you don't need to spend.
Right on the idea of taking the the maintenance formula and have it at dilutions and then just do a full watering with that water. You know, one part of me is like, I might be adding too much. But the other part of me is going, well, you know, they're at such low amounts.
You know, it's kind of like just taking water with like a little bit of a supplement in it. It's you want a lot of water electrolyte. Yeah, exactly. Exactly. Yeah. And so and you want a lot of water so that it can reach all the parts of the pot and it doesn't just sit on top.
But at the same time, the the amount of it in the water is such that that you don't really have to worry about what what most of us think about is burning our roots, which I actually like your idea of getting the plants drunk a lot better.
So so we've had quite a long first set here. Let's go ahead and take our first break and then come back and we'll be talking about OH and next. You are listening to shaping fire. And my guest today is natural farming educator Chris Trump.
With the national hemp program in flux due to stringent THC testing requirements, brother Seth and Eric Crawford continue to release seeds to hemp farmers that will be legal no matter how you grow them or when you test them.
These new varieties from Oregon CBD seeds have substantial amounts of CBD, CBG, CBCV and THC while always staying below the point three percent THC limit and guaranteeing compliant crops for farmers every time.
Also, these new varieties cannot be pollinated by your neighbors, uncontrolled pollen or a rogue male in your own crop either. Oregon CBD seeds are non GMO certified to Oregon CBD seeds was founded and funded in 2015 by Seth and Eric maxing out their personal credit cards without outside investment.
They continue to refuse outside investment that would change their company culture. Oregon CBD grows tons of fresh food on their research farms for local food banks, literally tons of food. They also give away tens of thousands of pounds of R&D flour to patients.
As their company began to succeed, Seth and Eric started donating money to the cannabis medicine and hemp fiber cause too by giving millions of dollars to Oregon State University in order to establish the world's leading cannabis genomics research program.
And they treat their employees right. Oregon CBD pays for full health and dental coverage for their employees, a 401k program and their minimum starting wage is 20 bucks an hour. Plus everyone shares food from the farms.
Seth has been on shaping fire a few times to talk about novel cannabinoids. You can check out episodes 25 and 37 on CBD cultivars in the hemp market. Episode 66 on triploid cannabis genetics and the very first shaping fire live episode 47 with Seth and soil expert Jeff Lowenfelds talking about auto flowers.
If you are a hemp farmer and you want to grow reliable seeds that are sure to thrive in past testing, check out Oregon CBD seeds.com to learn more about buying seeds for the 2021 season. That's Oregon CBD seeds.com.
One of the reasons why no till cannabis growing is so valued by farmers is because the mycelium networks in the soil remain established from year to year. And we know these fungal networks are essential because they are the nutrient superhighways that extend far and wide in the substrate to feed your plants.
The trouble with growing in new soils or blended cocoa substrates is that it takes most of the plant's life just to create these mycelium highways. Dynamico endomycorrhizal fungi inoculant reduces that time and gets your plant eating a wider array of nutrients faster. And it's three times the concentration of the current leading brand in the US at 900 propagules per gram of two fungal species selected specifically for cannabis cultivation.
This new product called Dynamico is the result of 30 years of research and trials at the Volcani Agriculture Research Institute in Israel. It has also been vigorously trialed by cannabis and food growers across the US since the product first arrived here last year. You may have already heard about Dynamico by its original name, Dynamike. Now, Dynamico is available at grow shops and online in the United States for the first time.
I love using Dynamico to both speed up the growth of mycelium networks in the soil, but also as a biostimulant to make clone cuttings more virile. You can see side by side showing the comparative growth on their Instagram at Dynamico.
If you demand reliable growing results and appreciate the importance of an active root zone in creating a thriving plant, I encourage you to check out Dynamico at dynamico.com and find out where you can get yours. That's d-y-n-o-m-y-c-o dot com.
Whether you are starting with new beds or pots, or if you want to add some zing to tired soil, choose Dynamico to maximize your plant's potential. Dynamico Endomycorrhizal Inoculant.
While I love growing under the sun, there's a lot of good reasons to grow indoors. And if you're like most folks, you want a lighting source that grows high-yielding, healthy plants without using excessive amounts of electricity.
Bios Lighting creates biological lighting solutions that brings the natural brilliance of the outdoors into your grow room.
Bios Lighting has the attributes that I look for in a horticultural lighting solution. I've bought those cheap lights online, and they're difficult to work with and fail in no time.
In contrast, my Bios LED light is industrial grade to last a long time. It is IP66 wet rated, so little foliar overspray won't harm it. It is easy to clean without taking it down, and of course, the most important aspect, it is built for the exact light spectrum I want for great-yielding, healthy cannabis plants.
And it doesn't hurt that their lighting rigs look badass too. Many horticultural LED lighting systems are based on irrelevant performance metrics, and people love to argue online about these numbers. I prefer to judge on PAR photon efficiency and how happy my plants are, and the Bios lights exceed my expectations in these categories.
Bios lights have an optimized broad spectrum that maximizes photosynthesis and plant growth, while also providing the ideal conditions for superior PAR efficacy and a comfortable visual experience. I also love their attentive and over-educated customer service folks.
Bios starts with a team of biologists before getting the electrical engineers involved. They have studied how light impacts cannabis plants and devised an overall strategy that works. I encourage you to check out their website at bioslighting.com to learn more about how this strategy can work for you.
And Shaping Fire listeners can get a special deal. Use the discount code SHAPINGFIRE, all one word, no caps, for 10% off your entire purchase. That's bioslighting.com.
Welcome back. You are listening to Shaping Fire. I'm your host, Shango Lose. And our guest this week is natural farming educator, Chris Trump.
So most of this set, we're going to be talking about OHN, Oriental Herbal Nutrient. But before we do that, there's one thing more I want to hit on the foliar with you, Chris.
One of the reasons that I'm always tempted to add extra KNF prep to the water is because when I look at how small of amount that I'm adding to my five liter sprayer, I'm thinking to myself, how is this going to be, how is this going to become ubiquitous in the sprayer?
So some amount, let alone equal amounts, but how will some amount get on all of the plants? And so I'm thinking to myself, well, if I add some more, there's more likelihood that every plant will get some.
How is that taught in Korean natural farming? Like what, from that perspective ensures that all of the plants are going to get some of the nutrition out of the foliar sprayer?
Yeah. So fun, fun phenomenon, natural law, osmosis. So if you throw it in there and let it sit for 30 minutes and give it a swirl, it'll have a much easier time being very evenly distributed in solution than if you throw it in there, shake it once and start spraying.
So if you're really concerned, then give it, give it a little bit. And what happens is those vacuums of water that are looking for chemical bonds will yank on all that stuff and evenly distribute it. And the places that are higher concentration will, the additions you added will move to places of lower concentration naturally, but then giving it a shake, it works even better.
Right on. So maybe a shake plus a little bit of sitting time would probably be my solution.
And you can, you can use, you know, a 10 liter sprayer. Don't add more, you know, in ratio. Don't, don't double the amount you put in there. But if you want to spray more to make sure it gets everywhere, that's totally fine.
Yeah. It's, it's very strange, you know, cause I'm sure that a lot of people are like me where when we, when we get to K and F I'm thinking about ratios for like compost tea. Right. And so going from a, you know, a ratio of, of, you know, one to two, one to three, one to four, depending on, you know, what kind of compost tea all the way to one to a thousand. It's all like, wait, you know, is this a typo?
Right. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. All right. Cool. Thanks for hitting that. I haven't thought about osmosis like that in a long time. So, so let's talk about OHN. So, you know, we were talking during the first set about how, you know, all of these different K and F preparations are, are never used alone.
And, and that kind of goes double. So for OHN, because OHN is a, is a blend of five herbs, but then even OHN you don't use on, you know, by itself. So, you know, what, would you explain the underlying principle at play justifying using OHN as a foliar?
And so what I'm looking for is both an explanation of what OHN is and, and, and why those five work together so magically, you know, when used as a foliar.
Yeah. So OHN is a combination of herbs that, you know, no matter who you're talking to in the scientific world, the herbs that we use are understood to be kind of anti-pathogenic.
So they're, they're immune boosting or disease suppressing herbs, no matter how you look at them. It's just the components they have have that effect. So OHN really in natural farming is a health tonic.
And specifically, you know, there's, there's a lot of health things, plant health, animal health we're doing in natural farming, but OHN is specifically targeted to plant and animal immune system and, and, and immune support.
So it's kind of a prebiotic, if you will, a nutrient to support the overall kind of health and immune system of plants. The technology comes from, you know, 500 year old Chinese traditional medicine recipes where, you know, good science was done before we had our,
our big universities. And it was done by people with using observation and experimentation over thousands of years. Science is the study of nature through observation and experimentation. That's the definition of science.
And so we get this, this pass down of something that works and has worked for a really long time. And we're beginning to understand some of these complex biochemicals and, and their, their subtle, you know, interactions with the human body or the plant, plant and animal kingdoms.
But we're, we're kind of limited. So kind of the best I can do to deep dive into what the herbs are in natural farming, if we really want to get into it, why would be to, to step over into a Chinese traditional Chinese medicine explanation? Would that be helpful, Shingo?
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I'm, yeah, I'm comfortable with that. And, and you might be getting ready for this, but I encourage you to just go ahead and name the five too, because I'm sure there's lots of folks listening who, who don't know that all five of them. And so why don't we start there and then, and then go into the, the Chinese medicine, which, which I also appreciate.
Yeah. So, um, yeah, so I do have a video on, on YouTube on how to make this. And, uh, I will admit I've watched my own video when I've forgotten a step or, or just gotten my, you know, wires crossed on what I'm doing next. Uh, so no shame in watching a video while you make it. But, um, yeah, so it's, we, we in China in, in making OHN,
we are fermenting five herbs that fermentation, like we talked about earlier, and, um, micronizes or, or kind of breaks down, um, some of the, the cell walls of these herbs.
And, um, so, so the five herbs are cinnamon, ginger, garlic, licorice root, and Angelica root. Um, and we use two parts of the Angelica and the cinnamon specifically is Cassia cinnamon, not those real thin, um, cinnamon sticks that have that, those kind of spiral of real thin flesh, but we want the cinnamon bark. It's, it's a much thicker thing.
And then Angelica, um, generally we're using Sinensis or Gigas. Um, you can, you can use, there's some other varieties that work too, but those are the ones I recommend most. And then licorice, we're using the root. Um, but yeah, they're, they're pre fermented and then tinctured. And the tincture is a high alcohol, uh, 30% alcohol, um, minimum, uh, to, to pull it into solution.
And this is a little different from the typical preps in natural farming where we're, um, fermenting and just really want what comes out in fermentation here. We're kind of yanking on the essence or the, these, these kind of prebiotic or, or immune supporting, um, components of this plant. So we're, we're yanking kind of all of it out in the tincturing process. It's, it's really fun. I enjoy making OHM.
But, um, traditional Chinese medicine is kind of where we get some of the explanation and I'm going to, um, thank my friend Jace. I am not a traditional Chinese medicine practitioner. Um, but I've talked to a few people that are over the years.
Um, and, um, uh, my friend Yuki in Hawaii and, uh, my friend Jace's wife is actually a, um, uh, a practitioner of traditional Chinese medicine and a pretty good one. Um, and he's, he's, uh, touched by cannabis, I think is Jace's handle. But, um, her explanation for me, I was asking her about it actually just this last month. Um, uh, and I'll go ahead and read it.
Cinnamon is a warming herb in Chinese medicine meant to warm the channels and increase kidney key, uh, key. Ginger fresh is warming. Dry ginger is hot in nature and used to tonify digestion. Garlic is warming and used for parasites, cough, and colds. Licorice is a neutral or herb used in most formulas to tonify other herbs.
Angelica is warming and used for women's issues, cold, uh, flush and damp condition, um, to flush damp conditions. Um, and they are all anthelmintic. I hope I said that right.
But, um, but basically, um, to, if, if that was too much or overly technical, um, these are, um, things that support immune system. I mean, we all, uh, drink some, you know, lemon tea with honey, uh, when we got a cold and we get that, um, that kind of soothing effect.
And it's because that vitamin C and the things in honey actually are good for our bodies. Well, there's a lot of stuff like that. And these ones are specifically for a continual, um, kind of, um, aid to overall health, uh, continual aid to fight off disease, but not in the way in that these directly attack disease or are their own sword and shield against disease.
Preventing disease in that they are making healthier the plant or animal and so that they aren't susceptible.
And so I like how you said that, you know, these are not aggressive herbs that go and attack, you know, pests or, or disease. They are actually fortifying and help you build up, you know, your personal chi, your strength, your, your core essence or whatever.
And, uh, I never really thought about those working in plants as well. Um, and, and even though to a lot of people who are new to, like you were saying, the, the storytelling nature of, of oriental medicine, um, just because it's, they talk about it in a different way. Doesn't make it any less true.
Yeah. Yeah. And that's, that's where we, we get into a little trouble. We, we say, Oh, you know, white lab coat and peer review studies is the only source of true information or explanation of natural law. And, um, that's just not the case.
We, we understand so little in that forum, you know, especially when we're talking about, uh, soil life and, uh, complex or diversity in microbiological communities, we're just scratching the surface in that, in that forum.
So we do need to, um, keep paying attention to the, um, well, well, I guess I, I like to say we need to keep humble and just how complex nature is and that we are as a scientific community moving towards understanding it, but we are by no means, um, cresting the hill of understanding how this all works in conjunction.
And, you know, even though there is a lot more to the human experience than lab coats and studies, there's no doubt that, um, you know, oriental medicine has been proven out in universities and medical research as well. Um, it's, it's just that came after the storytelling did, um, when people have been trying to stuff for thousands of years.
So, okay. So let's, let's circle back to the original question, which was, you know, we're talking about the blending of these different K and F preparations and we know why we blend the OHN inputs so that they've got this, this, you know, warming movement and immune building, uh, uh, impact on the plant.
Um, but you said even OHN is not used alone, which is funny because it's already got five things in it. So, so what do we want to blend our OHN with when we apply it either as a foliar or as a root drench?
Yeah, well, you know, broken record, Chris over here, it's the same, it's the same two things, you know, that, that base, it's kind of like, you know, we're making a pizza and, um, you know, for my, you know, my six year old, he wants anchovies and, and my, you know, nine year old, she wants tomatoes or, or olives, you know, um, I gotta have the crust, the cheese and the sauce.
And then they can, you know, they can, you know, coat with the things that best feed them.
Um, you know, from my condiment, you know, tray, they can put whatever they want on there, but we're not making pizza without the sauce, the crust and the cheese.
And so the sauce and the crust and the cheese of natural farming is FPJ, OHN and vinegar.
And so those, those stay together.
They stick together like sauce, crust and cheese on pizza.
They, they are, they are always in combination.
So OHN is never used in natural farming aside from those, those other two.
So maintenance solution is your base and then you can add per the plant's nutrient needs.
So if they need to eat, they're hungry, they're, they're growing teenager, they're in vegetative growth and they're just need to be given as much food as they can.
Then you're using fish amino acid and you're putting that in with that base.
So the anchovies, you know, if you will, but, um, yeah, but there are a few times where we're doing something with OHN.
When we make FAA, we put a tiny bit of OHN in with IMO and that gets no FPJ or vinegar.
So there are these few, but as far as like really feeding the plants or even feeding animals, because you can use OHN in like baby chick water or full grown chicken water or cattle or pig water.
Um, yeah, it's used in combination with those other two.
So vinegar and FPJ.
While we're here real quick, um, what's the ratio of OHN into livestock water?
Oh, do I have that all off the top of my head?
Um, I think that OHN is one to 700.
Uh, depends also.
It's like, is it a baby chick?
Is it a full grown chick?
Is it a pig or a cow?
Oh, so there are a lot of variables.
All right.
Yeah.
Um, but it's, it's a little bit more than plants.
Um, I think it's one to 700 OHN and then in similar ratio, you increase the FPJ and vinegar also.
Um, you know, I probably have it, but yeah, anyways.
And then, and then, um, you, um, you, you know, for bees, even you can give OHN and LAB and FPJ and vinegar, but generally speaking, we're giving it other than baby chicks.
Um, we're giving it as an optional drink aside, uh, next to water so that they have the option to drink this nutrient rich solution.
Um, you know, next to the water that's, um, always available so that they're, you know, as it's kind of like a mineral lick almost for cattle, if you're familiar with that.
Yeah, for sure.
Um, you know, they'll put out a salt or complex mineral, um, block and cows will go drink some water and they'll lick this salt cube for a minute and then they'll go off and go about their day.
And so that's kind of how, um, the natural farming inputs are used in livestock.
Right on.
Well, I don't want to guess to get too far, uh, uh, far afield.
I was going to say we can go a little ways in that.
Yeah, but, but, uh, I may, we should pick up on that another time.
Um, so, so circling back to, um, OHN, uh, so, so now that we know, uh, what's in it and, and what we're, you know, what we want to blend it with to spray.
I'm curious when, when, uh, you know, after we've made the individual inputs for OHN, do you normally store your inputs separately and mix it up fresh every time you're about to use it?
Or do you go ahead and, and mix it into the OHN and, you know, just put it away pre-made?
Yeah.
So OHN is always stored separately.
Um, you can make as much as you need for like a year or six months.
Um, which is generally what I do.
I'll make a six month amount for what I need.
But, um, typically I'm, yeah, it's for, for storage, for long-term storage.
And that's one of the cool things about OHN is it gets better with age.
Um, it continues to micronize, um, in storage.
And so it, it kind of gets more and more in solution, if you will, or, or, uh, small particles while it sits there.
Um, and, uh, that increases its effectiveness actually.
So OHN that's been sitting for three years, we consider twice as effective as fresh OHN.
Um, because of how well it's taken in or, or absorbed by the plant or animal.
And so actually if you have three year old OHN, we, um, reduce the application rate by 50%.
Instead of one to a thousand, it becomes one to two thousand.
So I'm always encouraging people that are really, they're, they're getting serious about natural farming and they're going to go on their natural farming journey.
Say make a five year batch of OHN.
Because just by making it, um, enough to last you five years, you've nearly halved the cost of it for your farm.
Because you're buying your inputs, uh, at scale, right?
No, because you're by year three.
Oh, because it gets stronger and more potent.
By year three, you're using half the amount.
So by not making only enough for a year, you effectively are making your same materials go farther.
So please resolve these two things you said.
You said, um, we, we store the stuff separate and then we only want to mix enough for six months to a year.
But now you're saying three and five year old OHN totally kicks ass.
So will you resolve those?
Yeah. So OHN is the combination of the herb, of the six parts or five parts.
It's just double Angelica.
OHN is combining them all, but they still age really well and age better separately.
And so my, my six, my six containers or my five containers and a double large container, um, are all sitting there separately aging.
Oh, I get it.
And I can, I can, I can make three year old OHN if they've been sitting there separately aging and I mix all those parts to make OHN.
My OHN is three years old, but I'm just mixing it fresh for use.
Yeah, I get it. I get it.
You've got, um, you know, multiple bottles that are three years old and then you blend them.
So it isn't that when, when you say that they, um, you know, they, they evolve, um, you don't mean that they evolve in, in combination to each other.
Each one is evolving in its own jar.
Yeah. They continue to, yeah.
Kind of break down or, or become, um, more available in their own jars and then we still mix it.
But those, those, those, those five containers sitting on the shelf or six containers sitting on the shelf are aging appropriately.
Got it. Um, uh, are you, are you, do you, is that your water that keeps on dingling or do you have a bell on you brother?
I'm sorry. That's my water. It's the ice in my water. I'm probably shaking it subconsciously.
It's everybody who's got headphones on or it's, it's probably really getting to them. So, um, so, so the, um, so you said when we spray the OHN, um, we want to spray it with, um, brown rice vinegar.
Um, and you said, you know, there are some other types of vinegars that might work as well. Um, can you talk about that a little bit? Because, you know, I, the, the vinegar that I've got is a, um, is a, as a, as a bamboo vinegar.
Um, and, uh, you know, I, I like it and it, and it does what I want it to do, but why do, does Korean natural farming default towards, uh, rice vinegar and, and is that because rice vinegar is particularly attractive for some reason?
Or is it because we're trying to avoid cheap crappy vinegar made out of bad ingredients?
That's a great question, Shango. Um, so the, um, so the pH balancing effect for like liquid IMO or these different preps is, um, kind of universal for vinegars.
And so we're, we're getting that, that balancing. If you have some apple cider vinegar or your bamboo vinegar, it works and you can use that and you should feel like you're doing the right thing. Um, you're not cutting a corner. It is, it is great.
Um, however, grain vinegar, um, has a different mix of nutrients in it. We don't typically think of vinegar as a nutrient source. Um, we think of it just as some acidic liquid, you know, but the reality is it has specific biochemicals and nutrients based on what it was made out of.
So, um, your body is being, um, you're being fed by your consumption of your, you know, um, uh, whatever, uh, your, what is that really wonderful vinegar from Modena in Italy? Um, the balsamic, balsamic.
Yeah. So balsamic or red wine vinegar, you're getting the nutrients from grapes, you know, or from whatever they're making it out of bamboo. Um, with grain, there's, um, all this, um, you know, uh, plant proteins, especially with rice and fats that are getting broken down in the process of making that vinegar and those nutrients stay present in that vinegar.
Um, additionally, specifically with rice vinegar and grain vinegars is they have, even though they're an acid, they are said to have an alkalizing or a balancing effect, um, in their nutritional profile, um, when you store when consumed.
And so that, that kind of nuanced, um, effect is what we're going for in the rice vinegar and why we recommend that. Right. But it doesn't have to say brown on the right, excuse me, on the rice vinegar. They can just say rice vinegar.
Right. Um, right. So, um, so one more detail. Yeah, go ahead.
So in Korea, they're really, really into their brown rice vinegar creation process. And so legit Korean brown rice vinegar. Um, if you're, if you're getting a, you know, you're probably going to pay a little bit more for it, um, if you find it, but that, um, is kind of made at this like artisan standard and the process and how they go about it.
It's definitely all of these are not the same, you know, the, the way they make that and what you're getting, um, as a result is, is pretty different from your typical vinegar creation. What you, the only one you want to stay away from, um, shango is, uh, like a white vinegar where you, where you don't know the fruit that went into it because there is a vinegar process that's derived from petroleum.
Uh, where they make a, like an ethanol alcohol and turn it into vinegar and it's a shortcut vinegar and, uh, the nutrients aren't good. And, uh, that's actually, um, how Monsanto started. Um, they were a vinegar company and they came up with a shortcut in the vinegar making process that is called the Monsanto process.
It reminds me, it's kind of like whole plant vinegar. You know, you, you want, you want something authentic and true to the plant.
Yeah. Yeah. Right on. Well, cool. So let's go ahead and take our second break. When we come back, we're going to be talking about germinating seeds. You are listening to shaping fire. And my guest today is natural farming educator, Chris Trump.
For years, organic cultivators have been looking for a replacement for using peat moss. Peat moss has long been the go-to soil amendment for water retention and container growing, but organic growers know that peat moss is an unsustainable resource and the mining of peat bogs destroys habitat and releases sequestered carbon. But peat moss works so well that many have continued to use it.
But now there's finally a revolutionary replacement for peat moss that shares the same benefits while also being sustainable. Pit moss sounds and acts like peat moss, but instead of being mined from fragile ecosystems, it actually is made from upcycled organic paper and tree bark. Pit moss is excellent at retaining water in your substrate and creating air pockets and tiny living environments for microbes. Pit moss instantly increases aeration, nutrient absorption, and water conservation too.
Carefully and locally sourced, pit moss is the result of decades-long research into the use of recycled paper fibers. Pit moss has the fluffy nature of peat moss and handles exactly the same. And like peat moss, pit moss is inert, so it won't change your pH. Available in a range of preparations including a nutrient-enhanced blend, a coco coir blend, and also as an organic soil conditioner with no added nutrients. Pit moss is also available as an animal bedding.
So go to pitmoss.com now to learn more. That's P-I-T-T-M-O-S-S dot com. Growing healthier, more sustainable plants. Pit moss.
For many, transitioning to organic gardening can be overwhelming. There's so much to learn about soil biology and fermentation. BioFlux Fermented Plant Boost from EverFlux simplifies organic farming so you can start growing organically today.
Invented by a California farmer growing organic for 40 years, BioFlux is a fermented natural farming preparation for those who want a natural microbe booster without having to brew their own. This extraordinary chemical-free growth and terpene enhancer improves root development, accelerates the conversion of organic matter into humus, increases nutrient use efficiency and uptake, and increases beneficial microbe activity.
In addition to the BioFlux Fermented Plant Booster, EverFlux also makes an activated biochar called TeraFlux that is infused with the BioFlux Plant Booster. Imagine combining the buffering and rhizosphere-enhancing qualities of biochar infused with a range of earthworm castings, insect frass, kelp and crab meal, oyster shell, and other ingredients.
I'm using TeraFlux infused biochar this summer myself and it smells alive, rich, and potent. These products have been scientifically proven to match yields and increase flower quality and pest resistance when compared to traditional NPK inputs.
If you are looking for reliable organic fertilizers that will free you up to focus on other aspects of your garden, consider using the range of all-natural regenerative fertilizers and natural biostimulants from EverFlux. Find out more at everfluxtechnologies.com or by following their Instagram at everflux.
If you listen to Shaping Fire and you grow your own cannabis, chances are high that you are very particular about the inputs you use for growing. People like us painstakingly self-educate on cannabis nutrients and techniques so we can cultivate the best tasting and cleanest flowers possible.
And when we go to purchase those nutrients, we want to be sure that our supplier shares our values and is providing exceptional quality. This is why I recommend buildasoil.com to my friends who care about quality.
Build A Soil empowers organic growers to do their best work by sourcing and shipping only the finest cannabis growing supplies. From organic inputs, soils, soil testing and pots, to lights, growing tents, sprayers, and cover crops, Build A Soil founder Jeremy Silva doesn't just stock his store with what's available.
He goes deep to personally vet each product for quality and determine that there isn't a better version of the product that he could be selling. Because of this arduous process, you know that your options on buildasoil.com have been carefully curated to create the results you are looking for.
Not only that, but the Build A Soil way is a philosophy that will permeate your interaction with the company. From website design to pricing and shipping to after purchase support, Jeremy and his team always strive to do their best and give you the best customer service in the business.
Check out buildasoil.com today for top tier quality cultivation supplies and a friends and family buying experience. And check out their educational videos and extraordinary social media while you're there too. Quality organic growing supplies at buildasoil.com.
Welcome back. You are listening to Shaping Fire. I am your host, Shango Lowe. And our guest this week is natural farming educator, Chris Trump. So Chris, you alluded to it earlier in first set. But one of the things that I'm most interested in now is the particular KNF preparation that is used to germinate seeds.
You know, we all have got so much value in our seeds. We want to get as good as germination ratio as we can. And for many of us, we're using seeds that are, you know, several years to potentially decades old. And I'm sure that they can use all the support they need.
Earlier in the show, you were talking about the the nutritive cycle and how that relates to humans where, you know, like really fresh babies get the colostrum and then they switch to mother's milk. And then they know that they're starting out with very simple mashed foods. And then, you know, through life, the food that we have changes. I know this is true for germinating seeds, too. Will you lay it out for us, please?
Yeah, yeah. It's actually it's it's a wonderful thing. And especially if you have so much value in your seeds and and maybe their kind of ability to germinate if they're 10 years old is is reduced. Yeah, the natural farming prep for for popping seeds is huge. And it's
it's in side by sides, the effect of giving them this minor nutrient in while they're in seed form persists. So you will have a more vibrant plant with no other changes just by giving them this seed nutrient to get them to pop. And and that's we've done that out in side by side trials.
Wendy Kornberg did a cool side by side trial with that, and she did it on multiple plants where she's she popped them with and without seed soak solution. And she had lifelong or the whole life of the plant effect from just that one step.
Well, everything else was kept the same. And she photographed it and and and and tracked the growth throughout their their whole journey. It was pretty cool. But others have done that. And yeah, so the the prep, which in this conversation, you're going to get tired of me saying it, but it's just those three that that base nutrients that we use in natural farming.
FPGA one to 500 brown rice vinegar, vinegar, one to 500 and OHN one to 1000. And so what you want to do is soak them for anywhere from an hour to, you know, 10 hours. If you are soaking them 10 hours, just be aware they might be popping in that cup, because it really does speed up that that germination time as well as increase capacity.
Kind of vitality in the in the seed. Yeah, but that's it. I mean, if you did nothing else with natural farming other than popped your seeds with seed soak solution, I think you'd get a real boost.
The pictures that I've seen from after you mentioned seed soak solution a few days ago when we talked, I went ahead and I looked it up. And some of the side by side pictures people showed were really impressive. Like, you know, the normally a seed will will soak in just plain water, and you'll get a tail and you know, you move it over to soil or whatever.
But the ones that were in seed soak solution, yeah, they threw the tail but you know, they've already got hairs coming out the side and they're like all rambunctious. They're like, hell yeah, let's go.
Yeah, and it doesn't just feed the seed. If you are farming and living soil, you're also sending your kid to school with a bag full of cookies to share with his friends or her friends, you know, it's, it's kind of like giving them some, some social boosts in their root zone to make those relationships that will be lifelong symbiotic relationships with the microcosm.
microbial world in their root zone. And so it's, it's a it's a pretty big deal. And really helpful. It can be a little bit of a pain to deal with wet seeds. And so if you soak them a short time before they pop, but you have some sort of auto seeder or something, you can soak them and then let them kind of just barely dry or dry enough that they're they function as a dry seed for like an auto seeder.
And still get the effect. But if you obviously if you let them soak until the tails pop, you don't want to dry them back out. But yeah, it's, um, it's a pretty simple process. And it's good for tree saplings, all the way down to seeds.
Let's talk about that idea of kind of banking some of those nutrients for the plant, you know, sending the kid to school. So is the is the idea behind that anecdote that if the seed is soaked in soaks seed soak solution, and those nutrients that are in that solution are binding, or even just statically clinging to the the the root tail,
to become taproot, that when you put it in the soil, that seed is already bringing nutrients to the party. And so in the same way that we've got an adult plant that is trading incoming nutrition from the microbes in exchange for giving exudates to everybody living in the rhizosphere, is it that same kind of thing? It's like, even this young,
this run this young tail of the seed is, is, is coming to the soil packed with all the nutrients from the solution. And so it just jumpstarts that relationship.
Exactly right. No, you explained you said that really well. And it's not just what's clinging to the root, it's actually been absorbed into the plant itself. And so it has that as a kind of strength, almost like it has extra to share from the get go, rather than being super needy from the get go. And then yeah, that can really jumpstart that whole relationship and the rhizophere.
It's like being that person who shows up to the party with like, like, like, like booze and beverage and food, and they walk in the door with their arms full. And everybody's like, yeah, they're here, you know? And yeah, I can see how the how the soil would welcome that. So. All right, great. Well, thank you. I wanted to wanted to hit on that germination thing. And so the next thing, let's talk about the massive popularity of fermented fruit juice.
Versus fermented plant juice, because a lot of people tend to, you know, think that these two different preparations work equally. But we we know that they work differently. And I know there's confusion because there's so many contrasting opinions online. And if and if the bro science is teaching both, I know that, that there must be more to learn here. So So would you clarify for us?
When to use fermented plant juice versus when to use fermented fruit juice?
You know, Shango, this is one of those questions that I just don't share with everybody. It's behind the behind the paywall. And you don't
this is this is the the Korean intellectual property.
Yes, yes. This is where it stops. The really sharing stuff. No, that's a joke. This isn't. This doesn't work like that. You know, you get anybody gets any question answered in this whole kind of realm of tech. And you know what, what I do find, though, is when you're just starting out, the questions are really, really simple.
They're, they're, they're a lot of the same questions, and they're in the basic understanding. And then as people get a little more into it, they start to understand kind of how it works. And the questions change. And so I have a lot of past students that are, you know, what they asked when they first learned this versus what they're asking now, three, four years later, is totally different.
And I'm able to give the nuance and the the details of the information, where it just wouldn't be understood initially, initially, it's it is it's a bit of a rabbit hole. And so it's, you kind of need to travel down a little bit before you understand that, that next bit and Master Cho and he teaches right now you sit with him and there's so much good stuff and what he has to say.
But if you're just beginning and trying to understand what natural farming is, you're getting almost nothing out of the conversation because it requires a little bit of base understanding for, for some of the philosophy and whatnot to be understood.
And it's not, it's not cultish. It's just, you know, you don't you don't start at a, you know, a doctorate program when you go to college, because there's there's a bit of a journey to understand how everything connects. And no, I Yeah, you always get the answers if you ask, unless it's like a six hour explanation to get you all the dots connected.
Right. So, so when do we choose to use fermented plant juice versus fermented fruit juice?
Yeah, so fermented fruit juice, believe it or not, even though it's highly talked about in the internet, or on the internet, is is very limited in its uses in natural farming. And we really only use fermented fruit juice in some livestock feed preparations.
And then just in ripening. So in the last, you know, three, four weeks of a plant's life would fermented fruit juice be a valid nutrient. And so if you were doing Canada, for example, and you were soil drenching, you could bring in a fermented fruit juice there at the end, and you would also add in
1 to 30 seawater. And that is the enzymatic profile of ripe fruit compared to unripe fruit or plant material is totally different. And so what it's telling the plant to do, as far as what to do with with with sugars that they have built up, etc, is very different when you apply a fermented plant juice versus a fermented fruit juice.
And if you're applying fermented fruit juice, well, it's in vegetative growth. It just is not the right signals for your plants. Those those those enzymes, the way they're expressed in a ripe fruit is, is such that you really don't want that as a nutrient in your kind of early growth or vegetative growth or even early fruiting. You want that right as it's ripening off or finishing.
And so that's maybe one or two applications. Three, maybe. So it's, it's, it would be in the soil, too.
Yeah, well, for cannabis, it would be for an apple or, you know, or pears or, you know, tomatoes or something. Ripening solution has a really important or can have a really important role like a tomato farmer is going to get all these tomatoes in the peak. And then right as the weather starts cooling down, they got all these green tomatoes on the plant, and they want them to ripen before kind of the season's over.
So it's a great time for ripening solution. It can be applied foliarly. And you're going to kind of boost, boost those tomatoes right over the hump to get some more ripe fruit before they kind of pitter out. But yeah, so fermented fruit juice is important in natural farming, but not necessarily in the importance as, as people talk about it on the Internet.
So for folks who live, you know, in suboptimum cannabis growing areas, like where I live on Vashon Island in Washington State, where we have got shorter summers that are not as warm as say, California, would it be a good tool in my toolbox to use fermented fruit juice there after say, week four to hurry up the flowering process?
Does it have that ability?
And give it some signals on which biochemicals to be working on as far as, you know, vegetative or kind of photosynthesis type processes and structure in comparison to like fruit or flower finishing structure.
And so, yeah, I think it could be useful in soil drench as you're approaching, you know, once you get within four weeks of harvest or three weeks of harvest, depending on how long your cycle is.
It could be a great thing for soil drench, definitely.
But, you know, since you brought up the seasonality of your area, don't be tempted to, you know, the snow's on the ground or, you know, it's cold and so you don't have access to fruit.
Don't go down to your local supermarket and buy fruit to make FFJ.
It is the wrong direction.
Well, you got to keep on going. Why?
Yeah, it's so I get a lot of questions on the internet and I try and answer as much as possible.
Sometimes when they're, you know, questions where people have spent zero time kind of learning the basics and they want, you know, to understand how it all goes together.
I'm like, that'll be a couple of pages.
I'm not going to answer that question.
But generally I'll answer.
And one of the things I get all the time is pictures of FPJ with all this weird green mold all over it.
And I see that and I say, oh, you're making fermented fruit juice with bananas and you live in Michigan and it's November.
Where did you get your bananas?
And, you know, without fail, that's them, you know, going down to their grocery store and buying some bananas from Dole.
And and really there's what we use in making FPJ or FFJ.
One second, Shingo.
What we use in making FPJ or FFJ is the natural microbes on the surface of the plant to ferment itself.
So if you look at a surface of a banana fruit under a microscope growing in the wild, it's covered in yeast and bacteria and sometimes fungi.
And they live on the surface of these leaves and fruit.
And they when you harvest it, especially if you follow the natural farming protocol to harvest it early in the morning at the peak kind of do activity.
You're getting all the microbes necessary to properly ferment that fruit right there on the fruit surface.
Whereas if you buy it from a store, it's been bleach washed.
Even organic has been bleach washed.
And the only microbes that are present to ferment that are what was on the hands of the grocer that put it on the shelf or on your hands when you put it on the conveyor belt or picked it off the shelf or, you know, what was in the air.
And it's really too limited for proper fermentation.
And so you get really weird results.
I think that most of us are attracted by the sexy fruits, the tropical ones, you know, because I mean, heck, how many times have I heard people say that they've used papaya because they want their weed to taste like papaya, which is like preposterous, right?
That's not how it works.
But but here in the Pacific Northwest, some of the local people, they're using like stuff that is, you know, not as popular, say, like rose hips.
Right. Rose hips are amazing.
Yeah, they work great.
But they're not they're not necessarily like sexy unless you're like cool farmer or herbalist people.
Right. And so so they go for the big bang thing and they want to go with the papaya or whatever from the store when actually that, you know, the the the rose hips or maybe even the crab apples on your tree that are on your tree with your microbes are going to be way better for you.
Than the more the more popular fruit.
Heck yeah. Heck yeah.
And that's you know, you're you're lapping into the concepts of terroir and and the but but really it's I think in part it's a result of much of us being from Hawaii where this landed as far as the English speaking education of natural farming.
And so we're messing with banana. I'm teaching it using banana flower or people are talking about it using papaya and they do have wonderful nutrients, but it's not better than the rose hips or the crab apple or the apple from your neighbor's house or any of that.
It's not a superior thing. It might have a slightly different nutritional profile, but we don't necessarily chase nutritional profiles when we deal with FPJ.
What we want is a thriving plant that isn't hit by bugs because what it's doing is it's expressing complete nutrition and therefore is packed with nutrients.
Whereas if you have an anemic sexy plant, you know, like a papaya and it's totally struggling to make it and it's it's going to have poor nutrition, even though you're going for it for some specific nutrient compared to say ice plant or rose hips or something that's just thriving and you can't kill it with a brick.
Well, well said. Yeah, we got a lot of ice plant here to.
Ice plant would be amazing. Shingo start making your FPJ out of that.
Oh, all right. Cool. I'm going to go down that path. Well, Chris, I know that your kids are going to come in like a tsunami here any second. So it's probably a good time for us to wrap up before before they hit the door.
So, you know, I really appreciate you coming back to spend time with us here on shaping fire. You know, your your experience is so valuable to everybody. And oh, here they come. And I really appreciate your time, man. I look forward to having you back again.
Hey, thanks for talking. Shingo and thanks for having me. And yeah, reach out anytime. And yeah, you can you can find find ways to ask questions directly. And I usually answer.
All right. So if you want to find out more about Chris Trump and his work, you can find it at natural farming dot CEO is his website, not com. It's dot CEO. His Instagram is at soil steward. And make sure you check out shaping fire episode number 35 with Chris Trump all about can of basics and the rise of can of popularity in the US.
You can find more episodes of the shaping fire podcast and subscribe to the show at shaping fire.com and wherever you get your podcasts. If you enjoyed the show, we'd really appreciate it. If you would leave a positive review of the podcast wherever you download your review will help others find the show so they can enjoy it too. On the shaping fire website. You can also subscribe to the newsletter for insights into the latest cannabis news, exclusive videos and giveaways on the shaping fire website.
You also find transcripts of today's podcast as well. Be sure to follow on Instagram for all original content not found on the podcast. That's at shaping fire and at shango lows on Instagram. Be sure to check out shaping fire YouTube channel for exclusive interviews, farm tours and cannabis lectures. Does your company want to reach our national audience of cannabis enthusiasts? Email hotspot at shaping fire.com to find out how. Thanks for listening to shaping fire. I've been your host shango lows.
I'm
