The more we learn as students of living soil, the more we uncover what we don't know and
desire to learn.
We move from simple concepts to harder ones, always building a bigger picture of the world
for ourselves.
During Shaping Fire Episode 79 with Joey Berger on creating soil amendments and natural pesticides
from local plants, I stumbled into a gap of my own understanding right there during the
episode.
Joey was explaining the challenges to using aerated compost teas on compacted low oxygen
dirt and I realized that I really didn't have a good context for what he was saying.
I mean, I learn on every Shaping Fire episode, but in that moment I realized that while I
use aerated tea and could discuss aerated vs. anaerobic inputs on a convention panel,
that I really didn't have it solid in my head from a regenerative perspective.
I laughed it off during the show and kept going, but when the show was over I immediately
got on the phone and called up my buddy, soil scientist Layton Morrison and interrogated
him for an hour and a half on aerobic and anaerobic inputs and their uses.
At the end of that conversation I realized how useful and entertaining this information
really is and I figured you might get off on it too.
If you want to learn about cannabis health, business and technique efficiently and with
good gear, I encourage you to subscribe to our newsletter.
We'll send you new podcast episodes as they come out, delivered right to your inbox, along
with commentary on a couple of the most important news items from the week and videos too.
Don't rely on social media to let you know when a new episode is published, sign up for
the updates to make sure you don't miss an episode.
Also we're giving away very cool prizes to folks who are signed up to receive the
newsletter.
There's nothing else you need to do to win except receive that newsletter, so go to shapingfire.com
to sign up for the newsletter and be entered into this month's and all future newsletter
prize drawings.
You are listening to Shaping Fire and I'm your host, Shango Lose.
Today geologist and living soil scientist Layton Morrison returns to Shaping Fire.
Layton has joined us before for episode 59 on water and watering and also for episode
54 on geology and biomimicry in living soil cultivation.
Layton is a lifelong enthusiast of both aquaponics and living soil.
His obsession with Biosphere 2 led him to set up aquaponics experiments at the Rodale
Institute.
Layton has worked with world-renowned soil biologist Dr. Elaine Ingham, blending his
aquaculture insights with traditional compost and compost tea strategies to prove that natural
farming techniques can replace modern synthetic agriculture.
Layton is currently founder of Kingdom Aquaponics and co-host of the Living Soil Conversations
show on Future Cannabis Project.
Layton is a sought-after speaker and past co-founder of the Science of Organic Regenerative
Cannabis Cultivation Conferences.
Today we're going to talk about aerobic and anaerobic living soil environments and how
to effectively use each to build your soil.
Welcome back to Shaping Fire, Layton.
It's great to be back, Shango.
It's always a pleasure to chop it up with you.
Fabulous, fabulous.
So let's get right into it, man.
So the discussion of the day is aerobic versus anaerobic growing environments for cannabis.
And you know, it's kind of cheesy to start off a discussion with a definition.
But when it comes to it, anaerobic and aerobic environments are just at the fringe of the
science that a lot of cannabis folks know.
For natural farmers and for serious, experienced cultivators, the idea of throwing around aerobic
and anaerobic as terms is something that they do every day.
But most consumers and probably a lot of everybody else is not going to be as readily comfortable
with those.
So let's start there.
Would you define the difference between aerobic and anaerobic growing environments?
Sure, Shango.
It would be my honor.
So anaerobic means void of oxygen.
So that would be zero parts per million.
And aerobic, to the best of our scientific explanation at this point, would be eight
parts per million or greater.
Now there is a top end of that, which is problematic.
If you get to 12 to 15 parts per million of oxygen in an aquatic environment, you'll
actually start doing damage to fish, their eyeballs, their slime, the biofilm on their
scales.
So there is definitely a top end.
And I'll give you a quick short story.
When I was down at Rodale working under Elaine, she had a brewer that she was frustrated with,
wasn't getting to work properly.
So she asked me to take a look at it.
And I basically said, well, your air pump is undersized.
That's why you're having problems growing out these organisms.
And it made me start to think, oh man, what if I brewed with pure oxygen?
What would happen?
So I got a tank of oxygen and I figured out a way to cool it or warm it, I should say,
so I didn't subject the water or the organisms to ice cold liquid oxygen.
And I started brewing with oxygen and I killed everything very quickly.
So that's a fun little fact that, yeah, there is a point of too much.
So we want to find this particular balance where our target microbes can most survive
or most thrive.
This eight parts per million threshold, where does that come from?
With most things in science, it's not usually just like put somewhere randomly.
Does something happen at more or less than eight parts per million of oxygen that allows
some process or disallows some process?
Why is that the threshold point?
You know, that's a great question.
And I think it probably comes from larger organisms, not microbes.
So fish.
You've been studying animals and mammals and fish for a long time now.
And I think that there was some realization that you would not get certain species of
fish.
And again, I'm staying in the aquatic environment for right now, that could live in lower than
eight parts per million in oxygen.
So like trout or temperature sensitive fish, for the most part, would not do well in less
than eight parts per million.
So I think that's kind of where that boundary got set.
And it's interesting because if you look at swamps where you have stagnant water and low
levels of oxygen, you end up with more reptiles, turtles, snails, salamanders, snakes.
So again, I think that science decided that at eight parts per million was the sweet spot
for definition of aerobic environment.
So my next question was going to be, do we consider aerobic environments to be living
and anaerobic environments to be dead?
And I knew that I had a little bit of a problem with that definition because I'm pretty sure
that the rice paddies, where they grow rice, are anaerobic environments, and yet they look
healthy and they grow things.
And now you just named another anaerobic environment, a wetland that I hadn't considered.
And they can be teeming with life, right?
And so would you give some examples of anaerobic and aerobic environments so that we can kind
of picture them in my head?
Because I honestly, the only thing that I pictured as an anaerobic environment was just
like a sludgy pool of water in some city concrete with filth, right?
And I'm getting over this idea that anaerobic does not mean unalive.
It just might mean off-putting to the human palate and nose.
Well said, my friend.
Well said.
So a lot of this stems from the soil food web camp and the natural farming camp.
And it doesn't have to.
And I personally try my best to make everybody realize that it's all life.
I don't care where it comes from.
And the definition of a ferment is basically the use of a biological process with zero
oxygen.
So there's still biology in there.
And I'm sure we'll go down that rabbit hole deeper.
But here's some things to think about.
Zero oxygen, ice cold, no atmosphere, no gravity.
And yet the tardigrade can live in outer space.
And they most recently harvested some bacteria off the outside of the International Space
Station in a test that they started about three years ago.
And that biology was still alive.
So there is a extreme environment.
Here's even more extreme.
Bottom of the sea floor under incredible pressure that would just compact a submarine off of
these volcanic vents.
So you've got super hot, super cold, no light, no oxygen.
And yet you have organisms growing.
That would be another prime example of an atmosphere or a condition or environment that
was void of everything that we think of as alive.
So the obvious one is the other end of the spectrum.
And again, I'm going to stay in aquatic environments because we're breathing air.
The examples are a little easier in aquatic environments too.
And also shout out to the tardigrade, right?
Water bears, gotta love them.
I'm part of the fan base.
So let me ask this in a different way then.
So my first time coming across an anaerobic ferment was one of my friends here on Vashon,
Trevor.
He was the first person, actually he's the first person for me to really be aware of
trying natural farming here on the island.
He had these five gallon buckets that were filled halfway with invasive plant material
from his property and the rest with water.
And then he had some aquarium bubblers in a couple of them.
And then he had most of them that were just, in my eyes, just rotting in the sun.
And they smelled really, well, I could be nice and say pungent, but they smelled like
crap, right?
I didn't like how they smelled.
They were off-putting, right?
And so I couldn't believe that he was going to put this stuff in his plants, but his plants
always looked really good.
He's a very talented cultivator.
And so I wonder to myself now, if it's inaccurate for me to say anaerobic environments are dead,
they are just maybe the ones that I don't prefer, is it possible that it's just because
as a human, I'm a species that is oxygen loving, that I am naturally discouraged or pushed
away from anaerobic environments because they are environments, like it's a whole ecosystem
that I don't interact with.
I want less of that and more aerobic because that's the kind of thing that keeps me alive.
Does that make any sense to that?
Yeah, yeah.
You actually touched on something in the last little comment about your nose.
So humans have a natural defense that's called their nose, the nose, nose.
So we wouldn't eat something that would make us sick.
And so therefore we're naturally turned off or retch or remove ourself from places that
do not smell aerobic.
So it's a primordial defense.
And again, even in a ferment, even in an environment with zero oxygen, it's still alive.
There's still biology that lives there.
It's just, again, not something that we would typically want to stick our hands in, put
our nose near, drink or eat because of that primordial defense mechanism of don't play
with this because it smells funny or smells bad.
I think that has made me, I mean, like I'm realizing it right now that I think that this
has made me prejudiced against anaerobic fermentations and inputs in general because they smell bad.
And so in my head, I'm like, oh, they smell bad.
That's death.
I don't want to pour death on my plants.
And that's just wrong.
That it's bro science of the worst kind.
Well, I love the way you said dead.
Because let's face it, when life leaves the body, animal, plant or human, generally there's
not a very nice smell for a period of time until the complete decaying process or fermentation
is over.
And when I first crash landed back here on March 4th, two days before the shutdown, 2020,
I was looking around going, oh my God, this place, Oxnard is amazing.
Ventura County, look at all these different plants.
It's all tropical.
Then the lockdown hit and I really didn't have anything to do.
All my jobs dried up.
The whole world was reeling as to what this meant and what was going to happen.
So I decided I was going to at least continue my work.
I decided I was going to make a compost pile.
Only problem was I didn't have any inoculant, nor did I have any fish frass to get the pile
going.
So what I did was I collected greens and browns, scrounged them.
Again, diversity, diversity, as much different browns, as many different greens as I could
clip.
And I poured them in, I put them in a cylinder made out of six by six wire and some insects
green.
I wet them down.
And then I went to the beach and I collected some kelp.
And again, as many diverse types as I could find, threw it in a five gallon compound bucket
and sat it in the sun for five days and watched it.
And when it started to foam, I whipped out my microscope and took a look at it and was
like, bam, look at the life in here.
And it had just turned to a funk.
It didn't smell putrid, it didn't smell like poop, but it didn't smell like it did when
I first collected it when it was not anaerobic and it smelled fresh.
Now it was something in between.
And I poured that on my compost pile and within two weeks, it was some amazing organisms growing
in there.
So our thought of that something bad means automatically is dead is incorrect.
There's still a lot of life there as we've just discussed.
So again, it's a primordial instinct to reject something that does not smell like something
we want to consume, but that doesn't mean that it's dead.
So if we now understand the difference between aerobic and anaerobic environments and we
get the idea that generally one is not necessarily better than the other, they're just different
expressions of life, but we are talking about our favorite plant, cannabis.
And so will you bring this on home and talk about what is the nature of the cannabis plant
in that we as cannabis cultivators are trying to create aerobic environments because that's
where our cannabis plant thrives?
That's a good one.
All right, let's reel it back in.
Where were the original land races coming from?
They were coming from the jungle in India and they were coming from mountaintops in
Afghanistan and Pakistan with no moisture and the other was coming from extreme moist.
The interesting thing about, perhaps let's go right to the Amazon, the jungle.
If anyone's ever been there, they'll know exactly what I'm talking about.
It's just such a weird place where everything is rotting around you so fast.
The soil is just teeming with death and life and the air is crisp with oxygen, but you're
living in a place where in the soil everything is going through rapid decay.
So that would be an anaerobic environment or an anaerobic digester.
The absolute opposite is happening in Pakistan and Afghanistan where you have zero humidity
and very little rain.
This plant has proven many different things to many different people, but her ability
to live in an environment that is so hostile, it's not funny.
I'm not even talking about Rudy Alice.
That's another one in the cannabis family, but it triggers its own flowering because
it doesn't get the light cycles.
That's why I think that so many of these different practices from natural farming, fermentation
to soil food web growing in super soils that are super aerated, both methods show efficacy.
So, let's unpack that a little bit.
You took that in a way that I wasn't expecting because what I thought you were going to say
is that the microbe life, the rhizosphere that the cannabis plant has evolved to interact
with where the cannabis plant is getting sunshine, it is photosynthesizing that and turning it
into exudates that come out of its root structure and feed the microbes.
At the same time, those microbes are living and excreting nutrition that the plant needs
and so they've got this back and forth.
I thought you were going to say that for the cannabis plant, it has that relationship with
oxygen loving microbes.
So, cannabis is always going to be best grown in aerated soil, but perhaps that is untrue.
Will cannabis grow just as effectively in an anaerobic soil?
You had to go there.
That's what I love about you, Shango.
No punches held.
Let's talk about Alan Atkins' work and the earth boxes.
Kevin Jotry's got some videos up documenting the saving of an old cultivar.
I believe it was a skunk plant.
He used Alan Atkins, anaerobic.
Let's get it right because Alan's great.
Alan Adkisson.
I'm horrible in annunciations.
I can't spell because I come from New England and I can't announce either.
Wait until you start saying rhizosphere.
Rhizosphere.
Yeah.
All right.
So, go ahead, Alan.
All right.
So, he's proven that it is possible and in some cases, you can actually hold back viruses
or genetic drift from continuing in an anaerobic environment.
I remember distinctly, this was the first regen conference in Humboldt at beginnings
and Elaine, myself, Joshua went to see Kev.
Kevin was excited to see Elaine and right away, this earth box came up.
To be a fly on the wall and know how much Elaine preaches of the horrors of anaerobic
environments, I was just enamored that he was explaining how he had basically saved
a plant.
I forget the name of the virus that causes dudding but had stopped or saved the plant,
stopped the dudding and was actually able to now grow the plant out to some degree of
success by exposing it to full sun and an anaerobic root base.
I thought Elaine was going to fall over.
But there's also SIPs where you're using anaerobic water underneath soil and having the roots
push through and down into that anaerobic water and there is some efficacy there.
Again, I think that you have to look at what cultivar you're growing because if you took
a plant or a cultivar with a strong dominant history that came from perhaps Afghanistan
and threw it in a swamp or Amazon, I don't think that it would perhaps do very well.
Although nature proves us wrong all the time.
In that environment, I would say that again, personally speaking, I prefer the middle ground,
biomimicry.
We all know that in nature, you get extremes more so now than ever.
In a natural setting, perhaps you would get a drought during the summer and a deluge in
spring and fall.
Both in spring and fall, you would be thresholding on anaerobic and in the summer, you would
be obviously extremely anaerobic as things dried out.
As the soil structure dries out and the biofilm cakes and turns to flake, soil structure can
easily collapse, especially if it's exposed to pressure either from a foot or from an
extreme rain.
That aerobic summer soil all of a sudden gets pounded by a deluge in the fall before harvest,
that soil structure is going to collapse.
Now you're back in an anaerobic environment and there's nothing you can do to change that
because over time, it will happen naturally, but you're not going to instantly turn compacted
soil into aggregates.
What do you do?
If you follow suit, now's a good time to start using your fermented plant extracts to finish
the plant, even though its roots are basically soggy and not in an aerobic environment.
Something else that you need to take into consideration too, and that is the ability
of that root and the rhizosphere, which is the coating around it where all the magic
happens, interestingly enough, can produce organisms that eat certain elements and excrete
oxygen and vice versa.
It can also change the pH of the soil around the rhizosphere.
There's a lot of magic happening in this microbial plant soil interaction that science
hasn't completely caught up with.
Yes, we've identified these five phosphate-solubilizing bacteria, but in nature, they're in a community
and there is what I want to call biological succession, exactly like there's plant succession.
You go from the swamp, zero oxygen or very low oxygen, all the way up to the redwoods,
very oxygenated, highly fungal.
The swamp is bacterial dominant.
Same thing is happening in a biological world.
You are moving through succession on a constant basis.
The whole system is in flux, never stops.
Taking that into consideration, I, again, don't think that there is a right or wrong way.
But again, I would caution you to use common sense and biomimicry and not just waterboard
your cannabis plant.
Definitely give it some time to dry down if you're going to overwater it.
I know people that water stress and they have good results.
Again, I think it's comfort level as to what you feel is your best methodology for growing
cannabis.
But I've seen extremes and they've shown efficacy.
Now, whether they got full genetic potential, I don't know.
That would have to be done in a side-by-side.
Every time I've tried to get a cannabis cultivator to do a side-by-side, it starts out great.
But the documentation at the end never seems to quite happen.
Yeah, totally.
There are documentation challenges with citizen science.
I may be a big fan of it, but even I don't like to document everything.
Yeah, it's a lot of work.
So I want to talk about one more aspect before we go to our first commercial break.
When we come back from the commercial break, we're going to talk a lot more about taking
your soil from an anaerobic environment to becoming aerobic and how to condition the
soil and such.
So we're going to hit that.
But the last thing I want to hit here is, in this first set, giving people a picture
of what anaerobic environments are looking like, we just pinged the extremes, right?
That's not how most of us are farming, though.
Most of us are farming with maybe it's new, young soil or maybe it's last year's soil.
But let's just say, unless you just bought a parcel and you are working on terrible soil,
or if you just brought your pots out of a dry garage and they were all stacked on top
of each other, so they're dry, hydrophobic, and compressed, let's say generally people
are using fluffy soil.
Even with these extremes, that should be considered the, I don't know, I guess I could say gold
standard, but our default setting is to grow in aerobic environments with oxygen-loving
microbes because we're growing an oxygen-loving plant, right?
I just want to back up if we've confused anybody because our examples were pulled from extreme
examples, and I want to make sure people understand you don't have to suddenly start
growing in an anaerobic environment to have the plant thrive.
We're looking at the entire picture, but really we're still saying grow in aerobic environments.
Correct.
Super soil or soilless mediums are by nature oxidative.
They're very aerobic.
There's a lot of pore space.
We consider them low-tension soil, and by tension I mean the ability of water to hold
pressure in the soil.
When you're pulling out those pots after been sitting in the winter, over the winter, dry
and with no plants in them, you are going to have hydrophobic issues.
The question is how best to land a inoculant on that material that can hold and take footing,
take hold to it.
That's where you're best to try to get a lot of the material back to a hydrophilic state
so that you're not fighting it and everything you pour on it just runs over the top and
off the side.
There's some tricks.
There's yucca extracts, which is a surfactant.
It helps the water coating or helps the water coat instead of bead.
We've all seen water droplets bead up on the hood of your car, but you've also seen when
water just glazes or something.
That's where these surfactants really play a good role in creating that moisture bond
to the material that basically has a coating of wax around it.
I think in the past shows we did talk about what that really means, hydrophobic.
It's basically when the bacteria are not in an environment where they're happy, they will
go into a cyst form or in cyst.
Basically what that means is they create a wax coating around the outside of them.
That in turn, because there's so much of them and there's obviously biofilm, that biofilm
helps to insulate it for a period of time, although eventually that biofilm will flake
off.
Those organisms will have by then prevented moisture from getting into that material.
Therefore that's why you have that hydrophobic condition.
I used to have big hydrophobic problems until you and I did the biomimicry episode.
I'm happy to say that the last two years I haven't had any issues with that.
It was at the top of my list of issues back in the day.
Let's go ahead and take our short break.
When we come back, we'll talk about taking compressed, hydrophobic, anaerobic soil and
bring it towards, turn it away from the dark side and bring it to the aerobic environment.
For folks who wanted to hear more of what Alan Adkisson's experiments looked like, you
can go ahead and listen to Shaping Fire episode 15 called Open Source Probiotic Growing.
Alan and I discuss his earth box and the attractiveness of lactobacterias.
He's actually a historian, so you actually get to hear about how labs and inoculated
caches were used all the way back by Roman soldiers to help calm them when they came
back from war.
So that's all incredibly interesting.
You are listening to Shaping Fire and my guest today is soil biologist Leighton Morrison.
For years, organic cultivators have been looking for a replacement for using peat moss.
Peat moss has long been the go-to soil amendment for water retention and container growing,
but organic growers know that peat moss is an unsustainable resource, and the mining
of peat bogs destroys habitat and releases sequestered carbon.
But peat moss works so well that many have continued to use it.
But now there's finally a revolutionary replacement for peat moss that shares the same benefits
while also being sustainable.
Peat moss sounds and acts like peat moss, but instead of being mined from fragile ecosystems,
it actually is made from upcycled organic paper and tree bark.
Peat moss is excellent at retaining water in your substrate and creating air pockets
and tiny living environments for microbes.
Peat moss instantly increases aeration, nutrient absorption, and water conservation too.
Carefully and locally sourced, peat moss is the result of decades-long research into the
use of recycled paper fibers.
Peat moss has the fluffy nature of peat moss and handles exactly the same.
And like peat moss, pit moss is inert, so it won't change your pH.
Available in a range of preparations including a nutrient-enhanced blend, a coco coir blend,
and also as an organic soil conditioner with no added nutrients, pit moss is also available
as an animal bedding.
So go to pitmoss.com now to learn more.
That's P-I-T-T-M-O-S-S dot com.
Growing healthier, more sustainable plants.
PITMOSS
With the national hemp program in flux due to stringent THC testing requirements, Brothers
Seth and Eric Crawford continue to release seeds to hemp farmers that will be legal,
no matter how you grow them or when you test them.
These new varieties from Oregon CBD Seeds have substantial amounts of CBDV, CBGV, CBCV,
and THCV while always staying below the 0.3% THC limit and guaranteeing compliant crops
for farmers every time.
Also, these new varieties cannot be pollinated by your neighbor's uncontrolled pollen or
a rogue male in your own crop either.
Oregon CBD Seeds are non-GMO certified too.
Oregon CBD Seeds was founded and funded in 2015 by Seth and Eric maxing out their personal
credit cards without outside investment.
They continued to refuse outside investment that would change their company culture.
Oregon CBD grows tons of fresh food on their research farms for local food banks.
Literally tons of food.
They also give away tens of thousands of pounds of R&D flour to patients.
As their company began to succeed, Seth and Eric started donating money to the cannabis
medicine and hemp fiber cause too by giving millions of dollars to Oregon State University
in order to establish the world's leading cannabis genomics research program.
And they treat their employees right.
Oregon CBD pays for full health and dental coverage for their employees, a 401k program,
and their minimum starting wage is $20 an hour.
Plus everyone shares food from the farms.
Seth has been on Shaping Fire a few times to talk about novel cannabinoids.
You can check out episodes 25 and 37 on CBD cultivars and the hemp market, episode 66
on triploid cannabis genetics, and the very first Shaping Fire Live episode 47 with Seth
and soil expert Jeff Lowenfels talking about autoflowers.
If you are a hemp farmer and you want to grow reliable seeds that are sure to thrive in
past testing, check out OregonCBDCeeds.com to learn more about buying seeds for the 2021
season.
That's OregonCBDCeeds.com.
There is no doubt that autoflowering cannabis plants have finally come into their own.
Night Owl Seeds works tirelessly, bringing you autoflower genetics that are reliable,
thriving, and with extraordinary terpene profiles.
Night Owl Seeds is an industry leader because of the focused work of their founder, Daz.
Daz is passionate about the cannabis plant and pushing what autoflowers can do, and cultivators
know that these efforts show through in his seeds.
And Night Owl Seeds really are extraordinary.
Just take a look at the thousands of photos by fans on Instagram.
The proof is there and obvious.
Seeds are complex and rich.
Plants have vigor.
If you are a fan of Mephisto genetics like I am, you'll likely also love Night Owl
Seeds.
Night Owl founder Daz worked with Mitch Mephisto to build the Mephisto brand for years, including
breeding Mephisto's much-loved Sour Stomper and Cosmic Queen cultivars.
I'm growing both Night Owl and Mephisto this year because I want the best.
And Night Owl Seeds knows how to cultivate community, too.
Daz puts out great stickers, exclusive packaging for limited runs, and desirable freebies.
He really draws you in if you love creative branding.
Night Owl even has the Secret Owl Society text club.
Just text the word NIGHTOWL to 760-670-3130 for early announcements and exclusive opportunities.
Of course, you can see lots of photos and find out about upcoming drops by following
the Night Owl Seeds Instagram too, at Daz.NightOwl.
You can get your packs of Night Owl Seeds at several distributors, including DC Seed
Exchange, Insane Seeds, and Hembra Genetics.
That's Night Owl Seeds.
There's a difference because we're different.
Welcome back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire.
I am your host, Shango Lose.
Our guest this week is soil biologist, Leighton Morrison.
Here in the second set, we're going to shift gears a little bit.
During the first set, we all talked about the nature of anaerobic and aerobic environments,
some examples, how to think about them, the extreme examples.
So far, you got a good picture of these different ways of growing.
The second set, we're going to go through a specific example of working with your soil
when you're coming from an anaerobic, abused soil, what most of us would call dirt, right?
Before it's teeming with life, it's compressed and there's not much going on there, and most
of us would call it dirt, and then we build it in the soil.
But this all comes specifically from, I think it was three episodes back, I was interviewing
Joey Berger.
I was using for an example about how I use these incredibly aerated teas in my garden
every summer, and I love my brewer, and how I bubble it up, and then I go and I pour it
both as a root drench and foliar leaf for most of my plants, food and medicinal plants.
He pointed out something that blew my mind.
He pointed out, he's like, well, you know, you are pouring your highly aerated compost
tea full of oxygen-loving microbes into a soil environment that's anaerobic, because
in this example, the soil was unhealthy.
And he's all like, those soil-loving microbes, or excuse me, the oxygen-loving microbes are
going to have a rough time of it.
It really blew my mind, because I really thought of aerobic compost teas as kind of being the
universal superhero, perfect for any situation.
And now I get the idea that, oh, when I pour it on this anaerobic environment, I'm actually
just creating a bunch of death and sludge in the area, because these microbes are going
to immediately die, and then they're going to have to be removed from the rhizosphere.
So I called you, Leighton.
And so you explained to me the subtleties about the type of aerated teas slash ferments
that we need to use.
So let's kind of go through that process, if you would, with me, Leighton.
In our example, we have got ourselves an anaerobic dirt environment, and I am happily about to
dump a whole bunch of ultra-aerated tea on it.
But there's a better way.
What is the better way?
All right.
Let's quantify some stuff here.
One of the greatest spiritual lessons I ever learned from a friend of mine, John at the
Lake.
To define something as right is to automatically define everything else as wrong.
I think if you let that resonate in your head for a minute, you'll understand more about
what I'm trying to explain.
One of the greatest strengths that I've found in taking dirt and converting it into aerobic
soil is the use of fish frass.
Now, I started this journey a long time ago as a kid, but later to pick it up after a
divorce.
At the time, I was working with aquaculture companies to harvest their fish manure and
work with it.
I want you to think about this for a minute.
That manure went from aerobic, as it came out of the body of the fish, in a water column
of 8 to 10 parts per million.
It sank to the bottom where it started to go through an anaerobic digestion, for lack
of better words, to a point where it was screened out through a filtration where it went 100%
anaerobic.
I would take this material and I would aerobically stabilize it until I had this sweet smell
which I associated with certain biology because I was able to do the microscopy to verify
it.
If you think about that, that went from aerobic to anaerobic back to aerobic.
What type of organisms will be present?
The answer is all of them because if the environment isn't right, they will cyst.
Now, I have this incredible toolbox full of anaerobic, aerobic, and facultative or oxygen
tolerant anaerobes as well as low oxygen tolerant aerobes and everything in between.
In my work, here's a great story and example.
A dear client of mine, Harvey Hubbell, whose father the telescope was named after, called
me about a cornfield that had been in production for 60 years and it was horribly beat up.
He had tried to convert it to a hay field with little to no success, called me and brought
me in.
The first thing I did was obviously soil testing, infiltration, deep pit testing, and then I
did percolation tests.
The deep pit was so I could map out the horizons.
Soil chemistry, saturated paste tests, and obviously I put some under the microscope
to take a look at it.
Once I got all the test data back, I took into consideration what it would cost to just
zero this field chemistry wise.
It ended up that I would have to spend $2,400 per acre to put the chemistry back in the
complete balance.
So that would have been $24,000 for a 10 acre field to grow hay in it.
I explained what I found to Harvey, knowing clearly he wasn't going to spend that kind
of money.
But it opened the door to allow me to do a little bit more experimentation.
Bottom line was I said, okay, obviously you've got sparse grass or hay.
You've got clumps and patches of dirt.
It's horribly compacted.
I took my finger out and I tried to press it into the soil.
I said, look, I can't do anything.
This is compacted.
So in my experience, I'm going to use a not completely aerobically stabilized fish manure
along with a slightly anaerobic compost to initially land the first round of soldiers
to begin to convert this soil or dirt toward soil.
I also asked the farmer that was doing the hay to get a little bit more diversity in
the seed mix.
I asked him to get some clovers and some flowers and stuff that would not hurt the consumers,
the cows and the horses.
So we did an application.
Actually, I had him seed the whole property, seed the 10 acres.
Right after he seeded it, I came in and applied this biological concoction or mayonnaise.
Then I asked that I have the ability to come back in midsummer and do just a biological
food, which is essentially a water, molasses and kelp.
After the first cutting, that I be allowed to come back again and apply a completely
aerobically stabilized compost extract as well as the fish manure.
By the way, that company is called Fish Brew on Cape Cod, fishbrew.com.
If you guys want to get this product, it's amazing.
I cannot speak highly enough about it because again, what I said earlier, you're getting
a complete suite of biology, both anaerobic, aerobic and everything in between.
Needless to say, I came back just before the second cutting and I brought Harvey out into
the middle of the road and I pointed him at the field that we treated.
I said, what do you see Harvey?
He goes, wow, it really looks healthy.
The color's nice.
I like the diversity of the hay and I don't have any patchy spots.
So I spun him around to look at a field on the other side of the street that we did not
treat.
I said, can you see the difference?
He looked and his jaw dropped and he spun his head back and looked at the field we treated
and he said, oh my God, that field's alive.
Look at all the bugs.
Look at all the birds.
That thing is teeming with life.
And I said, exactly.
And that was three applications.
And that field is highly productive.
The people that purchased the hay requested the exact same hay and more of it from the
farmer.
And I believe they've started the process of getting another field going so that the
same thing can happen.
But it goes to show once you put nature back in play, it just compounds.
It just gets better and better and better with age.
So let's focus in a second on the best practice there because the story is good.
But I think that the part of it that I want to tease out seems to be this active point
where, whereas I had suggested in my conversation with Joey that we just put a super aerated
tea on anything and it works for anything.
In this particular example, you took a compressed and tired field of dirt and you put partially
aerated or somewhat oxygen loving microbes.
So somewhere in the middle, is there a middle ground between anaerobic and aerobic?
Is there like, yeah, we kind of like aerobic and we kind of like anaerobic.
Do those microbes exist where those are the ones that you would incubate?
And I think you called it your first wave army or whatever into the field.
Is that an actual array of microbes that you could go for?
Absolutely.
And that's the beauty of fish brew.
Tell us about that.
All right.
Yeah, that's fish brew.
That's fish brew.
Right, because it went from aerobic to anaerobic and then back to aerobic based on my work
toward it.
And in this particular example, I didn't fully stabilize it to eight parts per million.
I left it at about four.
So I was teasing out that whole middle ground that you're talking about, which is from one
part per million to seven parts per million.
So that's a big gray area.
And that's where all the magic happens.
And remember this, right?
You talked about throwing your aerobic loving organisms in and they're going to just die.
Yeah.
Well, they're not going to die.
They're going to go into cysts.
They're going to cyst up.
Yeah, I get it now.
Or they're going to be consumed.
And if you did actually kill them all, so say you did, obviously some are going to die.
Some are going to get into a situation where they can't cyst up fast enough and they're
going to pop.
And they're going to release nutrients.
So we call that a nutrient solution.
The goal of putting aerobic compost tea on soil is to inoculate the soil, right?
You want these organisms to grow out and thrive.
Well, in the case where you murdered them, you basically have created a nutrient solution
that's plant available, but it's mobile.
And that's the problem.
As soon as you water it, all of that organ, aminos, all of those peptides, all of those
metabolites, tertiary metabolites that are inside the ectoplasm of the cell, which are
all valuable sources of food for plants, are now mobile.
And when you water, they're going to wash beyond the roots or some of it is.
Some of it will obviously be caught by the roots, but not all of it.
So that's why we don't make aerobic tea and then quickly turn it into an anaerobic so
that we kill off the vast majority of them, because now we're creating a mobile nutrient
solution.
And that's the cause of all of the pollution that we have now in our environment is due
to those mobile nutrients.
Is it accurate to use the term focaltative when it comes to those partially oxygen loving
and partially not oxygen loving?
Let's hit on that for a minute.
And remember, science is going at light speed now, and the documentation of science is at
a crawl.
So what we're learning is so outpacing our ability to document it.
That's not funny.
So what we know is that the word facultative anaerobes has been thrown around for a long
time.
I prefer the term oxygen tolerant anaerobes.
So these are anaerobes that live and thrive in zero parts per million, but can function
to some degree, perhaps not thrive in a semi-aerobic environment.
And the same is true on the other end of the spectrum.
So you have anaerobes that thrive in aerobic environments that can still tolerate low oxygen
environments.
So you got to overlap these ideas of, oh, it's just an aerobe, or, oh, it's just an
anaerobe.
No, it's similar to the new understanding that 80% of terrestrial biology can live in
an aquatic environment and vice versa.
You got to just kind of wrap your head around how nature has inherently created this ability
to live and work and grow in environments that are not necessarily the ones they are
associated with.
All right.
So if our optimum natural expression is through having both microbes that can succeed in an
aerobic and anaerobic environment, this is a big case for us to have as diverse soil
as possible, dumping a wide range of microbes and nutrients and all this.
Because really, if the environment has both anaerobic and aerobic microbes, whatever happens
with the evolution of our pot, even if it goes south and it goes anaerobic on us, sure,
we're going to have hydrophobic stuff to deal with, but the plant would still be able to
get into a nutritional relationship with the anaerobic microbes, even though the aerobic
microbes have sisted up.
Is that true?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Wow.
Wow.
All right.
Now, you don't want to leave that plant in a sustained anaerobic environment.
This isn't the goal, right?
But the diversification is going to totally backstop a failure on the plant if you screw
it up.
Oh, man.
This goes back to the horizontal soil system.
Again, these are methods to take the extremes out of the situation.
So you did overwater.
No problem.
It's stored down in the E horizon.
As the top O horizon dries out, it'll pull the moisture back up via the A horizon.
And the same is true with the work that I've been doing with microbes.
That was the accidental amazement or amazing thing that happened when I started playing
around with fish manure, was that I was by default catching this incredible suite of
organisms that again, 80% of them can survive in a terrestrial environment.
And they came from both aerobic, anaerobic conditions.
And then I stabilized them back to aerobic.
If I didn't, they still worked.
So it's again, using biomimicry and understanding perhaps bigger picture like before the great
human expansion, there was mass migrations.
And these migrations were thousands of ducks that darkened the sky, that landed in that
pond and ate and shit and thrashed and trashed and then bailed out of there.
Well, they just turned this gorgeous, beautiful, clear water pond into a mucky, nasty smelling
anaerobic cauldron.
But what happened?
That pond came back, roaring back again.
And this is on buffalo, deer, moose, fish.
Fish would come in and just thrash a harbor and then the prey fish would come in or predator
fish would come in and just thrash and trash and take a bite out of every fish and leave
carcasses everywhere.
So this kind of anaerobic, aerobic back and forth is part of nature.
It was part of the beauty of the Garden of Eden before we put an end to it through our
mass expansion.
Again, biomimicry.
All right.
So I find it really interesting that the, what did you call them?
Oxygen tolerant microbes are...
Oxygen tolerant anaerobes.
Anaerobes, excuse me.
Yeah.
I knew that didn't sound right.
That they're from the water food web primarily that we've discussed so far.
And for anybody who's not familiar with the water food web, you should go back and check
Shaping Fire episode 52 with Steve Reisner.
And that was the first time, like I've been in love with the soil food web ever since
I started really caring about cultivation of cannabis.
But to find out that there is an entirely different food web that takes place in water,
it really blew my mind.
But now you're talking about the water food web and bringing these oxygen tolerant anaerobes
over to help us condition soil to bring it, to take it from a zero oxygen to a medium
oxygen so we can make it to a high oxygen and slowly but surely rejuvenate the soil.
Are most of these oxygen tolerant anaerobes in the water food web or are those just your
preferred ones to use because of their ease of accessing them?
Well, that's a great question.
But the answer is, do you ever made stinky compost?
I mean, not intentionally.
If my compost stinks, I failed.
Right.
But it happens.
So those are terrestrial biology that are oxygen tolerant anaerobes, right?
Because they didn't just happen.
They were there or present and they became active due to either lack of oxygen as it
went down or vice versa.
As the oxygen went up, as things started to break down and you moved from thermophilic
to mesophilic, they became active again.
So again, you can't look at it like it only goes in one direction because it's constantly
going back and forth.
Well, the bigger picture that I'm getting out of this is that so long as we're not working
in a non-natural, sterile-ish environment like synthetic hydroponic, places where worms
can't live, right?
So long as we are using natural practices, there will always be in all of the water,
all of the soil, in every rhizosphere, there are going to be both anaerobic and aerobic
microbes because of the natural diversity of the soil.
And actually what we want to do is we want to move our soils from being compressed, dirt-like
anaerobic to be increasingly aerobic.
But the goal is never to get rid of the anaerobic microbes.
We just want them to cyst up and hang out in case we screw up the pot and we need them
as part of our save.
Amen.
It's called a buffer.
It's a buffer.
And I think that there is a warning here that putting on an anaerobic, stinky tea in quantity
on a very aerobic and aerobically stabilized biology is that the primary nutrient cycle
in the anaerobic world, which is called the ciliate, will buzz around and consume flagellates
as well as bacteria.
Now he is nutrient cycling on a scale that's mind-boggling compared to amoeba and flagellates.
He's nutrient cycling at 10x of what they can do.
But if he's consuming all your flagellates, it's going to take longer for that soil to
rebound back because you have lost ground.
So that's why I never encourage anybody to use a high quantity of aerobic or anaerobic
compost tea or ferments on a highly aerobic environment because you are going to step
back at a point where you've lost a lot of your buffer.
Now if you want to take a fermented plant juice, which again is being fermented biologically,
therefore it is being loaded with anaerobic organisms, but if you want to take some of
that and dilute it out in the natural farming methodologies, there's no problem whatsoever
with that.
You're not landing billions of hostile ciliates.
Are you getting a few?
Sure.
I have no doubt in my mind that there's going to be some.
But again, diversity is a wonderful thing.
In nature, you don't see just one type of thing.
You always see diversity.
It's not like the soil, even the most aerobic natural soils on the surface of the earth,
the living skin for lack of better words, is not going to have anaerobes in it.
Of course it's going to.
It's going to have anaerobic pockets.
We see that even within aggregates.
So aggregates are basically a bacteria comes along and lands on a clay platelet, divides,
grows out biofilm to protect him.
That biofilm touches a silt particle.
They keep expanding out.
Now that biofilm has expanded onto a sand particle and this bacteria is growing kids,
dividing left and right.
And before you know it, you have a microaggregate.
Well, eventually that turns into a macroaggregate.
And this is something you and I have talked about in the past, into a rhizosheath, which
is the big clump that you pull up when you pull up a weed.
That's just a giant sheath inside of that sheath on a microscopic level.
There are going to be anaerobic pockets.
It's not going to all be a hundred percent aerobic.
And that's kind of the mythology of understanding the whole bigger picture of what's going on
biologically in a soil system is that you are going to have anaerobes and you may actually
really need them at certain times like over watering or underwater, where you have the
aerobes that are going to come out and do the heavy lifting for you.
So it's again, it's diversity, diversity, diversity in everything and everything.
I've heard you describe that biofilm, I don't know, trajectory before.
And I've always liked it where if I get it correctly, you described a microbe finally
getting a good living environment.
And so it removes the hard cys protection of it and it starts to engage more with its
environment.
It excretes a biofilm, which is like a gooey substance that protects it from unwanted other
microbes.
And sticks it.
And sticks it.
And so it's sticky.
And so this one microbe, like now it's not sticking to a bacteria.
Thank you.
So it's one bacteria.
And now it's sticking to another bacteria.
Now maybe it's sticking to another life form and then maybe a food source.
And so in my head, this is how the where the word aggregate comes from, which is like a
collection of unrelated things that become a bigger thing as community.
And so this is building a more and more complex life system of all these different bacterias
and their biofilm and occasional food sources.
And I'm guessing protozoa and amoeba and stuff in there.
And so it's making this big gooey sticky ball.
And then that aggregate attaches to another big aggregate of the same thing.
And so now they've doubled in size.
And so you can see how this is increasing at a geometric rate.
And that is what we want to do as soil builders.
And is that process that we just described, is that the heart of building soil?
Oh man.
And now that's not super soil.
Because in a super soil or a soilless medium, you don't have sand, silt and clay.
So you're very limited for biofilm to actually occur.
It's only going to occur on each individual fiber.
So it can't really start to bond the fibers together to make aggregates.
You follow me?
Yeah, for sure.
Well, the funny thing is, in my head, I'm like, well, yeah, who cares about the soilless
medium?
But of course, lots of people grow that way, right?
Most people in pots do.
Since you did that, or we did that podcast, episode 54, where it was the first time I
didn't get laughed off a stage about talking about horizontal soil systems.
I've gotten incredible feedback on Instagram, thanking and saying how great it works.
And it wasn't a great idea.
It was just copying nature.
But traditional cannabis, when camp came around and they were forced to go indoors or into
containers and diesel grows, they weren't lugging the natural soil into the container.
They started growing in pots.
And of course, they didn't want to carry a 300 pound pot down into this container buried
underneath the ground or into their house and cave the floor in because the floor wasn't
designed to take thousands of pounds of soil.
So it was obvious they went to peat moss and coir.
That was probably just peat moss and compost and other aeration because of its lightweight.
And then, of course, now you did not have that biological interaction.
So all of a sudden, those organic raw nutrient blends, the stone dust and crab meal and oyster
shell, that no longer worked.
So they went to bottled newts.
And this soil profile or soil system, the soil is medium, was a great way or a great
medium to hold water and to hold nutrients.
So it didn't lose it.
And so that was like the natural progression into the soilless mediums was by default based
on the government cracking down on the free-loving cannabis growers.
And so that's why I continuously use the term soilless medium or super soil because there's
still a tremendous amount of people out there using this.
And now they can go back to using meals and teas with their super soil.
Although the originals were just growing in soil.
They really weren't amending the soil that much.
I mean, they didn't want to haul bales of peat moss up into the hills to grow their
cannabis so they just planted it in the ground.
So that's where all of this struggles come in, in understanding the difference between
tension soil and low tension soil and the limitations of both.
Low tension soil has its limitations and regular soil has its limitations because unless you
fluff it up or unless you have a highly aggregated soil, you're not going to get the plant to
push like you want because those roots can't bind or pound their way through that compacted
soil.
So that's where time takes place.
You have to cover crop.
You have to get that soil prepared for the growth of the cannabis plant.
If you want to try to get your yields and get your full genetic potential, you can't
be planting in hard compacted clay.
Plants not going to do well.
That's the most cogent and generous description of soilless medium that I've ever heard.
Sometimes I get on my soapbox and I'm like, well, I like the way that Jeff Lowenfels
thinks about it where why would you want to grow in anything where worms can't live, right?
Because that's at the basis of so much biology.
But your description not only explains the socioeconomic and political impacts that cause
the cocoa, but the idea that using a non-soil cocoa blend is comparatively better than unbuilt
soil, just crappy dirt, right?
But then it takes more effort and natural farming techniques to really breathe life
into compacted soil.
I see again how I can't make a wholesale claim like that because it really depends on where
you are, what resources do you have, what natural inputs do you have, what is the legal
environment where you are, how strong are you, are you an immobile patient?
All of these speak to what is going to be best for you.
I think that's very humbling and a good reminder when so many of us want to judge folks for
their growing style online, you don't know their whole big picture.
So stop thinking that we know better.
Yeah, again, it goes back to defining something as right.
Even if you never intended to say that someone else is doing it wrong, you did by defining,
oh, this is the best way to do it.
No, everybody's situation and circumstances are different.
Like you so beautifully or eloquently put, you could be a patient in a wheelchair.
You could have no access to coir or pit moss or nutrients.
You may be forced to cover crop just because you don't have anything else.
You don't have the money to go out and buy all these inputs.
There's a method for everybody, or maybe I should say there's a madness to the method
of letting everybody grow in a manner that they are most comfortable or due to resources.
And then encourage them and find ways to help them to better achieve the end goal of growing
some dank-ass cannabis.
Nice.
Well said.
Well, let's go ahead and go to our second commercial break.
And when we come back, we will talk about corollary strategies for building the aerobic
nature in your soil.
You are listening to Shaping Fire.
I am your host, Shango Loafs.
And our guest this week is soil biologist, Leighton Morrison.
For 20 years, Humboldt Seed Company has been family-owned in providing reliable, high-yielding
seeds originating in Northern California.
While the current trend is to slap one super male into a line of hype strains, Humboldt
Seed Company continues to breed with precision and care by doing large sifts and back-crosses
to emphasize the absolute best traits that a line has to offer.
This kind of breeding takes time, talent, and space to work.
No matter what kind of aroma you are particularly into, Humboldt Seed will likely have something
you'll love.
If you love fruit, you can choose from banana, mango, apricot, papaya, blueberry, blood orange,
melon, and lemons across their various strains.
They have all-gas, glue, and classic sour diesel lines as well.
Of course, there are the heritage California strains like OG Kush, Jack Herr, and Headband.
And their award-winning blueberry muffin is one that delights just about everybody's
palate, especially when concentrated.
Humboldt Seed Company is proud to bring to market the infamous freak show cultivar 2,
which has a great THC high but looks so much like a fern that some folks can't even identify
it as cannabis.
It's a plant that really needs to be seen to be believed.
If you're looking for well-balanced CBD seeds, Humboldt Seed Company can turn you
on to CBD strains that actually have flavor like the dill and pepper terpenes of Willie
G's Lebanese landrace.
Whether you are looking for regular, feminized, or autoflowers, Humboldt Seed Company has
the gear to make this your best growing cycle ever.
Visit humboldtseedcompany.com today to check out their line of vigorous genetics, download
their catalog, and find out where you can pick them up.
You can also check out their Instagram at thehumboldtseedcompany to check out their
gorgeous flowers and the extraordinary freak show plant.
Humboldt Seed Company, let them know Shango sent ya.
One of the reasons why no-till cannabis growing is so valued by farmers is because the mycelium
networks in the soil remain established from year to year.
And we know these fungal networks are essential because they are the nutrient superhighways
that extend far and wide in the substrate to feed your plants.
The trouble with growing in new living soils or blended cocoa substrates is that it takes
most of the plant's life just to create these mycelium highways.
Dinomycoendomycorrhizal fungi inoculant reduces that time and gets your plant eating a wider
array of nutrients faster.
And it's three times the concentration of the other popular brand in the US at 900 propagules
per gram of two fungal species selected specifically for cannabis cultivation.
Dinomyco is the result of 30 years of research and trials at the Volcani Agricultural Research
Institute in Israel.
It has also been vigorously trialed by cannabis and food growers across the US.
Dinomyco is now available at grow shops and on Amazon in the United States.
I love using Dinomyco to both speed up the growth of the mycelium networks in the soil,
but also as a biostimulant to make clone cuttings more virile.
You can see side by side showing the comparative growth on their Instagram at Dinomyco.
If you demand reliable growing results and appreciate the importance of an active root
zone in creating a thriving plant, I encourage you to check out Dinomyco.com and use the
store locator to find out where you can get yours.
That's D-Y-N-O-M-Y-C-O dot com.
Shaping Fire listeners can get 10% off any size of Dinomyco on Amazon or Dinomyco.com
by using the discount code SHAPINGFIRE, one word, no caps.
Whether you are starting with new beds or pots, or if you want to add some zing to tired
soil, choose Dinomyco to maximize your plant's potential.
Dinomyco, endomycorrhizal, inoculant.
Get your tickets now for the 2021 Autoflower Cup this weekend, August 6th, 7th, and 8th
in Little Whoop, Washington, just outside of Seattle.
If you are a regular listener of Shaping Fire, you've heard me motivate you to grow some
autoflowers and compete in the cup.
Then I shared why I support the autoflower community, and specifically this friends and
family event.
All there is to say now is to come.
Come on out and have some great outdoor fun, and let's get high.
The Autoflower Cup is an over 21 event presented by Camp Ruderales.
There is something for everyone, no matter your interests.
Stunden Glass Hookah Lounge, Pop-Up Magical Butter Chocolate Shop, Waterfront Marketplace
with an array of vendors.
There will be an old school autoflower seed swap, joint rolling competition, cannabis
cooking demos, solventless squishing demos, and late night documentary screenings of fantastic
fungi.
Chef Sebastian Carosi's award winning classics like Elk Chili, Kobe Beef Kimchi Dogs, Oyster
Po' Boys, and Razor Clam Chowder.
Wild Oyster Harvesting, Mushroom Foraging, S'mores Around the Campfires Each Night,
Dan Jimmy of Mandalorian Presentations, Psilocybin Mushroom Presentations, Camping, Glamping,
RVs, and Air B&B.
There are a few really swanky glamping packages still available too.
You can grab a 4-person glamping package for only $1,200 and a 2-person package for $850.
And the tents and furnishings are really snazzy.
I just posted a photo of one on Shaping Fire's Instagram if you want to check it out.
So check out campruderales.com for event details and follow the Instagram at theautoflowercup2021.
And I'll see you this weekend at the Autoflower Cup.
Welcome back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire.
I am your host, Shango Lowe, and our guest this week is soil biologist, Leighton Morrison.
So during the first set, we made sure we had a good understanding of what the nature of
aerobic and anaerobic environments are, their definitions, how we should consider them,
and some examples.
During the second set, we talked about this question of putting anaerobic ferments into
an aerobic environment.
We understood that the key to this is putting the right kind of tea or ferment into the
soil at the right stage.
So as you're building your soil, you're going to be changing the nature of your root drench
as well.
Well, here we are in set three.
We're going to talk about how to do that in a best practice, but also we're going to talk
about some of the strategies for building the aerobic nature of your soil.
So Leighton, let's start with how to add or how to collect these oxygen-tolerant anaerobes
that we're going to put into our substrate.
Now you've already plugged fish brew, which I'm excited to learn more about, but we continually
push to get off the bottle here on Shaping Fire and also to decrease costs by collecting
this stuff on our own properties if we can.
So teach us a little bit about collecting these facultative or oxygen-tolerant anaerobes
in ways that we can do it natural farming style on our own parcels.
Sure, sure.
But I just wanted to clear up one thing real quick, and that is I plug fishbrew.com for
a reason because it is an inoculant.
As long as you're not letting your pots completely dry out or if you're in a tent, I always encourage
people even though you're not growing there in the summer, leave a house plants, cover
crops, something in there.
Periodically water it, don't let it go completely dry.
If you do that, then you're going to maintain that rich, diverse microbial community at
a ready to go.
And again, I plugged him not because I want you to continuously use the product.
I just want you to use it once or twice to really get that boost because those organisms
are key to building those soil aggregates.
So let's talk about collecting our own or wildcrafting.
So I already mentioned the kelp and one piece of the puzzle I did not mention is that when
that kelp had that white foam on the top of it, that was the key moment to use it.
It wasn't to let that foam crash, which it would if you let it continuous sit out there,
it's going to get really nasty smelling and that is completely anaerobic.
So you're trying to catch it in the middle at a low oxygen, so around four or five parts
per million.
And at that point when you stick your nose in there, you're going to smell it and it's
going to be just funky like an old musty closet or something.
It's not going to smell horrible.
And when you stick your hand in there, your hand is going to be covered with biofilm.
And that is the key to quickly turning plant matter into the composting process without
going all thermophilic.
Thermophilic is when the biology heats that pile up to a point where it kills the weed
seeds.
It basically kills the vast majority of the biology off because it's getting up to temperatures
where things just explode.
Even the strongest of these organisms, cysts can't handle temperatures at 160 degrees.
So that's why it takes almost a year for that compost to come back to a point where you've
got those diverse organisms because it's happening naturally through transference from air and
the soil that's underneath the compost pile.
So let's talk about inoculants.
So another thing you can do, you don't live near the ocean, is go to a healthy pond or
stream and look for aquatic plants.
Algae is a great one.
There's other plants.
And again, I encourage you to wild craft responsibly and with respect.
If you're going to go pull up some aquatic plants, don't rip them out of the soil.
Just cut them.
Take small amounts.
Don't take the entire plant.
Perhaps bring something in as a blessing to Gaia.
Bring a little seedling in and plant it right at the edge of where you've done your collecting.
Do a kind act to the environment.
Pick up trash on the way out.
Whatever feeds your soul.
But that's another method is to collect those aquatic plants.
I'm going to give Steve Reisner a plug from Potent Ponics.
He came up with what he calls his sponge tech, which is basically buy a clean natural sponge,
tie something to it to weight it down, and throw it out into this aquatic environment
and let those organisms naturally colonize that clean sponge.
I thought that was a really smart way of collecting these initial inoculants.
So that's one way to get these, what I want to call oxygen tolerant anaerobes.
The other is the silt, the mud at the edge of the waterway.
There's all kinds of riparian zones.
A lot of them are polluted, unfortunately.
So you really have to do your homework to seek out a place that you know is like in
natural farming, the least disturbed you can possibly find within a reasonable amount of
reasonable traveling distance from where you are, or do this on vacation and ship it home.
There's ways of doing it.
So that's one way.
Another way is to take compost that's highly aerobic and that you're really happy with
and overwet it.
Start pushing it toward the anaerobic environment and then maintain it and watch it.
Now this is kind of like growing out IMO3.
It's very easy to screw up.
So IMO3, you're basically adding all these food sources and then making sure it never
hits the temperature 120.
And if it does, you turn it and you have to continuously do this until you break the thermophilic
phase and it pushes into a mesophilic.
And that's where you're going to really get that rapid protozoa and fungal growths.
So actually it's more fungal in the IMO3.
It's not really protozoa until you get into IMO4, but I'm not going to hang on that too
long.
But again, it's biomimicry.
It's the understanding of where do these organisms live in nature and then either harvesting
them there or recreating that environment at home or in the backyard.
Let's tease some of this apart.
So let's go back to the first one where you said, okay, number one is collect seaweed.
So that's great.
If we were to collect seaweed, which I am going to because I happen to live near salt
water.
So I'm going to go down to the beach and this is our time of year that we get lots of bullwhip
kelp that gets washed ashore.
And so I take some bullwhip kelp and cut it up and put it in to fill up a half of a five
gallon bucket with it.
Am I going to then cover it with fresh water or do I need to cover it with salt water since
that is where those microbes are from?
No, you're just going to use regular fresh water.
And I encourage you to leave, I don't even cut it up to be honest with you.
I just throw it all in the bucket and I left the sand to be all over it.
If there's a root attached, I leave that in play.
And then once I've done the ferment, then I will chop it up and blend it into the compost
as well.
But for the fermenting process, I don't even chop it up.
I mean, you can, I don't see any reason why to not or to, because really what you're trying
to gain is those transitional organisms as well as that biofilm.
It's really going to help to create the perfect environment for this biology to really grow
out.
All right.
So we've got the seaweed.
We've got the fresh water.
And, you know, we learned from that prior episode with Joey Berger that creating these
ferments, you need to leave these plants in a different, for a different amount of time,
depending on how bulky they are.
And seaweed's pretty damn bulky.
How long would you let this ferment sit before you used it?
So I did, I've done three of them since I've been here.
And generally speaking, and again, the sun has been at different heights.
So I think the first one was 10 days.
The most recent one during summer was seven days.
So it's really a key is, again, you're looking for the white foam and you may have to do
this a couple of times to get it right.
You're looking for that foam production and you're looking for that smell to turn from
like fresh kelp to this funky, like something that your nose goes, what the hell is that?
It doesn't recognize it as bad.
It doesn't recognize it as good.
It just, it sends a warning to you.
Like I don't recognize this.
I don't know what this is.
And when your nose tells you that, then you know it's ripe.
Yeah.
Cause you'll have that and you'll have the bubbles on the top and you're like, boom,
done.
The foam, right?
And so I would assume that that is also the same technique for like the general aquatic
plants, right?
Usually probably freshwater plants that are, you know, around your ponds or vernal ponds
or whatever, where you live, you'll go and you'll put those in a freshwater, put them
in the sun for seven to 10 days and remove it.
When you, when you smell the beginning of funk and you see some of the bubblization,
but how, what are you going to do that with a silt and mud?
That seems to be a pretty different substance, right?
That's the opposite.
So instead of adding water, you're adding air.
Remember how I told you to harvest your silt when you were building your pot, right?
I told you to let it dry out.
Yeah.
Don't just spread it all out on a big, a big, uh, right.
So the exact same thing, you're spreading it out to a point where it's a little bit
easier to work with and it doesn't have that stink to it.
Because if, I don't know about you, but I've done plenty of hiking in and around swamps
and rivers and you know, you find those, um, oxbows or where you get an eddy where the
water actually swirls backwards against the current along the edge of the, um, banks and
you step in that and you'll sink to your knee in mud and you pull your foot out and you're
like, oh man, that's no rank.
Yeah, right.
So you don't want that rank smell, but you want that funky, like your nose doesn't know
what the hell this is.
So you're doing the opposite of adding water.
You're adding air.
So you're spreading it out.
I don't probably suggest using the sun because you'd really have to be on top of this to
catch it at the right point.
But you want that silt to go from squishy, like you grab it and it squishes through your
fingers to the point where it actually starts to clump up.
Now you've, you've, you've aerobically stabilized that anaerobic silt.
And then, and then am I going to put that back into water or that's it?
No, it's done.
And so, and so why top dress with it?
Top dress with it, blend it with your compost, um, blend it with your aeration.
The blending part is probably pretty valuable because I can imagine if you just top dress
with it, with it, that it would be tempted to shift back to anaerobic as it gets soppy
wet again.
Well, no, I would, I would recommend taking a, um, uh, like a, a little bit coarser than
a, um, window screen and making a little screen box and then taking that clump and just screening
it.
So you're, you're breaking it all apart into little pieces right over the top of whatever
your top dressing or screen it into a bucket outside and bring it in and then just, you
know, throw it all with your hand.
But no, it won't.
It, when you, when you've micronized it, um, it's kind of like saying, well, I made, you
know, flour meal or oyster meal.
It's going to go back to a shell.
No, it's never going to go back to that original state.
It's permanently broken up.
It's permanently destabilized or micronized.
All right.
And then, um, and then the other variety you suggested was to take, if I understand it,
um, uh, aerobic compost and then add a bunch of water to it and then squeeze it out?
No, just push it, push it toward anaerobic.
So I'm sure most of the audience has come in contact with stinky compost.
So the reason it's stinky is because it's anaerobic or low oxygen.
So again, you can, in all of these examples, it's so easy to screw them up.
It's not funny.
So you really have to learn the craft.
Don't expect to be a one in master.
Um, you're really, you're looking for certain things.
You're using your common sense and intelligence to understand that.
No, I don't want to put a huge clump of stinky mud on top of my plant or no, I don't want
to let this ferment to a certain point that it becomes a stinky, nasty smelling thing.
I'm trying to catch it at just the right time where it's in transition and it's going to
help me transition my soil.
So in the case of a super soil or a soilless medium that, that kelp ferment or that, uh,
organic plant ferment, you're going to know because it's slimy.
It's like you feel it's like gelatin.
It's almost like a aloe when you put that, squish that stuff out on you.
That's the biofilm that's going to create the environment to, for the rest of the biology
to explode.
So again, this is, this is a, uh, delicate process and you're, the chances of screwing
it up are far greater than getting it right, especially the first time.
So you need patience and, and again, if the more you monitor it, the more you love it
and pay attention to it, the better your chances of a success will be.
So again, you're trying to push this nice aerobic, fluffy compost toward an anaerobic
environment.
And, you know, if you want to do it mathematically, that's, that's probably the best way to learn
how to do it so that you can repeat it.
So add a cup of water into this aerobic compost that's in a compost, but in a five gallon
bucket and watch what happens.
And then add another cup and then add another cup until the point where you turn it stinky
and then rewind to the point where you've added four cups, not five.
And then repeat it.
So once, once you've got, once you've added the right number of cups of water and it has
just started to turn where you're going like, ah, there is the telltale funk of transition.
So that's what I want to capture.
Are we going to put that through a screen and make small morsels of it like we did with
the other stuff?
Yeah, I think that would be, I think that would be probably the smartest approach.
And again, you know, if you're starting with an unscreened compost, um, I would recommend
you screen it.
So it's at least easier to make, like maybe you screen it first, right?
Right.
Whenever possible screen at first, so you don't have to try to do it when it's wet,
right?
With all these clumps sticking together.
Yeah.
So, you know, start with a screen compost and then after you get to that point, re-screen
it with the same screen.
Now you've, now you've broken it apart again.
All right.
Awesome.
All right.
So those were, uh, one, two, three, those are four different varieties of collecting,
um, oxygen tolerant anaerobes, um, facultative anaerobes.
And the other way too, you're, you're getting, um, aerobes that are, uh, low oxygen tolerant
as well.
So you're getting both, both, both teams that play in the middle environment.
And do well on the other end of the spectrum, but they come together and play in the middle.
So let's, let's finish off with, uh, any other strategies that you may have for, um, increasing
the aerobic nature of soil, right?
I mean, the whole point of this is that we're moving our soil from an aerobic environment
to being, uh, less aerobic and being, um, excuse me, we're moving it from being less
anaerobic to more aerobic by adding new microbes and bacteria that play around in the middle
area.
What else can we do to build the aerobic nature of the soil to help this, this aggregation
process on?
Okay.
This would be do, this would be field soils because obviously a soil medium is going to
be already completely aerobic because it's got so much pore space.
So we're in a field condition, um, and we have highly compacted soil.
Say we just bought a farmstead and we're growing our six plants or whatever.
And it was old farmland or ag land or, or just, you know, well used lawn or whatever.
Um, I would say that the, the easiest, but the thing that takes the longest is a series
of cover crop rotations.
So something like a jackhammer radish, I think they call them daikon radishes, um, are wonderful,
uh, for breaking up compaction.
Um, I've actually seen stuff that was so compacted that the, the, the radish actually
pushed itself out of the soil, which is, you know, pretty unusual.
Um, but it was a highly compacted clay soil, so it is understandable.
But by using, um, root crops, um, and crops that have known deep tap roots, there's a,
there's a number of, I don't like to call them weeds because I don't believe they are.
I think they're what we call successionary plants that they're basically providing or
building the soil for the next succession of plants to come in by pulling out certain
minerals that are deficient in the soil, bringing them up to the surface and then dying as a
plant and releasing them on the surface.
So the next plant, the next succession can come in, but that takes time.
Humans, humans, you know, we have a hundred years, uh, mother earth thinks, you know,
a hundred years is a nanosecond.
So we, we want to do this and have it right now.
So when you're in a situation where you don't even have the opportunity to cover crop for
a year, which in all honesty, personally, I'd like to see people build soil for three
years, um, to really get that to the point where you can just take your whole hand and
just stuff it down into your elbow without any resistance whatsoever.
That's beautifully aerobic soil that will send cannabis plant roots flying through the
matrix.
But that's takes time.
Um, and perhaps amendments like, you know, tilling and compost.
So your, your strategy is, is, is dependent on your, again, resources and the time that
you have allotted.
So in, in the situation where I have a highly compacted soil and I want to grow cannabis
plants this year in this spot, um, I would say, all right, so what you want to do is
get yourself some really good compost and you're going to do mound culture, kind of
like hugelkultur, but basically you're just going to build a half of the horizontal soil
system right on top of the soil.
Um, that way you'll get your fast rooting.
If your seeds, your tap will have the ability to push down into the existing profile.
I would highly recommend that you do a soil chemistry test and a saturated paste test
because a lot of these, um, imbalances cause compaction.
Go figure.
Right?
So by adding some of these, um, required micronutrients and or macronutrients, um, you are going to
naturally put into play the soil chemistry.
This is probably the most important thing I can teach anybody.
You need to look at soil in three different lights and where those three circles come
together is the sweet spot.
Number one, physical sand, silk, clay, and organic matter.
What are their relations?
What are the proportions?
Really important.
Second, soil chemistry.
Without the right chemistry, you're going to have all kinds of other battles you have
to fight.
And finally, biology.
All three are equally important.
And again, where the three rings come together, that's the sweet spot where you want to be.
So now that we've got a fast growing kind of soil is medium on the surface, we have
our natural drainage and our sand, silk, clay below that.
We've put our chemistry into play.
Now it's a matter of putting the biology into play.
So a good inoculant, whether it's your own compost extract, as long as you know that
you have good organisms.
I've traveled the country a number of times, worked with men, women.
I've been baking compost 50 years.
I know what I'm doing.
I have the best compost.
I put it under the microscope.
I'm like, yeah, you've got great compost.
It just doesn't have any biology in it.
It's a great nutrient source.
And that's, you know, that's another thing that, um, awareness for compost and, and taking
that word and breaking it apart.
What is compost?
Not all composts are created the same.
I can take ground up organic matter and call it compost.
I can take biodynamic mayonnaise and call it compost.
Although the texture of both of them are opposite ends of the spectrum, right?
So we really need to define that word a little bit better.
Um, but anyway, so back to the point now, now I have this, you know, super soil, soil
is medium on the surface for fast rooting growth.
I'm going to put the biology in play.
Yeah, the biology is probably going to wash through a lot of that, that top matrix, but
it will establish itself as soon as it gets into that zone between the two of what you
piled on top and the existing soil.
And then it's going to start building soil structure.
And then I would cover crop all the way around the outside of this raised bed, uh, or mound
culture so that those roots from the plants that I planted in the indigenous soil start
to push in underneath that pile and co-mingle with my cannabis plants.
Again, the more plants you can put into the soil into play, the faster you can build aggregation.
Aggregation is, is a key or is, is a direct result of glues.
And I'm glad that we, you asked me that question because one of the things I did not cover,
um, was other types of natural glues.
So sap robes are past known as saprophytic, which we can't call them anymore because
phytic means plant and fungi are not plants, they're fungi.
So sap robes excrete a glue called glomulin.
And it again is an incredibly strong glue for bonding soil particulates, say in silt
and clay and organic matter together.
So the fastest way to get aggregation is to have a high level of biology, especially if
you're using like this, you know, medium oxygen, uh, environment, um, biofilms, um, and you
know, increased the bacteria, make sure you do an inoculant of protozoa, which is what's
coming from fish brew.
And again, you want to get a really good fungal presence.
And that's why, you know, Elaine, Dr. Elaine Ingham speaks so much about the fungal F to
B ratio is because you're missing 50% of the entire soil kingdom.
If you do not have mycorrhizae and saprophytes or sap robes doing the work for you by excreting,
uh, acids and building glues and pushing nutrients and cycling all over the place.
I mean, the new work coming out on mycorrhizae insane.
There are relationships of bacteria that move in and out through the wall of the hyphae
internally into the fungi to perform processes and also move back out and travel down it.
There's some incredible new videos showing, uh, uh, with some incredible new microscopy,
uh, techniques showing just colonies of bacteria moving up and down the channels of the hyphae
as if it was a super highway and they're not all going in one direction.
They're going at each other from both directions and moving around each other.
It's crazy.
So if you do not have these, these organisms in play, you're losing 50% of the potential,
uh, of, of, you know, plant genetics.
And again, if you're going to use mycorrhizae and you're going to use it in pots, you gotta
have plants growing nonstop in that or that mycorrhizae is going to die.
And if you use any soft rock phosphate, you're going to disassociate that plant with the
mycorrhizae and the mycorrhizae is going to die.
And remember it takes 90 days for full colonization.
So that means from the root to the source of sand, silt and clay to mine.
So again, if you have a super soil and you do not have sand, silt and clay, don't waste
your money on mycorrhizae inoculants.
You're just throwing your money out the window.
But those guys are what is going to speed up that aggregation process.
And in the case of a mound culture, um, in the fall, you want to plant it with a winter
wheat.
You want to plant it with something that's going to continuously feed your biological
kingdoms, um, throughout the course of the winter or until they go dormant.
Now if it freezes and it goes dormant, that's fine.
Everything is going to be in play in spring, just like it is in nature.
So those are the key ways to build soil in an unideal, dirtish environment.
Right on.
That's great.
You know that the mound style is actually what you taught during the water and watering
episode.
And for me to get over my hydrophilic soil, right?
Because the soil...
Hydrophobic.
Hydrophobic means...
Yeah, yeah.
The hydrophobic soil top had gotten to the point where when I poured my water on it,
it just like slid right off like it was on the hood of a car.
It just slid off to the side and then down the side of the pot.
And during that episode, you're all like, you know, cover all of that with compost and
make sure it doesn't dry out.
Just keep it nice and moist.
And maybe it took two weeks for the constant interaction and of all that, the compost and
the moisture and the microbes, the bacteria in the compost.
It just like woke up all of the cystic biology in my hydrophobic soil and it just like melted
away.
So, I can see how if you had a pile of that and they were placed nearby each other on
acreage, how it would have that same effect.
You're essentially softening up parts of its protective sheath and coaxing some of the
life to come back and wake up again until it can then spread itself.
Mm-hmm.
Spot on.
And I think that's where like anytime water moves horizontally and laterally, it's eroding
and you do not want that.
And that's the biggest problem we have as a species right now is the loss of soil through
transportation.
80% of all the soils on this planet came from transportation.
So that's wind or water.
And to have bare soil, I mean, I live out here in Oxnard and every time the wind picks
up you get dust devils and everything is caked with dust all the time because these
guys are just constantly plowing and rotating and they're never cover cropping.
And they don't give the soil a chance to heal itself.
They just pound it with more frigging MPK.
And that's a result of, that's why the soil is just blowing away and they're down into
subsoil now.
So I mean, lucky for them that the soil that they have here is this amazing clay silt relationship.
It's really silty clay sand and the nutritional value of it is insane.
The problem is that again, we have very dry environment and it's windy and they don't,
I shouldn't say they don't have the best practices.
They have the practices that they utilize because they're producing so much food all
the time.
And that's the necessary of what I want to call manufacturing farming, where you just
constantly put in another row, another round of plants, another round of plants, another
round of plants.
You just never get a chance to stabilize it and build aggregation.
But you're spot on.
I mean, you could put this mound out in the middle of your backyard and you'll see, I
mean, it's going to soften the soil probably within five, six, eight feet of that pile
once it gets going.
And that's why I said, plant all the way around it because that too is going to help to soften
even further out and deeper down as those roots penetrate and build rhizosphere and
introduce all those microbes into that soil matrix, they'll start building aggregates.
I mean, they're hardworking little guys.
Fantastic.
Well, we have reached the end of our time.
Layton, thank you so much for sharing your insight as usual.
You know, as you know, I love coming to you as a soil scientist because not only do you
have the hard earned data and science to break down, but also, you know, you're a rambunctious
storyteller.
So you're a lot of fun to hang with too.
My pleasure.
Django, it's always a pleasure to hang out with you.
Right on, brother.
So we'll see you next time.
So if you want to follow Layton and the new things that he is learning, the best place
to do that is by following his Instagram where he's pretty active.
And that's at kingdomaquaponicsllc.
He also has got a website at the same address, kingdomaquaponicsllc.
And if this is the first time that you have heard Layton, I strongly encourage you to
go back and listen to the other Shaping Fire episodes where he has been my guest.
Episode number 54 on geology and biomimicry.
And that's the episode where we talk about the layering technique of creating substrate
for containers and pots and raised beds.
And then also Shaping Fire episode 59 on water and watering, explaining how water moves
itself around the rhizosphere and how to determine how much water is enough when watering your
plants.
You can find more episodes of the Shaping Fire podcast and subscribe to the show at
shapingfire.com and wherever you get your podcasts.
If you enjoyed the show, we'd really appreciate it if you would leave a positive review of
the podcast wherever you download.
That review will help others find the show so they can enjoy it too.
On the Shaping Fire website, you can also subscribe to the newsletter for insights into
the latest cannabis news, exclusive videos and giveaways.
On the Shaping Fire website, you also find transcripts of today's podcast as well.
Be sure to follow on Instagram for all original content not found on the podcast.
That's at shapingfire and at shangolos on Instagram.
Be sure to check out the Shaping Fire YouTube channel for exclusive interviews, farm tours
and cannabis lectures.
Does your company want to reach our national audience of cannabis enthusiasts?
Email hotspot at shapingfire.com to find out how.
Thanks for listening to Shaping Fire, I've been your host, Shango Los.
