We all love THC. It consoles us when we are hurt, it soothes our pain when we are injured,
it opens our mind and gives us big thoughts, and it makes us better humans. When CBD, cannabidiol,
entered our awareness in the early 2000s, cannabis caregivers and patients quickly learned
of the incredible benefits that CBD had on an array of ailments because it interacted
so effectively with the endocannabinoid system. When I speak to patient groups around the
country, there is usually someone in the group who has some version of, how can CBD help
so many medical problems? You talk about it like it's a magical potion. And it's true
that the list of physical problems that CBD helps with seems unrealistic, but I tell folks
that CBD really only helps one thing. It supports and strengthens the endocannabinoid system.
The healing gained is because the endocannabinoid system is the body's master regulator for
all the major systems. So, if you help the master regulator, you keep your body more
in balance and lessen the impact of a wide range of ailments simply because you have
gassed up the regulating mechanism and it can now do its job more effectively. With
the popularity of CBD, new research is now just beginning into several other novel cannabinoids
including CBG, cannabigerol. And CBG2 acts system-wide through the endocannabinoid system
in similar ways as CBD. CBG has many benefits for folks looking to get relief, and today
we're going to dig into the first scientific survey of what ailments patients are using
CBG to relieve.
If you want to learn about cannabis health, cultivation, and technique efficiently and
with good cheer, I encourage you to subscribe to our newsletter. We'll send you new podcast
episodes as they come out, delivered right to your inbox, along with commentary on a
couple of the most important news items from the week and videos too. Don't rely on social
media to let you know when a new episode is published. Sign up for the updates to make
sure you don't miss an episode.
Also, we are giving away very cool prizes to folks who are signed up to receive the
newsletter. This month, we are giving away the entire Vashon Kush series from Farmerfly
selections. 10 lucky winners will receive one randomized pack of these 10 new Vashon
Kush crosses. To learn more about what the crosses are in the drop, check out at farmer
underscore fly on Instagram. There's nothing else you need to do to win except receive
the newsletter, so go to shapingfire.com to sign up for the newsletter and be entered
into this month's and all future newsletter prize drawings.
You are listening to Shaping Fire and I am your host, Shango Lose.
My guest today is Dr. Ethan Russo. Dr. Ethan Russo is a board certified neurologist and
former senior medical advisor to GW Pharmaceuticals. He served as study physician to GW Pharmaceuticals
for three phase three clinical trials of Sadafax. He has held faculty appointments in pharmaceutical
sciences at the University of Montana, in medicine at the University of Washington,
and as visiting professor at the Chinese Academy of Sciences. He has been president of the
International Cannabinoid Research Society and is former chairman of the International
Association for Cannabinoid Medicine. In 1995, he pursued a three month sabbatical doing
ethno botanical research with indigenous people in Peru. He is author of several books of
cannabis medicine and has published over 30 articles in neurology, pain management, cannabis
and ethno botany. Dr. Russo has joined us before on Shaping Fire, episode 22 on treating
traumatic brain injury with cannabis and mushrooms, and episodes 11 and 27 about his
famous research papers on cannabinoids and terpenoids. Episode number 67 about treating
migraines with mushrooms and cannabis. Recently on episode 80 to talk about his new paper
on cannabis hyperemesis syndrome, and of course, the 10 part video series, Shaping Fire Sessions
on the Shaping Fire YouTube channel. Today, we offer Dr. Russo's very first public interview
on the results of his groundbreaking paper out this week titled, Survey of Patients Employing
Cannabijeral Predominant Cannabis Preparations, Perceived Medical Effects, Adverse Events,
and Withdrawal Symptoms. Welcome to the show, Ethan.
Good to be back.
Right on. So we're going to talk mostly about this new comprehensive survey that you and your
co-authors have published. But before we do that, let's spend the first set in talking specifically
about CBG so that everybody understands a little more significantly the impact of the survey when
we get to it. So, while CBG is only really getting popular now, when did we first discover and
isolate cannabijeral and knew that it existed? Well, that goes clear back to 1964. As with many
other items pertinent to cannabis and cannabinoid science, Professor Misholam was there with his
partner, Yehiel Gayoni, who died, I think, three years ago at about age 90.
But they isolated cannabijeral in 1964 from hashish that was seized by the government,
and it was of Lebanese origin. But even then, as is so often the case, Professor Misholam
was very prescient about what might happen, and he called cannabijeral the missing link in the
plant synthesis of cannabinoid constituents. So he knew right away that this was sort of the
mother of all cannabinoids, and was the precursor to the rest. And that turned out to be absolutely
correct. So what is the reason that he determined it was the mother of cannabinoids? Well,
in looking at the chemistry, it seemed that other things would be derived from it.
And I imagine that this was based on the structure. But certainly, I don't know how he did it,
but he turned out to be right in so many things.
Jared So, it was discovered. Dr. Misholam realizes that this is a significant discovery,
and then all of a sudden, there's this big period where there's not a lot of research.
What do we attribute that to? Is that directly related to prohibition,
or was nobody really interested?
Dr. Misholam Well, a combination of a couple of things. First was prohibition. By this time,
cannabis was already illegal in most places, and then more formally so
with the Single Convention Treaty, which followed a few years later.
But the main reason was, all the bandwidth was taken up by THC. And because in initial studies,
which took place in 1969, they started giving cannabijerol to dogs, monkeys, mice, and rats,
and didn't see any really overt behavioral changes. And so, it just didn't get any attention
until much later. Jared So, back in the days like that,
they would have been giving them CBG isolate, correct, and not in the company of other cannabinoids?
Dr. Misholam Yeah, very likely. Of course, there'd be small amounts that might be present if someone
were using hashish or other forms of cannabis. But one of the quirks, and this could be another
reason that it wasn't studied so much, normally, CBG doesn't accumulate much in cannabis plants.
It sort of is a high throughput stop on the way to the other cannabinoids. In other words,
as soon as it's made, most frequently, the plant goes on to THC or CBD. But now with selective
breeding, that situation is changing, and we'll get to that more later, I'm sure.
Jared For sure we are. And what do you mean
high throughput stoppage, I think is how you put it?
Dr. Misholam Well, again, so there are enzymes that
result in the production of cannabigerol, or actually cannabigerolic acid, which is what
the plant makes before decarboxylation, the loss of CO2 molecule. But again, normally, it doesn't
stop there. There are more enzymes that will lead to production of THC and CBD. So in most cannabis
samples, when they're analyzed, you see either no CBG or very small amounts, well, well under 1%.
Jared So one of the things that we know about
the variety of cannabinoids that have been researched is that they work on different
receptors in different ways, which kind of suggests what they might be used for. What are
the different actions and receptors that CBG acts on? And is it similar to any of the other cannabinoids?
Dr. Misholam No, it's really distinct. I mean,
there are some overlaps in terms of the things that it seems to be good for, which we'll talk
about later. But straight out of the chute, it's important to mention that CBG does not seem to
work directly on the cannabinoid receptors, at least not CB1 and CB2, which are normally associated
with THC. So it's true to say that it is not intoxicating or doesn't produce a high
the way that THC does. And again, early on, that led to less interest. Now, I think it leads to
more interest because of all the benefits it can have therapeutically, without the possible downside
of intoxication, because being high, as you know, is considered a side effect, according to the FDA.
But to answer your question, it does work on adrenoreceptors,
alpha-2 adrenoreceptors, and this may have something to do with its effects on pain.
Additionally, it's an antagonist at what's called the TRP-M8 receptor,
which makes it a good candidate for a number of things, particularly treatment of prostate cancer,
but also overactive bladder, and a variety of other things.
And then there are lots of other activities where all of it hasn't been worked out.
Again, its activity at CB1 and CB2 is much, much less than THC. But beyond that,
and all these mechanisms aren't clear yet, but back in 2008, Giovanni Appendino and his colleagues
discovered that CBG is very powerful as an antibiotic against gram-positive bacteria,
and that includes MRSA, methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus, which is associated
with hospital-acquired infections, and some years ago was responsible for a lot of deaths.
So, as far as the fact that we haven't really had consistent access to CBG until we've developed
these more CBG-dominant plants, most folks that I talk to kind of generally have the belief that
land races had wide-ranging varieties of cannabinoids until they became heavily bred for
the THC market, and it is that breeding for THC that you mentioned that bred the CBG out,
because it was taking up space in the resin gland that could be holding THC instead.
Have you seen much evidence, either through your research or through your work with Breeders Best,
that there were CBG-dominant land races prior to us starting to breed it for THC heavily?
A great question. I don't know that we know that. What I can say is that where people have been
growing with regenerative agriculture, real soil, active mycorrhizae, natural bacteria in the soil,
they're seeing a greater diversity of cannabinoid production, including CBG.
So, in other words, chemovirus, chemical varieties that previously were primarily THC or CBD,
seem to be expressing more different cannabinoids, including CBG, when they're grown in this fashion.
So, the premise of your question is a real possibility. Part of the problem is, we don't know,
didn't have great analytical capabilities going back to the early 70s, when there were more land
races available, and as I'm sure you're aware, a lot of those have been supplanted by seeds from
California and the Netherlands, and so it's getting harder to find some of the old land races.
But, it's a great topic for future research, something I'd like to be able to answer better
in the future. Yeah, it is disappointing that so many of those original land race populations have,
I don't know, been infected by worked over lines from the West. I do hope that people put more
effort into saving those land races. And as a side note, I find that very interesting too,
that you're finding the expression of CBG and the other various cannabinoids is more prevalent in
soil. From the other episodes we've done, that would make sense too, right? If the plant has got
a wider relationship with the soil and the plant is sharing exudates with the microbe life in the
rhizosphere, allowing a wider variety of life, thus feeding the plant from below all those
you know delightful excretions in the living soil, it would make sense that the plant has got
more raw material to express itself more wildly, which is why plants that are grown in soil have
got a wider terpene profile than otherwise. That's really interesting. So, it would make
sense that folks who are growing intentionally for CBG would want to strongly consider soil.
Alright, that's interesting. Thank you for that. So, CBG is often called a novel or minor
cannabinoid. And in most cases, that seems to be synonymous with not studied much, right?
Do those words novel or minor cannabinoid have any relevance in science?
Well, novel is a misnomer. Minor really refers to the fact that we usually don't see a lot of it.
And again, that's a situation we'd like to change. I really think that CBG is the next big thing.
And maybe in the future, we're not referring to it as a minor cannabinoid.
Right. So, there's a case to be made that really, the words novel and minor are more of a layman's
terms and not actually all that legit. All right. Novel to me just means, you know, I hadn't heard
of that one so much yet. But again, a situation that we need to change.
Yeah, exactly. So, I was surprised to read in your paper that CBG actually often occurs, or maybe not
often, but occurs elsewhere in nature, other than in cannabis. Would you please teach us a bit about
that? Yeah, not widely.
Clear back in 1979, there was an article that was published in German,
from a German group. And they were looking at so-called South African daisy, Helichrysum
umbraculigerum. And they found small amounts of both cannabidiolic acid and cannabidiol in the
plant. And it was mainly an analytical article. But when you really dig, it gets interesting.
Because this plant and related species in the genus were sometimes smoked by indigenous people
in South Africa. There's not a lot of detail about the effects, but presumably there was some
psychoactive effect. And, you know, Europeans would often look at this and claim that these
things were smoked as a tobacco substitute. In other words, when people didn't have tobacco to
smoke, they'd smoke these other things. But I think that that's culturally myopic, let's say.
I think that, my suspicion is that it had an anti-anxiety effect. And that's why it was being
smoked. And we've got some evidence for that now. But the amounts were small. This was an article
that I knew of and actually paid to have it translated into English, because I'm not a German
reader. But again, it didn't provide a lot of detail about the uses. Subsequently, my colleague
Mark Lewis looked at some plants that we germinated. It was very hard to get seeds.
But he really found only tiny amounts. And it's unlikely, without a tremendous amount of selective
breeding, that you could get significant concentrations of these molecules from that
species. It makes a lot more sense to selectively breed cannabis, where we can do a lot better
these days and can have a gerol production. So in the second set, we're going to talk more about
what people are reporting in the modern day as human users of cannabis. But before your survey,
the largest survey of users that has occurred, looking backwards, we were looking at animal
studies primarily. And there were some suspicions of what we were going to find
the positive uses of it are. So, would you do a review of what we, I guess, what we were
suspecting when we headed towards studying human use because of what we've learned from the animal
studies?
Yeah, again, so the early studies, they just didn't see a lot of overt behavioral changes.
But then there was some work showing benefit on pain reduction. There were studies that showed
decreasing of the intraocular pressure, much as THC can do. There were effects to reduce
reddening that were associated with inflammation. More interesting were some cytotoxic effects,
in other words, effects against cancer. And that was true in what's called epithelioid carcinoma.
And then again, in prostate cancer and breast cancer, there was also a prominent response.
There was some rodent work done showing an antidepressant effect. There was a reduction
of cells called keratinocytes that are present excessively in psoriasis. So that indicated
possible use there. And let's see, what else? Oh, an interesting one is
CPG also works on another receptor, a nuclear receptor that affects gene transcription
called PPAR-gamma. And in experiments that were done a couple of years ago,
there was shown to be a neuroprotective effect in inflammation. And also effects on another
agent called tumor necrosis factor alpha that's involved in autoimmune disorders.
So it opens up a lot of possibilities. Finally, there was a recent study just this year
in glublastoma multiforme showing that basically cannabijerol could kill that kind of cell.
So again, very promising, particularly since without giving anything away, I can say that
cannabijerol is a very non-toxic substance. Likely we could give large amounts of it and to be able
to treat cancer successfully without introducing a lot of other toxicities, in other words,
side effects, is going to be a real boon in the future. Because currently available chemotherapy
agents are generally toxic. In other words, you hope that you kill the cancer before you kill
too many of the patient's normal cells. And this is why standard chemotherapy is associated with
loss of hair follicles and sloughing the gut. Cannabijerol and other cannabinoids pretend to be
much safer as chemotherapeutic agents. So that part's very exciting.
Dr. Jaren Wilks I'm curious what you mean using the
term that's relative, you can give much more CBG, right? For many folks, a regular dose is going to
be somewhere between probably 10 and 20 milligrams, maybe down to 5, but probably 10 to 20.
So when you say much more, what are you actually saying milligrams-wise?
Dr. David Jaren Wilks Well, you know, with some of the cannabinoids,
it may be necessary to have hundreds of milligrams a day. So far, at least, and I don't want anyone
pressing their luck, but we've got so little indication of toxicity from the information we
have, it's very likely that those kinds of high doses could be given without the kinds of drawbacks
that we find with huge doses of THC, where certainly people can attain them, but often they
have to do it by titrating upwards over a period of time, as much as two weeks. So that remains to
be seen, but from what we know so far, my strong suspicion is that high doses of CBG will be
tolerable to people that might need higher doses to treat cancer primarily.
Dr. Peter Salgo Yeah, I've worked with patients that are
taking as much as 250 a day, and they certainly don't seem to have any negative side effects,
unless not having any anxiety is a side effect. So this last question before we go to the break,
it's a little personal, but I think that it's called for regarding what you've just said about
the history of this. As a research scientist who also has worked in a general practice so that you
are used to interacting with real humans who are really suffering, and you're not just only in the
lab where people are sometimes less connected to the patient, how do you feel about the frustration
of having your hands tied for so long and being able to research something that you just stated,
we've had really good ideas that is going to help people for so long, but no one's really had the
opportunity to touch it, and now having that opportunity increasing? I mean, as someone who's
a lifelong researcher for you, it must be somehow like a frustrating opportunity.
Dr. Gerry Breshears Well, I think frustration is my middle name
where cannabis comes in, because this has been my life for 25 years. But frankly, the situation
with prohibition on cannabijerol is outrageous, it's scandalous, and scientifically untenable.
This is not a drug of abuse. I'm certain that when drug abuse liability studies are done,
they're just not going to find a signal here. It could be that it's one of the solutions to
addiction, but it won't be a cause of addiction. So it's guilt by association, it happens to come
from a plant that also happens to make THC, which similarly shouldn't be prohibited. So it is an
outrageous situation, and the longer it goes on, the greater the tragedy will be compounded.
Jared Polin Are you seeing that the ability to do this
kind of research has been eased? I mean, you've told me just in passing, you've told me in passing
that even doing this survey is hard, and you're just asking questions. What is the state of play
as far as doing CBG studies? Dr. Gerry Breshears
Well, technically, CBG is a Schedule I forbidden substance, and people could be
arrested for it under federal law. That has not changed. Irrespective of the fact that it's legal
in many states, it would be possible for people to be prosecuted just for having this stuff.
So that hasn't changed, and the roadblocks to research remain essentially no different
substantially from what I experienced back in the 90s.
Jared Polin Geez. So, that's the frustrating opportunity,
right? Dr. Gerry Breshears
Yeah, well, another reason I've worked for foreign companies for most of the past 25 years.
Jared Polin Yeah, that makes sense. Well, I'm excited to
hear what the survey shows us, but let's go ahead and get the first commercial break out of the way.
You are listening to Shaping Fire, and my guest today is cannabis researcher and neurologist,
Dr. Ethan Russo. Cannabis folks are innovators and problem solvers, and we like to make money.
Have you developed a tool, technique, or plant that you want to protect and monetize?
You'll likely want legal representation that is experienced, accessible, and shares your values.
Plant and planet law represents a wide variety of clients who choose to respect the environment
while pursuing their business goals. Have you invented a machine or gizmo that you're bringing
to market? Did you discover a breakthrough environmentally-friendly pesticide or
fertilizer formulation that you're about to start selling? Have you bred a cannabis plant
with attributes not found anywhere else? Attorney Dale Hunt and his Plant and Planet team
have established genetic patents in over 30 countries.
Working to help entrepreneur scientists throughout the life sciences,
Plant and Planet represents environmentally-positive clients in cannabis and other
botanicals, fungi, water purification, clean energy, emulsions, and medical applications.
Plant and Planet helps people protect what they've created.
If you are an early-stage company with an established idea and are in the process of
fundraising, often the investors require intellectual property protections happen
at the same time. Plant and Planet can be your sole representation, or they can integrate with
your existing legal team and plug in their specialties. Plant and Planet is made of
scientists, lawyers, with a real passion for cannabis, inventions, and the environment.
They have the scientific and legal depth to help you establish patent protections for your great
idea. You don't have to go it alone. Friendly, qualified, and honorable legal representation
is available to you. Contact Plant and Planet Law today to start the conversation. Email
info at plantandplanet.com. That's Plant and Planet Law. Our clients make the planet better.
For years, organic cultivators have been looking for a replacement for using peat moss.
Peat moss has long been the go-to soil amendment for water retention and container growing,
but organic growers know that peat moss is an unsustainable resource,
and the mining of peat bogs destroys habitat and releases sequestered carbon.
But peat moss works so well that many have continued to use it. But now there's finally
a revolutionary replacement for peat moss that shares the same benefits while also being
sustainable. Pit moss sounds and acts like peat moss, but instead of being mined from fragile
ecosystems, it actually is made from upcycled organic paper and tree bark. Pit moss is excellent
at retaining water in your substrate and creating air pockets and tiny living environments for
microbes. Pit moss instantly increases aeration, nutrient absorption, and water conservation too.
Carefully and locally sourced, pit moss is the result of decades-long research into the use of
recycled paper fibers. Pit moss has the fluffy nature of peat moss and handles exactly the same.
And like peat moss, pit moss is inert, so it won't change your pH. Available in a range of
preparations including a nutrient-enhanced blend, a coco coir blend, and also as an organic soil
conditioner with no added nutrients, pit moss is also available as an animal bedding. So go to
pitmoss.com now to learn more. That's P-I-T-T-M-O-S-S dot com.
Growing healthier, more sustainable plants. Pit moss.
One of the reasons why no-till cannabis growing is so valued by farmers is because the mycelium
networks in the soil remain established from year to year. And we know these fungal networks are
essential because they are the nutrient superhighways that extend far and wide in the
substrate to feed your plants. The trouble with growing in new living soils or blended
coco substrates is that it takes most of the plant's life just to create these mycelium highways.
Dinomycoendomycorrhizal fungi inoculant reduces that time and gets your plant eating a wider
array of nutrients faster. And it's three times the concentration of the other popular brand in
the U.S. at 900 propagules per gram of two fungal species selected specifically for cannabis
cultivation. Dinomyco is the result of 30 years of research and trials at the Volcani Agriculture
Research Institute in Israel. It has also been vigorously trialed by cannabis and food growers
across the U.S. Dinomyco is now available at grow shops and on Amazon in the United States.
I love using Dinomyco to both speed up the growth of the mycelium networks in the soil,
but also as a biostimulant to make clone cuttings more virile. You can see side-by-sides showing the
comparative growth on their Instagram at Dinomyco. If you demand reliable growing results and
appreciate the importance of an active root zone in creating a thriving plant, I encourage you to
check out Dinomyco.com and use the store locator to find out where you can get yours. That's d-y-n-o-m-y-c-o.com
Shaping Fire listeners can get 10% off any size of Dinomyco on Amazon or Dinomyco.com
by using the discount code SHAPINGFIRE, one word, no caps. Whether you are starting with new beds
or pots, or if you want to add some zing to tired soil, choose Dinomyco to maximize your plant's
potential. Dinomyco, endomycorrhizal, inoculant. Welcome back. You are listening to Shaping Fire.
I am your host, Shango Lose. And our guest this week is cannabis researcher and neurologist,
Dr. Ethan Russo. So, during this set, we're going to focus specifically on this survey
with a title that is a mouthful. So, here it is. The title of the paper is Survey of Patients
Employing Cannabigerol, Predominant Cannabis Preparations, Perceived Medical Effects,
Adverse Effects, and Withdrawal Symptoms. So, you pretty much know what the agenda is here
in the second set. So, Ethan, you've got a handful of co-authors on this study, and everyone put in
hard work. So, I'd like us to take the opportunity to give them a nod if you would.
Dr. Ethan Russo Sure. Well, this was a real labor of love
and involved three universities, as well as Credo Science. It was my idea to do this,
but I immediately wanted to enlist the help of Kerry Cutler on the Department of Psychology at
Washington State University, who was fantastic in putting this together and really implementing
the survey, which we decided what to ask jointly. But a lot of that work was also informed by
Michelle Sexton at the University of California, San Francisco. We also enlisted the aid of
another great researcher, Ziva Cooper at UCLA, and grad student Amanda Stoiber, who works with
Kerry, was involved, as well as my business partner, Nisha Whiteley at Credo Science.
So, I had the great fortune to be involved with five wonderful women in doing this study,
and it all went very smoothly from our standpoint.
Dr. Peter Marks Who funded this study?
Dr. Ethan Russo Well, basically, essentially, Kerry and the
rest volunteered their time. Same with us at Credo Science. We offered two gift cards as an
incentive to participation that cost me, personally, $100.
Dr. Peter Marks Wait, the people who were recruited,
you paid for the raffle everybody was in?
Dr. Ethan Russo Yes, sure.
Dr. Peter Marks That's funny. I assumed that since this was being done in cooperation with
universities, that the way it always happens is that the university foots the bill for everything,
but I guess that's an incorrect understanding on my part.
Dr. Ethan Russo Well, it generally would be. Clearly,
Kerry and other people work through grants, but sometimes the grants offer latitude in how you
spend your time. But this was not funded by the National Institutes of Health directly or anything
like that.
Dr. Peter Marks All right. Well, then, let's move right into the survey. I'm just going to
kind of hand you the mic so that you can go through your notes. Would you explain for us
how the survey was set up and operated?
Dr. Ethan Russo Sure. Well, first, the study was exempted
from what's called the Institutional Review Board. They looked at it and decided that
we weren't going to do anything that would interfere with the anonymity of participants
or expose them to the legal problems. So we had free reign to take people through this.
And we recruited people online with listservs, social media, and some personal contacts and
had some help there. The survey was placed online, and there were certain things we wanted to see.
To avoid issues, we made it adults only, age 21 or up. They had to be an American resident.
They had to, and this was the important part, they had to be using a cannabigerol-predominant
product, meaning at least 50% CBG in the past six months. And then, we asked a bunch of questions
and analyzed those statistically. In terms of the demographics, 166 people started, but 127 completed,
and that's not unusual. People get bored or decide they don't want to do it for some reason.
It was about 34% males and 40% females, predominantly Caucasian, some diversity.
There was a range of income and education, but unlike some surveys of medical use of cannabis,
where there were a lot of people who were disabled or unemployed, the majority of the people who took part
were working. The first thing we examined was the use patterns for the cannabigerol-predominant
products. People had averaged taking these for a little bit over nine months, so it wasn't,
oh, you know, I tried it once, and this is what happened. We thought we had a better
foundation of information. When people were using flour, they averaged about three and a half grams
of CBG per week, and for people using concentrates, it was about a gram of CBG concentrates per week.
Then we wanted to know why people took it. In other words, what conditions were they treating?
Actually, there were probably, boy, I didn't count, there must have been 40 or 50 things that
were mentioned, and some people had more than one. But the point being that over half, 51.2%,
were using CBG for medical purposes. Only 6.3% characterized the use as recreational,
and about 36.2% called it both. So this is a common situation. Certainly one could argue that
all use has a medical basis, but that's how people judge this themselves.
The most common conditions that were cited by the population involved were anxiety, 51.2%,
chronic pain, which was 40.9%, depression, 33.1%, and insomnia, difficulty sleeping,
and 30.7%. Again, this is all based on 127 people who completed the survey, and again,
were using cannabigerol predominant products. The next thing we wanted to examine was how did
they compare cannabigerol with conventional medicines that might be used to treat the same
conditions? Well, first of all, they seemed to think that this worked pretty well.
Majority of the conditions, people said that they were much or very much improved,
as compared to prior to taking cannabigerol. The highest efficacy was associated with endometriosis,
a gynecological condition, and 66.7% cited that as being helpful. Then, one didn't necessarily
expect, inflammatory bowel disease, 75%, and irritable bowel syndrome, 82.4%. So clearly,
people with gastrointestinal issues found this quite helpful. Now, what's really interesting to
me was not a single person thought that conventional medicine was superior to CBG
for these various conditions. Wow, not a single person. That's extreme.
Yeah, it really makes you wonder. I'm sure that some people probably think, oh,
again, it's a psychoactive effect. They're high, but they weren't high. So it's not the usual
disclaimer that you sometimes hear about in relation to THC. They're high, and they don't care
about their condition anymore. So that's clearly just not the case.
Another measure of efficacy of a medicine is, what does it allow you to stop? In other words,
were people discontinuing conventional medicines? There were a significant number of people who
discontinued conventional medicine because of the use of CBG. This is particularly true for
antidepressant meds, the non-opioid analgesics, so that would include things like non-steroidal
anti-inflammatories, and also protein pump inhibitors. So they'd be used by people who had
ulcers or that kind of problem. So again, we've got the gut, seemingly a lot of affinity there
for that kind of problem. So again, one of the main reasons we did this is finding out what it's
good for. And frankly, we wanted to establish this because I expect that CBG and CBG-predominant
products eventually are going to be going into clinical trials. And we have to establish a
pattern on number one of what's it good for, and number two, is it safe? And certainly that was
one of the primary reasons we wanted to do this survey, to lay a foundation for future, more in
depth, randomized controlled trials. That's an interesting idea, especially with how you
described the legal environment for trying to do this sort of research, that if I understand you
correctly, you kind of had to do this study first so that you can now go back to the well and do a
more complex, deeper study, because without this study, you would not be able to get a heavier
duty study even approved. Yeah, certainly true. So I can relate a story. Believe it or not, it was
not that many years ago that my colleague, Donald Abrams, wanted to do a study looking at inhaled
cannabidiol, CBD. And the first reaction from the FDA was, well, we don't have a record of
human use in this fashion, which really wasn't true. CBD had been extensively investigated as
part of Sativex and Abixamols in clinical trials. We knew all we needed to know about its safety
for humans. But basically, he had to put together information showing that CBD was extensively
available in California and elsewhere, and that hundreds of thousands of people were using it with
no major problems. And then he was able to proceed with the research. Well, you know, you have to
look at these things and wonder what's going to happen the next round with the next new,
quote-unquote, cannabinoid. And I really anticipated that there would be pushback about proposed CBG
studies. Normally, say a drug is really new, a new chemical entity, something you synthesize in the
lab. The normal procedure is to test it in animals and do advanced toxicology studies where huge
amounts are given to rats and or dogs. And then, if there are no major problems, you get to give it to
people. Well, this is cannabis. Again, the amounts of CBG in the past were probably low, but again,
we wanted to establish a pattern of use by humans without apparent problems so that we hopefully
will not face the same kind of resistance. Did you have a difficulty finding, you know, the 166
people who started but then like the 127 that finished? You know, as somebody who works closely
with CBG, I know that finding, you know, CBG dominant products or flower that are 51% or more
CBG, that's very rare. You know, that's not a common thing. What did you find as far as like
being able to recruit people who had access to that? Was that a challenge? Well, you know, most
of the people came from the Northwest. This has really been the year in the world where there's
been the most intensive cultivation of CBG predominant varieties and the greatest interest
in its therapeutic use. It didn't take us forever to do this. I think it was just a few months.
So, I was quite gratified with that. And the other thing was we had very good contacts
on trying to do this. You know, among others, we sent this to our colleagues that see the greatest
number of patients for cannabis recommendations and a lot of them are accessing CBG predominant
products and it came together nicely. It's interesting that you mentioned that it's
prevalent most in the Pacific Northwest for the interest. Was there anything that came up in the
research that give you anything to attribute that for? I mean, my only bet would be because the
Crawford brothers are in Oregon and that's my best bet. Well, they've been the prime movers for sure,
but there are other breeders that have independently bred CBG predominant varieties and
interest has increased. But yeah, we in the Northwest are really at the center of
interest in this compound. Interesting. So, I ask this question not as an indictment,
simply as a neutral question, but how should we weigh the scientific validity of self-reporting
in this case, right? I don't know a lot about conducting scientific research, but self-reporting
sounds like something that should be at least considered for accuracy. But I know it counts
as actual science. So, how can we think about that? Well, in the hierarchy of medical proof,
a survey doesn't get a lot of credence. However, in this instance, we had good numbers.
We had specificity with, again, not the idea that the 1% CBG was present. These were CBG
predominant products being used. Additionally, we saw consistency in the results.
And, you know, it would be different if this were something that people took because they liked it.
In other words, where people could claim that, well, you know, people use regular cannabis because
they like THC and like being high. That just wasn't the case here. Also, we had consistency
in the side effects. You know, we've talked about the good. We need to include the bad,
such as it was. But as it turned out, there wasn't a lot to say. 44% of people in the survey reported
no adverse events. In other words, no significant side effects. Most common were things that might
have been due to THC that was in some of the preparations. So, dry mouth, sleepiness,
increased appetite, and dry eyes. All of which could have been THC induced. Interestingly,
although we were asking about adverse events, 10% reported other side benefits.
But when we look at the list, it's not an extensive list. People were not reporting anything
really dangerous like paranoia or hallucinations. And we also wanted to ask about withdrawal. Say
you've been taking this for a while. What happened when you stopped? But 84.3% reported
no withdrawal symptoms of any kind. There were very, very few who reported sleep difficulties
when they quit. As compared to non-CBG predominant cannabis, in other words, garden variety cannabis,
there were very marked statistically significant differences. In other words,
when people stopped, they had many fewer issues, if any, as compared to other types of cannabis.
So, it's clear again, this isn't addictive. It's not getting people high. It's not producing
significant withdrawal. I have got a quick question about the definition of withdrawal.
I'm a regular CBG user and it does a wonderful job decreasing my anxiety and softening my ADHD.
However, when I haven't had it for a few days, some of the sharper edges of those aspects of me
come out. And so, it's not that I'm having withdrawal symptoms from the supplement.
It's because without the supplement, my brain's a lot clankier. What's a definitional difference
between withdrawal and just missing the cannabis? Yeah. Well, you've asked the exactly right
question. There's a difference between withdrawal and a recrudescence, a reappearance of symptoms
that were present before. So, withdrawal would be more the idea of something's worse than it was
before or something that wasn't there at all before. Withdrawal and other drugs would also
lead to craving. We didn't hear about craving to speak of or obsessive behavior
to reacquire the material. The things that one would associate with, say, opioid addiction,
where people unfortunately turn to crime to obtain it. Nothing like that.
And no pink elephants or things we associate with alcohol. No DTs, etc.
So, of the people, I know you've already given us the numbers of the people who thought that the
cannabis was more effective for their ailment than the pharmaceutical treatments that they were
taking. Was there any sense of how many people had an opportunity to have CBG and they saw it
worked and they were not interested in the pharmaceutical, but then they couldn't find
more? Because CBG seems to still be spotty in the market. Yeah. I'm afraid we just don't have
that kind of information yet. And again, hopefully supplies will be available in the future and
this won't be a problem. But, again, from a scientific point of view, we're looking at this
as a foundation towards much more sophisticated studies that are going to be in the upper reaches
of that hierarchy of medical proof. Basically, anything short of a randomized controlled trial
with comparative placebo is not given a lot of credence by physicians or the Food and Drug
Administration. So that's what we're going to need to really prove, if you will, that this is
going to be a valuable medicine. Well, that's a beautiful transition, Ethan. Thank you. Because
during the third set, we're going to talk about looking forward for the future of CBG and how
best we folks can use it. So let's go ahead and take our second short break and be right back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire and my guest today is cannabis researcher and neurologist,
Dr. Ethan Russo. As cannabis regulations become more demanding and consumers become more educated,
it is increasingly important to avoid the use of chemical pesticides when cultivating cannabis.
Beneficial insects have been used for decades by the greenhouse vegetable and ornamental plant
industry, and today many cannabis cultivators are moving from sprays and chemicals to beneficial
insects. COPRT Biological Systems has the beneficial insects, mites, and nematodes,
microbials, sticky cards, and air distribution units you need to partner with nature to defend
your garden. Whether you manage acres of canopy or have a simple grow tent in your home,
COPRT is ready to help answer your questions and help you transition away from chemical sprays
towards clean and natural solutions. Since 1967, COPRT has assisted growers in identifying pests
and devising reliable solutions while providing healthy insects and mites that will protect your
yield. Since the 1990s, COPRT has been a leader in cannabis pest and disease control worldwide
and have highly trained consultants to assist you in Canada and the US from coast to coast.
No matter where you live, COPRT Biological Systems can help.
Visit coprt.com, choose your country, and get detailed information. That's coprt,
K-O-P-P-E-R-T dot com. For the most up-to-date cannabis-related biological control information,
you can also check out their Instagram, at coprtcanada. You know getting away from pesticides
is good for health and good for business, and COPRT is ready to help. Visit coprt.com today.
For 20 years, Humboldt Seed Company has been family-owned in providing reliable,
high-yielding seeds originating in Northern California. While the current trend is to slap
one super male into a line of hype strains, Humboldt Seed Company continues to breed with
precision and care by doing large sifts and back-crosses to emphasize the absolute best
traits that a line has to offer. This kind of breeding takes time, talent, and space to work.
No matter what kind of aroma you are particularly into,
Humboldt Seed will likely have something you'll love. If you love fruit, you can choose from
banana, mango, apricot, papaya, blueberry, blood orange, melon, and lemons across their
various strains. They have all-gas, glue, and classic sour diesel lines as well.
Of course, there are the heritage California strains like OG Kush, Jack Herrer, and Headband,
and their award-winning Blueberry Muffin is one that delights just about everybody's palate,
especially when concentrated. Humboldt Seed Company is proud to bring to market the infamous
freak show cultivar 2, which has a great THC high but looks so much like a fern that some folks can't
even identify it as cannabis. It's a plant that really needs to be seen to be believed.
If you're looking for well-balanced CBD seeds, Humboldt Seed Company can turn you on to CBD
strains that actually have flavor like the dill and pepper terpenes of Willie G's Lebanese Land
Race. Whether you are looking for regular, feminized, or autoflowers, Humboldt Seed Company
has the gear to make this your best growing cycle ever. Visit humboldtseedcompany.com today
to check out their line of vigorous genetics, download their catalog, and find out where you
can pick them up. You can also check out their Instagram at The Humboldt Seed Company to check
out their gorgeous flowers and the extraordinary freak show plant. Humboldt Seed Company, let them
know Shango sent ya! With the national hemp program in flux due to stringent THC testing requirements,
Brothers Seth and Eric Crawford continue to release seeds to hemp farmers that will be legal,
no matter how you grow them or when you test them. These new varieties from Oregon CBD seeds have
substantial amounts of CBDV, CBGV, CBCV, and THCV while always staying below the .3% THC limit and
guaranteeing compliant crops for farmers every time. Also, these new varieties cannot be pollinated by
your neighbor's uncontrolled pollen or a rogue male in your own crop either. Oregon CBD seeds are
non-GMO certified too. Oregon CBD seeds was founded and funded in 2015 by Seth and Eric, maxing out
their personal credit cards without outside investment. They continued to refuse outside
investment that would change their company culture. Oregon CBD grows tons of fresh food on their
research farms for local food banks. Literally tons of food. They also give away tens of thousands
of pounds of R&D flour to patients. As their company began to succeed, Seth and Eric started
donating money to the Cannabis Medicine and Hemp Fiber Cause too by giving millions of dollars to
Oregon State University in order to establish the world's leading cannabis genomics research
program. And they treat their employees right. Oregon CBD pays for full health and dental coverage
for their employees, a 401k program, and their minimum starting wage is $20 an hour. Plus,
everyone shares food from the farms. Seth has been on shaping fire a few times to talk about novel
cannabinoids. You can check out episodes 25 and 37 on CBD cultivars in the hemp market.
Episode 66 on triploid cannabis genetics and the very first shaping fire live episode 47
with Seth and soil expert Jeff Lowenfels talking about auto flowers. If you are a hemp farmer and
you want to grow reliable seeds that are sure to thrive in past testing, check out OregonCBDCeeds.com
to learn more about buying seeds for the 2021 season. That's OregonCBDCeeds.com.
Welcome back. You are listening to shaping fire. I am your host,
Shango Los. And our guest this week is cannabis researcher and neurologist, Dr. Ethan Russo.
So let's take a look forward. You know, during the first set, we got a better understanding of
what CBG is and a bit about how it is functioning in the human. And then during the second set,
you know, we essentially talked to like 127 people to find out how CBG is helping them
live better lives and get off of their pharmaceuticals with, you know, increased
side effects. So that's all great. And we've already also talked about how the environment
for research for CBG is opening, but there's still all these hoops you've got to go through.
I'm curious right now, what show what what areas are showing promise looking forward?
Um, because, you know, I know there are, there are, you know, you know, college and graduate
students and citizen scientists and others who are constantly looking for the promise in
cannabinoids. And, and perhaps we can either motivate them or direct them in ways that are
most likely to bear fruit. So the survey measured the prior use of the participants and their
continued need for 13 different classes of medications that they appeared to be linked
with CBG. And you talked about that a little bit already saying that, you know, there were a lot
of people who a preferred it to their pharma and B because they knew it, they believed it worked.
What are the classes of these 13 different medications? Because it would seem to point
where we should look at for, for shorter term success.
Sure. Well, you know, once again, the best signal were for non opioid pain relievers
with the opioids wasn't a highly statistically significant effect. So it'd be a little different
from the claims that we hear associated with say THC, predominant cannabis. But probably I think
the most important one here is antidepressants. So there was a P value probability value 0.02.
Anything below 0.05 is considered statistically significant for medical purposes.
Um, so that one's really interesting. But I would say that considering the number of the big number
of conditions that we saw listed, that there are probably many other areas that beyond those,
where this would be fruitful. Again, we can go back to the basic science and really see where
the signals are. So you know, if the question would be, what is going to be promising for
future indications, I think we have the answers already. So as far as like the the how many people
what I'm going to is is market attraction, right? Because one of the interesting aspects of the
paper is that towards the end, it's all, you know, there's there's accessibility and its
potential future and pharmaceuticals. But really, the fastest mover right now is the cannabis market
and people's interest in in cannabis with, you know, what we're calling novel cannabinoids,
right? So as far as the statistics go, does this look like something that is going to
be desired by everybody? Because on its face, to me, it does. How did it bear out in the numbers?
12
Well, again, it's hard to say. You know, when a new thing comes along, there's always somebody
that's going to suggest we should put it in the water. I'm not going to go that far. However,
I do see certain areas that are preeminent here. As I'm sure you've heard from your contacts,
this seems to be a remarkable treatment for anxiety. And what really distinguishes it
from other drugs is that it does this without being overtly sedating.
Most anxiety agents are going to be quite sedating. Many are addictive. Clearly, CBG is not
either of those things. And I've also heard people say something to me that's very profound
in relation to its use in treating anxiety, and that is its ability to allow them to compartmentalize.
What that means is, whatever was bothering them, they know it's there, but they can put it aside
and concentrate on the tasks at hand. In other words, just not let it pervasively interfere
with their functioning. To me, that's the definition of a good drug for anxiety,
allowing people to function better.
I'd like to add a little color to that as well. I like the way that you put that.
When I hear about that same attribute from patients, they talk about it being they feel
like they've got an increased capability, that their life struggles or challenges or pain have
not decreased, but somehow they feel like they're able to handle it. They have the capability to
meet the difficulty of the issue. In a way, that's them being able to compartmentalize it
so that they can handle it more. Were there other varieties of anxiety that you saw pop up?
Darrell Bock Gee, not. The survey could not have that level of detail. I think that would come
from patient narratives. That's something we'll have to supplement in the future.
Ryan Jones Right on that. That makes sense. For
folks that are listening and are curious, the other things that I'm seeing just from people
taking them, and certainly not at a scientific level and nearly only anecdotal, we're also seeing
a decrease in people ruminating. Either ruminating first thing in the morning of all the things that
could potentially go wrong, or ruminating at night of all the things that potentially did
get wrong and rethinking things. For others, that background anxiety that a lot of people have.
Darrell Bock Right there, you may have put your finger
on how this has been good for sleep because certainly nobody's going to get to sleep if
they're running through all the bad stuff that happened during the day or all the bad stuff
they're facing tomorrow. That's a sleep killer right there.
Ryan Jones We're finding that a lot of the people who
are sensitive to THC and they don't really want to take it at night because I don't understand the
mechanics behind this, but some people who will take as little as 5 or 10 milligrams at night,
they describe a hangover of sorts and they don't care for it. We've found that a lot of the people
who switch over to the CBG since it doesn't have the THC in the preparation at significant numbers
if you're pulling it from hemp, they're still getting to sleep because the ruminating is gone,
but they're not using the THC. That's a win. Darrell Bock
Sure. Ryan Jones
So, what are your thoughts? You and I have talked actually probably several times on this show
about your interest in whole plant compounds as a preference to using lots of isolates.
We know that your probably top choice would be to have a plant that is bred and grown specifically
with a particular blend for a certain set of ailments and then creating a whole plant oil
and then giving that to the patient. However, the market has not developed to the point yet
that those preparations really exist except for small pockets. What are your thoughts on
doing with CBG what many people did 5 years ago with CBD where they would make a whole plant oil,
think of it as an RSO or a FICO or whatever people call it where they live, but they prepare
a whole plant oil and then they spike it with CBG isolate like people used to spike CBD into a THC
RSO. What are your thoughts on that whole range? Ryan Jones
Certainly, it is a legitimate approach to treating a disorder. We know that CBD also
has anti-anxiety properties. The difference being that the doses required for CBD
are a lot higher than with CBG. It remains to be seen, but it is a good bet that the combination
is going to be more effective. Then there will be other components, particularly terpenoids,
that can contribute here. Certainly, the possibilities for experimentation are great.
It is a situation, fortunately, even in development of a pharmaceutical from cannabis,
that this kind of blending is allowed. As long as the material is all cannabis-derived,
that is a legitimate approach. We know this already because, in fact, Sativex or Nubixomals,
which is approved in 30 countries, is actually a blend of two different chemoviruses, a THC
predominant chemovirus and a CBD predominant chemovirus. The same kind of approach could be
used with a CBG predominant chemovirus in combination with something else to give the
blend that we wish. Dr. Joe Stewart
You know, a few states, especially the ones that are still medical, are having internal policy
discussions about whether or not isolate that has been added to cannabis products should be
labeled as such. So, the kind of product that we just talked about, an oil, a whole plant oil,
if it's been spiked with either CBG or CBD or anything else, that it should be noted on the
package that there was isolate added to it, kind of like a fortified with CBG kind of thing.
What are your thoughts? Does it matter? Do you think it should be on the label? And if so, why?
Dr. Darrell Bock Yeah, I believe in truth in advertising.
Unfortunately, the industry is not self-policed. Quality control isn't what it really needs to be.
And I would always worry about how it was produced, whether it was pure,
whether it actually was synthetic rather than derived from cannabis. So, all of these things
are germane. They're things that I think the consumer deserves to know.
Well, that begs the question. I did a show a while back with Greg Gerdeman about
synthetic cannabinoids, both the creation of cannabinoids that we're familiar with, like THC
and CBD in a synthetic manner, but also the kind of synthetic cannabinoids that are used for
testing and research in the lab and don't really have much use outside of the lab.
But the way that you answered that question makes me super curious. Does it matter if a cannabinoid,
in this case CBG, is from the plant or if it is made through a synthetic process? In the end,
it is the same molecule or no? Dr. Greg Gerdeman Well, it should be. But
sometimes these syntheses will produce byproducts that could be contaminants and potentially toxic,
so that's always a concern. Also, it has to be the right stereoisomer, in other words,
have the right three-dimensional configuration to have the same activity as the natural compound
from the plant. So these are all considerations. Ideally, it will all need to be cannabis-derived
to produce a pharmaceutical that isn't considered a combination drug. And then,
in specific states, such as New York, any additions have to be cannabis-derived. That's
part of the law there. So I think it is important. Irrespective of what I think,
this is going to be a requirement in certain contexts.
Paul Jay Right on. Well, that's interesting. All right,
so let's finish this on an upbeat, positive note there, Ethan. So looking forward, I know that you
are very attracted to CBG and you are already looking at your next work along the same line
of thought. Would you give us a little idea of what you're going to be doing next?
Ethan Palmer Sure. Well, truth be told, I am associated with a company called Andeara
Pharmaceuticals out of Vancouver, British Columbia, and CBG portends to be a big part of
its future. And this would be for two indications that really weren't picked up to any degree
in the survey. But these are all based on available past science, and specifically,
they are treatment of cancer, as we mentioned. There are certain cancers that when they're
metastatic, we don't have any current conventional drugs that are able to treat them. But CBG seems
to be especially promising in treating prostate cancer and breast cancer, and those are two of
the most common cancers that become metastatic and then hard or sometimes impossible to treat.
So that's one area. And the other one is antibiotics. We're seeing phenomenal results
from the lab in terms of CBG as a treatment for infections, including these antibiotic-resistant
infections, MRSA, as I mentioned, but also vancomycin-resistant enterococcus, which is
responsible for a lot of hospital-acquired infections and a significant number of deaths.
So one of the exciting things about that is, so far from the lab, we don't have any indication
that these bacteria will develop resistance to cannabijerol as they do to conventional antibiotics.
So this really may be revolutionary. My hope is, again, that we've provided a pattern
of human use that indicates safety of these products, which is going to facilitate
moving them into the clinic for these specific indications.
I've got this huge smile over here, Ethan, because I was wrapping up the show and I was giving you
kind of a fishing question, and then you dropped on us cancer and antibiotics. These are both
huge applications because they weren't part of the purview of the study. I had not heard that
they were happening because they're happening in private labs, like you said. That's very exciting.
Is there any public research that's available? As somebody who's interested in both CBG and
doing support for cancer patients, are there any studies out there that you know of taking
place that are going to come out where we can read more?
Yeah. The study by Appendino on cannabijerol could be easily found on the National Library
of Medicine PubMed website. That's well established, and there'll be a lot more
lab studies coming out soon. And then for cancer, there are various studies. Again,
if people would input on the PubMed website, cannabijerol and cancer,
they'll see the various hits. But again, that's just the beginning of what we expect will be
quite a number of important studies yet to come.
Fantastic. Well, we look forward to talking to you about them here when they come out. Ethan,
thank you so much for reaching out to me and wanting to talk about this new survey so that
we can all get up to speed as this new cannabinoid becomes more common to use and more common to
find. Well, thank you again for the opportunity.
If you want to find out more about Dr. Ethan Russo, you can check out any of the other three,
four, three episodes that we've had Dr. Ethan Russo for the guest. That will be on the page for
this episode at shapingfire.com. Also, you can check out Dr. Russo's company,
Credo Science, which is credo-science.com. It's a company that is delving into some of the areas
that Dr. Russo has found to be most attractive over his over 25 years of studying the cannabis
plant. And then finally, if you want to reach out to Dr. Russo yourself with a question or a comment,
you can always reach him at ethanrusso at comcast.net. And if you do write to Ethan,
just be aware that he is still researching and he's still publishing and it may take him a
while to get back to you, but he does try to get back to everybody eventually.
You can find more episodes of the Shaping Fire podcast and subscribe to the show at
shapingfire.com and wherever you get your podcasts. If you enjoyed the show, we'd really
appreciate it if you would leave a positive review of the podcast, wherever you download,
your view will help others find the show so they can enjoy it too. On the Shaping Fire website,
you can also subscribe to the newsletter for insights into the latest cannabis news,
exclusive videos, and giveaways. On the Shaping Fire website, you also find transcripts of today's
podcast as well. Be sure to follow on Instagram for all original content not found on the podcast.
That's at shapingfire and at shangolos on Instagram. Be sure to check out the Shaping
Fire YouTube channel for exclusive interviews, farm tours, and cannabis lectures. Does your
company want to reach our national audience of cannabis enthusiasts? Email hotspot at shapingfire.com
to find out how. Thanks for listening to Shaping Fire. I've been your host, Shango Los.
