It's amazing to see how much cannabis extraction has evolved in such a short time.
If you looked at cannabis on a historical timeline, there would be flowers and hash
for millennia, and then right at the end of the timeline, suddenly humans start using
alcohol, butane and carbon dioxide, and even hair straighteners, to remove the essential
oils of the cannabis plant.
The beginning of normalization has created a surging demand for all sorts of extracts,
including dab oil, inputs to make edibles, and full extract cannabis oil, or FECO.
Each of these processes demand the right technology, employed by a knowledgeable technician.
If you enjoy hearing smart discussions that dive deep into cannabis health, business,
and technique, I encourage you to subscribe to our newsletter.
Every week you'll receive a new podcast episode delivered right to your inbox, along
with commentary on a couple of the most important news items from the week, and often videos
too.
Don't rely on social media to let you know when a new episode is published.
Sign up for the newsletter to make sure you don't miss a single episode.
You are listening to Shaping Fire, and I am your host, Shango Lose.
My guest today is AC Braddock.
AC is CEO of Eden Labs, one of the original leaders of cannabis extraction technology,
reaching all the way back to the early days of medical in California.
With normalization, Eden has become possibly the most prominent extraction technology company
in the US, and one of the top 10 fastest growing women-led companies in Seattle, Washington.
AC not only leads Eden, but she's a thought leader industry-wide as well, and often travels
the world to speak at international cannabis conferences.
She's a founding supporter of the Cannabis Women's Alliance, Women Grow, and Women of
Weed.
She's also a board member of the NCIA, the NCIA's Federal Policy Council, and the Cannabis
Alliance.
Today we're going to talk with AC about the rise of CO2 extraction technology and the
importance of kindness in cannabis culture.
Welcome to the show, AC.
Thanks, Shango.
I'm so delighted to be here.
So I'm excited to be talking about Eden and your experience with extraction for a while.
You know, Eden was in the botanical extraction business well before cannabis.
What kinds of other extractions were you designing prior to getting into cannabis?
Well, the founder of the company, Fritz Chest, began doing extractions in about 1994, but
actually cannabis was always a part of that process.
He did a lot of different kinds of botanicals, but for instance, he was one of the first
to advertise in high times for an extraction system in, I think, 94 or 95, and that was
a small ethanol system.
And then he put a large system in San Francisco in 1996 when Proposition 215 passed.
So some of the other botanicals, there's a wide array.
There's biofuels, nutraceuticals, herbs for acupuncturists, herbalists.
So actually the breadth of extraction knowledge that he has across multiple botanical structures
and industries is really amazing.
You know, it surprises me.
I thought I knew Eden Labs' background in cannabis, but I had no idea that Fritz had
gotten started so early in the San Francisco scene.
That's actually when I was living down there.
He obviously has had an affinity for cannabis medicine a long time.
Did you find that you were well positioned because of that experience when Washington
and Colorado first broke out?
Fritz was probably like, finally, I get a chance to apply my technology in functioning
markets.
Yeah.
I mean, as he said back in the mid-90s, if it wasn't for California, Eden Labs would
be a part-time job.
So it would be a hobby.
So yeah, he's been doing this quite a while and it definitely was a boon to Eden as well
as the entire industry to have someone with his background and experience when those markets
went live later on for Colorado and Washington in 2009.
So if he was beginning, like you said, if it weren't for California, it'd be a part-time
job.
And I know that your extractors are used across other industries for different botanicals.
At what point did the threshold kind of get passed where it went from just being Fritz
and one or two other people to, oh gosh, it looks like we need to start hiring people
the cannabis part of our business is growing so fast.
Yeah, that tipping point, especially for cannabis, was about 2009 and then really kicked in in
2010.
And so I can imagine at that same time, your early sales were to medical cannabis companies
in Washington and Colorado and in California, which you'd already been selling to.
But a lot of those new companies wanted to use your technology, but they didn't have
access to traditional financing yet.
And while the Eden machines are worth the money, they're also not something that a lot
of these new companies had in financing right away.
I can imagine that you had to do some pretty creative financing to help these companies
get the ball rolling.
Also making sure that Eden was first to market in this groundbreaking industry.
Yes, those early years were very challenging for people to be able to get in to get equipment
that would really help them be successful.
So there was definitely a lot of creativity and there still is.
It's still an issue, obviously, with not having access to the federal banking system.
Companies can't get lines of credit.
You have to completely rely on investors and often that can be problematic, having those
two worlds come together.
So it has been challenging and it still is, but it's certainly a lot better.
That's for sure.
In the early days of medical, it was such a legal gray area that it was a lot harder
to find even angel investment capital.
Since we're all pretty, well, at least fairly confident that cannabis is here to stay, it's
a lot easier to get individual investment now than it was in those early days.
In addition to the early companies not necessarily having the financing for such a fine product
as the extractors, a lot of the owner operators didn't have proper science backgrounds.
How do you make up for operator error as they run your machines?
A poor operator getting poor results looks bad for Eden, not because the machine is doing
anything wrong, but because the quality of what's coming out of the machine and then
is going for sale or to a patient or whatever, it might not be up to quality.
And then they say, oh, it was run on an Eden machine when actually the machine was fine,
but the operator is the one who doesn't have the experience.
What do you do as a company to help soften the likelihood of that?
Well, several different things, but the foundation of all of that actually is why Fritz started
engineering CO2 systems to begin with.
He was doing all kinds of different botanicals, as we mentioned earlier.
One of the things that he had a hard time extracting with ethanol, because he started
with ethanol systems, was cava cava, and it would not extract well in ethanol.
So he's like, all right, well, I need to try some temperature and pressure, and he started
looking around at different CO2 extraction systems.
There were only a couple of companies at the time, and they were huge international
companies, and the systems were very expensive.
They were fully automated.
They were fussy.
And of course, none of these companies had any idea about extracting heavily resinous
materials.
So he said, all right, well, I don't want a system like that.
I just want something that's simple to operate, that will not break down, that I can run comfortably.
And so that's what he designed.
And 22 years later, the systems, having been based on that, are very easy to operate, and
they are extremely reliable.
And we, as a company, obviously, we're extremely invested in this industry, and we really want
all of our people to be successful.
So we have an internal training for those people.
We have techs that they can call to help them with things.
We have a really good, obviously, a network, having been in the industry this many years,
we share information with a lot of our clients, and we pass some of that stuff on, if they
are agreeable to do that.
Obviously, some of the technology or the protocols that they come up with are their IP.
We don't share that.
But the systems are, they're designed to help people be successful.
And we've gone through many different reiterations of the system at this point.
And we just released a new version this last year, and it's awesome.
I can imagine, especially in the early days when turnover for lab staff was pretty consistent,
that there must have been some frustration from your training department, because just
as you got a company's lab staff trained up, and they could use the machine correctly,
they were moving on for one reason or another.
And you're like, oh man, we got to start all over again.
I can imagine that as far as startup and moving into a new industry, that must have
been one of the early frustrations.
Yeah.
And what way we've dealt with that is, is we train the operators on this system that
they get, and then we train up to four people at a time from any given company.
And part of their warranty is hooked into the fact that a certified trained person is
running that system.
And if they have somebody else do it, that voids their warranty.
So it gives some impetus to always have an operator who has been trained and knows what
they're doing, and that has worked very well for everyone.
That's actually a really great strategy to tie having a properly trained person to the
warranty itself.
In the early days, I've seen all sorts of different people in different labs running
your machines.
I'm like, do they know what they're doing?
There has been a lot of that.
And actually, the industry has been, in my opinion, been held back quite a bit by a lack
of a real understanding of extraction.
And I can tell you, Shankar, I know you mentioned earlier about all the traveling that I do,
and that's the primary reason is just trying to get in front of people to talk about extraction
and why extraction is so important to moving this industry forward, especially on legalization,
because it's hard to legalize on medical without a clean, pure product.
So that's one of the reasons why when I came in as CEO, I wanted to brand the company primarily
as CO2 and ethanol.
We make all kinds of different systems using all sorts of different solvents, but this
industry needed an easy path, and it's hard to argue with those two extraction methodologies.
Yeah, that makes a lot of sense.
And I want to go ahead and compare CO2 to BHO, but let's do that after the first break
Sure.
We are going to take a first break and be right back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire, and my guest today is AC Braddock, CEO of Eden Labs.
Now that the health benefits of terpenes have become well-known in the cannabis industry,
people everywhere are looking for the purest terpenes without adulterants.
The problem with most terpene providers is that they're not sourced naturally and instead
are made as a byproduct of refining petroleum, and that's so sketchy.
The terpenes sold by True Terpenes are entirely different.
They are certified organic, non-GMO, and food grade.
That means that they are extracted from real plant sources.
There are no solvents of any kind.
They are distilled only with steam.
That's right, only steam.
In fact, terpenes from True Terpenes are so pure that you can eat them.
Not only that, but you can stack them with better results too.
What I mean is, other companies' terpenes have got a few percent of impurities, and
when you stack those terpenes to make your blend, you're adding a variety of impurities
that degrade your final product.
True Terpenes also have strain-specific terpenes for a wide range of cannabis strains like
Durban Poison, Sunset Sherbet, and Granddaddy Purple.
True Terpenes has robust and supportive customer service, so your questions will get answered
fast and efficiently.
If you've shopped for terps before, you know how rare that is.
So whether you want to cup your hands to smell some beta-caryophyllene to calm down after
getting too high, or if you want to dab some pinene so your lungs feel fabulous and your
mind feels liberated, True Terpenes will provide you with a truly natural experience.
If you are a cannabis product developer, these are the terps you want to add to your oil
or edible or capsule or whatever.
True Terpenes are simply the best your money can buy.
Don't try and make a premium product with substandard terps.
Choose True Terpenes for a top-shelf experience.
Go to shapingfire.com forward slash true terpenes to find out more or click on the link in this
week's newsletter.
Welcome back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire.
I'm your host, Shanko Lose.
And our guest this week is AC Braddock, CEO of Eden Labs.
So during the end of the last set, AC, you were saying how one of the things that you
wanted to do as you came in as CEO was to start to play this evangelist role for extraction
and for easy-to-use CO2 machines.
And a lot of people have been, in the early days, they were making BHO, butane hash oil.
In the early, early days, people were blasting outside, which of course was really dangerous.
But one of the things that a lot of people really like about CO2 is that there is no
residue left in the product and it's not a combustible hydrocarbon, which a lot of people
are concerned about getting any residue out of it because it can be a carcinogen.
So as part of your evangelist presentation to people, what do you say when you're comparing
CO2 to BHO and why CO2 is such a great choice for folks?
Well, number one, the marketability.
Even in the supplements industry, many years ago, they started moving over to CO2 from
hexane and they used it as a marketing tool in their packaging.
And I think there's a movement in this country for sustainable, environmentally friendly,
organic products.
So and it's not just cannabis, it's all industries because most of our food products are currently
extracted with hexane, which is very toxic and in Europe has been banned.
Anything that's usually made with a light hydrocarbon from many countries in Europe are
not allowed to be sold in Europe, but they are allowed to be sold in the US.
So we have a little bit of a problem with what we get as human consumables for many
different things and that includes pesticides and our foodstuffs.
But in cannabis, we have this spotlight on us about the kind of products that we make
and how they're grown, which is good, but we want to shine that light across multiple
industries.
But as I said earlier, Eden makes all kinds of different systems and including butane
and propane systems.
The reason why we started again, we started focusing on this is because as you said, in
the early days, there were so many non-experts utilizing butane because it was inexpensive
to get into and there were horrific accidents and it was really an Achilles heel for the
industry.
The media was having a field day with it and we needed an alternative.
These days, there are many companies who make really good butane and propane products.
It just requires time to do the post-processing and understanding of what you're dealing with.
One of the main problems with any solvent really, especially butane or propane, is it
goes through pipelines and you get what they call, quote unquote, mystery oil in there,
which is basically pipeline lubricants.
As long as companies are being responsible and sourcing really clean solvents and then
purging it and handling the oils properly, it's a viable production method.
Especially since different kinds of solvents produce different kinds of products.
When we deal with people, we try and find out, okay, what are you trying to make?
Are you trying to make an edible?
Are you trying to make shutter?
Are you trying to do vape pens?
Because different methodologies are better for different product lines.
I think that's a really insightful point that you mentioned about the cleanliness of BHO
or PHO or what have you.
It got a bad reputation in the early days, but it wasn't because of the BHO itself.
It was because the state of the industry was so young that the proper techniques and the
education to remove the residual solvents just didn't exist in the industry yet.
You had a lot of non-science, inexperienced people doing the post-processing and then
it would go out and you could taste it or it would snap on the nail or whatever.
People could tell that there was still residual BHO.
The point where the industry is now through education and hiring more scientific lab staffs,
more or less BHO and other light hydrocarbons are going to be cleaner than they ever were
in the early days of medical.
A lot of that fear, it's probably time for that to go away.
Yeah, but it also still falls back on the mission and focus of whatever the company
is, too.
A lot of the people who understand this is a long-term play, it is not a short-term play.
This is not about making a bunch of money quickly.
It just isn't.
I mean, anybody who's in this industry knows that at this point.
So you're either going to self-regulate and be an example for the rest of the industry
or you're going to be in it for a money grab.
It's pretty easy to pick out who those companies are.
The problem is the general public can't differentiate.
Yeah, and there's not testing for that that's mandatory in the United States either.
So you have to self-educate and then find some sort of brand that you like and then
stick with that brand loyalty.
That makes for a really exclusive market.
Yeah, it does.
It definitely hinders the market.
One of the reasons I appreciate you inviting me on this talk today, too, because the more
we can help educate each other and the general public and come to some consensus on the messaging
we're going to be bringing as recreational continues, hopefully, to expand, we don't
want to get into a scenario where the culture of this industry flips and we're doing the
same old, same old business.
We've got Manzano-type companies.
There's so much potential for the cannabis industry to change our food consumption, civil
rights.
There's just so many different things that are what keep so many of these companies.
The tenacity comes from the passion.
I totally agree with you.
I think that a lot of us who used to work in the medical industry actually have that
fear and we watch it because cannabis, the plant itself, it teaches.
The people who tend to be attracted to cannabis and whole plant medicine, of which I know
you're also a big advocate for like I am, we saw the kinds of people who used to be
attracted to the medical industry.
As states become recreational and licensed and new forms of investment come in and the
players change out, our entire industry is at risk to becoming more of a commodity and
lose a lot of that original spirit that I think you're talking about.
There's got to be enough good players in the industry who want to keep the quality high,
who want to try to stay as close to whole plant as we can and to continue to think about
the health of the consumers and the patients.
It takes people like you evangelizing that and to remind people of that.
Yes, absolutely.
There are some really amazing companies in this industry and there's some companies that
aren't so much.
If we can help bring them in, but you touched on it, it's the investors and other business
people who are looking at this as a green rush who come in and expect big numbers and
take equity out of small businesses and who are already under tremendous amount of pressure
to even just stay in business with these people who are just talking about numbers to them.
Having that flavor start taking over what we're doing is a great way to help people
because it's not where we want to go.
Yeah, and it's disheartening, that's for sure.
Yes.
Before we go to the second commercial, I want to talk a little bit about flavor of CO2.
Several years ago, I was CEO of an extraction company and we used Eden Machines.
As CEO and as our evangelist, one of the things that I often had to work to convince people
about CO2 was that it had flavor and it could produce really nice dabs compared to BHO.
Part of what my shtick was when I talked to people was in the early days, people were
not really sure in the lab how to make a fine, tasty dab oil because they weren't familiar
with the machines yet and the post-processing.
They were just cooking the turps off.
It wasn't the issue of CO2, it was the issue of inexperienced people using CO2.
Even today, as the technology has gotten better and as laboratory teams have gotten better,
there's still this remaining myth that BHO is always going to taste the best and CO2
is not going to taste very good.
I know because I adore CO2 dabs.
I know the taste is there.
What do you say when people slough off CO2 and they say, oh, it doesn't have the flavor
because I'm sure you get this pretty often yourself.
Yeah, we've been getting that for a while.
I think the stem of it is from where we are.
We're generally where we are in the industry.
The way I look at it is we are still in bathtub gin mentality about cannabis oil.
A lot of people only care about the amount of THC and it being inexpensive.
That lends itself to trying to produce a product with as much THC in it as possible.
Early on, CO2 operators were trying to compete with trying to get as much THC in their oil
as possible.
They over-processed it.
They would take it out of the system.
They would post-process it and continue to concentrate it until the THC levels were high.
Of course, then you've vaporized off all of the light essential oils, which are all
the terpenes.
For about five years, actually, I've been trying to get our clients, because our systems
can fractionate off terp separately.
Then, of course, what they were doing is they were taking all that post-process, post-process
oil and then trying to put it into a smokable product.
What they really should have been doing is just doing extraction of the terpenes, which
come off really quickly, because they're light essential oils.
They come off in 15 to 45 minutes.
Squirt that out.
Set it aside.
Continue a run.
Take the lipids and waxes out of that bulk oil and reintroduce the terpenes so you have
a whole plant extraction.
You don't have to use additives for fluidity in the pens.
Two, at this point, we have multiple clients who are doing a one process where they just
run subcritical.
That is starting to happen because the public, especially, I think, in the Northwest and
in California and some areas where all the pot nerds, quote, unquote, which we are, aren't
concerned with having high levels of THC.
We want a full profile cannabinoid and terpene profile.
One of the things that I'm really seeing, especially here in Washington, is very high
CBD strains utilized with very low THC.
Those are the connoisseur products.
They're just starting to catch on.
We're going to see more and more of that because the high THC market is extremely limited,
but the full cannabinoid profile, full terpene, entourage effect, that is a massive market.
Certainly one that's going to keep on growing.
We're going to go ahead and take our second and last break.
You are listening to Shaping Fire.
My guest today is AC Braddock, CEO of Eden Labs.
Using pesticides when growing cannabis has been common for a long time.
Nowadays, though, we know better.
We know that most pesticides formulated for food crops have never been tested for use
with cannabis.
They've been tested to be eaten in tiny doses.
They have not been tested to be inhaled and especially not concentrated into a cannabis
oil.
For commercial cannabis growers, this has become very impactful.
Cannabis enthusiasts and patients have gotten educated enough that they avoid growers who
used pesticides.
Not only that, but states across the country have begun making pesticide testing mandatory
on all licensed cannabis crops.
The time has come to find a better way to fight garden pests than covering your cannabis
in chemicals.
And there is a better way.
Let some good bugs fight your bad bugs.
Beneficial insects and predatory mites have come a long way since we were buying lady
bugs online and putting them in the grow room and just hoping for the best.
Natural enemies biocontrol can help you solve pest issues without using chemicals.
Natural Enemies founder Shane Young learned best practices from working in the ornamental
plant industry and has fine-tuned those strategies specifically for large cannabis crops.
Shane works with commercial cannabis clients across the country to ensure that they keep
their crops safe and pest-free without the use of chemicals.
Natural Enemies has proven solutions for spider mites, aphids, thrips, russet mites, broad
mites, shore flies, white fly, and others too.
You can rely on Natural Enemies for expertise and excellent service.
For more information, go to shapingfire.com forward slash natural enemies or simply click
on their banner in this week's newsletter.
Welcome back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire.
I'm your host, Shango Lose.
And our guest this week is AC Braddock, CEO of Eden Labs.
So right before the break, you were talking about the difference between super and subcritical
and that some folks were switching to subcritical so that they could get more flavor profile
because the future of cannabis is not just THC.
It's whole plant, it's flavor, it's taste, and it's healing.
And a lot of folks are not familiar with the difference between super and subcritical.
All I really know about it is that people wanted to try to avoid using subcritical simply
because the run took so much longer and it was less number of runs that they could do
in a 24-hour period.
But will you kind of break that out for us, what the difference between super and subcritical
extraction is?
Yeah.
So the wonderful thing about CO2, unlike a lot of other different kinds of solvents,
is that it's very tunable where you can run a material through it at a wide array of temperatures
and pressures to get out all kinds of different products.
Where it's primarily useful in cannabis is to be able to separate out the terpene profile
and that, as I was saying earlier, that's a low pressure, low temperature profile.
It's under 1100 PSI and at low temperature.
And that's also, as I said to you, how the market's changing a bit.
Any kind of quality product that you make, I don't care what it is, takes longer.
Wines, cheeses, I mean, the list goes on.
Anything that's artisan.
Yes, anything that's artisan.
That's what we want this market to be.
We want it to be artisan.
We want it to be small business.
We want it to be a micro business as opposed to a macro.
There's certainly room for macro, but the more small to medium-sized businesses we have
in cannabis or anything is beneficial.
So the subcritical will pull lots of terpenes, but you also need to then go up to supercritical
to pull a lot of the other cannabinoids and the THC, because THC can sometimes be hard
to pull out, especially THCA, which is another product which is coming up that people don't
have a really clear understanding about is having a product with THCA in it.
So especially for medical patients, because you're going to get all the pain benefits
without all the psychoactive parts in there.
So there's a wide range of temperature and pressure to be able to create a recipe that's
unique to your product and pulling out different cannabinoid profiles at different places in
the extraction process, which gives you IP, which is extremely important for this industry,
especially when you start going back and forth between pharmaceutical versus nutraceutical
or pharmaceutical versus a cottage market.
This is how we're going to be able to have some traction.
So as these markets get larger, I would think that the sales of Eden Lab extractors to particular
locales in the country or heck, even the world is a leading indicator of the next really
relevant cannabis scene.
Do you find that to be the case?
And if so, where do you think are going to be the next hotspots because that's where
you're shipping?
Obviously, California.
For sure.
It's going to be a huge market.
East Coast, there are several states that look like they're going to be, you know,
Pennsylvania, you know, their laws only doing concentrates, which I don't necessarily agree with.
I think that there's a medical benefit for flour as well.
But the technology going forward to be able to separate out molecules, to pull out CBG,
for instance, which is one of my favorites because it's great for pain and inflammation.
But moving all that forward, so we have a distributorship now actually as a company
in Israel and tapping into some of those European markets like Israel, Australia.
There are several different, you know, Germany.
The UK is gearing up quickly, I think.
Canada, South America.
It's, you know, it's kind of disturbing to see because I feel like Washington and the
West Coast should be kind of leading this technology.
But because of our federal regulations, other places in the world are gaining traction,
which is fine.
I mean, lots of clinical trials are going on all over the world.
It would just be nice to have it be here.
It was so disappointing to live in Washington and have us be, you know, one of the firsts.
And then because of this, you know, dual layer of our federal laws and then the confusion
on implementation at the state level, I feel like we're in Washington, the example of how
not to do it.
And as soon as the US government stopped international pressure for cannabis, it is amazing how
quickly it broke out everywhere as soon as we stopped strong-arming people to not using
cannabis medicine.
Yep.
Yeah, it was some of the things that Washington have done is has been very, very disappointing
and heart-wrenching for many people that I know, especially people who were in medical
previously and have moved into the 502 market.
But it's especially with how medical's been handled here in the state, which is incredibly
hypocritical.
Yeah, it's a shame that, you know, the patients were the first ones and the medical providers
were the first ones to provide them.
Of course, they're the ones who are left holding the bag in the new system here.
But heck, we could do a whole show just on Washington's failure.
So let's move right along.
So I know you and I are both, you know, serious whole plant advocates.
And I don't know the answer to this question.
And so I figure Beth's time is now to ask you.
So what is lost during a CO2 extraction?
And I think that's from what I'm understanding from your answer, sub is going to provide
more of the original plant.
So what's in the plant that you would get when you toke it or, you know, combust it
that's not in the oil that comes after it's derived by a CO2 extraction?
You know, I can't say that I exactly know the answer to that question.
Obviously, different methodologies will leave different things behind.
That's obvious.
The difference between smoking and CO2, I don't know.
I personally I do know that sometimes when I smoke, I can become very achy, depending
on what strain it is.
But that never happens when I ingest.
So there's not only what the difference in the extraction method, but also what happens
physiologically with how this plant works in your body.
Yeah, that makes sense.
While I'm asking you things that you don't have ready answers to, how about this one?
So, you know, when I've spoken to medical doctors about dabbing, something that we
will eventually find out that dabbers are inhaling terpenes in a volume and in a method
that can be toxic to humans.
And obviously, these studies have not been done yet because we would know about them.
But, you know, you are sure around a lot of folks studying oils, thinking about oils,
developing the technology.
So what are your personal thoughts on the safety of dabbing?
Well, yeah, and that has that is becoming quite a concern.
Well, another new trend that we're hearing about is that a lot of BHO products, a lot
of people who are dabbing are now taking a BHO product and taking terpenes from a CO2
extraction and putting that on the BHO product.
So obviously, you're going to have a pretty significant terpene profile there.
And terpenes are light hydrocarbons.
So, you know, going back to the whole plant philosophy, if you've got a plant and it
never has more than, you know, let's say 20 percent terpene profile and you're mixing
it together to create a 75 percent terpene profile, I would say that there should be
room for concern there because it doesn't naturally occur that way.
And it probably doesn't actually occur that way for a reason.
Yeah, that makes sense.
You're like supercharging it and your body may have never seen anything like it before
and know how to deal with it.
Yeah, at some point it could become poisonous or, you know, it's just too much.
And so I think we continually need to look at the plant as it is and what it offers.
I mean, that is why this industry exists.
So to suddenly take a sharp turn has to be thought, should be thought through and considered
carefully.
Yeah, I think this is a fun question.
I think that I need to go find myself a really good medical doctor, respiratory nerd, get
them on the show and pick one for you.
I have one for you.
Oh, good.
Excellent.
I will ask you about that as soon as we're done here.
Excellent.
So I want to finish this show with a real serious, well, not real serious, but a really
directed business question, because we've talked on this show before about trademark
and licensing and the importance of companies to continually defend their brand marks and
their trademarks, because if they're not constantly defending the use of their product
names and of their marks, that over time their trademark gets diluted and it becomes
indefensible.
And I have seen a lot of different extraction machines and so many of them look like your
original machine.
So my question for you is that I'm assuming that you're being copied again and again by
other extraction companies seeking to catch up with Eden's lead.
Do you find that you have to strongly defend your design patents?
Oh, yeah, of course.
But, you know, it's a little difficult, too, with CO2, because CO2 was invented in World
War II.
And so it's not a new process by any stretch.
But obviously some of the different tweaks and how we put a system together is certainly
patentable.
But, yes, there are many.
In the last two years, I would say there's a dozen more extraction companies who have
come into the market.
And to be able to hang on to your market share while you're educating the public on what
the differences in the systems are, because some of these systems that come in, you know,
without naming names, you know, one company that I know of, their 100 liter takes 64 hours
to do an extraction, you know, where ours would take seven to 12.
So it's really detrimental to the operators and the businesses who get these systems who
don't understand the differences because they're going to fail.
And they can't have that kind of overhead and have that kind of length of time in an
extraction process.
But it goes back to the whole extraction piece on every level in this industry.
With as many companies that are popping up doing building extraction technologies, are
you to the point yet that you have got dedicated people on staff whose job it is to defend
your patents and to look for infringement?
Or is it just your engineers occasionally come across one and then you hand it over
to the lawyers?
We probably primarily just let our legal team deal with that.
You know, I guess as a business owner, at some point you have to make a decision.
And are you going to spend a lot of your time looking at your competitors and trying to
compete?
Or are you going to focus on what you do best?
And we did make that decision a few years ago that we are going to do what we've always
done. And that's just do R&D and look at the science and continue to make better extraction
systems because that takes a tremendous amount of time and energy.
And to sit there constantly chasing other people is a distraction.
From an idealist point of view, I actually really love that answer because I understand
the importance of defending design patents as the importance of holding on to IP for
a business. But I'm also in the old school idea of information yearns to be free.
And I also like rapid prototesting and evolving.
So I find it encouraging that you are leading Eden in a way that you're all like, well,
we'll defend when we have to, but let's just make the next thing and then we'll just always
be ahead of the crowd. I appreciate that approach.
You know, yeah, it's like I don't care that Eden's the biggest company.
I just want us to be the best company.
That's what it all comes down to, because if we're the best, our clients will be successful.
And they'll be able to then become pillars of mission.
And in this industry that will hopefully continue the tipping point in the direction this
culture wants it to go. And that's what it's all about.
Well said. Well, AC, I know you have got an exceptionally busy schedule.
I really appreciate you peeling off an hour to spend with us so that we can get caught up.
Thank you so much for your time.
Thank you, Shango. Thanks for all you do as well.
Thank you. AC Product is CEO of Eden Labs. You can find out more at EdenLabs.com.
For the latest cannabis news and product reviews on the Shaping Fire website,
you will also find transcripts of today's podcast as well.
For information on me and where I'll be speaking, you can check out ShangoLose.com.
Does your company want to reach our national audience of cannabis enthusiasts?
Email Hotspot at ShapingFire.com to find out how.
Thanks for listening to Shaping Fire. I've been your host, Shango Lose.
