There are lots of folks in the regenerative cannabis community who will say that they
have been into natural farming their whole life.
And that is not me.
It isn't that I was against natural farming, it's just that I had never really considered
it.
I was a midwest city boy with a great deadhead weed dealer and I just didn't have a need
to grow my own, so I never really gave it much thought.
But after I moved to San Francisco in 1994, all of that changed when I visited Dennis
Perone's Cannabis Buyers Club.
I came in contact with epic varieties of kind bud that totally changed what I thought weed
could be.
But I really couldn't afford them in the amounts that I wanted to smoke.
Top shelf weed is expensive.
I knew that if I wanted to smoke those flavors, that I was going to have to learn how to grow
them myself.
So I started learning about basic NPK growing focused on the mineral and chemical content
of the soil and really wasn't all that passionate about it and I didn't really follow through.
So instead of growing the fancy flowers I now knew I wanted, I decided to just get a
better job in the virtual reality industry that allowed me afford to buy that top shelf
cannabis.
Everything changed though when I learned about Elaine Ingham and her model for cultivation
called the Soil Food Web.
Instead of being focused solely on the nutrient composition of the soil, Elaine focused more
on the life of the soil.
Growing cannabis went from boring nutrient math to suddenly having a relationship with
microbes and other life forms in the root zone.
It was like having friends in the soil who I was getting into a relationship with.
And unlike the Tamagotchi that I kept alive at the time, when I kept the microbes in the
soil alive, they grew me amazing thriving cannabis.
That was my kind of relationship.
My new friends were nematodes, worms, arthropods and fungi and we shared the same goals.
If you want to learn about cannabis health, cultivation and technique efficiently and
with good cheer, I encourage you to subscribe to our newsletter.
We'll send you new podcast episodes as they come out, delivered right to your inbox, along
with commentary on a couple of the most important news items from the week and videos too.
Don't rely on social media to let you know when a new episode is published.
Sign up for the updates to make sure you don't miss an episode.
Also, we're giving away very cool prizes to folks who are signed up to receive the
newsletter.
January's giveaway sponsor is Gaslamp Seeds.
You've heard me talk about them before by their old name of Hembra Genetics.
Hembra Genetics is now Gaslamp Seeds.
Gaslamp will award seed packs to 5 lucky winners who are subscribed to the Shaping Fire newsletter.
There's nothing else you need to do to win except receive that newsletter.
So go to shapingfire.com to sign up for the newsletter and be entered into this month's
and all future newsletter prize drawings.
You are listening to Shaping Fire and I am your host, Shango Lose.
My guest today is soil biologist, Andi Marsh.
Andi is a soil health practitioner and focuses her efforts on soil restoration through her
business Rizos LLC based in Texas.
She studied bioenvironmental science at Texas A&M, focusing largely on agricultural microbiology
and bioremediation.
Andi has studied the soil food web with Elaine Ingham and is a certified soil food web lab
technician.
That means that Andi has completed all of Elaine's foundational soil food web courses
and has gone further to earn a soil food web certification in microscopy.
Soon she will also have her soil food web consultant certification.
Andi has been practicing soil microbiology for over 12 years.
During the first set, we will talk about seasonal impacts on soil and biological activity, focusing
on the metabolism of the soil, changing food sources, and differences between container
soil and ground soil.
The second set is the big one today as we look in detail at the sorts of nutrition available
during winter and discuss preparing soil with specific compost tea brews, biological inoculants
like protozoa infusions, and fungal foods, as well as the effective use of mulches and
crop covers.
Finally, we finish the episode in set 3 with a discussion of best practices to revive your
soil in the spring in order to shorten its transition from winter dormancy to actively
growing your thriving cannabis plants.
Today's episode comes from the perspective of living soil and the soil food web.
Today we are most interested in microbial life and the prey and predator relationship
in the soil and how that changes seasonally.
Certainly, there are soil chemistry aspects to be considered after having a yearly soil
test done, but that's not the focus today.
Today we set aside mineral and other amendments and focus squarely on the preservation of
biological activity in the soil so that you can preserve your gains from year to year.
Welcome to Shaping Fire, Andi.
Thank you so much for having me.
At the end of the season, temperatures decrease, and at the lower temps, life slows down both
above and below the soil.
If the soil food web is cycling life all summer so our cannabis plants can grow, I'd like
to understand which aspects slow down into the fall and winter in the soil which causes
everything to go to sleep.
I'd like you to start off with a description of an active soil food web, a summertime soil
food web, and then describe the mechanisms that change and slow as we go into winter
so that as we talk about how to interact with that, we know the mechanisms that we're talking about.
Sure.
With the food web, we're talking about these predator-prey relationships below ground for
the most part.
So who's eating who?
And in the summertime, in a vegetative growth cycle, flowering cycle, it's a very active
partnership between the plant and the microbes below ground.
They're constantly communicating, they're feeding one another.
And so in theory, if you've done a great job of inoculating your soils in the spring and
you've established these relationships or really introduced these relationships between
the plants and the microbes, there's a lot of predators eating prey, which is cycling
nutrients.
So when I say predators, I'm referring to things like nematodes, that's nematodes that
feed on bacteria, nematodes that feed on fungi, and then the protozoa, which are primarily
bacterial feeders, things like flagellates and amoeba.
Ciliates as well, although, and we can come back to this, ciliates are more of an indicator
species that we use to provide as a sign of anaerobic conditions in the soil.
And so we don't want to see too many ciliates among the protozoa in that ecosystem.
But this brings me to the point of another feature that's happening in a thriving root
zone is the element of diversity.
So you'll have a lot of these different types of organisms.
You're not just going to see fungi or just going to see bacteria.
You're going to see a little bit of everything in your soil at that time.
And so as things kind of get colder and are going into a more dormant state, the main
element that is changing there is as the plant dies back, it's no longer providing
the root exudates to kind of be a source of fuel and energy for its microbial partners
below ground.
And so their dynamics change.
The microbial partners below ground are going to start feeding on other things and finding
other food sources.
And so that's really important for us to know as stewards is what are those food sources?
Do they have enough food?
Because in theory, we actually want them to stay as active as possible throughout the
winter.
And there's some reasons, there's some really important reasons for that.
But in terms of what that root zone could look like in the winter, if we don't consider
the microbes needs through that period where they don't have their plant photosynthesizing
above ground, things tend to go really dormant below ground.
And that means you have protozoa that are insisting and they're no longer feeding on
bacteria.
In general, bacteria are kind of the hardiest group.
So you're always going to have your cold loving bacteria, your heat loving bacteria, and you'll
always have some kind of bacteria activity happening in the root zone.
But it's really a matter of losing some of those larger organisms like your fungal activity,
or nematode activity and protozoa that we want to really try to keep those organism
groups active rather than allowing them to go into dormant states.
So that's interesting because I thought that you were going to say that things slow down
because of the temperature primarily, but I'm getting the idea that while yes, temperature
probably plays a role, that really it's about the abundance of summertime food sources that
are decreasing.
And that is actually what causes the, I don't know, metabolism of the soil to slow down.
Right.
So like in nature, if you think about a really mature forest ecosystem, one way that the
trees in that ecosystem continue providing for the microbes underground that they're
going to rely on more so in spring and summer is many of the deciduous trees are going to
drop their leaves and actually feed that soil in a different way.
So it's no longer through root exudates, but it's through this leaf litter on top of the
soil and that's doing two things.
That's insulating the soil from those harsh temperatures that you've referred to.
And it's also providing some kind of organic matter to feed into that system to keep the
metabolism going below ground.
So it can actually be quite busy if the ecosystem is providing some kind of food source and
protection to the microorganisms in the root zone.
I would think that if the food source is changing during the winter from being our cannabis
roots and potential companion plants to now not being cannabis roots, perhaps still the
companion plantings, but now leaf litter and potentially a top mulch or whatever we're
going to put on the pot to help it over winter, that that's actually going to change the
varieties of life forms that are actually going to be active in the soil, too.
It will. It will certainly.
And a lot of times that leaf litter or mulch that you're topping off a container with or
the soil itself with, those are carbon rich materials.
And so that is going to provide more benefit to your fungal types of organisms.
So your fungi are breaking down carbon rich materials more so than bacteria, but they're
all linked. So as one organism starts feeding on a particular material, it inevitably
creates a byproduct that another organism can feed on.
Thus the soil food web.
Everything's dependent on everything else.
When the pots, I guess this question is specifically container oriented, but when a
container gets cold during the winter, it gets truly cold in a way that the ground won't
since the ground is enjoying some geothermal benefits.
Are there some parts of the root zone, some inhabitants that we just know we're going to
lose during the winter because they'll cyst up because it just simply the cold is enough
to knock them knock them back into a dormant state instead of just the losing of their
food source?
Yes, I kind of think of this on a good, better, best scale.
So best case scenario, you're able to provide the root zone enough fuel to and
protection to actually maintain some level of activity.
That's not always possible.
But the second best option would be to protect it enough that those organisms that you
do, quote unquote, lose are at least in cysting and they're not actually dying, which is
the worst case scenario is that the extreme temps or conditions that that soil is exposed
to is so severe that you're actually killing the organisms and you're essentially
starting from square one come springtime when you're trying to rejuvenate that soil.
Interesting. So, so often we treat our containers and sometimes even our fields as, OK,
we're done with it and we just like people just walk away from it and they get into
trimming or or start focusing on the holidays or just doing anything other than
farming because they've had a long summer.
But I'm actually getting this idea now that, you know, the that you want to make sure
that you button up your soil properly before you walk away from it and not to be too
hasty about it because we want to kind of turn it from like the high, you know, the
high, very active setting down to like a low simmer for the winter because we don't
want it to go entirely to sleep.
We just want it to turn down so it eats through the nutrition that we're setting it up
with slowly throughout the winter so that so that when we when we re when we re
approach it in the spring, we're not we're not having to start it from a cold start, if
you will. There's already low warmth going on.
Yeah, I think what you observed there about how hasty we can be once our growing season
is over is really an invitation to reflect a little bit like I would I always encourage
people to consider what's your relationship with that soil, that soil that you discarded
or the soil that you're no longer tending to just because your cash crop isn't growing in it
right now and asking the question, you know, are are we going to need that soil to support
our goals later or did we rely on it this past season to produce something meaningful for
us? And, you know, just because the cash crop isn't actively growing doesn't mean that our
stewardship responsibilities for that crop are over.
We do have responsibilities and there's the biodiversity of the partners below ground are
part of what makes our crop successful.
And so just, you know, building a relationship and considering that when you don't have
your your crop in season, what are you doing to ensure that you're caring for that soil
system so that you are introducing your plant to a very hospitable new home come spring?
I really like that emphasis on the stewardship.
I remember a couple of years back I visited Nicholas over at Green Gardens in Wolf,
Oregon, and he was walking me through and I like it because they do a lot of food planting
underneath their cannabis plants.
So they'll have cannabis growing up top and and potatoes growing underneath and green
source gardens. That's it.
And so and I asked him, I said, oh, I bet you I said, I bet you're really going to be
happy to walk away from the garden and be done with it.
And he says, you know, I've never really done with it.
He's all like the the soil is a family member, you know, and and just because it's we're
going into winter, I don't I can't just turn my back on it.
I need to do what I can to make sure that it's taken care of and fed and loved through
the winter so that we're not strangers in the spring.
And and like the first part of that, I may have paraphrased poorly from him, but the so
that so that we're not strangers with the soil in the spring is the part that really held
on for me.
And and I thought I thought that was beautiful.
And it sounds very similar to this idea of stewardship that you're putting forth.
Oh, definitely. I love that phrase, too.
To to be strangers in the spring feels so uncomfortable and you almost start feeling
guilty at that point, you know, because I've been there even even as someone who considers
themselves very enamored with soil more so than the plant itself.
Sometimes when that planting season's over, you just are eager to get comfortable and
kind of step away from that work for a while.
And I think that's OK.
I think there's room for both.
Like we all deserve rest and we should snatch rest when we can when we can get it.
But there's, you know, finding a balance.
Like, what does it mean to you to stay connected to that soil throughout the winter and
finding ways to do it that that makes sense to you?
And given that season of of the year and in life.
I think also to take it into a non-soil example, I feel the same way when I rush taking
the plastic off of my greenhouses in the fall.
And if I don't put them away properly, you know, if I don't if I don't wash them down,
let them dry, fold them up and like lovingly put them back.
You know, if it's a season where I pull them down wet, I roll them into a ball and I
shove them in the back of the barn, which, you know, it's not something that I'm ever
proud of, but it happens sometimes.
When I come back in the spring, I see that now the plastic is moldy and it's and it's
and it's crunchy and it's all like, oh, you did me bad, Shango, you know.
And that same thing happens with our soil.
If we if we want to have a good start in our spring, we need to end the fall properly as
well. So let's let's talk about some of the differences that that there is in the
the changing from a container versus the ground.
And so, you know, during during set two, we're going to go into more detail about the
things we want to do for our soil, whatever, whether it's in the ground or whether it's
in a container. But as far as the the coming of winter, I would think that the
containers are at a much higher risk of getting true seasonal damage than the soil is
because we have a smaller diversity diversity of life forms because it's just
contained in the container and things aren't generally coming in and out unless it's
being like delivered by, you know, birds or frogs or people, people and life forms that
are going by. Versus the the actual ground soil, which has got a huge amount of
biodiversity and also is being somewhat kept warm just from the nature of Earth.
Would you agree that that those of us who are growing in containers really have to pay
more attention because the ground, more often than not, will cover your mistakes,
whereas a container won't?
Yeah, the ground is much more forgiving in that way, certainly.
And, you know, not to say that we can't also find a way to mess that up, right, by poor
practices, but in general, more forgiving in ground planting and in ground, you know,
stewardship of the of the microbe world.
I think it's like anything in controlled agriculture or when we're trying to emulate
nature, it's always imperfect, but we just do our best.
And so when we have these containers, I think definitely the two points that you brought
up are the are the most obvious ones.
You know, like you have more of that surface is exposed.
And the surface I'm talking about is like the actual root zone is exposed where that's
just not the case in ground.
And the observation you made about migration of organisms is kind of a less obvious one
to people. So that really is a limiting factor if you think about it.
Like even during the growing season, you don't have migration between one root zone and
another. And sometimes that can be helpful if you have really strong plants with great
microbial partnerships that are thriving.
And then maybe some plants that have some kind of disease and could benefit from, you
know, the migration of those organisms from one side of your planting to the other.
And some people would actually view that in the opposite way.
It's kind of like a is this glass half full or half empty?
Some people would be concerned like, oh, well, when you share a root zone, now you have
the risk of pathogens tearing through.
And that is also true.
But if you're if you're actually growing from a biological perspective, your decisions
and your amendments are all about focusing on beneficial organisms and kind of taking
up real estate on the root surfaces and plant surfaces as well because they migrate
below ground and above ground, all these organisms.
And you're taking up real estate so that pathogens, pests and pathogens don't even have a
chance to come in. So that's really what we're doing with our amendments, whether it's
in pots or in ground.
But I do find that you have to be much more diligent in any kind of container because
each each plant now is has its own root zone that you have to tend to rather than one
single root zone that has shared resources.
And shared communication between the plants as well.
I think that's one of the first things that we have to give up when we start practicing
natural farming versus some of the more sterile kinds like like certain types of
hydroponics and such is that we are we don't have sterile soil.
There are pathogens in every one of our pots.
And it's not about making sure my containers don't have any pathogens.
It's about feeding the beneficials and making sure the environment for the beneficials
are positive so that they are always out competing the pathogens.
But we know the pathogens are there.
It's a hard truth that's like really creeps a lot of people out when they when they come
to regenerative style farming at first.
But but you know technically the pathogens are part of of the the the food web as well.
And we just want them to play a very small role.
Yes I agree.
And I feel like there might even be an analogy here somewhere like with our human
societies like you're always going to have a bad egg on a team.
But in general that team is much more resilient when you have a lot of you know good
healthy communicative partners that are helping move the ball forward you know and they
might even band together and say enough is enough.
We're getting rid of this parasite that is in you know messing with our goals.
So I if you can kind of sometimes that helps to just relate to the soil in some way.
It's like thinking about it.
Their communities similar to ours in general you know the systems in place are are moving
towards beneficial partnerships.
And it's only when there's an imbalance in the ecosystem that there's a specific set of
organisms that take advantage of that.
And let me just take a moment to shingle if you don't mind kind of explaining some of my
perspective on pathogens because I think it might be of interest here.
The when I think of pathogens this is you know this is me trying to reframe pathogens.
So I'm not perfect at you know not getting angry when I see when I see something that is
destroying the garden.
But I think of pathogens as filling a role in the ecosystem.
What a pathogen is essentially doing and why it's evolved is that that soil is sick in some
way and it's destroying the above ground organic matter to feed that soil.
And you know in time that process of pests and pathogens destroying the above ground parts of
the plants and returning those nutrients to the soil would set the stage for a stronger and
more resilient environment that would actually support more and more beneficial microorganisms
and kind of do themselves the pathogens out of their job.
So when you see a pathogen it's really telling to say oh well something's amiss here.
The plant isn't actually getting everything that it needs from me.
So this is that's one way that the ecosystem is communicating with you.
And instead of trying to stamp it out with pesticides and whatever else we can get our hands
on that is more of like a sterilizing effect.
Just consider what can we do to add to the system to give that plant what it needs in order to
fight that pathogen or eliminate it so that it's no longer needed in that ecosystem.
I think that's a really healthy way of looking at it that that even though I mean because our goal
is to have beautiful high terpene profile high cannabinoid flowers that's that's the end goal.
And so if the pathogen is challenging us from getting to our goal it makes us want to be pissed
off at the pathogen when actually it is playing its role just like just like if I get sick and I
get a I get a high temperature myself and I'm like oh I'm so tired from having this this high
temperature but but my body is intentionally increasing the temperature so that I can heal.
It's trying to heal me.
And and I think that if we embrace the pathogens as being a partner but a partner that we really
don't want to have to do their role very often that's probably a more holistic approach to thinking about
our soil instead of like good guys and bad guys.
Exactly.
Exactly.
I appreciate that analogy that you provided as well.
Right on.
So all right.
Great.
Well I think that set two where we were we talk about the what to do and why is going to be the
fattest of the three sets.
So why don't we go ahead and wrap up and go to our commercial break and then we'll get right to set two
which is probably what most people are here for anyway.
So we're going to go ahead and take a short break and be right back.
You are listening to shaping fire and my guest today is soil biologist Andy Marsh.
So without these advertisers shaping fire wouldn't happen.
So please support them and let them know you heard them on shaping fire.
There are so many seed banks nowadays that you really have options and who to choose.
Not only that if you pick the wrong seed bank you could be in for a really sketchy ride.
And that's only one of the reasons I recommend gas lamp seeds to my friends and listeners who are
looking for a seed bank.
You probably already know gas lamp seeds as HEMBRA genetics.
HEMBRA recently changed their name to gas lamp seeds.
Gas lamp seeds is not just another seed bank.
Gas lamp is a female operated boutique cannabis genetics provider that only sells thoughtfully
curated seeds from the top names in cannabis breeding.
With over 60 breeders and over a thousand strains to choose from you will certainly find something
you'll love.
Gas lamp seeds has something for everyone with over 650 feminized strains 300 regular varieties
and over 200 auto flowers to choose from.
Names you know you can trust like compound genetics Humboldt seed company night owl in-house
fast buds gnome automatics and ethos.
And we both know that there are other seed banks who will take your money but have no customer
service.
I invited gas lamp to advertise on shaping fire after hearing so many good stories about them from
my friends.
They have a plus customer service with lightning fast response times.
In most cases Helene and Caitlin will get your order out the same day you place it.
Most seed banks are simply not this organized or interested in getting your seeds to you so fast.
But gas lamp seeds cares.
You even get free seeds with every order.
Helene and Caitlin get it.
They have been in the cannabis growing scene for over a decade.
Want some extra freebies.
Use the code shaping fire all one word at checkout and they will give you an additional set of gas
lamp provided freebies.
That's an extra 30 dollars and free seeds.
Buy seeds from good folks who will send you great seeds reliably every time.
Visit gas lamp seeds dot com today.
That's gas lamp seeds.
There are a lot of good people launching new businesses in cannabis psilocybin and other
psychedelics.
And it's a very strange time for us in the same moment that psilocybin mushrooms are illegal at
the federal level.
They are becoming increasingly legal in states across the country.
These businesses leading the way into the future of plant medicines require specialized legal
representation by attorneys who have depth not only in litigation mergers and acquisitions but
also in psychedelic and other plant medicines.
Green Light Law Group has been empowering cannabis businesses since 2014 and as the market
has diversified into psilocybin and other plant medicines.
Green Light has been right there evolving with their diverse clients to provide legal expertise
with a high level of legal acumen creative strategy and precision that comes with an intimate and
specific understanding of both business law and plant medicine.
If you are a business owner trying to navigate the layered local and national drug laws on your own
you are at risk of fumbling.
These confusing and quickly changing laws complicate everything.
Green Light Law Group is ready to help you when hit with a lawsuit or because you were shafted by a
vendor or business partner or simply because you want to stay legal and could use some preventative guidance
before cultivating a controlled substance as an entrepreneur.
Green Light Law Group is a collection of folks who care profoundly about their work and I know this is
true because I know the folks from Green Light.
There is a huge difference between a big legal firm who has decided to start representing a few drug
companies versus working with a collection of high integrity passionate lawyers who are personally
interested in new plant medicines and firmly believe in their power to heal.
Contact Green Light Law Group today and learn more about the services they can offer your industry leading
cannabis or psychedelics company.
That's Green Light Law Group at GreenLightLawGroup.com.
As cannabis regulations become more demanding and consumers become more educated it is increasingly
important to avoid the use of chemical pesticides when cultivating cannabis.
Beneficial insects have been used for decades by the greenhouse vegetable and ornamental plant industry and
today many cannabis cultivators are moving from sprays and chemicals to beneficial insects.
Coppert has the beneficial insects mites and nematodes microbials sticky cards and air distribution units
you need to partner with nature to defend your garden.
Whether you manage acres of canopy or have a simple grow tent in your home Coppert is ready to help answer
your questions and help you transition away from chemical sprays towards clean and natural solutions.
Since 1967 Coppert has assisted growers in identifying pests and devising reliable solutions while providing
healthy insects and mites that will protect your yield.
Since the 1990s Coppert has been a leader in cannabis pest and disease control worldwide and have highly
trained consultants to assist you in Canada and the United States from coast to coast.
With their global network of grower support Coppert can help.
Visit coppert.com choose your country and get detailed information.
That's Coppert.
K-O-P-P-E-R-T dot com.
For the most up to date cannabis related biological control information you can also check their Instagram at
Coppert Canada.
You know getting away from pesticides is good for health and good for business and Coppert is ready to help.
Visit Coppert.com today.
Welcome back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire.
I am your host Shango Lose and my guest today is soil biologist Andy Marsh.
So before the break we were talking about you know getting us all on the same page as far as an understanding
of the soil food web.
What is happening like systemically in the soil as temperatures cool and kind of making sure that we all
understand that we're not.
The winter does not make the system stop.
The winter makes the system slow.
And so set two is going to all be about what can we do for our soil in what ways so that we can turn our soil down
to this slow simmer so we don't become strangers with it in the spring.
So what do you think about this Andy.
I was trying to figure out what our goals are for containers and soil going into the winter.
And I and I made this list that we want the soil to be fed warm watered drained and then undamaged during the
winter.
Does that sound like a pretty good list to you.
Yeah I really like the last one undamaged.
I would I would have used the word undisturbed but I think we're getting at the same thing.
Basically just not trying to disrupt that all of those organisms that are doing their work during the winter.
So let's start by getting rid of something that I see all the time on like not not huge farms but just like scaled
regenerative farms.
It is not uncommon for me to go to a farm tour and to see that cultivators have stacked their large containers during
the offseason.
And you know just looking at it it looks like an obviously bad practice because at the very least we are compacting
the soil by stacking the pots.
And every time you go up a level it's more and more weight that's compacting a soil.
But I bet that you have other more specific reasons why we should not be stacking our especially fabric pots over the
winter.
So would we start with that because I want to I want to remove that as an option for folks.
Sure.
Yeah I think there's a lot of a lot of evidence for not wanting to do that.
I'm sure.
Well let me just first start by kind of empathizing with why you might find yourself doing that.
And I suspect it's one kind of what we were talking about earlier about you're done with the growing season you're just
trying to pack things up and get things put put away and kind of out of sight and in a space where they're not going to
be completely drenched in snow or whatever else.
So I can empathize with wanting to stack your pots of soil you know in a corner.
And you might even think that you're doing a good thing by removing them from the elements in some regard.
But the more you kind of consider what's going on in those pots the less of a good idea this this becomes because you're
right you are certainly compacting the soil and that's problematic for a lot of reasons.
Reason number one though a soil structure is something that I get really excited about because it's it's where like
biology chemistry and the physics of the soil meet is like creating great soil structure.
And it's something that we are attempting to create throughout the growing season and we whether we realize it or not
are contributing to or or taking away from throughout the growing season.
And then come wintertime if we don't realize what kind of gains we made in terms of the improving the soil structure and
then we go and stack these soils like that we're really setting our we're really kind of regressing in terms of whatever
progress we might have made in improving that soil's structure.
So yeah compaction is like a surefire way to kind of you're you're not only physically putting pressure to the soil
surface and creating compaction from the top down but you're also kind of sealing off the top of that soil.
So there's limited air exchange and and limited moisture exchange.
And this is what happens in in-ground systems when we can compact them through any number of means.
That's called soil sealing when you do that.
And whether you're doing it by stacking pots or you know mowing a space too too often and creating compaction that way
at the end of the day you're really reducing that soil's ability to bring oxygen in which all of these microbes that we're
talking about all these beneficial microbes really need oxygen and the ones that thrive in oxygen poor environments are
our pathogens.
Right on.
So so we want to make sure that our topsoil can get air exchange it can get some you know rain and snow and you know
interact with with nature as it will.
And I like what you said where you know if we've spent all summer treating our soil fantastically why on earth would we
want to suddenly give those advances back by by stacking them and then crushing the soil structure that we've and our
worms have spent all summer working on.
Exactly.
And that makes our job a lot harder come springtime when we're dealing with soil.
If you plan to reuse that soil which you know you might not you might find that you actually need to purchase new soil or
make new soil which can be very labor intensive.
And I feel like if the more you can do taking care of the soil you got the less labor and inputs and expenses you'll have come
springtime in dealing with that soil.
I'm really grateful that the cannabis growing scene as a whole has embraced reusing soil.
It wasn't it wasn't too long ago that people thought that they needed to rebuy soil for every cycle.
Both indoors and out.
And because they wanted to keep it as sterile as possible.
But sure.
But but now we're realizing that that aged older soil has with has got so much more personality if you will.
And it's that biodiversity which actually makes your cannabis taste good.
Mm hmm.
I like that.
Mm hmm.
Sorry.
I'm like sipping on my coffee here.
But yes.
Yes.
I'm glad to hear that about about cannabis cultures that you're able to see this shift towards reusing soil and rejuvenating it rather than
creating more and more sterile environments.
That's a good thing.
All right.
So if our goals for our soil is to have it fed warm watered and drained.
Let's start with the fed part.
So many folks have got their favorite amendments that they you know they've harvested their cannabis plant and then they will they will amend or inoculate or add something before they walk away for the winter.
So let's let's talk about a couple of those.
And specifically you know as I was saying in the introduction we're not approaching today's episode dryly chemically like OK I did my soil test and now I need to add this kind of NPK kind of action.
We're talking about what kinds of amendments we're going to be doing to keep the the life force of the living soil intact.
And so by all means you know do your do your soil tests and react to those.
But we also want to make sure that our soil just stays alive.
So so let's start with nutrition.
So so taking what you said during the first set that there are the food sources are changing from the from the rhizosphere getting exudates from my cannabis plant roots and having that back and forth relationship.
But now the cannabis plant is gone.
And so I want to add some nutrition so that everybody stays alive in the root zone when the root zones are not feeding them.
So what types of nutrition as a soil biologist do you find are going to be most beneficial for the folks that we want to keep going.
Yeah so so one way to think about this is to take a take an approach where you're providing a variety of foods because again the theme here of the day is going to be biodiversity.
So if you're trying to cultivate nurture and maintain a biodiverse microbial community then you the more different types of foods you can provide to your soils often the better.
And so one way to do that is to take a multi prong approach by feeding the soils through maybe a cover crop so that that you know something that would survive your conditions when you're not growing your cannabis plant anymore.
But you instead come and plant a cover crop that will feed the soil root exudates in lieu of your cash crop.
And then compost tea is another great option.
And I would just want to take a moment to kind of explain the difference between an extract and a tea.
An extract is you're generally just trying to knock the microbes off the surfaces of solid compost so that you end up with a liquid that has just kind of free floating organisms.
And those are really great for soil drenches also in containers of course to kind of infiltrate those organisms through the soil profile.
And teas are a little bit different in that you have that brewing step.
So you do the same thing where you're knocking off the microbes from the surfaces of the solid compost.
But this time you have a brewing cycle where you're adding microbial foods and you're effectively increasing the population sizes of those organisms.
And you're kind of providing them this packed lunch so to speak whenever you distribute that liquid onto your soils.
And so I like teas as a method to feed the root zone in the wintertime because it has more microbial foods in it.
And I'm not so focused on inoculating because it is a challenging time.
And in theory if we've done a lot of great inoculating throughout the season, our main goal is just providing a food source and not so much on inoculating.
Of course inoculating is always happening.
So come springtime I just kind of want to differentiate that you'd be more focused on introducing new organisms into that soil but not so much in the fall and winter.
And then lastly there's compost and mulch are also ways to feed the soil nutrition.
And those are going to be a different set of food as well than what you might have incorporated through a tea.
And of course the cover crop is kind of the unique food source that we can't necessarily replicate because it's coming directly from a photosynthesizing plant.
Oh gosh there is so much in that answer I'm excited to tear this apart with you.
All right so let's go step by step.
So the first thing that you were talking about was the variety of nutrition.
So I'm going to ask my next question about compost tea.
But right now I'm talking about natural amendments.
So are you talking about adding for example like crab shell and feather meal and alfalfa meal and things like that?
Making a blend of that like we would when we are making soil and then putting that onto the soil as a top dress or that maybe we'll then cover with a mulch.
Are you talking about specifically adding those types of nutrition?
And if so what varieties of that nutrition do you think work well in winter?
The ones that you mentioned feel more like they lean towards mineral amendments which you know do eventually end up interacting with biology.
I mean most everything does but that's where I would again kind of take this approach to your soil health.
Not strictly from this dogmatic biology is the only thing that matters mode but more from an interdisciplinary approach.
And really doing those soil chemistry reports, saturated paste tests and maybe even considering some of the leaf tissue analysis that you might have done during the growing season.
And those are the things that are going to inform your mineral amendments that you might want to make.
And I do think this is a good time to be making those mineral amendments going into the winter.
And all this is an experiment too right?
You'll find that maybe you amended the soil going into your dormant period and then I would recommend testing it again once it comes planting time.
And just see like did it move the needle?
And in some areas maybe it did and some areas it didn't.
And record that stuff you know really be diligent about what's functioning and what's not.
And getting curious about why that might be.
So I hope that kind of answers part of your question.
It does I actually think that I just learned something because the very nature of my question I think is wrong.
So I asked that question with the assumption or belief that I like this term mineral amendments.
That these types of mineral amendments that are the same ones that we use when we're responding to a soil test and we need to round out our soil.
I was under the impression that the microbe life also ate these mineral amendments.
And so in my head I was going to feed my microbe life both by adding compost tea which we'll talk more about in a minute.
But also with these other mineral amendments.
But I guess it's probably true that microbe life may not even eat minerals.
I could be really wrong on this but I'm always learning and embarrassing myself publicly on the show anyway.
So does the life, the living parts of the rhizosphere, do they eat that stuff or not?
Yeah and to be clear I'm always learning too.
So you know just keep that in mind.
But my expectation is that those mineral amendments are really useful during the growing season.
When we recognize that there's a mineral deficiency.
Because the plant is in relationship with the microbes there's communication happening.
And incentives being offered to those microbes to provide the particular minerals that that plant is deficient in.
And so it's pulling it is providing that from the minerals that we're adding.
But maybe that dynamic isn't so relevant come winter time because you don't have that same crop in you know as part of that ecosystem.
This is a breakthrough moment for me.
I get this.
So the mineral amendments are not really for feeding the microbes.
The mineral amendments are what the plant wants.
And the microbes will bring them to the plant in exchange for exudates and other types of food from the plant.
But during the winter when the plant isn't there we don't really need the mineral amendments.
Because there's no bartering going on between the microbe life and the plant.
And so we're just trying to replace what the microbe life normally gets from the plant.
Right.
And I would say more we're not necessarily trying to replicate exudates in any way.
We're trying to provide foods that we know microorganisms feed on when there are no living plant roots.
And that's in general organic matter.
So like your humic acids, fulvic acids.
When you're brewing a tea maybe you consider fish hydrolysate.
And you want to do these things mindfully.
So I'm not going to get into any specific ratios or anything here.
But just you know kind of stay high level in terms of how to think through it.
But when you're brewing a tea you want to consider what is living in your soil.
And you can do this through a microscopy assessment.
That's the most surefire way to know what's living in there and what's not.
But you can also kind of do this through maybe other indirect observations.
So for instance if your mulch isn't really breaking down.
Like you've had mulch on your pots all through the summertime.
And it still looks pretty good at the end of that season.
And it's not being broken down.
Odds are you could benefit from more fungal activity.
So maybe when you go to brew that compost tea you're adding more fungal foods rather than bacterial foods.
So bacterial foods are simple sugars.
Things like molasses and honey where the fungal foods are going to be more complex sugars.
All right.
So let's talk more about the compost tea as the nutrition for the rhizosphere.
And less of it as using mineral amendments.
So if we're going to be putting the compost tea into the soil at the beginning, let's call it late fall,
is the idea that we're essentially trying to add microbe life to the soil via the compost tea
that then the larger microbe life that's in the container will then be eating.
So essentially we're pouring compost tea filled with smaller life that the predators that would be normally getting its food from the plant will then be eating all the life forms that are in the compost tea.
Is that what we're doing?
We're trying to sustain this predator-prey relationship throughout the winter?
Yeah.
That's a good way to look at it.
It's like you're providing prey organisms to nematodes and protozoa, the predators in the soil.
And you're also providing that packed lunch.
So the foods that you're adding to your compost tea are going to end up in the soil once you apply it.
And not just feeding the organisms that were in the tea brewer, but now they're available to the organisms that are existing in the container.
And at this time of year, I know we're both fans of brewed tea and also extracts, but this time of year we actually want to do a brewed tea because we want to increase the density of the microbe life.
Because we want to offer lots of options of varieties of microbe life that's going to be in the compost tea.
But we also want it to be very dense because we want it to last throughout the winter, right?
Yes.
I think teas are the way to go in the winter.
And look, it's not that you're doing anything wrong if you do an extract.
So the extract just doesn't have the added benefit of the increase in microbial activity, nor does it have the microbial foods, both of which can be of benefit going into this more dormant period.
So obviously if we've got a microscope or if we have the access to someone like you who does microscopy for other folks for a living,
that is one great way to know how we want to build our fall brewed compost.
Because you can literally look and see who's in the soil and see who's there that you want to feed and then who you might want to add to the soil to round out the predator-prey relationship.
But honestly, most folks who don't have a cannabis growing business who are just home growers, they're probably not going to do that.
And so can you give some advice or some mental structure to what the rest of us should do?
What would you recommend to have in our brewed tea for fall when we don't exactly know what's in our soil?
But we want to give it kind of a general buffet so that we can do the best we can without exact knowledge.
Yeah, I think the biggest thing to be aware of is that what we don't want to do is be brewing a bunch of bacteria and putting that on our soils.
And I say that because a really common characteristic of a disturbed soil ecosystem is that it's very bacteria dominant.
And when it comes to cannabis, we want a little more balance between our bacteria and fungi ratio instead of it being entirely bacteria dominant.
So in general, fungi is more sensitive to mechanical disturbance, certainly.
So anytime we dump our containers or turn them in any kind of way or they're exposed for long periods of time, we'll expect to lose some kind of fungal biomass, but not...
But we'll actually see an increase in bacterial biomass.
And the reason for that is that the bacteria start feeding on the fungi that are dying off and they kind of have a little party all to themselves to increase their numbers.
And so that's one balance that we want to be really careful about when we're making our own amendments and we don't have the tools to really look at a drop of that tea under the microscope and see whether or not we've just got a bunch of bacteria and no predators.
That would be the worst case scenario.
Or if we're brewing something that's a little more balanced.
So one thing that I'd encourage people to do is create what I would call a protozoan infusion.
This is a method that I've learned from the Soil Food Web by Dr. Elaine Ingham.
And you take healthy leaves and different kind of vegetation and put them down in a bucket with kind of something to weight them on top, like a rock.
And you can add just the tiniest bit, like a drop of honey, and that's actually going to encourage some bacterial growth.
But what occurs in tandem with that is the predators will respond to that increase in the bacterial population.
And so if I was doing this without a microscope, I would go online and do some research and see if you can find the best time to use that kind of brew.
Because there's going to be a peak period after you've encouraged the bacterial growth that the protozoa will have had a chance to respond to that.
And then you can use that as a useful way to introduce predators into your ecosystem.
That's one thing that comes to mind.
A couple others are to just focus more heavily on your fungal foods and go really light, little to no bacterial foods as you're preparing your compost teas.
So again, you can find some guidance online.
But in general, humic and fulvic acids are really useful for feeding fungi as are fish hydrolysate.
And there's some others online that I've yet to try, but I'm sure are just as viable.
I really like this protozoa incubation technique that you just described.
I've not come across that.
And I like the idea that I don't have to just make food available and hope for the best, but that I can actually incubate protozoa and make more of them and then pour them into the container.
This sounds like something that I would want to do anytime.
I'd want to do it in the spring.
I'd want to do it before flower when the plants are working the hardest.
And then again, at fall to keep every...
It seems like it's a good thing for all through the season.
Yeah, certainly.
And I think anytime that you really need a nutrient boost, that's when I'd focus the most on your predators because that's who's doing that job for you.
By feeding on the bacteria, they're cycling nutrients to your plant.
So I think the times and the growth cycle that you pointed out are dead on.
Interesting.
Okay.
So another thing that you mentioned when we started talking about best amendments for pre-winter, you were talking about inoculants.
So would you consider this an inoculant or how are you using that word?
What do you think of as an inoculant?
Because in my head, this may be inoculating my soil with protozoa, but I may not be using that word in the proper scientific way.
Yes.
I think in the case of the protozoa infusion, that's certainly an inoculation technique.
You're trying to introduce a specific organism or group of organisms into the soil.
That's how I would define inoculation.
And when I mentioned earlier that I wouldn't be so focused on that, again, it's not that inoculation isn't happening with your compost tea.
It's more that your focus and intention and, again, relationship with what you're doing is thinking more critically about the foods you're putting into that tea rather than what you're necessarily growing and growing in population in that tea.
So in the springtime, I'd be much more focused on looking at the samples from my compost tea and making sure I know how much fungi is in there.
And how much protozoa and etc. are in there.
Because that would matter more to me come springtime due to all the nutrient cycling that I'm going to rely on for my plant growth.
But in the wintertime, I'm more concerned about feeding the microorganisms below ground and less concerned about what they're going to do for my plant because my plant's no longer there.
Right on.
Great.
Alright, so we've talked about the mineral type amendments.
We've talked about adding complex brewed compost teas so that there's an array, a buffet of foods for our lifeforms in the soil since they're not going to be getting it from the plant.
And then this delightful protozoa infusion, which I want to make one immediately.
Do it.
So the last category that I want to talk about are what kind of a role at this point would you think that natural farming fermentations, like you know, everybody's talking about Korean natural farming and fermented plant juices, things like this that we are making, which are in a way, kind of like incubated nutrition.
And in some of them, even incubated hormones, if we're going to be using fresh grown tips that we harvested in the spring or something.
Part of me thinks, oh, I should add some of that stuff in the fall to keep some of that zesty life force in the soil.
But some of it is also me thinking that's adding the wrong kind of encouragement at the wrong time of the season.
That's more of a spring thing.
And I might not want to be using those types of ferments as a going into fall root drench or something like that at this time of year.
So is there any role for that kind of a incubated fermentation?
I think you're on the right track with that.
I wouldn't, again, I don't think that there's anything that would go wrong necessarily by adding those fermented plant, is it fermented plant juice that they call that?
Yeah.
Yeah.
And just to be clear, I'm not fully up to speed on K&F methodologies.
I'm fascinated by them.
And I think there's a lot of things in common in terms of what we're interested in doing from a biological perspective, whether you come from the K&F side, the soil food web side, or there's any number.
Even if you're really focused on mycorrhizae, we're all kind of generally interested in similar things.
And so I think with what I know about the fermented plant juice approach being more focused on those plant boosting signals, that would make the most sense to me in the context of the growth cycle when you need that kind of activity.
So again, it's not that you'd be doing much harm.
It's more like, are you spending your time and energy producing a thing that's going to actually help the soil at this current state that it's in?
And I don't know that that would be the best use of your time is focusing on those types of amendments.
Right on.
That well said.
And that also discourages me because I have been hanging out with other folks and we've been talking about it and it's not uncommon for me to hear people say, well, I had some extra FPJ in the fall and so I just put it on the pots.
And that might actually be better to waste it or hold it for the spring instead of throwing it on the pots and kind of confusing the system at that point.
Yeah, because it could, I don't know, I imagine that it could confuse the system if the microorganisms are receiving these chemical signals that were derived from a plant that was actively growing, but they're not actually supporting an actively growing plant, then it might kind of be unnecessary.
And it's hard to know what's really going on without digging into some academic research if it's even been done on this kind of stuff.
But I think if you can preserve that amendment and save it for spring, that would be a much better use of that amendment.
This is totally conjecture, but it could totally be the case that the microbe life becomes aware of those chemical signals and then they think that, oh, there must be a plant around.
Sure.
And so then they start looking for exudates.
And when we don't want them looking for exudates, we want them focusing on eating other predator-prey relationship life forms.
It's like when you go past somewhere and you smell somebody's barbecue, but it's not your barbecue, so you're not getting barbecue.
And now you're just hungry and annoyed.
Right.
And now you have to go out of your way to go find barbecue.
Yeah.
All right.
So let's move on to top dress mulches.
So there are different mulches with different goals.
To my best understanding, the two big reasons we use them are, number one, to create some kind of warmth at the top of the container or on our field over the winter.
And then also that as it breaks down, it is biologically active and kind of like a slow drip of interesting nutrition into the soil.
Would you agree with both of those?
And would you add anything to that list?
I think I would use the word insulation.
Like, it's really creating a barrier between the environment, like the ambient temperatures and the soil atmosphere, the root zone.
And then, yeah, it's creating biologically active.
I feel like we might get into it, but to answer your question directly, I wouldn't add anything to that list at this time.
We're going to talk about cover crops when we segue to the next topic.
So this time I'm talking more about, I guess I'll say, not actively living plants.
And so what are some of your favorite overwinter mulches?
One word, and that's aged.
I just want aged mulch.
And if I can find mulch that is from my region as locally as possible, that's ideal because in theory, those feedstocks...
Indigenous microorganisms.
Yeah, indigenous microorganisms.
Thank you.
Yeah, they'll have the organisms that can survive your local environment, just colonized on their surfaces.
And I say aged because the younger the mulch, the more resistant it actually is to microbial activity, which is not what we want.
So like in the landscaping industry, it's really common to use very young mulch, to use cedar mulches or other mulches that have a lot of secondary metabolites that deter breakdown.
And that's for aesthetic reasons.
But of course, here in cannabis, we want to actually be feeding the soil with our mulch.
So the more aged, generally, the better.
I'd say that at minimum, you'd want that mulch to have been kind of sitting somewhere as wood chips for a minimum a year, ideally longer.
All right.
So I like that you kind of just systemically over the top said, whatever your mulch is, we want it to be old.
Which I like because we all have access to different things depending on our bioregion, right?
And so you want to use wood chips?
Fine.
We want them to be old, though.
You want to use forest duff?
Fine.
We want it to be aged forest duff.
You want to use old grass clippings?
Fine.
But we want them to be old.
So the idea is whatever that you've got is usable.
Just make sure that it's matured enough so that it breaks down properly.
Yeah.
And I think in the case of things that might break down faster than wood derived or lignin-based
materials, so as you mentioned, the grass clippings, you wouldn't want those to be aged a year at all.
I think you could, with something like grasses or any kind of like vegetative biomass that you
chop down and kind of, I've seen people do this with like flail mowers, the chop and drop method.
I think that's viable to just set it and leave it.
It's better than removing a lot of that material if it's already in place.
Like if it's in situ and you are chopping and dropping, I think that's totally appropriate
rather than the disturbance that would be caused if you were to remove that material and try to
age it somewhere else.
Now you might decide to actually compost that material and that's a whole other thing.
But as far as a mulch purpose goes, I think a chop and drop method is just as well.
When I have heard people talk about them using
mulch to keep their containers warm over the winter, it's funny.
You mentioned earlier that it's used as an insulator.
I'm like, oh, that makes sense too.
But I always thought that the reason we were using it to air quotes,
keep our pots warm, is because the mulch as it rots, it's warm, right?
You know, like a warm compost pile.
I actually thought that it was that as it broke down, it was creating a warmth,
like a heat source at the top of the pot.
Now I'm understanding that it's really more about being a band-aid, if you will,
on the wound where you removed the plant and you're kind of sealing it up.
At what point is it too much of a good thing?
Because in the first set you were talking about, we don't want to over seal the tops of our pots,
and so we want it to be able to engage with the atmosphere and the rain and the air to some degree.
But we also want there to be a nice thick layer.
So will you speak to, I guess, the thickness of the layer and what kind of attributes
we want our mulch to have so that things like water and air can go through it?
Talk to us about what the attributes of a good mulch are so that when we look at what
we have available to us where we live, we can judge our mulches.
Okay, great.
So the first thing that comes to mind is the size of that material.
So if it's too large, it doesn't provide as much protection.
You might have large gaps, for instance.
I'm thinking of maybe something that's really thick straw, but it's not very finely chopped.
You'd have to put a little bit more of that material layered in order to really effectively
mulch a space.
And then there's also the fact that you want this breaking down.
So the thicker that material is, if it's really chunky wood chips, for example,
even if they've been aged, that might not be optimal.
You might want them to be...
I'm just kind of eyeballing things around the room right now, but maybe two inches long
by half an inch wide would be like the North Star and give or take an inch on either side.
But the point is you don't want bark, essentially.
Like four inches long by three inches wide would probably be getting too large for the
mulch that we're interested in here.
Also avoiding hydrophobic conditions.
So this still applies even when you're mulching.
So it's kind of ironic because you mulch a soil surface to try to avoid evaporation loss as well.
Maybe that's one that we can add to the reasons for mulching is to avoid evaporation loss from
the soil surface among the other two, which was insulation and keeping things biologically
active.
But the mulch layer itself can actually go hydrophobic if you really neglect it.
So making sure that it is getting some amount of moisture.
So if there aren't any rains or any precipitation, that they're actually getting watered in some way
because mulch layers really can compact similar to soil and provide a hydrophobic surface,
which can become problematic.
And then let's see, other features and mulch.
Those are the two that are coming to mind, Shingo.
So I'll kind of turn it over to you and see if you have any questions about that.
I do.
I'm getting this picture, hearing you describe how we don't want it too chunky, but we don't
want it too fine.
It kind of reminds me of that old example where the college professor holds up a jar
with marbles and says, is this full?
And everybody goes, yeah, it's full.
And then he adds something smaller than marbles and it fits in between.
He goes, is it full now?
And they're all like, yeah.
And then he adds water and you're like, oh.
So I'm kind of thinking that a blended mulch is probably going to be our best practice,
where perhaps you have some semi-chunky things that are aged wood chips and then some
smaller things that maybe is forest duff and leaf litter and then maybe something else
like a powdered biomass.
And so that when you put it all together in a ratio that looks good to you, you have some
of each.
You can kind of blend those in a way where there is enough room for airflow and for water
to get in.
And it's not a sealed thing.
But it's by blending two or three mulch things together that you actually come up with the
optimum mulch for where you live.
I like that.
I like that because it harkens back to variability, supporting biodiversity.
So I think that's definitely, again, I think of these things as either good, better, best
or having a North Star and just aiming for that.
Don't beat yourself up if you can't get your hands on four different feedstocks for your
magical mulch concoction.
But the more variability, the better in general.
And that does apply to the size and the source of the mulch.
All right.
So before we go on to cover crop, let's talk about what I did this year.
Get a little free consulting out of you.
So I did something.
I thought about it a little, but I didn't think of it a lot.
And I probably should have waited until after we recorded this episode.
But I had access to a whole lot of CBD hemp biomass this year where they just take the
whole plant and they essentially woodchip the whole thing together.
I don't know why they did this exactly, but they had it and they offered it to me for
free.
And I said, great, so I'll take it and I'll figure out some kind of fertilizer for it
or something.
But then I noticed that I didn't have anything set aside to mulch the top of my pots going
into fall.
And so I put about an inch layer of this pretty finely powdered, essentially chewed up cannabis
hemp plants.
And I just put like an inch layer on there because my thoughts were it would insulate
it.
It would let the water through.
If there's any snow that we get this year, it'll protect the soil from that cold shock.
And then as it rotted, oh, and this was age.
This material was probably about three years old.
And so as it breaks down, since I already know it's a hemp plant, it's probably going
to be packed with the nutrition that my plants want next year.
And so great, except for the fact that it wasn't from my island and so the IMOs won't
be accurate.
I thought that it was going to be pretty good.
But now I'm starting to think that because it was I put an inch of fine granular powder
on top that it might actually get wet and kind of like push together and actually create
an oxygen seal.
And I might actually want to like remove that.
What are your thoughts?
Well, there's so much there.
Okay.
I'm like writing down notes as you're talking about that.
So the first thing that comes to mind, and I just want to mention it in case it applies
to anyone listening, is that this material, it sounds, but until you said that it had
been aged, my original concern was that it would still have a lot of nitrogen in it.
And that's just of concern because it would start actively decomposing or composting really
on top of the soil and generating heat.
So when you were talking about earlier, your perception of mulch actually creating heat,
the only time that I would expect to see that happening is if the material that you're
mulching with has a high nitrogen content and effectively what's happening is it's being
broken down by a lot of bacteria.
And so you're having a bacterial bloom and that's what's generating the heat.
And going back to what we talked about earlier, that's not necessarily in the best interest
of our plants.
Right.
And in fact, in a really worst case scenario, if you use a high nitrogen mulch product too
thick, you could actually create a little anaerobic environment and have, again, very
worst case scenario, you could have like a combustion issue crop up because what happens
in an anaerobic environment is a lot of those microbes are generating alcohols and compounds
that will, once oxygen does get back into that system can become flammable at certain
temperatures.
So again, just like kind of using a North Star and a South Star, if you will, that would
be like just a word of caution.
I wouldn't use high nitrogen materials as a mulch with the exception of that chop and
drop method.
Now, when I say chop and drop, I'm thinking of it in terms of green vegetative biomass
that you're dropping on top of a mulched, an already wood chipped type of mulch.
So it's kind of a layered effect.
So you have a carbon, it's not in direct contact with the soil.
And I think that I just want to clarify that that would probably be not the best case of
a mulch situation if you had like a high nitrogen vegetative plant decomposing directly
on top of the soil.
Got it.
And that harkens back to the one guide rule you said, which was aged, you know?
Yes.
Yeah.
Five follow.
Yeah.
And so, yeah, there's some instances where maybe you can get away with it.
Yeah.
Not being aged, but just be mindful that it's not actively composting on top of your soil.
And so in this case, you've dealt with all, in theory, you know, I don't know what happened
during those three years, but you've dealt with a lot of the nitrogen in that case.
And I imagine any kind of resins or things that would create a hydrophobic, you know,
seal from a chemical perspective.
But now the concern is the fineness of this mulch.
And just like in clay soils that become compacted, it's all those platelets that line up really
snugly together and create this seal in the soil and create compaction layers.
And so that might be happening with a really finely chopped source of mulch.
And in that case, I think if you've put, you said you put it on about one inch.
Yeah.
I think you could maybe gently mix in a chunkier mulch source instead of, I mean, and, you know,
you're there with all the context in person.
You know how bad it is or isn't, but if it's able to kind of be moved around and
judged a bit, if you will, then I would just add in some chunkier mulch and maybe something
a little more carbon rich, but just as aged and just to add some of that variability.
Right on.
Good.
Thank you for that.
As far as how things age, do things have to be interacting with the environment to age,
or does it simply need time to go by?
So the contrast I'm making is somebody who's got a pile of wood chips in the corner of their yard,
and they're getting rained on and warmed up by the sun and they are aging and breaking down versus,
for example, this biomass that I was referring to that it had just been sitting in plastic bins
in a shipping container at this hemp farm for three years, and they're like,
we need space, will you just take this stuff and get rid of it?
And so I did.
Can something, air quotes, age in a plastic bin, not exposed to the elements?
Time is passing, but biology may not be happening.
This would be a matter of moisture mostly, and then also when was that material harvested
before being mulch?
So I'll kind of walk you through my thought process on that.
The first thing is whenever it's harvested, if it's in a green vegetative state, as opposed to
in field ag, you have a lot of crops that send all their sugars down out through the roots,
and then the above ground parts of the plants become this brown, dormant state.
It's no longer photosynthesizing, it's really no longer living above ground.
So that is a carbon-rich source.
And if you were to harvest that material, I mean, I assume this would happen with a cannabis plant,
right?
You could just leave it, and I don't think people really often do this, but if you left it in the
ground or left it in your container and let it die back, and then you come and chop it and mulch it,
that is going to be more carbon-rich and far less of concern from the nitrogen perspective
that we were talking about.
But if you harvested it when it was green and then chopped it up, you'd really have to dry
that material.
This is where moisture comes in.
You'd have to dry it up.
This is where moisture comes in.
You'd have to dry it before storing it in plastic bins so that...
Because if you were to just chop it when it's green and then mulch it while it's green and
then put it in a plastic bin, even if it had a lid on or lid off of it, whether it had a lid on or
off, it would probably be too moist in that volume and start getting funky, and you'd start losing
the nitrogen in that material because it's actively breaking down.
It'd probably be doing it in a pretty stinky way, which is often anaerobic.
You'd really want to dry that material on a tarp or something, and then you can put it in your
bins and save it.
But it's no longer aging in terms of decomposing anymore, and sometimes that's desired.
I do this whenever I want to save a high nitrogen material for a future compost pile
that I'm not yet ready to build, but I want to make sure that it actually maintains its
high nitrogen value.
And the only way to do that is to dry that material before storing it.
And if you don't, you just lose all that nitrogen, and then it would become anaerobic
and problematic in that way.
So I know that was a lot of information, so I'm going to check in at this point.
Right on.
This is really interesting.
I've never actually thought about mulches as much as we have really dug into them today.
And I just looked at our timer.
We've done almost an hour second set, essentially, on mulches.
Oh my gosh.
Yeah.
And so I'm glad that the goal of this was really to get people to understand how to think about
mulches so that people can use whatever they have near them, right?
Because we certainly don't want people to purchase stuff and ship in their mulch.
There's mulch all around us, unless you're living in a city, and then maybe still then.
But I think that we have effectively gone through mulches so people can think about
what do they want in it, how am I going to age it, how am I going to apply it.
And so this kind of system of thinking through it can be applied to wherever folks are.
So I think that even though it went longer than I thought we were going to,
we definitely hit the mark.
So that's a win.
Okay, good.
All right.
So what I think I'm going to do, though, let's move talking about cover crop to the third set
and wrap up this set right now and go to commercial, and then we'll pick up with cover crop
when we come back.
So you are listening to Shaping Fire, and my guest today is soil biologist Andy Marsh.
For years, organic cultivators have been looking for a peat moss replacement.
Peat moss has long been the go-to soil amendment for water retention and container growing,
but organic growers are recognizing now that peat moss is an unsustainable resource,
and the mining of peat bogs destroys wetland habitats and releases sequestered carbon.
But peat moss works so well that many have continued to use it.
Now there is finally a revolutionary replacement for peat moss that provides better benefits
while being a sustainable choice.
Peat moss sounds and acts like peat moss, but instead of being mined from fragile ecosystems,
is actually made from upcycled organic paper and cardboard headed for landfills.
Peat moss is excellent at retaining water in your substrate and creating air pockets
in tiny living environments for microbes.
Peat moss instantly increases aeration, nutrient absorption, and water conservation too.
Carefully and locally sourced, peat moss is the result of decades-long research
into the use of recycled paper fibers.
Peat moss is lightweight and easy to use, and peat moss is inert so it won't change your pH.
Available in a range of preparations including a nutrient-enhanced blend
and an organic soil conditioner with no added nutrients.
Peat moss is also available as an animal bedding for horses, chickens, and small animals.
You can save 15% with the discount code SHAPINGFIRE, one word, no caps,
when shopping on peatmoss.com.
So go to peatmoss.com now to learn more.
That's P-I-T-T-M-O-S-S dot com.
Growing healthier, stronger, more sustainable plants.
Peat moss.
One of the reasons why no-till cannabis growing is so valued by farmers
is because the mycelium networks in the soil remain established from year to year.
And we know these fungal networks are essential because they are the nutrient superhighways
that extend far and wide in the substrate to feed your plants.
The trouble with growing in new living soils or blended cocoa substrates
is that it takes most of the plant's life just to create these mycelium highways.
Dinomycoendomycorrhizal fungi inoculant reduces that time and gets your plant
eating a wider array of nutrients faster.
And it's three times the concentration of the other popular brand in the US
at 900 propagules per gram of two fungal species selected specifically for cannabis cultivation.
Dinomyco is the result of 30 years of research and trials at the
Volcani Agriculture Research Institute in Israel.
It has also been vigorously trialed by cannabis and food growers across the US.
Dinomyco is now available at grow shops and on Amazon in the United States.
I love using Dinomyco to both speed up the growth of the mycelium networks in the soil,
but also as a biostimulant to make clone cuttings more virile.
You can see side-by-sides showing the comparative growth on their Instagram at Dinomyco.
If you demand reliable growing results and appreciate the importance of an active root
zone in creating a thriving plant, I encourage you to check out Dinomyco.com
and use the store locator to find out where you can get yours.
That's D-Y-N-O-M-Y-C-O dot com.
Shaping Fire listeners can get 10% off any size of Dinomyco on Amazon or Dinomyco.com
by using the discount code SHAPINGFIRE, one word, no caps.
Whether you are starting with new beds or pots, or if you want to add some zing to tired soil,
choose Dinomyco to maximize your plant's potential.
Dinomyco, endomycorrhizal, inoculant.
Online cannabis seed distributors often seem to be all the same,
but Multiverse Beans constantly works to provide you with cannabis seeds and a buying experience
that you won't find elsewhere. Multiverse Beans works directly with the breeders to secure as
many packs of your favorites as possible so that they have your favorite beans long after others
have sold out. Some shops simply buy breeder minimums, but I get messages all the time from
breeders saying some version of, Multiverse asked to buy my entire run. At MultiverseBeans.com,
you can find rare cannabis seeds from Night Owl Seeds, including the Dark Owl sublabel,
Mephisto Genetics, Square One Genetics, Robin Hood Seeds, and Ethos and so many others.
Multiverse also initiates projects with breeders to secure exclusive packs that you simply won't
find elsewhere. Multiverse founder Paul Lal sees himself not only as a curator of the best cannabis
seeds available, but also as a collaborator with breeders trying to bring novel crosses to the
market that his customers are asking for. Multiverse Beans also creates exclusive stickers
for their popular seed varieties that are available free only when you order those
seeds from Multiverse. Check out their stickers like the badass recent slap for Mothman by
Gnomed Automatics on Instagram at Multiverse Beans. And finally, the freebies. As you'd expect,
Paul sends quality freebies with every order, and when you spend at least $150, Multiverse allows
you to choose your freebies from their special selections. You can get a 10% discount off
regularly priced items when you use the discount code ShapingFire, all one word, at checkout.
Sign up for their mailing list to be eligible for their monthly seed giveaway worth $250.
So go to multiversebeans.com now for a buying experience you won't get anywhere else.
Welcome back. You are listening to ShapingFire. I am your host, Shangelos,
and my guest today is soil biologist, Andy Marsh. So here we are with the big finish.
We're going to start off by talking about cover crops that we bumped from set two,
and then we're going to talk about good strategies for waking up your pots in the spring
so that you can preserve all your gains from the prior year. So Andy, when it comes to cover crops,
it seems that we kind of need to make a choice about whether or not we want to do a mulch
or a cover crop because the mulch would then be on top of the cover crop. And if we have the mulch
on top, we're not really going to, I don't think, going to plant the cover crop into the mulch. So
it really is a, you got to pick one, right? I think it kind of depends. It kind of depends
on your cover crop and how it, like it's morphology because something really delicate
and low growing, I agree with you. You probably wouldn't want to double up on those two or
really I'd just encourage like a light mulching in that case. But I think you can, I think mulching
in general, even if you're light handed about it is always a good practice and that you can,
you can do so effectively with your cover crop. So, so if you're doing something that's really,
really short, you'd have to use a lighter hand. But if you did something that was like a bigger
plant, say for example, like a, while it's not my favorite, a lot of people really like red clover,
you could potentially start your red clover. And once it has grown above the tops of your containers,
then go and add a mulch beneath the red clover. And so in that way you're having both.
Yeah, that way you're having both. And in some cases, depending on your mulch,
you could get away with mulching lightly before that cover crop germinates, as long as it's light
enough and they're, they're able to get the microclimate they need to germinate. You might
find that you can get away with that. So the way that, the way that I think about cover crops is
that it's a really intimate exercise with your cultivation. It's a, it's a very specific practice
for you within the context of your particular cultivation practice. Okay. So it, it's an
exercise in understanding, like critically thinking and then researching plants that
might make sense for your specific context. I like that idea that it's, that it's something
intimate and it's very much to your, your, your kind of growing style and your growing preferences.
For example, one of the reasons that I don't personally like red clover is because it grows
up into the lower branches of my cannabis plants. And so, so I personally don't use it, but, but
people who aren't growing in, you know, smallish containers like I am, where I've traditionally
been in, in seven gallon containers, but moved up to 20 versus some of the regenerative farms
in California that are using 300 gallon grow bags. Well, they've got, they've got lots of
room for red clover in a big bag that size. Whereas for me, I need more of a petite
cover crop because there's, there's just not a lot of surface area in a, in a seven to 20 gallon bag.
Exactly. Yeah, I agree with you.
So let's, let's talk about the, the things that we're hoping the cover crop
is going to do for us. So the one that you, the one that you mentioned earlier in the set is that
it helps keep the rhizosphere alive because it is a plant and it is feeding the microbes
through its root structure. So I would put that probably at the top of the list of,
of the good thing we're wanting for it to do. The second, a second thing is something we talk
about on the show a lot, which is it helps the, the top of the soil from going hydrophobic
because each one of those little stems that are going into the soil are providing a way for
water to get into the soil and creates these like little tunnels for them to get down
into the rhizosphere. And then the third one that we talk a lot about the show is that if,
if you, if it happens to be a cover crop with a canopy, there's a, there's a space between the
top of the soil and the, and the canopy of the cover crop, which creates its own kind of bio
region and can trap moisture and be a home for you know, insects and others that live on top of
the soil so they, you know, you can have a more active food web over the winter. So those are the
three things that I most think about, but I bet you've got some more. So what, what are other
good reasons to have a cover crop? Yeah, I love that last one. I think of it as like a habitat,
just like you described. I would add that the cover crop can also provide additional nutrients
into the rhizosphere and not just through the exudates that are feeding the microbes,
but in other ways. So like your legumes, for example, anything that's able to fix nitrogen
is a really strong example of this, but there's other plants that will be able to bring about
more calcium or maybe, maybe taking up something that you're, you actually have too,
too much nutrient and you actually want to remove that excess through a cover crop that would kind
of fall under phytoremediation and cover crops can be really useful for that. So that would be the
only thing that I'd add to your list there. You had a great list. Would you just explain for folks
who are like, you know, they're listening to this episode because this is all new to them.
Would you just explain nitrogen fixing, what that goal is? Sure. Oh gosh, I love this topic so much.
So you're going to have to keep me, keep me concise. But in general, nitrogen fixing plants
are a miracle to us because nitrogen, the only way to get nitrogen into, even just into biology
in general, including you and me. So first of all, nitrogen is the backbone of amino acids and
proteins. We all, every living thing requires nitrogen. And the only way that nitrogen gets
into life forms is from, from the atmospheric nitrogen going through some kind of process in
the soil and getting into our food web. Okay. So nitrogen, it has a triple bond. It's an N2
molecule atmospheric nitrogen is. So that means one nitrogen atom is connected to another through
a triple bond. And it's really, really difficult to separate the two to then allow it to become
something like a nitrate and be taken up into plants. And so what's really cool is that these
nitrogen fixing plants like legumes as well as some free living organisms that do nitrogen fixing
outside of plants entirely is that they've found a way to break that bond and start this, the
cycling of nitrogen into the system. And so by using these plants, it's essentially capturing
wild nitrogen and, and packing it into your soil so that your plants can use it next summer.
Yes, exactly. Fabulous. So, all right. So, so that's probably enough on cover crops there.
So let's, let's move on to what was going to be the start of set three before we, we bummed
cover crops over, which was, I was going to start with this very dramatic question. Let's talk about
worst case scenarios that, that we want to avoid with our containers. And I could really only think
of two, which would be number one, your container freezing solid, because I don't know this for sure,
but I would think that, you know, unlike the ground, which will probably not freeze solid
because of the ambient warmth that, that the earth has, a container could actually freeze solid
to the point where I'm guessing it could, it could wipe out huge swaths of, of the microbes.
Is that true? Yeah, definitely. I mean, the microbes have water in them and under
freezing conditions, they would, you know, those water molecules would freeze and effectively kill
them. So that, that would be bad news to have, to have all the water in your pot essentially freeze.
Mm-hmm. And then the second thing I considered was that, you kind of want to be aware of the
containers to make sure nothing gets deposited in the, on the top of the container that might cause
the biology to be thrown out of balance. And I'm not like entirely certain what that would be. Like
I was, I was trying to think of like, you know, you know, passing animals, feces, like, you know,
a dog or something like that. But, you know, I would, I would tend to think that the pot would
be able to, to deal with that very likely. But then I was thinking about like, you know,
one of the farmhands laying there, you know, a can of soda that's partially drank and then it
gets knocked over by the wind. And now suddenly you've got half of a diet Coke in your soil.
And so, so you probably just want to like, like just be aware and when, you know,
occasionally walk your field and just make sure that, that, you know, chaos has not arrived on the
top of your containers. Yeah. I, when you mentioned that just now I was thinking of somebody
tossing out the last little bit of coffee onto their plants thinking like, oh, here's some
nitrogen. And it's like, okay, that's, that might be fine here and there in really small quantities.
But if you, if it's always the same plant that's closest to wherever you're standing in the field
at the time that you finish your coffee, like it can become a problem. So just, you know, being
mindful. Yeah. What do you think about the idea of homegrowers? Cause like, this is, this isn't
something that scales well probably. But I've got a neighbor who actually has got a hole dug in their,
in their yard and they do five twenties every year. And they, they put their 20 gallon pots,
like they bury them. And so in their, in their thought, the geothermal temperature will keep
the rhizosphere in the pot like safe. And it also allows the migration into the pot
of other diverse life forms that are already in the soil because the, the hoil, the hole, the hole
that he dug is deep enough that he's got about, I don't know, maybe eight or 10 inches of soil
that he puts on top of them. And so by his theory, it's actually, he says, he says it's,
it's inviting all of these soil inhabitants from his yard to like, come on in, come on into the
container for the winter. There's all sorts of like interesting foods here that you don't normally
get. And so he attracts all these things. And then when he pulls them out in the spring,
um, they don't have to wake up there. They've kind of been awake all winter and they've got
more biodiversity. What do you think of that? That's cool. I like, I like the idea of that for
sure. I think it all, it all is sound to me and just hearing about it. And I think there's, yeah,
the, the only reason that that would work is because he's taken good care of his pots and
created a habitat for organisms to be interested in enough in, uh, joining, right.
Right. Right. The invitation is good.
Yes. Yes. I think that's really neat. And the fact that, um, it's buried and able to
you stay warm, a much warmer than if it were exposed above ground is, um, I mean,
it sounds labor intensive to dig such a large hole, but you know, if you have the means and,
um, I say go for it.
Yeah. He's, he, he's a retired person with a lot of time on his hands and he loves,
he loves to tinker and experiment. So I like going over there, all sorts of
odd, odd labor intensive things. So neighbor to have. Yeah, totally. Um, so earlier in the show,
we talked quite a bit about, um, how to devise a fall compost tea. Um,
once it gets really cold and things are, you know, things are frosting over and maybe we're
starting to get, you know, nights in the thirties and stuff. Um, I'm guessing we want to stop
adding compost teas because we don't want to be packing our containers with water once they start
getting cold because that extra water will expand and could actually cause damage to the pot.
So I'm thinking we, we want to do with, you know, the, the big compost tea before the frost and then
don't add any more water or is the position like actually making sure they get watered over the
winter is good because they're less likely to syst up. What are your thoughts on that?
I think you want to be mindful of moisture levels because if they get too low, you will have some
loss in your, your microbial populations. But, um, you know, I'm holding space for the idea of
it freezing through, which is hard for a Texan like me to really empathize with because I've,
I've never experienced it firsthand, but I, I'm sure that happens up North. Um, and it's probably
when you least expect it. So I I'd say trying to find some kind of middle ground. Um, and if that
means keeping things pretty moist on the front end, but as those temps get colder and colder,
and there's a greater risk of freezing, then yeah, that you back off and you make sure that,
um, priority number one is that you're not, uh, complicating any of your equipment, um,
by, by freezing and also not killing off any of the organisms that are freezing. It's kind of like,
are you going to lose them to freezing or are you going to lose them to them not getting enough
water? And it's your job to be in tune enough with when you choose to pull which lever.
And that's probably a big bio region question. As you pointed out in my head, um, you know,
pots never run out of water. Cause I live in the Pacific Northwest and my winter is all rain.
But if you happen to live in the part of the country where your winters are cold and dry,
well then, you know, you actually might have dehydration issues. So it's good to, it's good
to make sure that you are cultivating for where you live. Certainly. And you could just as another
option, you could consider, uh, removing the soil from your pots. I don't know if you tell me
if this is a feasible idea, but, um, having that in contact with soil, whether you're slightly
burying it or just kind of mounding it somewhere in a really thoughtful space, maybe behind a wind
break or an area that's like pretty well protected, but you'd, you'd be able to, um, again,
have migration occurring in that scenario and, uh, have a better chance of the, the microbes
surviving in, in some capacity and less concerns about freezing. The only downside to this is the
amount of disturbance. So then when you come in, in the spring, you're disturbing that soil
in order to, um, put the soil into the pots. Um, and, and that's not ideal, but it's also
again, comparing that reality to what happens when you leave that pot exposed all winter long.
And I'd say that that disturbance, um, might actually be the lesser of two evils there.
Yeah. That's interesting. When you, when you first suggested that my thought was,
oh my gosh, it's just going to wreck the mycelium networks. But if let's say you live
somewhere that gets really cold, like, um, like I imagine Montana to be okay. Like I've seen
enough movies where, you know, nature just seems to freeze solid. And, and so if you've got extreme
situations like that, a 10 gallon container on your deck, it's probably doesn't have a chance.
Right. And so, and so if you were to make a pile of all your 10 gallon containers of the,
just the soil, yeah, you'll beat up the mycelium networks, but at least they'll all,
they'll all essentially be huddled together for the cold season.
Yeah, I agree. It's, it's again, just kind of thinking critically about these things and
comparing one option to another and not getting too dogmatic about it. Just because you saw someone
on Tik TOK swearing by their method of overwintering their pots doesn't mean it's the best method for
you. Yeah. Right on. Um, all right. So, uh, let's go into this, uh, last area, which is, let's talk
about waking up the pots, uh, in the spring. So, um, let's assume that we, we did all of the things.
We did a, a late season fungally dominant, um, uh, compost tea. And then we also did a protozoa
infusion in the fall. And then we had a really nicely blended, uh, top mulch. And then we were
growing a cover crop that was helping keep the microbes fed over winter. And so now we find
ourselves in the spring and, um, uh, we want to transition our pot back to a position where it's
ready for us to bring in our clones, um, or our seed starts. And, and we want them to just like
immediately get into this wonderful relationship, uh, and reform a rhizosphere and take off. So
what hints would you give us to, uh, ease that transition for the microbes from where they're
getting their food and the plant to be, uh, warmly embraced by the soil? Yeah. So, so it's important
at this point that you're not providing too many synthetic nutrients. I mean, really we,
if we're thinking biologically, we don't really want to be using many synthetic nutrients at all,
because they can kill microbes, but especially during this early establishment phase, it can be
tempting. And so I just want to note that, um, when we, when we provide those nutrients directly
to the plant, it's disrupting that engagement between the microbes and the root exudates.
The plant is only going to generate those root exudates if it has needs that need to be met,
by the microbes. And so that's why I just want to caution against getting too tempted by providing
some kind of synthetic nutrient boost and instead focusing on, um, yeah, maximizing the inoculation.
And your job is to make introductions, you're bringing in the microbes, um, so that they can
start responding to those exudates. So similarly, you don't necessarily need to be all that focused
on providing a lot of microbial foods because we want them to be getting their foods now from the
plant and start creating that relationship. So would that make a suggestion that we,
we don't want to do a heavy spring compost tea? I think you, I think you can do, um,
you definitely want to do a compost tea, but this time be more focused on the inoculation.
And so this is where extracts might actually be, become, um, of greater interest to you,
um, doing more frequent extracts rather than big batches of like nutrient rich tea.
And I say this in terms of, you know, you can certainly do a tea, but don't go, don't go too
heavy handed on it because your goal is if you find yourself tempted to be adding tea, um,
super regularly in the spring, maybe start alternating with an extract. And again, an
extract is just the microbes and you're not adding foods. You're not having a brewing cycle.
Um, you're just less dense. Yeah. Um, uh, uh, Jeff Lohenfels, uh, says that early in the season,
you, you want your microbes to be, um, you don't want to make them lazy. You don't want to make
it too easy for them. You want them to get to work. And that sounds like what we're describing
here. Um, exactly. Yeah. And same with the plants. Yeah. We want them building, um, not,
not laying around because there's all this easy free food. Exactly. Yeah. That's, that's right on
right on. Um, is, is there anything that we need to do or is there anything that we can do that can
support them changing the food source, uh, from the compost teas to back to the, the, the roots
exudates and such, or, or does that just, they probably prefer the exudates. And so as soon as
we put a plant in there, um, it will, they, they naturally just switch on their own, you know,
cause we're just trying to decrease as much transition time as possible. Right. Right. And,
and there is a level of patience that's always required here because you're taking a very young
plant that's not yet pumping out lots and lots of exudates. And so, um, because of its limited
capacity to photosynthesize, it has a small surface area to do so. Um, so I think just tapering off
and knowing that like leading up to planting day, um, to go really light handed, like little to no
microbial foods are being added during that time. You did that work in the winter to get your
microbes through winter and have food, um, to, to sustain them. But now as you're transitioning
into planting, um, you're, you're going to, um, back off in terms of feeding the, the micro foods
again, so that, um, when that plant gets in there, they can start creating their relationship. And
once it gets to a certain stage, um, you, there shouldn't be a limiting factor anymore. So,
you know, you might in, in terms of using my microscope to look at these things, um, of what's
really going on in the root zone, you might see like a drop in your biomass during a phase where
you've put a young plant in, into the container, but it, it kind of turns a corner at some point,
uh, once it's really photosynthesizing and pumping out those sugars to feed the microbes.
It's funny because it's, um, it's fall and I am not thinking about, you know, growing right now,
I'm feeling tired from the summer and I'm glad I'm not like, you know, farming right now. However,
you know, you talking about these like healthy thriving pots and these young plants, I'm like,
Ooh, like start the season start. I love, I love thinking about it. And I'm like, Whoa,
whoa, whoa, whoa. We got, we got five months, man, like chill out. Like we've got a while,
but, um, you know, there is something inherently exciting about thinking ahead to the fresh season
every year. You'll, you'll look like you have imaginary plant friends if you're out there
tending to your pots with no plants in them. But I think that's just as well. Right on. Um, well,
Andy, thank you so much for being a guest on shaping fire. This is, um, I I've, I've always
been interested on things that I can do to get a, a jump start on the, on, you know, next year,
but I, I'm usually I'm thinking about, well, let's, let's make an FPJ, let's make a fertilizer.
Let's make sure that the compost is going. And, um, the idea that I can, um, pay attention
and use intention, uh, with the soil that is in my containers and the earth so that, um, I don't
have to put in as much work every spring to get the micro machine pumping along. Um, I'm glad to
have, you know, a better understanding of how to do that as well. Yeah. I think all of these
things to the, the cover crops, the mulching, the adding of the microbial foods and the inoculation,
the biology itself, they're all contributing to so many different areas that benefit us.
So it's not just about plant nutrients. It's also about that soil structure we talked about earlier.
And I, I think that's really undervalued or it kind of goes unrecognized a lot of times
come, come springtime, just how valuable that it can be, um, to have a pot that's been nurtured
and has a really healthy structure that's prepared to become home to that young plant.
Um, it's kind of like moving into a neighborhood that has a good vibe and lots of friendly
neighbors, as opposed to something that's, you know, a neighborhood that's been really neglected
and desolate. Wow. That's a great example. Excellent. Right on. Well, let's, let's,
let's all get to making good neighborhoods for our, uh, for our plants to move into in the spring. So
thank you so much, Andy. I really enjoyed our conversation. Me too. Thanks for having me.
If you want to find out more information about Andy Marsh, um, there are two great places to go.
First, you can go to her Instagram, which is at soil is sexy and her Instagram is a lot of fun.
Not only do you, will you learn lots of, um, you know, good best practices for taking care of your
soil. Um, but there's all sorts of interesting, um, uh, microscopy posts and, uh, great like
pictures of, of slides and such. And so if you are either interested in microscope science or,
um, actually don't know much about it, like me, uh, it's a great place to start where you can,
you can pick up interesting things without it. Um, you know, necessarily like you having to read a
whole book, you can get, get little bits here and there and it's, it's, it's fun to follow along.
Now, if you are more serious than that, um, you definitely want to check out Andy's sub stack,
which is, uh, rhizos.substack.com. So that's rhizos, R H I Z O S where you're gonna, um, uh,
find more of her, uh, uh, writings and scientific thought than the kind of, you know, Instagram,
which is a little bit, sometimes science light sub stack is, is, is where you're going to want
to go. Um, when you decide you want to, you want to read something serious, that's rhizos.substack.com.
You can find more episodes of the shaping fire podcast and subscribe to the show at
shapingfire.com and wherever you get your podcasts. If you enjoyed the show, we'd really appreciate it.
If you would leave a positive review of the podcast, wherever you download,
your view will help others find the show so they can enjoy it too. On the shaping fire website,
you can also subscribe to the newsletter for insights into the latest cannabis news,
exclusive videos and giveaways on the shaping fire website. You also find transcripts of today's
podcast as well. Be sure to follow on Instagram for all original content, not found on the podcast.
That's at shaping fire and at Django Lose on Instagram. Be sure to check out the shaping
fire YouTube channel for exclusive interviews, farm tours, and cannabis lectures. Does your
company want to reach our national audience of cannabis enthusiasts? Email hotspot at
shapingfire.com to find out how. Thanks for listening to shaping fire. I've been your host Django Lose.
