Up until last summer, I really didn't have much good to say about CBD extracted from
hemp. I'm not a fan of CBD isolate or spiking cannabis products with it. CBD just doesn't
work reliably for patients on its own. Each of the plant's cannabinoids, terpenoids,
flavonoids and lipids are vital components that humans require to achieve the healing
that comes with the entourage effect.
But last summer, something new occurred. It was the first season that plants were grown
at a commercial scale that were legally hemp, but they had all the medical marijuana genetics.
This is a monumental difference.
Up until last summer, good folks were taking industrial hemp fiber plants and extracting
CBD. The problem with CBD isolate though is that the science does not support its medical
efficacy and the only reason it exists is because of the artificial market for isolated
CBD created due to federal prohibition of the medicinal whole plant.
Actually whole plant medicine comes from whole medical cannabis plants, not from hemp
fiber plants. While the two may share a Latin name, they are wildly different plants due
to years of hybridization. The hemp plants just don't have the terpene profiles and
other attributes found in medical cannabis. But CBD from hemp fiber plants is federally
legal enough that it can be sold online. So people grow the fiber hemp plants, extract
the CBD and are selling it rapidly.
Last summer though, some farmers in the US approached CBD plant genetics from the opposite
direction and instead of growing fiber plants, they turned off the allele that makes THC
in medical cannabis plants and grew truly medical cannabis plants legally as hemp.
These plants that normally would have been highly regulated and sold in cannabis stores
were allowed to be grown in open fields unsecured because with the THC allele turned off, they
tested below .3% THC which makes them legally a hemp plant, even though these are really
medical cannabis plants.
The evolution of this hybrid plant moves us beyond the simple vocabulary of describing
a plant as hemp or medical cannabis. There are now medical cannabis plants that are regulated
as hemp without being the fiber producing sort.
While confusing for outsiders, this evolution will again remake the CBD market over the
next 5 years. And for diehard CBD enthusiasts like me, there's finally a scalable, low-cost
method of providing CBD to patients everywhere. The next major milestone will be the inclusion
of cultivars that have above .3% THC, but we're not quite there yet federally.
If you want to learn about cannabis health, business and technique efficiently and with
good cheer, I encourage you to subscribe to our newsletter. We'll send you new podcast
episodes as they come out, delivered right to your inbox, along with commentary on a
couple of the most important news items from the week and videos too. Don't rely on social
media to let you know when a new episode is published. Sign up for the updates and make
sure you don't miss an episode.
Also we're giving away very cool prizes to folks who are signed up to receive the newsletter.
There's nothing else you need to do to win except receive the newsletter. This month
I'm really stoked that we're giving away several newly released AirVape X vaporizers
from AirVapeUSA.com. Go to ShapingFire.com to sign up for the newsletter and be entered
into all future newsletter prize drawings.
You are listening to Shaping Fire and I'm your host, Shango Lose.
My guest today is Seth Crawford. Seth is a deinstitutionalized academic with a master's
in public policy and a PhD in sociology. His focus has been on the political economy of
cannabis. For years now he has been consulted by lawmakers and policy specialists for better
understanding of how the cannabis economy works. He's now co-founder of Oregon CBD,
a company researching, developing and wholesaling high CBD cannabis seeds. Today we're going
to talk about the dramatic evolution occurring in CBD genetics.
Hey, welcome to the show, Seth.
Pleasure to be here. Thanks for having me.
Thanks so much for coming back. So let's start at the very beginning. You and your brother
Eric saw this opportunity to produce CBD on the large scale because there were so many
patients that were yearning for it and yet to do it large scale, you had to figure out
a way to make it legal to grow in volume where you lived in Oregon. So what did you and Eric
see in this opportunity that decided to push you in this direction of producing CBD from
plants that are legally hemp?
We have always really been looking forward to the day of being able to grow enough plants
to do scientifically accurate selection. We were hobby breeders for a decade before we
got into this full scale. And there's some really neat things that you can do as a hobby
breeder and people are doing this all over the world and we love to see it. But there
are a lot of things that you just can't do with four plants or six plants that really
emerges when you start growing thousands at a time to do your selections. That was one
of the driving factors for us was just being able to breed better plants.
Yeah, that makes a lot of sense. When you can do a sift that's that huge, you're just
going to jump ahead of hobbyists like you were saying who are only going to do their
patient max of four or 15 or whatever it's going to be.
One of the things I want to really drill on in this part that's what sets you apart from
a lot of the other hemp from CBD producers. Because actually I do talk a lot of trash
about hemp derived CBD on this show. But the weird thing is I always have to make this
caveat except for the stuff that comes from Oregon CBD seeds, right? Because you guys
are going about this a different way than nearly everybody else in hemp.
If I understand it all correctly, so many of the hemp from CBD companies, they started
with the fibrous version of hemp and they are trying to breed in the medicinal qualities
of full cannabinoid content, medicinal terpenes, in order to be able to pull the entourage
effect out of a fiber plant. I have not seen a lot of success in that. However, you guys
came from the other direction. You guys actually started with a legit healing full spectrum
medical marijuana plant and you decided to turn off the THC allele. Which as far as I'm
understanding from outside of the CBD market, the CBD hemp market, that is a wholly new
approach. So break that out a little bit for us, would you?
Yeah. That's an accurate description of what's going on. Not only entourage effect for individuals
who would be consuming the final product, but the other thing that you end up missing
out from just a basic plant biology perspective, if you have no terpenes in your plant, you
generally have more pests, you have more disease, you have more problems. Cannabis in the long
term evolved many, many different terpene combinations that allow it to thrive in its
natural environment. As the hand of humans has started to select for those different
characteristics, we've obviously gravitated towards particular smells and particular effects
that go along with those terpenes, whether it's for THC in combination with THC or CBD
or, as we'll talk about pretty soon, CBG and other cannabinoids. So what we were really
trying to do was to just recreate that, like you said, an entourage effect, but that beautiful
palate that comes along with well-bred cannabis. In Oregon, we're lucky enough to be surrounded
by literally decades of incredible breeding that has been done by a number of different
individuals and put into the public well in terms of cannabis varieties that individuals
have access to. Once we had figured out how to essentially turn off the THC production,
it allowed us to then go back to those wells and find those really interesting terpene
combinations and breed them back in to create new lines. That was basically the essence
of our business to begin with.
So what can you tell us? I mean, I understand that there's a certain part of where your
genetics come from that is proprietary, but I'm sure that there are people who are listening
like me who would just love to hear what cultivar of medical cannabis you started with and what
you did to it to turn off this THC allele. I'm sure that that has raised flags for a
lot of GMO-minded people in the audience. So for those of us who really care, can you
break that out a little bit?
Yeah, there's really no secret. We didn't start with anything that was miraculous or
strange. We started just like most other, I would say, small-scale breeders getting
different varieties from Europe, mostly from Spain, and also natively sourced here in the
United States. Most of the varieties, you can see sort of the history of the emergence
of CBD. Many of the varieties were one-to-ones. So these are type two cannabis plants that
have relatively equal parts THC and CBD. That was the starting block that we began with.
And really what it comes down to with all real cannabis breeding, the answer to get
to your solutions generally starts with inbreeding. We just do a lot of line breeding, inbreeding
specific plants, selfing those. And when you self those plants, you start to lock in specific
characteristics. Say with a one-to-one plant, if you were to self that, you're going to
end up with 25% of the resulting progeny as high CBD plants. 25% of the resulting progeny
will be high THC, and the other 50%, roughly 50%, are still type twos. So the initial process
was not, at the time, it may have seemed fairly revolutionary, but in reality, it's really
not. And there are a number of other people who are doing that as well.
Some of the later advances that we were able to achieve, like the flowering type three
high CBD plants, and now type four CBG plants, that I think is definitely something that
did set us apart. And it was mostly driven by agricultural necessity. We could create
really good plants, identify them, clone them, and run those clones in fields, and you have
really good outcomes. But to grow at a truly industrial scale to make an affordable medicine
for people that's actually effective, you really can't just grow clones. And that's
when we started really working on producing viable F1 hybrid seeds using our very inbred
line and recombining those.
Is the goal always to create a feminized and auto flower seed, or is that something
that you realized was going to be necessary as you started interacting with your agricultural
clients and realizing, oh my God, we need to make this easier?
For us, it was out of necessity just in terms of how we could maximize our own production.
Eric and I have always seen auto flowering plants as having a very interesting niche
if managed properly. And we've always been curious about whether or not that would end
up leading to innovations in large scale agriculture. I think that it does, and I think what we're
seeing right now is not just on the CBD side, but also for THC. As long as you can get the
right terpene combination in those flowers, auto flowers are fantastic for large scale
production. If it's going into an oil, whether that's for consumption or for a vape pen or
whatever else, a myriad of products are on the market. Autos are incredibly useful. But
it was mostly just trying to develop initially, and this is back in 2016. It seems like forever
ago right now. In 2016, we were trying to give ourselves as many options as possible.
If you're trying to grow early in the season, your best bet is probably an auto flowering
plant. And if you're trying to grow to maximize production, you want to have a plant that
finishes early in the season, but is still photo period sensitive. So we developed our
early lines to do that. And if you have a long enough growing season, you can potentially
have a third crop with auto flowers, since they tend to be a little bit more robust and
resistant to freezing.
I think it's really interesting to consider because feminized and auto flower seeds in
the traditional heritage cannabis farmer world, they get a short shrift, right? Feminized
and auto flowers are somehow seen as unnatural. And a lot of people have a lot of gripes with
them. But when you talk to people about their particular gripes, it's because they got
some seeds that had been bred into a feminized. And so now there's like Hermes in their stock.
And it seems that the reasons why people don't like feminized and auto flower has little
to do with the seed itself and everything to do with how people have used them incorrectly
for their purpose. Whereas you're designing these seeds specifically for multi acre grows
in an agricultural setting where you're dealing with really high volume and every plant has
to be the same and harvested, you know, either at the same time or in known waves. And I
think that's an important thing to point out is that these are feminized and auto flower
seeds for a reason that has never existed before.
That's exactly right. And they're almost two separate issues. I mean, the complaints about
auto flowering plants, especially for THC production, were legitimate. I grew auto flowering
THC plants, 2006, 2007, shortly after they kind of emerged on the market. And they were
terrible. I mean, you could see the promise with them, but the terpene profile was awful.
You know, it left you just feeling like, you know, you've been hit by a train and not in
a good way. They were not sophisticated. They did not have good palettes. But the performance
was something that I just, you know, immediately latched onto and said, God, if you can make
the flavor better and increase the overall resin content, this has potential. You know,
it took a decade to get back to that need before we started developing the newer versions
of them. But in that interim time, in that 10 years, there was sort of a revolution in
good terpenes being added into those auto flowering THC plants as well. So, we have
been working to improve those. And I think we're to the point today where you can end
up with fairly high quality plants that come out of the auto flowering world. With a feminized
seed, your point is spot on. A lot of breeders, and you can't see me, so I'm doing air quotes
at this point, but breeders who are more interested in just selling seed than necessarily creating
good stable lines, they're not as careful with weeding out those hermaphroditic traits.
We're to the point with our breeding that we see one male, and they're not males, they're
definitely female plants, but they have male phenotypes. So, we've found one in 4,000 in
our fields. And this is literally, we're talking about millions of plants that have been grown
in Oregon and elsewhere over the last two years using our seed. And it's a very consistent
rate. We get one in 4,000 that have a male phenotype. We've screened them using PCR,
doing the genomics test from medicinal genomics, and they're female, even though they have
male phenotypes. The really interesting background on that too is that if you use one of those
phenotypic males to pollinate other female plants, you're going to end up with 50% that
are phenotypically male and 50% that are phenotypically female. So, it's a strange mutation that's
going on, and I'm not really sure what's happening. I don't think anybody knows at this point,
but an interesting feature for sure. But one in 4,000 versus having hermaphroditic traits
built into your plants, we feel like that's a pretty good ratio. For us, that's one plant
every two acres that you end up having to cut down.
See, that's actually epic. Will that phenotypically male yet somehow female plant be a risk to
the rest of the crop? Can there be any pollination?
Oh, yeah. Yeah, it'll definitely pollinate. And we recommend to farmers that you basically
walk your field. The old adage of the best fertilizers are farmers' footprints is definitely
true in this case. You go out and you find those as soon as they start flowering. They're
very easy to spot. They look just like a male, and we cut them down.
Even though that adds labor for the farmer, it kind of warms my heart, right? Because
even though we are scaling up and industrializing several aspects of cannabis production, there's
still something in it that the farmer has to be in the field and be around the plants
to give it that human touch or at least awareness.
Very much so. Very much so. And it really draws attention to the risk of pollen floating
around in the environment in the first place. That one male plant, it's not going to pollinate
your entire crop, and the chances of it pollinating a neighbor are very slim. But you will end
up with a 25 to 30 foot section of your field that is just completely seeded and seeds obviously
scattered throughout wherever the wind was blowing.
We had a fairly interesting, I say interesting now because it's been long enough that I'm
not completely emotionally scarred from it anymore, interesting situation back in 2016.
We were trying to make feminized seed doing a light deprivation run in the middle of the
summer and we had a neighboring farmer that had planted about 38 million male, female
hemp seeds, just broadcast seed. It was his first year growing and it ended up, it's a
tremendous amount of males that were out in this field. And the pollen from that field
destroyed farms 15 miles to the north, 15 miles to the south, 15 miles to the west,
excuse me, to the east. Everybody to the west was fine because that's the way that the wind
was blowing. But that one just small scale experiment ended up in the first major year
of production for Oregon recreational growers. It seeded a lot of crops. It destroyed, we
lost 15 million seeds in that summer alone just due to contamination and we had to destroy
them. So pollen is a significant issue and it's something that we have tried to be out
on the forefront in terms of providing education to farmers to make sure that they know just
what the risks are and to have good communication with their neighbors, but to also question
the veracity of seed makers with the claims that they're making. The adage about cannabis
seeds being a seedy business is very, very true.
You know, your unfortunate neighbor seeding the whole valley and you mentioned, it points
out the importance of communication. What did your valley do? Because your valley is
full of hemp farmers now from what I understand. What did you guys do to increase your communication
so that kind of malarkey doesn't happen again?
Well, it's been an uphill battle to be perfectly honest. Most farmers are responsible about
it and try to communicate. The Department of Agriculture in Oregon makes available the
list of farm sites and the acreage. So we know where all the other hemp farms are in
the state and we have email addresses and phone numbers and that sort of thing to be
able to communicate with other farmers. That's the main thing that you have to do. But at
the same time, there are some, especially older traditional farmers who sort of thumb
their nose and just say, look, I have a right to farm. And we've basically had to come back
and say, well, we do too. And your right to farm is infringing on ours. And if you pollinate
our crop with your grain crop that's worth a dollar a pound, we're probably going to
have to resort to legal action. And we don't want to do that. But the precedent needs to
be set that people who pollinate others are responsible for that.
So I want you to change hats for a minute before we go to our first commercial. Up to
this point, we've been talking a little bit about specifically Oregon CBD seeds, your
company. But a lot of people know you as your academic professor role where you testify
in front of the legislature and are just a general CBD expert. So I want you to put on
that hat for a minute. So take off your CEO co-founder hat and put on your professor hat
and answer me this. How is what you are doing there and the seeds that you are providing
to your partners in Oregon, how does that compare to what is going on in the other hemp
hot spots in the country, for example, Colorado? Because as I tell people about what you're
doing in Oregon, which when I toured your facility, it's mind-blowing what's going
on there. If you've been taking care of patients for a long time and you think about it, you're
like, oh my God, this is like the holy grail, low price, high terps, high CBD, not from
fiber hemp. Oh my God. But at the same time, there are people also excited about their
breakthroughs in Colorado and other places, but they seem to be of a different tenor.
So stepping away from the fact that you've got a company and into your academic shoes,
how is what you are doing compared to what's happening elsewhere in the United States?
Yeah, that's a great question. If we're going to go to the professor route, it kind of gets
to the point of the work that I was doing before. My area of expertise was social networks,
long-term organization of capitalist societies, these big picture, 500-year views on the
development of different social systems around different technologies, whether that's an
agricultural technology or markets, that sort of thing. I bring that to where we're at today
with cannabis because it's an absolutely exceptional time to be alive and witnessing what's going on
with this particular market in good ways and in bad ways. We see the good, as you just described,
incredible access for patients and people who didn't even call themselves and would never call
themselves patients or just people who are a little bit older, who have aches and pains,
and they can take this, what amounts to a nutritional supplement and end up having a
higher quality of life. It's destigmatized to the point where we're just constantly being
approached by people who are using these compounds to just have a better time in their golden years.
It's fantastic to see that. The negatives are consolidation and lack of diversity and all of
the things that you see happen in oligopolic markets, monopolistic markets. We're seeing that
definitely emerge right now. But on the exciting side in these different states,
Colorado, Kentucky, North Carolina now is coming online in a big way. We have 37 states that have
industrial hemp laws passed allowing some form of production. Right now, Oregon, Colorado, and
Kentucky are definitely out in the forefront. The folks who were early adopters, who had some
capital behind them, have finally gotten their processing centers up and running to a point where
they can actually handle the amount of material that is being produced. Not only handle it,
but the demand, as more CBD has entered the market, the demand has just increased exponentially along
with that. It's one of those situations where the more people know, the more they're exposed to it,
the greater the demand. It's worked out really well for everybody in this industry.
Awesome innovations, both on the product side, on the extraction side, and the scalability.
Just being able to put good marketing plans together on how to distribute this and get it
from point A to point B, having a more robust regulatory environment where it's no longer...
I think we're to the point now with hemp at the federal level that we know that it's not just
going to go away. It's only going to continue to expand. That's given a lot of the people in the
industry a little bit more confidence that the direction that we're going is a good one. It's
okay to continue to invest your time and labor in this because it's really just going to go up.
So as far as seed providers go, I want to drill down very specifically to this
potentially difficult question. So what makes Oregon CBD seeds great is the uniqueness of your
seeds and the fact that you came from the medical cannabis side and then brought it
under the umbrella of hemp by creative hybridization. Is anybody else in the country
been successful doing that? Do you have competitors that are putting out these same
kinds of seeds that they have found their way to this same solution? Or are you guys the only folks
in the country that are coming from the cannabis medicine side and not from the fiber hemp
direction? Oh, no. There are definitely others who've been doing the same thing and who've been
doing it just as long as us. Some good breeders in Colorado. We have good breeders in Oregon as
well. The fun part is there's always somebody doing something unique. The thing that really
sets us apart was the creation of the auto flowering plants. And in addition to that,
the development of our early flowering photo period sensitive varieties. So we are the only
ones who are doing that at this point. And for us, that's the major technological innovation.
In addition to having terpene rich, very, very high content plants, that was the major innovation
that has really pushed a lot of the farmers in Colorado and Kentucky in addition to Oregon farmers
in our direction. Are the three hotspots of Oregon, Colorado, and Kentucky, are you guys all
allowed to buy seeds from each other or do you have to buy seeds in state?
No, we are allowed to ship anywhere in the United States. It has a section 7606
farm bill compliant industrial hemp research program. So we ship to Kentucky, we ship to
Colorado, we ship Vermont, Maine, North Carolina, South Carolina. We have some plants in Florida
that are coming online later this year. Anywhere there's a hemp program, we can ship.
All right. Awesome. So now with this first set, I was talking about kind of
where the seed technology is at the moment. I think let's wrap up this first set because I'm
really excited about the second set because your season was insane and it was very enjoyable for
me to watch it from a state of way and watch you go crazy. And it'll be a good story. So stick
around folks, we're going to take a short break and be right back. You are listening to Shaping
Fire. My guest today is Seth Crawford of Oregon CBD. We humans are attracted to plants because
they offer us relief and are a whole lot of fun. Sometimes though the best parts are buried inside
the plant and we need to use specialty extraction technology. When it comes to cannabis, it is
extraordinarily important to extract its precious oils without changing them in the process. We want
to preserve the properties of the cannabinoids, terpenes and other constituents that all work
together. Since 1994, Eden Labs has been developing extraction technology and processes to do just
that. Eden Labs was founded by a cannabis loving engineer during the early days of medical marijuana
in California. And the expanded Eden team has been designing and building industry leading
solutions for cannabis extraction ever since. Eden Labs flagship product is the newly improved
high flow CO2 extractor. As other extraction companies enter the market, it is the high flow
from Eden Labs that everyone chases and tries to compare themselves with. Not only that, but the
improved automation software allows data to be collected, stored and studied. Eden Labs can outfit
your whole lab. Eden's cold finger ethanol extractor creates astonishing whole plant extracts
working alone or in tandem with an initial stream distilling step to isolate monoterpenes before
extracting the rest of the botanical constituents. Eden offers you many options including vacuum
distillation, column distilling, stirred reactor units and accelerated solvent recovery. When you
partner with Eden Labs, your lab team is enrolled into the Eden Labs training program to boost their
understanding of Eden's best practices to ensure that your outputs are exactly what you require
for your application, whether it be dab oil, oil for pen cartridges or edibles. When you work with
Eden, you're not just buying the tech, you are buying dedicated customer support to help you
attain your business goals too. You can hear Eden's CEO, A.C. Braddock, talk about the company's values
during Shaping Fire episode 19 that was all about CO2 extraction. So many of the new companies in
the market just smell opportunity, slap an extractor together and hire a marketing company.
Eden Labs has been listening to feedback from extractors and consumers for about 25 years now.
They care about both you and your consumer. Partner with Eden Labs to extract astonishing
cannabis oils and terpenes that you will be proud of. Go to shapingfire.com forward slash Eden to
find out more. Join me at the upcoming CanMed event in Los Angeles for a gathering of the top
minds in cannabis medicine. Field experts will present their latest findings and best practices
in treating a variety of conditions with cannabis, including epilepsy, pain, traumatic brain injury,
cancer, autism, and more. Laboratory professionals will share their revolutionary technologies
in cannabinoid and terpenoid extraction, delivery methods, and quality and safety testing.
CanMed 2018 is October 22nd through 24th at the Luskin Conference Center at UCLA.
And while the final speakers list is still coming together, the speakers who are already
announced give you plenty of reasons to get your ticket today. Prepare yourself to learn from 54
thought leader presentations focused on furthering the convergence of medical cannabis research,
treatment, and product development. Speakers include the father of cannabis research,
Rafael Mishulam. Michael Doerr, chief medical consultant for the Israeli Ministry of Health,
will be there too. The list of esteemed speakers participating is long and includes Shaping Fire
guests, cannabis neuroscientist Dr. Ethan Russo, and Kevin McKiernan of Medicinal Genomics.
You can view all the speakers at CanMedEvents.com. This year's CanMed features a special education
track on the application of blockchain technology in the cannabis market, including cannabis banking,
seed-to-sale tracking, sequencing the cannabis genome, ICO financing, and more. If you are a
medical care provider, be sure to arrive a day early to participate in the pre-conference CME
course. Find out more about that at CanMedEvents.com. That's C-A-N-N-M-E-D-Events.com.
95% of attendees said CanMed 2017 met or exceeded their expectations. That's a serious vote of
confidence that CanMed 2018 will be well worth your time and resources. Shaping Fire listeners
can save 20% off the ticket price by purchasing before June 21st and using the discount code
SHANGO. So don't delay. Visit CanMedEvents.com today to reserve your seat and find out more.
Welcome back. You are listening to Shaping Fire. I'm your host, Shango Los, and our guest this week
is Seth Crawford. He's co-founder of Oregon CBD. So now that we've got you all set up at how you
got to this summer there, Seth, let's talk about this craziness that was this summer. So people
have an idea of the magnitude we're talking here. Describe the number of fields that you were
running and then also the associated fields like, you know, in your area that were using your seeds.
Oh, yeah. That's – well, we had five separate locations, various acreages. Our main research
and development field was about 40,000 plants planted on around 35 acres.
Total number of seeds that went out for the state of Oregon and to a couple other states,
we were looking at about 2,000 acres worth last season. Substantial number of plants.
Yeah, substantial number. It's really enjoyable to walk through that much terpenes being given
off too. And so you had your fields and you provided your seed leadership to other folks
in your valley. And we've already hit the story of the guy pollinating the valley a couple years
ago. But what I'm kind of putting together is that your local area, you guys have kind of become the
epicenter of hemp growing in Oregon and there's some amount of partnership. You guys are kind of
like an industry block of intention, right? Yeah. I think that's an accurate description.
Although I'd also throw in southern Oregon as well. Southern Oregon has long been a large cannabis
producing area and a lot of the recreational farmers have – they started out last year doing
smaller plots but are moving in this year to bigger plots and it's really becoming a force
unto its own as well. But here in the valley, we're – after the great pollination event of 2016,
everybody sort of banded together to try to ensure that new farmers were educated and that the other
farmers had access to not only feminized seed but good information. One of the major concerns that
we've had is sort of unsavory characters making claims about seed that they sell. Last season,
people were saying, oh, this is mostly feminized and farmers would plant it and it would be
50% female, which is not mostly feminized. And that happened on a regular basis. We had other
seed sellers who were offering varieties that were actually type 2 plants. So, equal parts CBD to THC
and it led to about 10% of the state failing their THC compliance tests. So, everybody's trying
to watch out not only for their own interests but the interests of the larger industrial hemp
community at large. So, it's turned into a nice sort of cooperative that everybody can contribute to.
You know, it just occurred to me that the compliance tests to make sure that the amount
of THC in the plants are so low, those happen at the end of the season. And because your plants are
high CBD, no THC, your farms don't have the same kind of hardcore security around them that THC
plants do. And it's funny and somehow ironic that there were all of these one-to-one plants that
were being grown in fields just out next to people's houses and they were fine and safe
just because no one knew they had THC in them, even though those plants are like every high
schooler's dream to go grab. Yeah, exactly. And it's scary to be perfectly honest.
It's sad for the farmers that ended up buying those seed. They were bilked by unscrupulous
breeders. But, I mean, what you're saying is completely true. The problem is
that if you're over 1%, so if you're over 0.3% THC, you fail your compliance test.
But if you're over 1%, you get turned into the local sheriffs. And that's a significant
problem, especially if you have 10 to 20 acres of those plants. The numbers that you're talking
about would lead to a life sentence in prison. I think Jeff Sessions was just talking about
reinstituting the death penalty for people who were growing that many cannabis plants. So it's
a laughing matter to a certain extent because we can say, hey, people did this. And even though it
was unscrupulous people who were misleading them, the world didn't end just because some THC was
grown outside without offense and security. That's the neat part. The downside is it's a
legitimate risk and there's a lot of problems that can come along with that.
Yeah. The thing that you could pull a felony for what is absolutely a technicality in seed purchase,
that is scary as hell. Yeah. And the part that really got us is that we knew that this was going
to happen. We knew where the seed source was coming from. We knew that there had been male
THC plants that were outdoors in a neighboring field. And we knew that the seed crop had been
contaminated. But because there was no seed certification program, you don't have to have
any verification that the seed is actually type three industrial hemp. It's sort of a free for all.
And it's allowed some grifters to enter the marketplace. They usually stick around for one
year and everybody figures out that they don't know what they're doing and they'll try to get
some quality seed. But in the meantime, lives are ruined, crops are lost, and it's a black eye for
the entire industry. Yeah. Right on. So it's this next part of the interview that kept me so
excited to have you back as soon as you could find time for us again. And that is the evolution
of your business model over the course of this last summer. So what I'd like you to do is to,
you know, I understand that the major force of your business model was that you were going to
make and sell feminized auto flowering, high CBD, nearly zero THC seeds. But as part of that,
you need to have these research and development fields so that you can see how your plants are
coming along and how they work in real agricultural environments. So at the end of the season,
you were going to have, I think you said maybe seven acres or something like that of plant
material that was R&D, but now you've got all this flower. So I'm just going to kind of set you up to
tell this story of what were your plans going to be for the flower at the beginning of the season,
and how did that evolve over the course of the summer?
Yeah. Well, you know, this valley is we'd experienced a year before.
Sometimes there's pollen floating around. So we had basically just planned on planting our field,
getting our research crops in, running the risk of getting pollinated and having a seeded crop.
And basically the only option that you have at that point is to turn it into oil and sell it
to extractors. So that was essentially our plan going into the season. We just wanted to do our
field trials to ensure that the varieties that we were offering to farmers for this season actually
performed the way that we described. So we like to run our field trials the year before and then
offer the seed once it's been progeny tested. We got to the end of the season and we kept checking
the flowers and, you know, there's no pollen yet. Another week goes by and there's no pollen yet.
I'm not seeing any seeds forming. And we finally got basically about two weeks away from
the initial harvest and everything looked really good. There were no seeds in it.
And at that point you're looking at 35 acres of unseeded, just beautiful terpene-rich flowers.
It's, as you got to experience, it's very hard to be able to accurately describe the excitement
that one who's passionate about cannabis and terpenes will have walking through a field.
It is so, there's so much joy in that experience. Oh my God. Walking through and smelling all the
terpenes as the sun is hitting the flowers and they're all calling out. Oh man.
It's, yeah, it's otherworldly and it just, it puts a smile on my face to think about it.
And every time we send a farmer out the door with seed, you know, it's the one thing that
we generally leave them with is just wait until August. You know, when your field is in full bloom
and it's, you don't have to harvest just yet. It's a truly magical experience. It's transformational.
It's very cool. But we got to that point in the season and, you know, we had had some folks
come from Switzerland who really wanted to get our flowers because, you know, they came and they
smelled them early in the season and went, wow, these are, these are tremendous. But we, you know,
knowing that the risk of contamination, I didn't want to put us into a situation where we, you
know, we would get into a contract to supply trimmed flowers or something like that. That's
what they wanted. And then end up with a seeded crop and not be able to follow through on it.
But once we made it to that point in the season, we realized that, okay, we're gonna trim and dry
as many of these acres as we possibly can and send them internationally to Switzerland.
All right. So let me hold you right there because that's a big deal. Number one,
how did the people in Switzerland find out about your little farm in Oregon?
That's a great question. I'm honestly not sure, but we're contacted pretty regularly.
The Swiss European, sorry, the European and Swiss hemp market for smokable flowers has really just
taken off in the last couple of years. Switzerland has a 1% THC rule, which gives you a little bit
of flexibility in the oil content of the plant. And so they've been producing it in, mostly in
glasshouses for the last two years, trying to meet the demand. And they saw Oregon as, you know,
sort of a hotbed of production and started reaching out to different farms throughout the state. And
most of the farms that were growing good material were all actually growing our seed. So as they
say, the roads all seem to lead back to us. And so they found us and, you know,
we got them some flowers. So one of the things that I picture in my head is that as the summer
goes and as more people, you know, hear your story and they hear the first podcast that I did with
you at the beginning of the season and, you know, and the hemp people just start talking about what
you guys are doing, that you're starting to get more and more, you know, VIP contact from the US
and interested people from other countries. And I can feel like this brewing, this attention and
people making contact with you and yearning for your stuff. Is that how it was feeling for you
as well? As you're like, oh my God, we're riding this bull of a product and now everybody wants it?
Very much so. Very much so. And that was true both on, you know, our flower material
and on the seed itself because the flower material was, I think it was excellent. The
products that are coming out of it were definitely things that I'm proud of. And I think everybody
on our crew would say the same thing. But because it was an R&D field, you know, we were basically
doing the trials for what other farmers will be growing this season. And the buzz was definitely
palpable. So it led to not only the high demand for the flower material, for the resulting trim
and all the other products that go along with that, but for the seed as well. Our harvest season
was long, arduous as they always are for everybody, but it didn't stop. I mean, we went from
our flower harvest and trimming and exporting to building out new facilities
in three separate counties to make sure that we could meet the exploding seed demand.
And, you know, I want to take a quick second here and mention, you've dropped out three or four
times. It's been increasing as the interview has gone. So if you're listening and you're like,
I keep on losing, you know, like a second or two, it's because where Seth lives,
way out, rurally in Oregon, they are experiencing a thunderstorm. And so when the weather gets bad,
they drop packets sometimes. So don't think that it's your phone or whatever. We're just
occasionally dropping packets from Seth. So thanks for staying on the line there, Seth,
even though the weather's getting crazy down there. No problem. Yeah. Sorry for the drops.
Yeah. Well, you know, so I want to finish up this great Switzerland story. So now that, you know,
the Swiss folks found you and they contacted you and they wanted to buy your flower, but you're
like, I don't want to commit to the flower because we think it's going to get seeded over the summer.
Now you're two weeks out from harvest and you've got all of this unseeded, sensamia, high CBD flower.
And you're like, oh my God, the value of this product just shot up because it's got great
value in other countries. So how did that deal finish up? Because, you know, I talked to you
briefly during that time and you were like, oh my God, we've got to hire all this new staff
and trimming machines and we got to figure out how to package this and get it to Switzerland.
So tell that part of the story because I found it pretty engaging.
Oh, it was traumatic. I don't even want to revisit it.
Yeah. I mean, just a number of different growing pains in logistical details of,
you know, basically learning how to operate large-scale machine trimmers, hiring a very
large crew of people to come in to do the finished trimming with that packaging. I had never shipped
quantities that we were talking about. We ended up using FDA approved
55-gallon drums with plastic liners. We could fit about 30 pounds without crushing the resulting
product, about 30 pounds in each one of those. And you could fit four of those on a pallet and then
shrink wrap them and off they go. So it was just a nonstop deluge of trimming, packaging,
wrapping, shipping, and going back into the field to then harvest more and more and more and dry,
and basically maximizing our drying space and our throughput. And there's no way that we could have
done what we did without the crew that we had. Everybody was very devoted to the cause.
And for a lot of people, it was sort of a mind-blowing experience. Everybody is
used to... You think industrial hemp and you definitely don't think of the flowers that we
were pulling out of that field. So it was fun. It was definitely a good experience for everybody
involved. And this is one of the times that you're really glad that you're growing autoflowers too,
so that you can stagger the harvest. Because with regular photosensitive flowers, everything would
have been ready just about the same time. So this is the interesting part. We did have
autoflowering plants, but the material that we were trimming were... They're photo period
sensitive varieties, but they have been designed to flower very, very early. And the other
characteristic that we've been able to put into these plants is that you can stagger the harvest
with them. And you get about a three-week window. The first batch was finished the first week of
September. The second batch was done the second week of September. And then we were basically
harvesting until the rains hit after that with the later maturing varieties. But they're all
within the same basic harvest window. And that's one of the innovations that we've been able to...
We've been successful in breeding into the lines that we've developed.
So we're all familiar with seeing the kinds of machines that are used to harvest fibrous hemp.
What kind of mechanizations can you use for harvesting when you want to preserve the flowers?
Is this all done by hand and the only mechanized part is the trimmer?
That is correct. Yeah. And it's what we tell clients is that there are a number of different
options for your finished product. At the end of the season, you can flash dry it and the terpenes
will vaporize and it's basically only useful for isolate. There is a market for that, although it's
a lower value. Then the next best option is something like a low temperature hop kiln that's
operating anywhere between 80 to 90 degrees and just moving a tremendous amount of air, just
getting that air movement to dry. Those products retain a lot of the heavier terpenes. You lose
your monoterpenes, but you still end up with a nice synergistic potential medical product that
would be turned into oil. The highest value is if you treat it just like a high-grade THC plant,
you hang dry it, slowly cure it. And then we went with the mechanical route on trimming just because
the cost of hand trimming would have been prohibitive and not physically possible,
to be perfectly honest with the quantity that we were dealing with.
And also probably not necessary, honestly. Hand trimming is certainly something that changes the
bag appeal. But at this point, the audience that you were serving were cigarette smokers
in Switzerland, which is certainly a different crew than West Coast cannabis connoisseurs.
Exactly. Exactly. Yeah. I've never been a big fan of machine trim, but it did a decent job.
So I got to ask, how did you get all these pallets? And if you can, tell me how many
pallets of these four drums were there and how did you get them in Switzerland?
Honestly, I don't even remember how many there were. That's a blur.
But there were a lot that left our facility. Like over 100 though, right?
Not that many. Not that many. All right. I have no way to translate 37 acres into pallets, right?
Well, maybe. Yeah. Yeah. And different products as well. So with the pallets,
we would basically just, we had a shipping company that would arrive and take the pallets directly to
the Portland airport and they would fly out to Zurich with a direct flight. The company that
was purchasing it from us would take possession at the Portland terminal. So it was no longer ours.
They were in legal possession of it. So off it went. That's one way of doing it. We also have
these very large bags that are used for grass seed, other seed crops, grains called super sacks.
And those can hold about anywhere between 250 to 300 pounds of trim material all at one time. And
they're basically just a pallet's worth of material. That's kind of the industry standard
in terms of shipping large quantities of material to processors domestically. But that's also now
going international as well. So this last question before we go to break,
I hope that you don't deem it unfair, but I'm going to set it up properly, but it could be a
hard question. And I know you to be a very patient-centric dude. Both you and your brother
have got big hearts. You work with patients. You give advice to people for CBD. You like them to
have strong endocannabinoid systems, and you are very invested in your local cannabis scene. So
you're the kind of people that we want to see succeed. And when I visited the farm, I had all
these visions of low-priced cannabis getting into the hands of patients. And I was excited for that.
And yet somehow I was also excited for you that you got this amazing buyer in Switzerland. And
that was cool, but all this CBD was now leaving the United States. And
you had to have been torn about that. And I'd love to hear about your decision.
Yeah, very much so. The largest influencer of that was the fact that we have this Oregon market
that we could have sold directly into had it not been prohibited by state law. At the time,
you could not sell cannabinoids or flower product into the adult use market if it was derived from
industrial hemp. And that was just this strange quirk in the Department of Justice in the state
of Oregon in their interpretation of the existing law. It took us a whole year to get that change.
Our lobbying group for industrial hemp farmers just got that passed in the last legislative
session in March. So we hope to be able to sell products, not just CBD, but also
CBG and other novel cannabinoids as we're able to isolate them into the Oregon market first.
Excellent. Excellent.
But yeah, it's very bittersweet.
Yeah, totally. Both sides of that, to see all the potential and then realize that
it wasn't actually going to make it into local patients. Yeah, bittersweet. Well said. All right,
let's go ahead and take our second short break. You are listening to Shaping Fire. My guest this
week is Seth Crawford of Oregon CBD. Using pesticides when growing cannabis has been
common for a long time. Nowadays, though, we know better. We know that most pesticides
formulated for food crops have never been tested for use with cannabis. They've been tested to be
eaten in tiny doses. They have not been tested to be inhaled and especially not concentrated into a
cannabis oil. Chemical residues from pesticides are not healthy for anyone, but they are especially
dangerous for patients. For commercial cannabis growers, this has become very impactful. Cannabis
enthusiasts and patients have gotten educated enough that they avoid growers who used pesticides.
Not only that, but states across the country have begun making pesticide testing mandatory
on all licensed cannabis crops. The time has come to find a better way to fight garden pests
than covering your cannabis and chemicals. And there is a better way. Let some good bugs
fight your bad bugs. Beneficial insects and predatory mites have come a long way since we
were buying ladybugs online and putting them in the grow room and just hoping for the best.
Natural Enemies BioControl can help you solve pest issues without using chemicals.
Natural Enemies founder Shane Young learned best practices from working in the ornamental plant
industry and has fine-tuned those strategies specifically for large cannabis crops. Shane
works with commercial cannabis clients across the country to ensure that they keep their crops safe
and pest-free without the use of chemicals. Natural Enemies has proven solutions for spider mites,
aphids, thrips, russet mites, broad mites, shore flies, whitefly, and others too.
You can rely on Natural Enemies for expertise and excellent service. For more information,
go to shapingfire.com forward slash natural enemies or simply click on their banner in
this week's newsletter. If you own a cannabis company, you know that finding good business
partners, vendors, and allies is an essential part of your role. And building your business
in a new industry like cannabis doesn't always make that easy. CannaCon is coming to Boston and
Detroit this summer and the halls will be filled with every kind of ally you need for a cannabis
company. Technology, horticulture, packaging, marketing, legal, human resources, and media,
everything you need for your business will be there. And your customers will be there too.
Because CannaCon is a premier cannabis business and networking event with nationally recognized
speakers and the opportunity to have serious conversations with your business peers and
investors. Reserving yourself a booth at CannaCon can unlock a lot of doors for you.
Not only do you get to network with all the people who pass your booth, but it is not
uncommon for CannaCon vendors to do a million dollars in business during the event. CannaCon's
Seattle event in February sold out well in advance, so reserve your booths now for Detroit,
June 1st and 2nd, and Boston, July 27th and 28th. Attendee tickets are still available for both
events. Whether you reserve a booth or attend just for a day, do not miss the opportunity to become
a serious player in your market. Visit cannacon.org for tickets, booth reservations, and more
information. That's cannacon.org. Welcome back. You are listening to Shaping Fire. I'm your host,
Shango Lose, and our guest this week is Seth Crawford, co-founder of Oregon CBD.
So in this last section, we're going to talk a little bit about legality and a lot about the
future of CBD-derived hemp. But first of all, I want to hit on the Reggie Godino interview that
we had last week, all about intellectual property and cultivars, because I know that it excited you
and engaged you in a lot of very important ways. And so I want to give you the floor so that you
can kind of speak to the topic last week of protecting these important cultivars that you
are developing. Yeah, it was an excellent interview. I really appreciate you just making the time and
Reggie for making the time to have that conversation. I think it's an incredibly
important moment in time for the entire cannabis industry. Having moved from, you know, a system
where each individual breeder was doing their own thing and generally in small ways, but others doing
it in larger ways, having a new legal environment in place has, I think, changed the calculations
for a lot of people. One of the things that we have done is basically what Reggie was advocating
for, and that is to preemptively file patents to protect the breeding technology, the breeding
approach that we use to create a lot of our varieties. At the end of the day, whether or not
the U.S. Patent Office will grant that is, you know, obviously something that we're going to do
our best to make that happen. The way that we end up using it, however, is, you know, a lot of people
are concerned about individuals or corporations holding these patents and then excluding wide
swaths of certain types of plants or chemotypes or terpene profiles from the general public.
That's something that we're very concerned with as well. It's obviously not something that we
would be doing, but, you know, it raises this really complicated issue for people who are
investing a significant amount of time and energy and money into the development of unique cultivars
or chemotypes or even just potential breeding strategies like we're doing.
There needs to be some sort of way to stop those bigger companies. You know, the one that's always
raised is Monsanto and soon to be called Monsanto Bayer or Bayer Monsanto or whatever. But, you know,
two and a half billion dollars in research every single year is a substantial amount,
and that's not something that we can compete with. So, I think a lot of the folks that are
sort of out in front on this are preemptively trying to protect the work that they're doing,
and there are others who are trying to make sure that all of the previous work is accounted for.
It's out in the public domain. Interesting times, to say the least, but it's something that I think
that a lot, as Reggie highlighted, I think cultivators and breeders would be very wise
to look into the potential for doing stuff like that.
Yeah, and you know, competing with their $2.6 billion R&D budget is only the half of it,
right? Because their legal budget is insane as well, and they may be able to develop the same
things as smaller cultivators are working on with that kind of R&D budget, but also trying to defend
your chemovars or cultivars or techniques against somebody like Bayer Monsanto,
that's its own problem that doesn't even take place in the field. That happens in the courtroom
and in briefs and is just as ugly. Let's talk for a second about one of your most valuable
strains. I mean, your whole line is unique for their own reasons, but I know that you are excited
as well as a lot of patients I know are excited about your CBG strain. So, why don't you talk a
little bit about that and your hopes of protecting that so that you can share it?
Yeah, first of all, CBG is phenomenal. It's incredible in terms of its pain relief,
muscle spasms, spasticity. As a topical, it's great for eczema and psoriasis.
It's one of those compounds that once you've tried it, it's kind of mind-bending to say the
least that it's just been tucked away for so long inside of the cannabis genome and is now just
popping up. So, we're really excited to be able to bring that to the table for farmers in 2019.
At this point, it's not just one variety. I think there's between seven and nine
individual lines that we're working on that have very different approaches and different
practical applications, whether it's for the production of field production with harvests
using combines or terpene-rich varieties that will be hand harvested in the same way that
a lot of the finest flowers are still grown for THC production. A number of different options,
different flavors, and different characteristics. We have some that are 100 to 1 CBG to THC. We have
other varieties that we've now developed that are over 300 to 1 CBG to THC, which means that you can
do an oil extraction, a basic rough oil extraction, and still be below the 0.3% THC limitation at the
federal level. Definitely some game-changing things that are coming out and will be available
to farmers for 2019. CBG, since people don't spend a lot of time using it on its own, it doesn't have
as much of a rep as other parts of the plant. Certainly, when you come across CBG, it's not
going to be in a whole plant. Most of the time, it's because it's extracted out. The proof was
in the pudding when we visited your farm and we tried a dab of your CBG-rich strain. We left your
sampling booth. At first, I didn't think I felt anything. Then I realized I was in a really good
mood and felt like I was walking on clouds. My associate I brought with me, he's got lifelong
pain. On that particular day, his leg was all flared up. He was uncomfortable in my car. It
was a drag. We got back out to my car and we're driving away. He nudges me. He's like,
dude, I don't hurt and my leg's fine. I'm like, oh, that's nice. He's like, no, you don't
understand. That's when we first started talking about how we talk about CBD being 20 to 1 all the
time and how nice it is to be able to get cannabidiol into folks with a low amount, just
trace amounts of THC, especially kids who don't want to be lethargic at school, through their
parents, of course. But with this CBG, 100 to 1 CBG, that is a powerful pain reliever, this opens
up a whole new field of cannabis clinical medicine. Not that they're going to be giving them dabs,
though. Very much so.
I mean, to be perfectly blunt, I think that America would be a better place. I think every
place in the world would be better off if every adult had a CBG pen, a vape pen in their pocket.
Like you described, it's not psychoactive, but it's also, I describe it as being a profound
experience in the sense that it provides a significant amount of mental clarity. If you
are anxious or if you've had too much caffeine or you're tense, it is a non-psychoactive relaxer.
It calms people down. In addition to having all of those different pain-relieving properties,
I don't want to, you know, you don't never want to be making proclamations that are
a little bit of a reach, but I do think that for a lot of people who suffer from chronic pain,
this is one of those amazing substances that will help them not take opiates. And the more
cannabinoids that we have at our disposal to be able to deal with things like opiates,
the better off we're all going to be. But we are really looking forward to seeing
thousands of acres of this in production in the coming years.
And so if you've got seed for these strains coming out next year,
I take it that you are following Reggie Godino's strategy and defensively patenting it in advance.
Yeah, we are. The reason that we're not releasing it to farmers though is for the same reason that
the varieties that you saw in the field last year are the seed, the test crop for what farmers
are growing this season. We do field trials to make sure that we're doing accurate progeny testing
so that we can make the best seed possible for farmers. I don't know of any other companies
that do that outside of, you know, general agriculture and seed production for other
crops. We've basically just tried to mirror that. You know, we've taken our success and
built a genomics lab. We're doing in-house testing. We do these large-scale field trials
to make sure that the product that goes out is going to perform exactly the way that we say it
is because we A, know it really well and B, are telling the truth based on legitimate field
applications of the product. So that's the goal this season. This summer is we're growing out all
of these different new creations and finding out which ones work and which ones don't.
From a farming perspective. Right on. Yeah, because a lot of these seeds,
there's a big difference between growing 25 plants in your yard versus growing 25 acres.
Agriculture is a whole different animal. And to that point, you know, you need a lot of seeds to
be able to grow that many plants. And from what I saw when you had your announcements of seed sales
this year, you had way more people interested than you had seeds. People were showing up
to your seed sale days and essentially, you know, buying out your whole run on that day.
And then, you know, I've been watching your posts about your new, your seed manufacturing
structures. So can you just give me a little bit idea of how much you've chosen to scale up?
And if you think that you're going to meet demand this year?
I think we'll be able to meet. Well, that's probably a stretch.
I think we're going to be able to meet the demand for this season. But the crazy part is, is that
people come out of the woodwork between now and May 1st and large orders are definitely happening.
We went from being able to produce basically about 5 million seeds per year to being able
to produce 50 million per year. And this summer, we're going to be scaling out. We have
500 lights between our three main production facilities. We're scaling that up to 2000
lights so that we can produce. Every year, we'll be able to produce about 100 million seeds. So
we're doing everything that we can to make sure that this is a viable large scale agricultural
crop for as many farmers as we can possibly get into the farming.
It's weird too, because right, that just producing those seeds is like, well,
just producing those seeds is like running an entirely separate company. I mean, you're selling
seeds, you've got all these seeds in your R&D fields, you're machine trimming it and sending
it to Switzerland. And oh yeah, we've got these four or five locations with 200 lights producing
like this epic volume of seeds. That in itself sounds like a hassle. You do it all indoors,
so as you were complaining about your neighbor that pollinated the whole valley,
you instead are doing it in very tightly controlled areas with vacuums that pull
in inside and everything, so that it's a very sealed up manufacturing process.
Exactly. The nice part about what we're doing is growing inside is the only way to
really ensure that you're going to have a quality product that's not contaminated.
And we've talked about this before, but one male, one legitimate male, one pollen grain from a male
plant would destroy a crop and we would have to basically get rid of all of those seeds. And we
do that. Quality is of the utmost concern for us. If a farmer ends up with one plant in their entire
field that is sampled by the Department of Agriculture that has, if it's a type two plant,
if it's a one-to-one, that one plant would make them fail their compliance test. So we do
everything in our power to make the production side sealed, clean, and not worrying about pollen
contamination. We also flower in the winter. That's when we're making all of our seeds so that
we can miss the large potential plumes of outdoor pollen, just in case it's going on during the
regular harvest season. But even after all of that, we still grow out these test batches and
do our PCR screen to make sure that there are no Y chromosomes in our gene pool. So when farmers are
getting seed from us, they can reasonably assume that they're going to perform as we've claimed.
And we're trying to back that up with basically 21st century science being brought to bear on this
ancient, awesome agricultural crop that we've all been growing for generations.
So what do you see as being ... Looking forward to this summer, what do you see as being some of the
interesting hot points? Last summer, you were super shocked in a good way because you didn't
get pollinated with somebody else's seeds. And therefore, instead of having CBD-rich
flour for extraction, you actually had CBD flour that was Sensimia without seeds. And so it was
much more valuable than you had planned. But it created a kink in your business model. What do
you see as being potential changes that could happen either for your business model or for the
industry in general this coming summer? To be determined, I've given up on forecasting.
It changes so dramatically and so radically every season. I know that for us and for our company,
we've gone through tremendous growth in the last year. And we are trying to devote ourselves fully
to the process of creating seed and doing good field trials. And I don't think that we're going
to be doing trim flour again this season. It was an awesome one-off last year and it worked out.
But for us to be able to focus on the breeding and not just CBG, but all of the other
minor cannabinoids that are basically coming online as better testing is emerging, that's
really where our focus is. And being able to create varieties that will succeed and thrive
in other areas. We're doing a lot of custom breeding projects right now for, say, tropical
areas. Totally different environments that we're not accustomed to and we don't necessarily have
access to in the summer for us to grow here. So we've had to build out climate-controlled
environments to replicate those very high levels of humidity, very warm, basically trying to do
controlled experiments to develop varieties that will work in other areas as well.
Right on. Well, that's all really inspiring. And all of us, from patients to product manufacturers
to entrepreneurs to retailers, we are all looking for your success so that you can
bring a wider array of cannabis products to the market. So keep on the good fight, brother.
Thank you so much.
Right on. Well, thank you for being on the show, Seth, and send our best to your brother, Eric,
too, who, even though he wasn't with us today, is a big part of why Oregon Seed Be Seeds is a success.
And we look forward to talking to you again at the end of the season to find out
what unexpected realities came across your plate this year.
Thanks so much for having me. I really appreciate being here.
You can reach Seth Crawford via his website at oregoncbdseeds.com. And, you know, even if you
don't necessarily want to reach out to talk to Seth, I recommend you go to the website just to
read their catalog of seeds. If you're a nerd for this kind of thing, just reading the product
descriptions will cause you a lot of joy. And also, it's fun to follow their Instagram at
Oregon CBD. You can find more episodes of the Shaping Fire podcast and subscribe to the show
at shapingfire.com and on Apple iTunes, Stitcher, and Google Play. If you enjoyed the show, we'd
really appreciate it if you'd leave a positive review of the podcast wherever you download.
Your review will help others find the show so they can enjoy it too. On the Shaping Fire website,
you can also subscribe to the weekly newsletter for insights into the latest cannabis news and
product reviews. On the Shaping Fire website, you will also find transcripts of today's podcast as
well. For information on me and where I'll be speaking, you can check out shangolose.com.
Does your company want to reach our national audience of cannabis enthusiasts?
Email hotspot at shapingfire.com to find out how. Thanks for listening to Shaping Fire.
I've been your host, Shango Lose.
