Fermenting has become wildly popular in the last decade. Everywhere you look, people are
drinking kombucha and water kefir, and other folks are making fermented pickles and sauerkraut
or homemade yogurts. In each of these examples, the goal is to make an environment beneficial
to microorganisms so they thrive and multiply. This is the same thing that probiotic farmers
are trying to do. Instead of just trying to jam the plant full of nutrients, a probiotic
farmer is creating a soil environment where life is abundant and naturally creates the
plant's nutrition. A thriving plant comes from making healthy soil, not trying to force
feed it nutrients.
Korean natural farming, known shorthand as KNF, is next-level probiotic farming. KNF
ferments a wide variety of naturally occurring substances, from plant and fruit juices to
fish carcasses and seawater, in order to help indigenous bacteria, fungi, nematodes, and
protozoa to thrive and produce fertile soils that don't require pesticides, herbicides,
or synthetic fertilizer inputs. In essence, KNF takes the principles found in making tasty-to-eat
kimchi and reapplies them to the farm.
Master Cho Han-Koo invented the Korean natural farming method by blending Korean farming
and fermenting techniques with those of natural farming teachers he met while studying in
Japan. By 1992, he had begun an epic 21-part series in Modern Agriculture magazine on his
newly established methods, and in 1995 he opened the Natural Farming Life School and
Research Farm in Korea. This school is the source of these inventive techniques that
are taking the cannabis world by storm. Seriously, everybody in probiotic cannabis growing is
talking about KNF right now.
If you want to learn about cannabis health, business, and technique efficiently and with
good cheer, I encourage you to subscribe to our newsletter. Every week you'll receive
a new podcast episode delivered right to your inbox, along with commentary on a couple of
the most important news items from the week and videos too. Don't rely on social media
to let you know when a new episode is published. Sign up for the updates and make sure you
don't miss an episode.
You are listening to Shaping Fire and I'm your host, Shango Lose.
My guest this week is Chris Trump. Chris Trump is a master natural farmer certified by Master
Cho of Korea. He's also studied microbial analysis under Dr. Elaine Ingram. Many consider
Chris' YouTube videos explaining Korean natural farming techniques to have been the
key to KNF's wildly increasing popularity in the US. It's also helpful that Chris
is a certified KNF educator who actually speaks English. Today we'll be going over
the central ideas of KNF and discussing recipes for Korean farming's exceptionally alive
inputs. Welcome to the show, Chris.
Thanks. I'm glad to be here.
Yeah, I know your time is valuable, so thanks for peeling off a little bit for us. As I've
already mentioned to folks, I am new to Korean natural farming. I've been into probiotics
for a while, but people are getting more and more excited about KNF as the teaching
finds its way around the scene. So let's start. What do you see as the difference between
probiotic farming and living soils versus the specifics of Korean natural farming? Is
it simply a subset of probiotic farming or do you see it kind of as its own thing for
some reason?
You know, it's all nature. The best any of this is really doing is working the way nature
already works and it's optimum. So if somebody's doing probiotic farming or focusing on living
soil, if they're doing it well, you know, that's kind of, it is very similar. Korean
natural farming, one of the core principles is the idea of indigenous microbes. So where
you might buy bugs in a jug, some product made somewhere that somebody said is really
good or they found success with, those we found may or may not persist in your environment.
So depending on your temperature or your moisture or just the microbes that are already present,
you might have a six month fall off with some sort of purchased microorganism mix. And you
might not. I'm not saying that's always how it is, but with indigenous biology, so if
you're indigenous microorganisms, if you're farming an acre of land and you go up the
hill and you collect something that exists in the wild forest and bring it down, we're
very confident that that will persist in your soil because it's for however many thousands
of years or whatever period of time that's been undisturbed or gotten established, it's
thrived in that environment. So by moving it, you know, downhill or a mile across town,
it's still going to like your rainfall, your temperature, your barometric pressure, and
the general soil mix for the most part, and even play well with the microbes on your farm.
That makes a lot of sense. You know, we talk a lot on this show about bio regions and making
sure that you're growing, you know, the strains that work for where you live if you're growing
outdoors. And this seems to be a real obvious extension of that. You know, it's like, you
know, work with the microbes that are comfortable with your area and your weather instead of,
you know, necessarily recruiting bugs in a bottle, like you said, to add them and then
just hope that they do good where you happen to live. That makes a lot of sense. And so
at the cornerstone of KNF would be simply recruiting your volunteer microbes from your
neighborhood and then feeding them what they want so that they are, you know, motivated
to stay and to increase.
Yeah. And that's not to say that bugs in a jug wouldn't help your farm. It just may be that
you just got to keep buying them. Whereas if you're establishing something that will
persist, you're basically building a battery of health and vitality in your soil that will be
there year after year.
Right on. So you mentioned that as one of the key tenets of KNF. Would you have any other
key tenets of KNF that you think are good to start with?
You know, the first time I spent a long period of time with Chauhan Yu, Master Cho, we
looked at our notes. I was sitting next to my friend Pancho San Pedro, who's the head of
Crazy Horse. You know, Neil Young, Crazy Horse.
Yeah.
Yeah. He's the crazy horse. And we're sitting there and we're looking at our notes. It's
been a day or two of, you know, getting into it. Master Cho and his daughter was there,
Ju Young. And we're like, every other word, love. You know, like this whole thing, there's
like agriculture, agriculture, love, agriculture, love. And so that's taken me a bit. Or
initially, it took me a bit as a commercial farmer to be like, okay, what does love have to
do with agriculture? And but I would say, as far as natural farming goes, it is a core
tenant in that it's a mindset or a position to farm from where if you are caring for things, or
treating them as you might a child, you know, where it's like, oh, it's just good enough. But
you're, you're kind of like, no, let me practice or learn to do this. Well. There's a result
that is has to do with this kind of invisible component that is the farmer's attention. And we
have that. I mean, that's culturally we've seen that over the years, you have these sayings in
livestock, you know, the eye of the farmer fattens the cow, or the shadow of the farmer makes the
plants grow. And it's, those are nods towards something that's the invisible component. And,
yeah, so there's, there's that in there. That's kind of a deeper, philosophical rabbit trail. But
it is it is important in this type of agriculture in the communication of it.
I would think that just about anybody who's attracted to either, you know, just generally
probiotic growing or specifically knf, they've got to have some of that in their heart, though,
right? Because, you know, generally people who are, you know, ruthlessly corporate growers,
they're growing out of bottles, and they are pushing nature to take from nature to get nature
to produce for them, versus all the farmers that I know who are using probiotic growing
techniques are doing it because they're in love with the plant, they're in love with their land,
they don't want to have, you know, evil runoff of their property going into the streams. I would
say that just, you know, farmers generally with love in their hearts will find their way to this
kind of farming one, you know, eventually.
Yeah, I would think so. And, and that's not to say it's not this like, it's, it's not to say it's
not about being profitable. Like it isn't there is they aren't mutually exclusive. To have a care
for what you're doing, or profitability, it's you can, there's definitely both, you know, as we
toured Korea, one of the only things he would ask, Master Cho would ask these farmers doing
natural farming is, you know, how much money you're making, you know, and they're obviously
caring for what they do. I mean, they have, you know, whether it's pigs or crops, just beautiful.
And Matthew, I was pretty jealous when I saw persimmon farm where it's just like, they don't
fertilize in 11 years, and they just have, it looks like 23 acres of a tree that if, you know,
Mr. Miyagi had one baby, he would have, you know, it's like 23 acres of perfectly groomed,
beautifully productive persimmons, and they haven't fertilized in 11 years. But he asked them
how much money they make. And they're, by and large, the answers I heard, they're far more
profitable than we are in the US. Because some some of that has to do with its family operations
where they're not paying workman's comp. You know, they're running these, these things with, you
know, two people, a husband and wife, and they're killing it on a couple acres. And, but, yeah,
it's, anyways, I just wanted to clarify, just because we're talking about love doesn't mean it's
not viable to make a living on as a person or family farm. It's very much about sustainability,
meaning that you don't have to work a second job to sustain your farming habit.
Yeah, I think that's a good thing for you to point out, too, especially since a, you know, a great
deal of the audience for this show are commercial cannabis growers, right? You know, we, there are
people who they want to, you know, they're, they may have the heart and the love, but at the end of
the day, they need to make sure that what they're growing has got high yield, is developing a
fantastic terpene profile, and that they're locking down as much bag appeal as they can without going
indoors. And, and, you know, if people knew that they could use this tech, these techniques, but
they would lose money, well, they sure as heck wouldn't be as popular. But, but, you know, we know
darn well that using probiotic and KNF techniques actually just makes the plant thrive. And then, and
then also, so your yields are going up and, and so is the quality of your product. So, all right, I
think we finally hit that pretty well. So, um, so, you know, no-till is also becoming really popular.
Is, would you consider no-till to be an essential part of KNF as well, because you don't want to
break up the, the community in the soil?
Yeah, it's, it's definitely in the same line. If you're, with natural farming, you're not, you're not
tilling as a general rule. If you're, if you're coming into a brand new area, and it's full of
grass, or some other, you know, wild crop or, or weed, you're, you're probably going to have to deal
with that in that first season. And so that's encouraged that you're not beating your head against
the wall trying to grow around or through the grass that's super thick and beating out or out
competing. You may need to till or spade or do something the first time. But yeah, definitely.
Because we're counting on that, that network that is established of the fungal network and all these
little organisms, part of the soil food web to grow the food. So going in and slamming them all
with equipment at the end of every season is kind of counterproductive.
When I was first starting to read about KNF, one of the things that, you know, one of the, one of
the explanations that really hit me was about soil nutrient cycling. And you actually just hit it
talking about that persimmon farm. And so I'm going to set you up and I'd like you to just kind of
explain it a little bit because you said that that persimmon farm that you saw had not fertilized in
like 11 years. And that's a perfect example because normally the trees get rid of the leaves and then
they're there, then they are in the soil and then they rot. And so the plant is self fertilizing. Can
you go a little more in depth about that?
Yeah, there's natural farming, I guess the principle in nutrition is the right amount at the right time
means that you can have far less quantity of input than if you're just trying to preload a whole growing
cycles food in the beginning. So like that persimmon farm, I mean, they use a lot of composting, you
know, or mulching. So they mulch but not a ton of nitrogen. They don't need to, the rainfall is
sufficient. Yeah, with depending on your crop, some crops need they really do need nitrogen in their
vegetative growth cycle, especially. And so there is nutrients available. But like we we farm 750
acres of macadamia nuts with natural farming in Hawaii, organically, and the amount of nitrogen we
use on our farm now, it's all grown with Korean natural farming is homeopathic. To put a descriptive
word to it, compared to the industry recommended nitrogen amounts. And the experts in our industry
look at it and they're like, well, you'll you'll never get yields with that amount of nitrogen. And
now, you know, five years later, they're like, so what are you doing? Will you speak at our
international conference? You know, like, because our yields are increasing year after year, we're
getting increased yields, while our entire island yields are in decline. And they're thinking, well,
the trees are too old. We have the oldest trees on the island on the farm. And we're increasing year
after year with this tending to the life of the soil.
So going back to the persimmon example, so since so since on this show, we're, you know, our crop, our
target crop is cannabis. And and since the persimmon tree, you know, to its to its advantage, you know,
the leaves fall, and it's already used the key components to make the tree and then when the and
then in the fall, they fall and so they, they then they rot at the base of the tree, and then they go
into the soil. And so it's kind of self, self fertilizing. Since that's not the case with
cannabis plants, essentially, what we're trying to do is to feed the microorganisms that are in the
soil, and kind of replace what would happen if we just let the cannabis plants go through their
season and then degrade and die, you know, after they seed the soil below them, so that they're
ready to go in the spring again, right. So we're just trying to help replace the nature, since we
are we pull the plants out and we don't let them die right there.
Yeah, and you're going for maximum yields in your your square footage. So you're, you're trying to
replace nature, but you're also I mean, like we use specific sprays, or liquid nutrients at each
stage of, say, a cannabis plant. So cannabis plant loves about a 30 to one fungal to bacterial ratio.
So your IMO, or your tending of the microbial life in your soil is going to be the huge component
to have healthy disease resistant, pest resistant, even if they're healthy and have good biology,
microbiology going on in the soil. And, but then there is because we're kind of intensively farming,
there is the need to apply nutrients, you're to get, you know, to maximize yields in your space.
So bringing in like a fish amino acid and nitrogen source at the right time and the right amount is a
big deal. And that's not like frowned upon in natural farming. It is it is about maximizing
yields, but it's also recognizing that the there's a cost to fertilizer that affects your bottom line.
And as a cannabis industry, like in California, they're kind of going through a paradigm shift
as they look look at, okay, I'm not going to get, you know, 2500 a pound anymore, I gotta,
I gotta figure out the new normal, which is definitely sub 1000. And, and find out what my
bottom line is now. And it might mean that they have to look at what they're paying for fertilizers
and inputs and labor and all this stuff. And, and there's, there's hope, you know, this, this
doesn't have to be breaking the bank to make highly productive, beautiful plants.
Right on. So for those of you who are listening, and you're just like dying for us to get to the
techniques, and you're less interested in the in the background that we're doing,
why don't make sure you stay to the second set where we're going to be, we're gonna be talking
about the various amendments. But for now, we're going to take our first short break and be right
back. You're listening to shaping fire and my guest today is Korean natural farming educator,
Chris Trump. Using pesticides when growing cannabis has been common for a long time.
Nowadays, though, we know better. We know that most pesticides formulated for food crops have
never been tested for use with cannabis. They've been tested to be eaten in tiny doses. They have
not been tested to be inhaled, and especially not concentrated into a cannabis oil. Chemical
residues from pesticides are not healthy for anyone, but they are especially dangerous for
patients. For commercial cannabis growers, this has become very impactful. Cannabis enthusiasts
and patients have gotten educated enough that they avoid growers who used pesticides. Not only that,
but states across the country have begun making pesticide testing mandatory on all licensed
cannabis crops. The time has come to find a better way to fight garden pests than covering
your cannabis and chemicals. And there is a better way. Let some good bugs fight your bad bugs.
Beneficial insects and predatory mites have come a long way since we were buying ladybugs online
and putting them in the grow room and just hoping for the best. Natural Enemies Bio-Control can help
you solve pest issues without using chemicals. Natural Enemies founder Shane Young learned best
practices from working in the ornamental plant industry and has fine-tuned those strategies
specifically for large cannabis crops. Shane works with commercial cannabis clients across
the country to ensure that they keep their crops safe and pest-free without the use of chemicals.
Natural Enemies has proven solutions for spider mites, aphids, thrips, russet mites, broad mites,
shore flies, white fly, and others too. You can rely on Natural Enemies for expertise
and excellent service. For more information, go to shapingfire.com forward slash natural enemies
or simply click on their banner in this week's newsletter.
As a listener of Shaping Fire, you already understand the importance of living soil when
growing cannabis. When you have active microbe communities in your substrate,
you go way beyond simply fertilizing with nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium. Having
active microorganisms in your substrate supports vigorous plant growth throughout the plant's root
zone, making for higher yields and thriving flowers. Mammoth pea is the first organically
derived microbial inoculant that focuses on your plant's nutrient cycling processes to release
soil phosphorus and other micronutrients from their bound forms, making them more available
to the plant. Increased levels of phosphorus will also keep inner nodes shorter and focus
your plant's energy on bud production. Not only that, but the microbes act as a defense shield for
the plant's rhizosphere by outcompeting potentially harmful pathogenic microbes.
Pretty cool, right? Mammoth pea not only unlocks the nutrients in your soil,
but it also helps protect your plant from disease. Mammoth pea's beneficial bacteria
act like microbioreactors, continually producing enzymes that release nutrients. Mammoth pea was
developed at a US university and has been extensively tested by Colorado growers and
independent laboratories. Mammoth pea is proven to increase growth and enhance blooming.
One of the great things about supplementing with microorganisms is that they won't compete with
whatever fertilizer program you're already running. Simply dose on top of your fertilizer schedule for
increased benefits. To learn more and to find out where you can buy mammoth pea near you,
check out their website at www.mammothmicrobes.com. Partner with microorganisms to create beautiful,
thriving cannabis, mammoth pea. Welcome back. You are listening to Shaping Fire. I'm your host,
Shango Lose. Our guest this week is Chris Trump, Korean natural farming educator.
Chris, during the first set, we were given a little bit of a background of it, but in this
set, we're going to talk very specific about some of the techniques that we're learning from Korean
natural farming. One phrase that is throughout the literature is this BSJ, brown sugar jaggery.
Let's go ahead and talk a little bit about that first before we get into the different
things we're going to do about it. What is this brown sugar jaggery?
Yeah. It's funny because as we first were learning this, as this first landed in Hawaii
from Korea, there was a significant learning curve, not just from learning the new method, but
just a translation journey where not only are we translating from Korean to English,
we're translating from Korean culture, idioms, and indigenous plants and products to English and
American mindset. That was a huge process for everybody involved. It's something, hopefully,
that in the education going forward, people don't have to go through that painstaking journey that
we went through in the beginning. They can learn from the years of experience we've had since then.
Brown sugar is used in Korean natural farming and a lot of the fermentation
processes with fruits and plants. It was a vital component. Salt is used, but brown sugar and
jaggery, that was one thing. Here in America, you go to Costco and you buy brown sugar.
Really, that's processed sugar with some molasses added back in to make it brown. It was white
sugar and then they browned it with adding the molasses back in. When it was first communicated,
we're talking about the cheap, unprocessed sugar you can get in Korea or some of these other Asian
countries, which is lightly processed cane sugar. It still has the natural molasses in it.
That's mainly what that's talking about. If you can just get brown sugar from Costco, that works.
If you get some unprocessed sugar, there's a bunch of different types that are available
in the US where it's just sugar in the raw. You don't want to buy that. They got a brand name on
that. It's really expensive, but it's the same concept. It's just unprocessed cane sugar or less
processed. Right on. That makes a lot of sense. The word jaggery, it sounds so exotic though.
It's like unprocessed sugar doesn't have the same spin to it, but at least you know it's the same
thing. Let's start at the top of the list with these amendments. I put them in an order of what,
at least to me anyway, seems like it's increasing complexity. I've only made it through the first
few. My goal here is that we can start with something that sounds simple so that folks who
are listening are like, oh, well, I can do that. Then as we go through this long second set,
they'll get increasingly more complex. We'll probably lose some people at fish amino acids,
for example. Let's start with maltose. Break down how people would use maltose and why.
Maltose is something used in Korean fermentation in a bunch of different ways.
In the US, that translates into some of the things we use for beer production. Maltose
for us as American farmers is super helpful and not absolutely necessary.
So as we looked at translating these concepts from Korean culture where some things are super
readily available and everybody knows how to do it to US culture and what we have available,
some of the maltose use got dropped in place of just getting an inexpensive beer rather than
making your own rice beer or rice wine, which maltose is used for.
It's interesting because when I first got started, I'm like, all right, you sprout the barley
and then you crushed it and then you remove the foam from the top. I continued to look for
something that I would then put that in. Now, I didn't know any better and I just added it to my
water that I was using to – my rainwater that I was using for the plants. But are you saying that
folks are not really using this as much anymore because there are other KNF techniques that
cover that same ground? Are you saying that people just don't bother making it themselves anymore?
Yeah. So if you wanted to make your own brown rice vinegar,
you could go through this elaborate process to make the brown rice vinegar
and maltose is involved. If you wanted to make makgeolli, which is Korean rice beer,
which is really tasty and I highly recommend going on that journey if that interests you.
But yeah, we've actually just – that's kind of been edited out of the journey for
kind of an American natural farmer for the most part. It's still cool and it still has a role
if you wanted to make it, but you can do natural farming without ever creating your own maltose.
Yeah, and it's something that I only bothered to do once because as soon as I got turned on to the
second one we're going to talk about, making lactic acid bacteria from a rice water wash,
that seemed to be the first one that really hit and caused my plants to jump. So would you explain
a rice water wash and how to ferment it and why this matters to cannabis plants?
Yeah, so a lot of what you can buy in the store if somebody's making you a
microbe amendment, a lot of it is based in the
lactobacilli family of bacteria, which spans a bunch of little subcategories. And
the idea in Korean natural farming, LAB, lactic acid bacteria,
is that you can culture it from your area, from the air, and make it yourself in a really
effective and simple method and then have freshly brewed kind of highly active
lactic acid bacteria from your environment to apply on your farm. And it's not super expensive,
though milk isn't super cheap. It's pretty doable and accessible for farmers. And I think a lot of
the kind of probiotic cannabis farmers probably started with the LAB.
So will you go ahead and for the people who have never created this, I mean, it's not very complex.
Would you walk them through, walk us all through a recipe that they can kind of wrap their heads
around? I mean, obviously, if somebody really wants to get into this stuff, they're going to
follow up on the episode that we're doing today with some Googling and to get something that's
line by line. But so people can get their heads wrapped around it, would you explain how one
would do it?
Sure. Yeah. So it's funny because I grew up in Hawaii. I was born and raised in Hawaii and the
everybody knows to make rice in Hawaii. It's just culture. And coming to, you know, being involved
in mainland US, some people like, okay, what do you do with rice? And so in the normal, often when
you make rice, you'll give it a rinse first. It's just kind of to take some of the extra kind of
dust off your rice. Not everybody does it that way, but it makes it less sticky.
You know, it makes it a little less sticky.
Yeah. So for this LAB recipe, you take your rice as if you were going to make yourself a pot of
rice and you just fill up some water in your dry rice and rinse it around and the rice, the water
will become kind of milky and white and you pour that off into a clean container. Now, one place
people always are often fail in this process is by having a little soap scum left in the container
they just washed out for this. So if you have soap left in that jar where you pour your rice wash water,
it won't go properly. It won't actually produce the, the bacterias will be inhibited by
the soap remaining in that jar. So just make sure real thorough rinse pro tip there. But go ahead and
and take that rice wash water, set it in a, in a cool and hopefully not direct sunlight spot
with a breathable lid, like a piece of paper towel or paper napkin. And let that sit for about
anywhere from one to three days. Generally, depending on your temperature, if it's really
warm where you are, this might only take a day. If it's cooler, you know, in the 50s, it could take
up to five days. If you can put it outside without it getting messed with, that'd be great. So if you
have it under a tree and it's protected from the rain and the wind's able to blow over it, you're
going to get all the, all the good biology, micro microbes floating in the, floating in the breeze
that can jump in there. But generally a lot of what's going to be in there is just, you know,
what was in the air when it got poured in and on your hands even, which, you know, use clean hands
when you make this. And after about two or three days it will change its smell. And this is ever
so slight. It's a very slight alteration in smell. So you want to be smelling it regularly and all
of a sudden it'll have just the slightest sweet smell to put a taste to a smell. But it's, it's
just a little bit of a hint of fermentation, just, just the slightest change. So if you sense just a
tiny change, it's probably ready. If it smells at all rotten or super sour, it went too long. You
missed that sweet spot. And then you take that rice wash water and you add it in a jar at a rate of
one part rice wash water to 10 parts milk. If you can get whole milk, that's great. And it can be
store-bought. It doesn't have to be organic. It's, if you, if you're going to drink it yourself, you
know, as a, as a, you know, health thing, then you probably go for the milk that you would want to
drink. But if you're feeding, if you're putting it on soil I would just encourage you to not spend a
ton of money on this. And yeah, add it one part rice wash water to 10 parts milk. Put it in a cool
and place out of direct sunlight with a breathable lid again, like a paper towel. You can use a
rubber band to put it around the lid. And you leave that and should be around five days, two to
five days. And you'll have a separating of the curds and the whey, just like Miss Muffet ate when
she sat on her tuffet. And yeah, it's so the yellow serum or the clear serum that forms in the jar
is your whey proteins. And that's where all your LAD activity is going to be. And then the curds
is your casein protein. So the two proteins in milk will separate due to fermentation. You, you
extract your curds or strain them out. You can let some of the way I like to use something that's fine
as a t-shirt cloth. If you use something too thick, like a strainer or too porous, like a strainer,
you're going to get a lot of cloudiness from the curds going stain in your LAD serum. And really,
you want it to be clear. So I like to use something like a t-shirt. And then yeah, you pull off your
curds. You can make cheese with that or just eat them, mix them with some something and eat them.
You can feed them to your livestock or animals. They'll love them. And it's great for them. And
then that, that liquid, that clear liquid that you have left, you can store in your fridge with a
breathable lid, but that you can use on your plant at a rate of one to a thousand. So one part LAD
to a thousand parts water. And it's excellent for all kinds of things. There's a ton
of applications of that in the natural farming toolkit, but that's the basics.
And as far as adding it to your cannabis plants goes, there's a, you know, there's a lot of
different ways that you can use it, but I would say that, you know, people should know that they
can both pour it into their soil directly, but it also works really great as a foliar, right?
Yeah. Yeah. So at the rate of one to a thousand, it's really safe. It's not going to cause shock
or, or, you know, any, any kind of over concentration issues.
One of the things that I was curious about is, is that, you know, once you've gotten to this point
and it's in your fridge and your ratio is one to a thousand, you know, chances are that the,
the, the, the LAB that you have made, it's going to last for a while, but, but I don't really know
how long, and if there's a way that you can extend the life of it, so you're not having to make it,
you know, every couple of weeks, what's your experience?
You know, I, I feel like, in a fridge with a breathable lid, you have vitality for anywhere
from one to two months. So don't feel like that, that you got to use it within the week. It's still
real viable within a couple months. I wouldn't go beyond a couple months. I think that third
month it's, you're probably losing some of the vitality you had initially, but at that temperature
in a refrigerator, it's really, everything's going to slow down and kind of just go to sleep or,
or calm down a lot of their processes. And yeah, so you, you're really going to get a
great storage in a fridge. If you had to store without refrigeration, you could mix it
equal mass with brown sugar. So you can measure that by weight or, or generally volume. You really
want to put a ton of brown sugar in. So it's all the water's kind of tied up in that. And, and you
can store that, that stores less, I would say a month would be the max on a non-refrigerated kind
of brown sugar storage. It's not recommended to store it with molasses. Some people do that.
That's, that's not really recommended in Korean natural farming,
but you got to do what you can with what you got.
All right, so, so, so let's move on to our next amendment because rice water wash is great. And,
you know, for people who are new to this, it is a, you know, I, I can speak for myself. It is a,
it is a good confidence builder, right? When you do that, when you do that as simple as it is,
and, and it goes right, you're like, all right, I'm ready to go. What's next? And for me, the next
one that we're going to talk about fermented fruit juice, also all over the internet as FFJ,
this was the first thing that I came across that I'm like, all right, this is different. What is
this? And I, and then I heard the term Korean natural farming for the first time. So similar
to like what we just did with the rice water wash, would you explain fermented fruit juice and, and,
and then how, how you choose your fruits and then how you do your ferment?
Yeah. Let me touch on, if it's all right with you, Shanko, the,
some of the misconceptions I've seen on the internet regarding FFJ. So FFJ is used in
natural farming in fairly limited kind of amount. So we use it for ripening promotion in fruit and
a few other inputs. But in, in the cannabis world, it seemed to have been adopted as a thing for
fruits, meaning bud production. And I think that that's a little bit of a mistranslation
of the, of the concepts in natural farming. And it's, it's not so much intended for that purpose,
believe it or not. FPJ is actually what you want for that. And, and we can get into that next. I'm
sure fermented plant juice. So fermented fruit juice. And then the second kind of misnomer I've
seen in just some of the information on the internet is that you just want to buy the best
things you can from the store to make your FFJ with and that all these tropical fruits we're
using in Hawaii or these things are the best when again, that's not really the case. What you want
to get if you're doing FFJ is you want to find the things that you can find wild in your environment.
So if there's... This goes all the way back to what you started with, right? That you want to
use the microbes that you find in your neighborhood so that they, they live where you grow.
Yeah. There's, there's some, there's some real benefit to getting the beneficial biochemicals
that are in the plants that thrive in your environment and the plant growth hormones
that are fresh. They're not something that was picked green, got ripe in the truck coming across
the world and has been sitting and kind of calming down in all its really vibrancy for weeks. And
before it even gets to ferment in your fermentation vessel and then it has none of its
yeast and bacteria on its surface that helped it grow because that was all bleach washed off.
And so people get these really funky green molds and stuff forming on the top. And that's mostly
because none of that by, none of those microbes that worked with that plant for it to grow
in a symbiotic way were present when they began their fermentation. So they're just getting
whatever was on their hands or in their jar or which isn't really sufficient or proper for this
type of fermentation that we're trying to accomplish. We really want a plant to ferment
in its own microbiology or microorganisms. Yeah. So that's, that's a misnomer. So FFJ is a
combination of three ripe fruits. So this could be strawberries. It could be,
it could be even like things we don't normally eat. Like, oh man, I can't think of off the top
of my head Pacific Northwest. Like rose hips if you're thinking about Northwest. Yeah. Rose hips
are great. Yeah. I see all kinds of those. Yeah. Rose hips, squash, you know yeah. There's all
kinds of anything that you can think of that ripens to a ripe fruit, even if it's wild and kind
of not really a normal thing you would eat. But say the birds eat it. Those are all your,
your ripe fruits. And so you could harvest those with FFJ. You can use up to three fruits and it's
actually recommended to use three varieties of fruit. So it's more complex biologically?
Yeah. And also just ripe fruits have kind of, they've, they've processed to a different kind of
profile in, in kind of what's going on in biochemicals and plant growth hormone and
all that stuff, which is, you know, it's, it's not, it's a part of it. We don't,
science is working hard to understand all that's going on there. But yeah, so three,
three different fruits, you mix it with equal weights, brown sugar. So if you have
five pounds of a variety of fruit, you get five pounds of brown sugar. Generally, if your fruit's
really dry, maybe your rose hips have almost no moisture in it. You can start with less sugar
for, but generally the rule is one-to-one sugar by weight. You massage it together,
break up your fruits, chop it up, whatever. So you kind of mash it. You put it in a jar, this,
this mash that you've just done, you put it in a jar to ferment for about five to seven days.
And it'll separate, you'll have liquid and solids. And it's really undergoes a cool
fermentation process. That amount of sugar is so that it doesn't run away. Now, when you go to
store it, so you strain it off, your solids can be strained out. So you just have your liquid left.
If you use the less sugar than one-to-one, or if it seems like it's still really active when
storing, you can add sugar. You want to kind of maximize the, the, the sugar so that all the water
molecules are kind of tied up and it stops fermenting. Cause if you have too much water,
it'll keep going into alcohol. And we don't want it to become a strong alcohol. We want it to kind
of stay in that minor fermentation that it did just in that five to seven days. And then that
you can store with a breathable lid at room temperature. And that keeps for a long time.
That can keep for six months really and be viable. And you use that on your farm at a rate of one to
500. When you're, when you're brewing up your fermented fruit juice, you're using a permeable
top on that. Well, just like the rest of these, right? Like the cheesecloth or something,
because you're, you, you both want to have the, the, the air exchange and you want to invite
air bound, you know, yeasts and things, right? Yeah. Yeah. And with FFJ and FPJ, we expect that
we have a lot of our microbes already in there. But yeah, we want that, that breathability, that,
that gas exchange that'll happen because the microbes they'll be using oxygen and just like
us, they, they breathe. You know, one of the things, you know, my, the first time I tried
to make this, I used store bought stuff and you're right. When, when, when fruits travel,
I mean, I used papaya cause that's what the literature was saying, right? But the papaya
has traveled a really long way. And in a lot of ways they try to sterilize it as much as they can
for travel because they don't want it to rot along the way. So you're getting a version of
the fruit. Definitely not what the locals where it was grown, we're eating. And a local friend
of mine said, you know, I explained to him my issue and why my first FFJ didn't work. And he
says, just go glean off the trees, you know, whatever, whatever's near your house, because
it's, it's not like you are, you're making this to eat. And so you necessarily need it to be
palatable. All you need are the essential ingredients of the fruit. So, so if you, you
know, if you or your neighbors got an old, you know, plum tree and you know, just, just go glean
off of it. And especially if it's moving from ripe to overripe, so long as it hasn't started
producing alcohol, man, there's so much biological activity in that thing. It's going to make a great
FFJ. Yep. Yeah. That's ideal. Right on, right on. So, so we're seeing that we want to, you know,
the brewing part is easy and to get some local fruits that are, that are, you know, got all of
the, the, the life stuff on the outside of it. And then, and then make sure that we add enough
sugar. And then I was actually, I'm actually surprised that, that it lasts as long as it is
just at room temperature. I actually went through mine really fast because I figured that fruit,
you know, I always think of fruit being unstable and it's going to go to alcohol quickly, but,
but it seems like if you, if you put enough sugar in, you're going to slow it down. And then at room
temperature like not on top of the fridge, like kombucha, it'll, it'll help it sleep even more.
Right. Yeah. And, and the, the, the thing that's actually causing it to be shelf stable is the
amount of sugar. So if you added you know, two parts water to that. So if you just dumped in
a bunch of water that would go off like crazy and go from alcohol to vinegar. So it's the,
the sugar is dry. It actually creates bonds with the water molecules and the microbes to,
that do fermentation need water to do any of their process. So by this, the specific balance of sugar
or by total saturation of sugar, you've actually trapped all your, your water molecules in,
in chemical bonds with sugar. And, and there's not a whole lot of water available. So you've
created kind of a desert environment for your microbes. So they all are just kind of hanging
around waiting for you to reintroduce water, which you do when you add FPJ or FFJ at a rate of one to
500. That makes so much more sense to me. So, so even though the essential ingredients are there
for it to continue on to alcohol, because the sugar is out of balance with the water, the microbes
don't have the magic combination to continue their party on to alcohol. So they just hang out until
you add them to water and then you do, you know, foliar or just add it to your sip or whatever
you're, whatever you're going to do with it. Yep. Yeah. And they, they, um,
there are minor alcohols produced in that initial fermentation. Um, so there is a little bit,
but yeah, they can't continue and use all that sugar because they don't have the water needed.
Right on, right on. So, uh, the next one we're going to talk about, uh, fermented plant juice.
This one is a nice because you can, you know, you can wild craft, um, uh, you know,
the plants that you want to use pretty much year round. Whereas, you know, if you're,
if you're going to glean, you either need to do it during fruit season, or you need to get a little
more creative, like with rose hips or something. So, so, uh, why don't we do the same process with
fermented plant juice, please? Yeah. Fermented plant juice is really similar, um, to fermented
fruit juice, except you don't use multiple plants in one brew. Um, if I'm going to use my SPJs and
I want to use my rhubarb SPJ, um, at the same time I use my dandelion SPJ, then I could just add,
you know, uh, uh, half of each to make one to 500 and use it at that time. But for storage,
they stay separate and for the initial brew process, they stay separate. So, um, that's,
that's specifically for, for some of the, you know, one might have a much more delicate yeast
and bacteria makeup all over it that, um, it's going to do its fermentation and, and process it.
Then another one, and if I combine them for fermentation, um, you're going to have, uh,
you know, the dominant one or the stronger one would take over and, and you'd never even have
a representation or very small of the, you know, the less dominant. So yeah, you really,
you want to make these separately, um, and store them separately. But yeah, with SPJ,
you can use all kinds of stuff. I used rhubarb here in Idaho, uh, last year. It was incredible.
There was tons of it. It was easy. It tasted amazing. And if I wanted to, you know, bring in a,
a new person and, and make them taste our fertilizer, um, you know, they were kind of
floored by being able to drink this incredibly tasting, uh, you know, ferment we're using on
plants. And, uh, so that was fun, but, um, you can use anything so much is available and what
you're identifying as you look for a plant for SPJ is something that always is thriving in your
environment. So you want to look at for something that nobody ever takes care of and it always
looks beautiful and green and lush and the bugs don't even mess with it. And so find those plants,
you know, um, like where, where I live or, oh yeah. Ice plants a good one. Uh, also where I live,
we have tons of horsetail, right? That was the first one I tried. Cause everyone said, oh,
the silica in it is, is really great for, uh, for building the strength of the cannabis plant.
Sure. Yeah. Horsetail is great. Um, what are some other examples of, of inputs like silica
that we think about wanting in cannabis that we can get from other wild crafted plants? Just,
just to, so people can kind of get similar on the idea of like, oh, if I want, you know,
phosphorus, I can use this plant. Well, that's something that's kind of come out of the kind of,
um, general thoughts online that isn't straight out of natural farming, um, from Korea. That's,
um, that's things that people have kind of done and that's, you know, that's not
necessary. That's not really something I would say is wrong. I think those are really good thoughts,
but that's not out of the traditional natural farming kind of, um, process with, if we wanted
phosphorus or potassium or calcium, some of these things, there's inputs for that water,
soluble calcium, WCA or water, soluble calcium phosphate, WCAP or WCP. And, um, so there are
solutions for that in the natural farming toolkit. Um, but I think that, that, that idea of Horsetail
is actually, uh, it's a great thought process. Um, but there's, there's more to it. There's, um,
we want the new growth of some of these plants we're identifying so that those growing tips,
um, is where a plant puts a ton of its energy. Think of T-cells and plant growth hormone and,
and all this stuff that, that we associate with, um, potential, um, energy. And, uh, that's what
plants kind of jam all its energy into its new growth or it's, it's budding fruits. So green
fruit is all, um, uh, categorized as FPJ material. So if you take, um, you know, half, half formed
apples or, um, you know, green plums, um, that would be an FPJ. Um, you could take rhubarb
stalks and their leaves. You could take, um, ice plant or Ivy. Um, you can take, or you could take
grass, uh, so you identify some vibrant grasses. You can make an FPJ out of that. Um, so kind of
sky's the limit. Dandelion, we use dandelion, we use purslane, um, all kinds of things.
That's really interesting. You just totally kind of put, put my approach to this on its head because
we're not actually looking for the specific input. For example, I use the one of, of the
silica in the horsetail. Actually we want to get the microbial level, you know, life force,
one level of magnitude down. Um, yeah, that's pretty heavy duty. Yeah. So, so, and it's,
there's so little of this, um, that we're using. It's, um, it's a whole system. It's not,
it's not just like FPJ is the one thing. FPJ is a food for the plants and the microbes and it is,
um, important and you are getting silica if you're using horsetail, you know, that is part of
it, but there's, there's more to it. And it's that whole system that you, you're tending to the
microbial life, um, in the soil on the plant itself. And, um, and yeah, so yeah, it isn't
just like identify a phosphorous rich plant. That's, that's fine. And he can, but, um,
but you're missing the bigger picture. Yeah. You're missing, you're missing the love.
Right. It's kind of, it's kind of a humility. You're kind of like, okay,
there's actually some things in nature that are beyond the NPK and then the 23 minor minerals.
Um, there's something beyond this. And we're discovering that as we dig deeper and understanding
phytonutrients and these, you know, biochemicals, we're realizing this is actually more complex than
we thought it would. Yeah. That makes a lot of sense. And to, and to steal the line from Jeff
Lohenfels, this is like us teaming with the nutrients, right? This is us saying, all right,
we don't necessarily understand the life force magic that happens, you know, inside of the new
growth green, you know, the, the green new growth on the edge of the, on the tip of the plant.
But, but we know that if we take it and, and if we ferment it a little bit to encourage it,
to make more of it, whatever that, you know, unknown life forces becomes multiplied.
And then our cannabis plants are fricking stoked. Something like that. And, and in the,
in the process where we're kind of saying, and we're just trying to partner with nature. We
don't, we're just trying to take something that's a vibrant and give it, um, you know,
into our commercial growing system and, um, benefit from what nature is already doing well.
Right on, right on. So let's move on to, uh, fish amino acids. I haven't done this one yet. And
just the fish aspect of it, um, has, has, has caused me to, to hesitate a little bit,
but, um, but, but, but please, if you will explain, you know, what the, what the idea
behind this is and what the process looks like. So this is, um, probably one of the best
nitrogen sources you can do. Um, you can get, um, for teaming with microbial life and, uh,
and using things that are really, um, micronized. So all of natural farming, these foliar sprays and
these inputs are highly available and micronization micronized is, uh, nutrients is,
is really, uh, it's a word, it's a thing where through fermentation and the breakdown by
microorganisms of the components in these things, we're getting this, this, um, end product,
this material that actually can be absorbed by the plant itself, um, without the need for, um,
so like if you apply chemical fertilizer for that to ever be available to the plant, um,
it actually has to be processed by some microorganism. So, you know, the people,
aquapon or hydroponic farmers, they're always bleaching and then they put in their nutrients.
And as soon as they put in their nutrients and the plant roots, they find that all the
plant roots are colonized by bacteria. And they're like, I just bleached. Why is there this
bacteria for them, their plants, even to get access to these liquid fertilizers they're putting in,
they need those bacteria. And so, um, for, for us, fish amino acid is this is really amazing
fertilizer. Um, there's fish, hydrolithic dates and, uh, fish emulsions that you can buy.
And both of those are good. I think hydrolithic dates a little better than emulsion, but really,
uh, a lot of those things, they're, they're taking off the fats for a fish oil product on the side,
you know, so they're double dipping in, in kind of, um, productivity or, or profitability of their
product. Um, they're, or they're taking off some other by-product of the fish and using it elsewhere.
So you're not getting the whole suite of what, um, uh, you know, like a fish has to offer.
Whereas this fish amino acid, this fermented whole fish or, or fish waste is, um, the whole thing.
And it's being highly micronized by instead of us cooking it or, um, doing these other processes,
it's being fermented. So the breakdowns happening by microorganisms. Um, yeah, it's, it's a great
thing. And your plants, if you actually make this in the way that, um, it's supposed to be
made your plants really react. Um, they love this stuff. So, well, then let's talk, let's talk about
how it's supposed to be made. Uh, do you really need to use the blue, uh, blue backed fish as it
says in the, you know, the, the, the, the, you know, the, the, the original treatise, or can you
use, can you use whatever you want? Is there something special about blue backed fish?
Yeah. So, uh, that blue back fish for, for the sake of kind of translating that, um, culturally
and language it's deep water fish. Um, they, they've taken on a different level of, um, or a
different amount of the kind of minerals of the ocean. So farm raised fish or pond fish or river
fish aren't going to have quite the same kind of mineral, um, tied up in their systems as deep
water fish are. So you're getting this kind of, um, complexity of nutrition, um, for your plants
that a deep water fish has maybe more than a river fish. So that's, that's kind of what that's
talking about. Um, so can I use what fish I say, say all I have is steelhead or, or tilapia. Um,
can I use that and get a fish fertilizer? Yeah, you can. And there is, there is something to this
deep water fish being recommended. So, um, just knowing that, okay, I don't have the best source,
but I have this tilapia, that's what I have available. It's cheap and, and accessible. Um,
just know that there, there might be some benefit if you could get, you know, that stuff coming off
the fishing vessels down at the Harbor. Um, you, you might get some additional benefit. Um,
and that's, that's why that's recommended. So up to you, you gotta, ultimately you're king on your
farm. You get to make the decisions you want to make, and you can, you can do parts of this. Um,
but the year, the natural farming has been thought out very thoroughly. And, uh, every time
I dig into the science, um, I find it, um, founded in really, really good scientific thought and
theory and, and, um, truth. So, yeah. So let's say, okay, so I've either, I've either gone down
to the, uh, the, the Harbor and, and bought a, you know, a tuna or something off a boat.
Um, or, or more realistically, the first time I try this, I'm probably going to use something,
you know, less expensive, like tilapia or sardines, something that if I screw it up,
you know, I won't feel as quite so bad about it. So, so now that I have my fish, how, how do you
go about in stacking this ferment? Yeah. Well, let me clarify real quick. If you go down and
buy a fresh tuna off the, off the fish, make sure you get the fillets off, make yourself some
sashimi and enjoy that with your friends and only use the bones, the guts and the head for,
um, or, or the carcass, the guts in the head for this fish amino acid. Don't let me hear of
anybody wasting a perfectly good tuna on fertilizer for, uh, yeah, that, that would just be a tragedy.
So no, no, I was thinking that it sounded really expensive to use a whole deep water fish, but,
but with that, with that addition, what actually might make a lot more sense is to just go to your,
your, your local, um, you know, Japanese market where they prepare and clean the fish
and just ask them, say, Hey, can I come back at the end of the day? Yeah. Yeah. Cause I'm sure
they'd be thrilled to give it to you. Especially if you say you're doing something like exotic like
this and be like, oh yeah, we'll hook you up. Yeah. This is what that is. So yeah, don't,
don't confuse this. This is cheap. This is supposed to be the, the waste products. And,
and a lot of times people are cooking with the head, so you might not even get the head. You
might only get the carcass and the gut and, uh, that's fine. Some Asian cultures, you're not even
going to get it that they're going to, they're going to cook with all of that. But, um, yeah,
I actually just recently for the class I taught last November and Boise, I, uh, I just asked our
local, uh, sushi, um, shop if, uh, if they had any, uh, fish heads, they got all their tuna
came pre filleted. So I couldn't get any tuna, but I got all their salmon heads and carcasses.
They gave them a cooler of those to me. And so I'm, I have fish amino acid brewing in my office
that doesn't smell at all. Um, and, and I share that, that office, I have two offices where I
work and that office is shared with like six other people. And, uh, nobody even knows it's there.
And it's, it's basically rotting fish, but it's not rotting. It's aerobically fermenting fish.
Anyways, here's the process. So, so you take your fish waste as we've established, not,
not the fillets eat those fish waste, equal weights, brown sugar. You sensing the theme here?
Yeah, I get it. Okay. Equal weights, brown sugar. Um, a dash of IMO for,
so I am very intentionally not giving you a specific measurement. You don't have to have
a super specific measurement. This is just a light inoculum. So just a handful of IMO for,
um, for that fermentation, that kind of really skewing your, your microbe
for folks who don't know what IMO for is. Will you, will you briefly hit that?
Yeah. So that's, that's, I've taken microbes out of my local forest. I've multiplied them out on
substrate. Um, it's a, it's a four step process. So the number four just refers to it's the fourth
stage in the process of taking it out of the forest and getting it ready for my farm. Um,
so it's just a indigenous inoculum. So you could take a handful of leaf litter out of your local
forest if you didn't have IMO for, um, so you handful of inoculum, whether it's leaf litter
out of your forest or IMO for IMO for is ideal. Um, and then just a little bit of, um, just a
splash of OHN if you have it, OHN is another natural farming ferment. I have a YouTube video
on how to make it, um, Oriental herbal nutrient. Anyways, don't worry about those. If you don't
have those, you could still make this, but I would recommend going out to the forest and getting
some visible spider webby mycelium in a handful and throwing it in here. But if you don't have
that, you can still make it. So, um, the basic process is equal weights, brown sugar, and, um,
put it in a cooler and leave it to ferment over time. The absolute earliest you would want to
extract that in the natural farming, um, recipe would be three months. And truthfully, that's too
soon. It's not going to be finished. So best is a year. If you just throw it in a cooler,
you can put a lid on it. You don't, you want to, whatever you do, you want to set it up. So rats or
some rodent can't get in and ruin all your hard work. Um, but what I'll usually do is stick a mesh
over it and throw a lid on it loosely. So no rodents can get in a little bit, a little bit of
air can transfer. Um, airflow is positive, but sometimes it's hard to find a container where it
can both breathe and be closed, um, and protected. But yeah, then you leave it for a year. What
you'll have is you'll have just the bones left over and you'll have this like blackish liquid.
It'll be straight liquid fish. And, uh, it, it smells and tastes like a fish sauce that you buy
at the store for cooking. Um, it's really, it's really a positive smell and taste. Um, yes, I've
tasted my fish. I mean, well, acid, I I've made it with fresh tuna off the coast of Hawaii and
brown sugar and a handful of IMO for that. I made myself and kept it nice and clean and, uh,
and a fresh, uh, cooler. And, uh, and then it came off and it's just a beautiful,
if you could make food with it, you know, this could be instead of making plant fertilizer,
you just made fish sauce for cooking, but really it is, um, it's great cheap fertilizer.
So how do you know if it goes bad? Right? Like, uh, like if, like if it starts to smell,
is that a good, um, a good suggestion that something went a lot wrong along the process?
Yeah. If you do it, if you do it according to this recipe, it really doesn't go bad. Um,
but if you didn't have an inoculum, um, you could have a, a month period where it smelled kind of
foul. Um, but that also probably means there was something wrong with your ratio of fish to sugar,
um, or something like that. If, if you find, if it seems like there's way too much liquid,
you may need to add a little extra sugar. Um, if it, you know, that's anyway, you don't worry
about that, but really it shouldn't smell. Um, something's probably gone wrong. Um,
but if you can get just even a handful of soil from a wild environment could,
could be all you need. You just need some kind of inoculum. Um, yeah.
Right on. Good. Wow. All right. Well, this is clearly the, uh, the longest, uh, uh, segment of
shaping fire that we've ever done here at 50 minutes. So let's go ahead and take our second,
uh, break and we'll be right back. You're listening to shaping fire. And my guest today
is Korean natural farming educator, Chris Trump. While I certainly still enjoy smoking joints,
I moved over to using vaporizers about three years ago. The high was a little different than
burning the flower. And in the end I decided I preferred it for daily use, especially because
I have asthma. More importantly, though, I could taste my flower so much more. It's hard to express
to you how significantly different cannabis with a good terpene profile tastes when vaped instead
of burned. I have brought my vape with me to visit growers and they are astonished by the
clarity of taste. And they say they feel like they're tasting their flower for the very first
time. The air vape vaporizer from air vape, usa.com is a great device to use on the go or at home.
When you pick it up, it feels satisfying like a medical device. It isn't flimsy like many vapes
are. I like how the flower is inserted in the top instead of the bottom. So travels a shorter path
to my mouth. With the cannabis at the top, I get a hit that feels more substantial, even though I'm
just inhaling vapor and not full bodied smoke. Since I use this vape for flower, hash and
concentrates, I really like that the digital control for the temperature is right there on
the front. Three clicks of the button and it fires up to the temperature I specify really quickly
and discreetly. You know, vape concentrates are a milder experience than dabbing, but you still get
the potency in your hit. Also, the taste is great as would be expected with a low temp dab.
I love that this vape gives quick little vibrations when it gets to the right temperature.
That way, if I'm chatting or distracted while it's heating up, it lets me know when it's ready.
If you are ready for a nice pocket-sized vaporizer, consider the air vape. The new air vape x has just
come out and it's gorgeous and includes many updates. You can find more about the air vape
vaporizer at air vape usa.com. If you grow cannabis with sunshine, you can often feel limited by the
seasonal cycle. You want to grow sustainably and save money, so you use as little electricity as
possible. But if you haven't studied or implemented light deprivation techniques into your greenhouse,
you're leaving a lot of money on the table. By incorporating light deprivation solutions
into your greenhouse, you can often add two or three additional growing cycles to your year.
When you pencil out the financial benefit of those additional cycles, you'll realize why
commercial-scale light deprivation technology is remaking the cannabis industry. What used to be
done by pulling tarps over hoop houses has been scaled up over the last few years in such a way
that it's become mechanized, easy, and affordable to even small-scale commercial cannabis operations.
Forever Flowering Greenhouses is the industry leader in light deprivation, greenhouse design,
and operation for the commercial cannabis industry. Their team of greenhouse experts
have been in the fields of Northern California for decades, and they're now building greenhouses for
commercial cannabis companies across the country. If you are new to light dep and growing in
greenhouses, I encourage you to go back to Shaping Fire episode 13 with guest Eric Branstad
of Forever Flowering. I talk with Eric about the importance of intelligent greenhouse management,
as well as the huge financial benefit of incorporating light dep techniques.
There are so many aspects of utilizing a greenhouse that can go wrong.
From temperature and airflow to light dep and workflow, Forever Flowering will help you produce
crop after crop of well-cared-for flowers. They can help you retrofit your existing greenhouse
with light dep and other modern systems at a level that fits your budget. If you're just
starting out, Forever Flowering can help you plan and build your new greenhouse so that you get
started on the right foot. The cannabis business has enough risks without trying to go it alone
with your greenhouse. Contact Forever Flowering Greenhouses to partner with folks who have an
indisputable reputation as knowledgeable and easy to work with. Go to shapingfire.com forward slash
FFG to find out more. Welcome back. You are listening to Shaping Fire. I'm your host,
Shangelos. Our guest this week is Chris Trump, Korean natural farming educator.
If you're still with us after the second set, I appreciate you staying with us. You are either
here for Chris Trump and you're not a regular listener, or if you are a regular listener,
you just totally got indoctrinated into Korean natural farming. Here on this last set,
we're going to talk about a couple of different topics. The first one we're going to start out
with is one of my favorites since I live on an island here, and that's fermented seawater. I got
to tell you, Chris, when I first read this, I thought it was a typo or something. How do we
go about fermenting seawater? It's really cool because
it's philosophically in natural farming, the concept is we rose out of the ocean.
Ocean is the mother of life. You have all the ocean mineral components and soil and human blood
is very similar. Actually, plant blood, quote unquote, or cytoplasm is very similar to
seawater as well. Actually, plant, quote, blood is very similar to seawater diluted at a rate of 1
to 30. In natural farming, you'll see seawater is used at a dilution rate of 1 to 30.
Basically, you're using something very similar to plant blood. When we're at the hospital,
we maybe got dehydrated or something, we're getting an IV of saline because it helps us
process stress or dehydration. This is really actually a quite similar concept. Fermented
seawater is giving some microbes access to all those great minor minerals in seawater
along with some plant material. Fermented seawater is ocean water 1 to 30,
LAB 1 to 700, and I think FPJ 1 to 300, somewhere in there. Sorry, off the top of my head.
It's fermented for 24 hours. You can ferment it longer or store it in a vessel and it can just
stay fermented seawater. If you're raising animals and you want to cheaply better your
pasture land, this is a great, great thing to spray on grassland. It's also just something you
can spray on your crops somewhat regularly, weekly or every other week with great results
and again, almost no cost. The ratios that you give for the inputs, those ratios are all to
fresh water, right? Yes. Right on. Does it matter? I'm assuming that with most of these things,
we want to use rainwater is probably best or perhaps RO, but we want to stay away from our
chlorinated tap water, I would assume. Yeah. If you want to stay away from chlorinated tap water,
RO is actually really a vacuum, mineral-ly speaking. Distilled water and RO are fairly
similar and you want to be careful. That can be kind of shocking to plants actually
because it's such a vacuum. It can suck stuff out. Yeah. Water is so readily bonded to so many
things that it actually can pass through your system and draw mineral rather than – that can
have consequences. Yeah. That's interesting. Right on. You make it in this – you put it
together, fresh water with the salt water, the FPJ and what was the third ingredient?
LAB. Oh, the LAB. Yeah, that's right, the LAB.
And then how long do you let it ferment? How do you know when you're ready to go?
It's just 24 hours. So you can go longer. But yeah, LAB is that thing we make with the rice
wash and the milk, that serum. And so that's your fermenter. Your plant juice is kind of like
a nutrient. And this came over hundreds of years of observation of different things that farmers
did where basically they found that if they took these minor minerals and some plant component
through fermentation, the leftover liquid did gangbuster cool things to crops. And it was
often done accidentally or – so like in Korea, they make kimchi. And the kimchi water dumped out,
all their plants, wherever they dumped their kimchi water went ballistic and were the tastiest
and sweetest. And so they found that that mineral, that minor mineral allows plants to do
complex sugar making, which we associate with flavor.
Yeah, that makes sense. And the other thing, not only does the seawater have all of those
micro minerals, but it also has got entirely different communities of microbial activity.
Is it true?
Yeah. And you feed those guys some FPJ and – wait, which did you say? Fermented fruit
juice or the plant juice goes into this?
Plant juice.
Plant juice, right. So you give them that nutrient. I bet you they would multiply super fast.
Yeah. And for those landlocked people, if you don't have ocean water or you got to drive eight
hours to get some and that's just not realistic, you could get some sea salt and put it into water
at a rate of 30 grams per liter to make the – basically that's seawater. 30 grams to one
liter of freshwater is now you have a bottle of seawater and then you can dilute that one to 30.
If you wanted to skip the dilution step, you could put one gram per one liter and then you
have a dilution of one to 30.
Or it's a great excuse to go on a beach vacation.
Just bring back water with you. Just do it fast because I'm sure that those
microbes don't like to hang out in containers very long.
No. Seawater keeps really nicely. So in landlocked places in Korea, they actually go and they'll get
a tanker and they have these underground storage vats and they just fill these big old vats and
then as they need it, they pull it out. Oh, great. So let's talk about water
soluble minerals. I mean we talked about that a little bit earlier when you redirected me about
the silica from the horsetail I was using. You alluded to that there's actually something in
Korean natural farming for these minerals in case you want to turn up your calcium, if you've got to
turn up your phosphoric acid. So why don't you break down what water soluble minerals are in K&F?
Yeah. There's a lot of those and some of them are with acid and rock and that's some proprietary
things that Master Cho does and that knowledge will kind of trickle out over the next several
years. But the basics that are really important are water soluble calcium phosphate. So that's
kind of your phosphorous, water soluble calcium and then water soluble potassium, WSK. So those
are WCA is the calcium, WCP is sometimes used or WCAP for calcium phosphate and then WSK for
potassium. Sorry, I just rattled those off. And then to create them, I have some videos on
phosphorous and calcium you can check out on YouTube. But the basic recipe is that you take
eggshells or if you had access to coral sand you could use that too. But eggshells, you heat them
in a pan until they kind of cook past so the organic matter kind of chars off.
And you have just kind of the calcium of eggshells. You throw them in brown rice vinegar.
So now you have this highly basic material, this calcium rich material and you throw it in an acid
and you get a chemical reaction where the acid yanks out all this calcium and you take calcium.
Now you have calcium in solution or micronized through that chemical process. So you have a
water soluble calcium highly plant available and we use that at a rate of 1 to 1,000.
And then for phosphorous, we take bones. So any old butcher bones or whatever you have,
you could even go out to a ranch and get sun bleached bones out on the range and take them,
you throw them on the fire, you char them, basically like you want to make biochar.
So if you have a biochar process already, that's great, but you char them so they're past the
organic matter. So they're just down, you've kind of charred off all the organic matter
and they're down to kind of their mineral. And so they're kind of a solid black, even some white on
the edges turning to ash isn't terrible. But if it's all white, it's gone to ash, it's really not
good. You want to get it kind of at the point where it's, even if it's some ash, it's fine,
even if it's some white, but you don't want it to be brown where it's still got a bunch of organic
matter. So I have, I showed that in the video, but it's down to its mineral. Again, you throw
that in a brown rice vinegar and it reacts and yanks out all that mineral and puts it in the
solution and you can spray that foliarly and it's highly plant available. So that helps you
at these specific stages in plant development, in vegetative growth, you're going to want that
calcium kind of banging in there more so. And then in that changeover, as it goes, just before it
goes into flowering in natural farming, we encourage the use of the water-soluble calcium
phosphate and then some more as it makes its fruit. For folks who have never done biochar
and the idea of, you know, charring this stuff is new. How long would you say, and I haven't
actually done bone, you know, if you were going to say, take a small amount of bones and put it in
like an old coffee can or something and cover it with foil and you put it on the grill or something
like that, how long would you say that it would take for bone to reach this mineral state we're
shooting for? You know, it's really going to depend on what your setup is. If you're just
doing it on an open grill with an open fire, you can kind of watch it change. So that might be a
way to do it initially, but it kind of, if you're doing some kind of enclosed thing, it's going to
depend on your heat of your fire and how you set it up. But on the grill, open flame, it takes
probably 30 minutes if you're just turning it with some barbecue tongs or something.
Right on. And that's what I was going for is I just wanted to hear that 30 minutes so people
understood this is not like a five hour thing. This is actually, even though we made it sound
a little more exotic, you know, with the bones, it's actually, you know, not all that hard to do
the recipe once you have the bones. I mean, clearly the eggshells are a lot easier to get.
Yeah, that's true.
Yeah. So to finish off the show, Chris, I want to reward all of the hardcore Korean
natural farming folks who not only recommended you for the show, but also were like cheering me
on for having you on the show because, you know, you were certainly a, you know, I don't think
you'd refer to yourself as a celebrity, but I can refer to you as a celebrity in KNF. So I want to
invite you to go over my head, right? I only know what to ask you based on the little bit I've
learned so far and the questions that people suggested me. So I'd like you to go over my head
and talk about something that you're excited about right now that will be, you know, a nice reward
to the KNF people who stayed with us throughout the show and were waiting for you to like drop
something, you know, heavy over my head. So please, if you would, you know, what have you been
excited about recently that you want to share?
Yeah, there's, you know, this journey in KNF is, it's deep because it's really a pursuit of
understanding and partnering with nature, which it's, the interconnectivity is mind-boggling.
And science is just kind of beginning to scratch the surface of how things are interconnected.
One thing I'm really enjoying, something I'm kind of pursuing and playing with
is substrates for growing out IMO and some of the best media for that. And what I found
over the years is that there's things that certain microbes like better to chew on
than other things. And so in Korea, they use a rice bran to grow, to do this IMO one through
or IMO three and four process. And rice bran is rich in fat. In the US, they started doing
mill run because it was the kind of comparable thing that was cheap and readily available,
like a agricultural byproduct that was readily available. But as we've looked at it,
mill run is way lower in fat content than a rice bran. So as far as fungal foods specifically,
fungi love fats. So the cell wall of a plant is full of fats. It's these complex and tied up fat
chains, but cell walls are full of them in plant cells. So that silica, people are like,
oh, silica is great. Well, why is there so much? And microbes, that smaller,
bacteria is really easy. Everybody's buying these bacilluses and stuff. But these fungi,
microbes that tend to have relationship with plants in a unique way and their root structure
really requires some of these, I'm saying fats, but these lipids and these things that we,
like silica, where it's this kind of these complex chains that are created and fungi get in and they
break apart these fatty acid chains and they use the acids and the lipids. And so what I've found
is that the substrates are important. So in Hawaii, I switched from using, like messing
around with mill run and I used a byproduct from our industry, which was kind of off-grade macadamia
nuts. And I combined that with carbon, like macadamia shell or wood chip or sawdust. And I
found incredible fungal growth and diversity could be fostered in that kind of a substrate.
And so, yeah, I'd encourage you if you can find Rice Bran or some of these other grains that have
their own decent fat profile, that might be cool to bring into your material as you make your IMO3
as a food for your bigger organisms, like a large hyphal diameter fungi, because they are really
important in the whole process of cultivating a soil food web in your farm. It makes sense too,
right? Because mill run is going to be so processed and the rice, it's got the full fat.
It would make sense that that would be more of what nature wants to respond to instead of a
thinned out processed product. Yeah. Yeah. It's fun. It's a fun journey just to kind of
see how we can cultivate what nature already does. Yeah.
Right on. Well, Chris, thank you so much for coming on the show, especially for such a long
episode and not only teaching us and sharing your experience, but you've been at this for a lot of
years. So for you to be able to capsulize it and give it context really allows the rest of us who
are new to this to jump in the deep end of the pool a lot faster. So thank you very much.
Yeah, man. It's a pleasure. Right on. Glad to be here.
So if you enjoyed this episode, be sure to follow Chris's YouTube channel. And it doesn't have a
forward slash. All you need to do, though, is to just search Chris Trump and K&F or actually I got
it just by putting in Chris Trump. You can follow his Instagram, which is a mix of both growing and
personal stuff. And that's at forward slash soil steward on Instagram. He's got a new website up
that is just being filled out now. So it's probably going to be better in a month or two.
But that bookmark it for now. That's at natural farming dot CEO is his website.
Also, Chris has got a class coming up. You can find it on Eventbrite. It's coming up in July of
2018 and it's in Idaho. So if you were thinking you had to fly to Hawaii, you do not have to.
And so you can search that on Eventbrite. And finally, I want to remind you again to check out
both the Korean Natural Farming Group on Facebook and also the Probiotic Farmers Alliance Group
also on Facebook. You can find more episodes of the Shaping Fire podcast and subscribe to the
show at Shaping Fire dot com and on Apple iTunes, Stitcher and Google Play. If you enjoyed the show,
we'd really appreciate it if you'd leave a positive review of the podcast wherever you
download. Your review will help others find the show so they can enjoy it, too.
On the Shaping Fire website, you can also subscribe to the weekly newsletter for insights
into the latest cannabis news and product reviews. On the Shaping Fire website, you will also find
transcripts of today's podcast as well. For information on me and where I'll be speaking,
you can check out ShangoLose.com. Does your company want to reach our national audience
of cannabis enthusiasts? Email Hotspot at Shaping Fire dot com to find out how.
Thanks for listening to Shaping Fire. I've been your host, Shango Lose.
