The stock market is a moody beast. No matter how much insight you have or how many Fibonacci
lines you draw on your charts, there are still innumerable pitfalls that can cross your path
and ruin your trade. The risks involve skyrocket too when you invest in a nascent industry
like cannabis. The rapidly changing market, lack of historical data, and of course federal
cannabis prohibition all make investing in cannabis unlike investing in any other industry.
If you enjoy hearing frank discussions that dive deep into cannabis health, business,
and technique, I encourage you to subscribe to our newsletter. Every week you'll receive
a new podcast episode delivered right to your inbox along with commentary on a couple of
the most important news items from the week and videos too. Don't rely on social media
to let you know when a new episode is published. Sign up for the updates to make sure you don't
miss an episode. You are listening to Shaping Fire and I'm
your host, Shango Lose. My guest this week is Alan Brockstein. Alan is a CFA charter
holder based in Houston, Texas. He began his career on Wall Street in 1986 and now
works as an independent research analyst following over two decades in research and portfolio
management. He is founder of the 420 Investor online community, which is the first and still
largest due diligence platform focused on publicly traded stocks in the cannabis industry.
He is a prolific writer too, with over 650 articles published since 2007 at Seeking Alpha
where he has 70,000 followers. Alan is a frequent speaker at industry conferences and a frequent
source to the media, including the New York Times, the Wall Street Journal, Fox Business,
and Bloomberg TV. He's currently writing columns for both Leafly and Forbes.
Welcome to the show, Alan. Hey, thanks for having me. It's always great
to speak with you and I'm looking forward to addressing your audience.
Fabulous. Well, I'm glad that you could set aside the time for us. So, you know, at the
heart of investing is the weighing of risk versus reward. And in an explosive industry
like ours, with so many variables moving at the same time, how do you recommend investors
approach determining how much risk they are comfortable with?
Yeah, that's risk is what it's all about, Shingo. So I'm glad you started with that.
When I showed up on the scene in 2013, I saw a lot of risk and absolutely no opportunity,
at least in the public markets, which is where I was initially focused. And even today, I
like to remind people that this is all federally illegal. So in my community at 420 Investor,
I'm in the middle of a survey right now that I'm about to close out. And a lot of the people
have 75 to 100 percent of their portfolio invested in cannabis stocks. I think that's
insane. So I try to remind people of a couple of things. Number one, federal illegality.
Number two, most of the publicly traded stocks are on the over the counter, which is a whole
different can of worms. It has nothing to do with cannabis. It just has to do with penny
stock fraud, which is rampant. So I do like people to keep that in mind. And at the same
time, I like to point people to Canada where that federal illegality isn't the same issue.
So so flesh that out a little bit. So what what is different about the approach in Canada
versus how it is here?
Oh, sure. So, yeah, some people may not realize, but Canada has a federally legal medical cannabis
program and that's been around. It launched officially in 2014. It was the second version.
They had one that launched, I think, in 2001. And so they're on the cusp of being totally
federally legal for adult use as well. And, you know, that that impacts everything and
impacts banking, taxes, everything. All these problems we have in the United States, they
don't have to deal with in Canada. Of course, Canada is not as big as the United States.
It's almost as big as California.
I see what you're saying. So as far as unpacking one's risk goes, you know, anywhere that you
invest in a licensed product market in the U.S., your first, you know, monster in the
room is, oh, yeah, it's federally illegal. But at least if you were to invest in Canadian
companies, those companies, they may or may not themselves be a good company, but at least
they're not federally illegal.
Exactly. And, you know, it goes a little bit deeper than that. It just makes it easier
to invest in companies that, you know, your audience is probably familiar with 280E, for
instance. And, you know, it's unfortunate, but even companies that operate well, they
have to pay sometimes 80 percent marginal tax rates. You just don't have to deal with
those kind of problems in Canada.
Yeah. When considering investing in companies, it's amazing how atypical looking at profit
and margins and P&L is different because there are line items that are there that don't
appear in traditional companies.
And there are additional line items that you don't find in other businesses just because
cannabis is such a unique sector right now.
Yeah.
Yeah. So as far as the federal regulation aspect of it, right, I mean, certainly overall
we have this umbrella of investing in U.S.
companies are a challenge because they're federally illegal.
But then we've got things that happen on a weekly scale, right?
We've got, you know, Jeff Sessions says one thing this week and then he seems to say
something different another week.
And, you know, we're back and forth with, you know, is it going to be schedule one,
schedule two, unscheduled?
And so there seems to be an intentional, you know, media circus around these things
because it all is clickbait on social media.
And so it all tends to be kind of constantly a fervor of this.
How do you, what do you recommend to your investors and guide them to either react or
non-react to this kind of intentional excitement of investors?
So this whole Jeff Sessions thing is definitely a problem.
I think it's like one of those clouds that you see lingering all the time.
And will it actually rain?
In last November, when the election results were pouring in, I was kind of shocked
initially to see not only that the Senate was going to go the other way, but more
importantly, that we're going to change an administration.
And the first thing I thought of was we are at risk.
And so I told my subscribers at 420 Investor that we have a risk factor.
Doesn't mean anything's going to happen, but it's something that the markets are
going to have to deal with.
And it really caused a problem because the stock prices had run up going into the
election and then they pulled back.
So, you know, I don't think Jeff Sessions is actually going to get his wish, which is
to roll back cannabis, whether it's medical or even adult use.
Maybe adult use.
We'll see the coal memo kind of ramped up a little bit so that there's more
restrictions. I could I could see that, but I don't think that would kill the
industry. So, yes, this remains a risk factor and something that the media, as you
mentioned, really overplays and it scares people and it scares the entrepreneurs.
Because if you think back to 2013, after Washington and Colorado had voted to
legalize in late 2012, everybody was sitting around waiting on the federal
government to see what would happen.
And they put in place the coal memo in August.
And then all of a sudden, all the entrepreneurs, investors were able to move
forward in both states.
And I think it's probably too late to roll it back.
There's you have an issue now where a lot of states are pulling in a lot of tax
money. There's a lot of employment in the sector and probably more importantly,
the will of the voters just continues to really point to tolerance for recreational
cannabis and actual embracement of medical cannabis.
I mean, we saw that in the Florida elections, very conservative state, a lot of
older people, yet they got past the 60 percent requirement to pass medical
cannabis, which was something they were unable to do in the prior election.
So I think that it's actually the state and local governments that are more of a
problem for the cannabis industry than the federal.
The federal government is obviously not helping the industry, but it's kind of
status quo. It's really it's the municipalities in the states where we're
seeing a lot of problems.
We saw that in Ohio a couple of weeks ago when they handed out licenses and there's
a lot of controversy there already.
We've seen delays in a lot of states.
We see a lot of municipalities pushing back.
We see rule changes that can really hurt these cannabis companies when they all of a
sudden change the rules.
So, you know, you started off talking about risk.
There's so many different risks in this industry.
So let's talk about a couple other ones.
So on a company to company level, you know, in an industry like ours that's so fast
paced and for the last 50 years has been in the shadows.
Now that people are able to work on these products and these technologies and these
business solutions out in the open more, we get people who are developing extraction
technologies at this wicked rate.
And the technologies are becoming outmoded and being surpassed by new companies at an
incredible rate.
How do you weigh these fast paced technologies and solutions becoming outmoded so
quickly when you're trying to decide whether or not a company's got long term
viability?
Yeah, no, I'm actually really excited about this because this is one of the things I
mentioned that's really one of the best things about our industry, that we we have
time and incentives for people to make big changes.
And I guess you're looking at it as a threat.
The reality is most of the cannabis stocks that have been trading over the last few
years are really not real and we haven't really addressed that yet.
So it's not so much a risk for cannabis investors as an opportunity.
I'd love to see some of these innovative companies move into the public sector.
They're not really there yet.
So for the most part, you're talking about in the private investment world where we're
seeing a lot of companies do neat things.
We're seeing companies jump from basically where they'll have a product developed for,
let's just call it a regular industry, and then they adapt that product.
And we're talking about like POS systems, for instance.
But it goes a lot deeper.
And the thing that I really focus on, and I'm not seeing it yet in the public markets,
but we're getting close.
And that is technology that will enable us to have cannabis beverages, rapid acting.
It doesn't have to be necessarily beverages, but rapid acting cannabis edibles that
really get around one of the worst aspects of edibles, which is that, you know, the
onset is so slow that people tend to overdo it sometimes and really cuts down on social.
And I saw just today, Shaleen Title has been able to pull off in Massachusetts the
ability to have social use, which is something we haven't really seen in any market
yet. Certainly not in Colorado, the original legal market.
And I think to get on parity with the alcohol industry, that's going to be essential.
So that's what I'm looking for.
And like I say, it's more of an opportunity than really a risk.
I don't think anybody's going to lose by the way the market's changing.
I mean, flower is still very popular, runs at about 50 percent in your state still and in
most states. But we're seeing all these other really neat forms of delivery and
innovation in terms of the modes of ingestion or consumption.
When an investor is looking at a company and considering investing, you know, there's so
many unproven executives in cannabis.
It reminds me of the first dotcom boom where you'd have a visionary who had some kind of
access to capital.
And so they started from nothing and they may have been, you know, a middle manager or
less at some company beforehand.
But they're just somebody with moxie and access to some capital.
And off they went, you know, building, building their dotcom.
And the majority of them failed from either running out of cash or just from poor
management or both.
You know, how do you weigh for yourself the fact that there are so many inexperienced
managers who are running these companies?
Yeah, no, that's a good point.
And so I a few years ago, I started sharing my three P analysis of companies.
And I think investors really fall for one of the P's.
The first P is the plan.
I don't usually say that first, but I'm going to say it to you first.
You know, what is what is it that they're trying to do?
What's their plan?
And then the second P is the people.
And that's kind of what you're asking about.
And then the third one that you kind of alluded to as well, I call it the pecuniary
because that is a P instead of money or it could be the P, P and the M.
But so what I try to tell people is don't get caught up on the plan, first of all.
I mean, plans are pretty easy.
And so then you look at the people.
It's very important because you're right.
I mean, even for myself, I'm not the best stock analyst in the world.
I was just the only one crazy enough to show up here in 2013, which gave me a
running head start in the same way.
You know, people were either smart or stupid, but they came into this industry
because they saw an opportunity.
And, you know, there's a lot of stigma and that keeps people out.
I'm seeing huge changes on that front over the last six to 12 months where we're
seeing just a rapid influx of really qualified people.
And that's that's a good thing for the industry.
But it's going to get to the point where, like you said, some of these people that
were here a couple of years ago, they're not really qualified to lead the industry
necessarily. So and then on the money part, I think it's important because, you
know, people that were paying attention in the dotcom could have seen the cash burns
and lack of tangible results and figured out that that wasn't going to work.
One thing I run into all the time when interviewing folks and then just doing my
own research on companies are the two different kinds of leaders that they tend to
have. On one side, you've got companies that are led by by folks who have their life
experience in prohibition era era.
So they are their cannabis people.
First and foremost, they were in the shadows when it when it became more normalized.
They've come out of the shadows and now they're running their company.
But because they were doing black market business for all these years, they don't have
a lot of the traditional skills that you'd get at a at a fully legal corporation.
Now, on the flip side, you've got all these new people coming into the industry that
have little to no cannabis experience except for maybe toking themselves.
But they have worked at blue chip companies and they know how to read a P&L and
they're used to working with venture capital.
And so they've got that side.
But then they don't know what to ask a master grower when they go to hire them because
they don't actually they're not from inside the industry.
So so how do you see those two sets of people?
You know, how do you weigh between the two of those when you're considering investing?
Yeah, this is a great question.
And it's something I point to a lot.
I'm flashing back to the one and only MJ BizCon I went to in 2014.
I go to other conferences, but I don't like big crowds.
And I remember kind of looking at it was such a divergent group of people.
You had, like you said, the suits and then the people that knew what they were doing,
but not necessarily so business savvy in the real world.
And and thankfully, I've noticed I haven't been back to that conference, but at other
conferences I've noticed it's getting bridged.
And what I try to counsel anybody who will listen to me is look for the management teams
that they don't necessarily have to have the cannabis expertise.
That's always I think it's good to have somebody on the team that really has it.
But you can get that on an outsourced basis by having good consultants.
You just want to make sure that the suits running the company are grounded in the
reality of the industry.
And at the same time, it's very possible that you could have people that are emerging
from the black market that never have the felon here.
It's going to be hard to do, but they don't have the management savvy on their team, but
they have good counselors.
So it's you don't necessarily have to have those people.
But I really like to see management teams that have been able to where the where the
two sides have been able to come together and appreciate that if they want to really
accomplish a lot, they're going to have to draw from both those wells.
And work together and that they've internally resolved that and can show that
unified presence to their investors or customers or whatever it is.
I think you're really spot on to mention consultants, because even though, you know,
a cannabis consultant air quotes is is kind of a running joke, right?
Yeah, because, you know, you can't go to a convention without bumping into, you know,
hundreds of cannabis consultants.
But at the same time, you're right.
You can you can third party those types of skills, which makes the skill that the to
the suit, to use your words.
They don't necessarily need to know how to set up an extraction lab, but they have to
be really good with their human resources approach to know how to find the right kind
of person who actually knows how to set up a lab.
And in the in these early days, I would say that we're finding more people who have
hired the wrong people and have got they fall out of that relationship and they have
more success with their second or third person because they're actually having to learn
from their mistakes.
Oh, that's for sure.
And I hear about, you know, we're on our fourth master grower kind of discussion all
the time. And we're talking about Canada earlier.
This is even up there.
They have the same problem and maybe it's even worse, but it really hits home.
And I always try to look, I don't have a horse in this race, really.
I'm you know, I'm kind of an observer and an analyst.
I'm not in the industry.
So I have a lot of sympathy for the people who fought the battle to get us to where we
are. And it really pains me when I see like what's going on in California.
A lot of these people are going to really not be in the industry, unfortunately.
And, you know, Oregon was a good state.
They've let people even with felonies participate in the industry.
But most states don't do that.
But up in Canada, they have the exact same problem with the people that have been
operating in the gray market.
They're disenfranchised.
And so I've noticed, you know, some of the companies have figured this out and have
tried to bring them in.
And just recently, the federal government of Canada proposed kind of a second tier
producer called a micro cultivator, I guess, like a craft cultivator, which from my
understanding, this is an attempt to broaden the industry because it's going to make
the industry better.
You want to kill off the black market.
You don't want to push the people with all the expertise out and make them compete
with you in the black market.
That's not good for society.
So there's a lot we can unpack there.
Yeah, totally.
Well, that's exactly what happened here in Washington, right?
Instead of blessing the medical, the medical, yeah, medical just got straight killed and
they gave the licenses to all the newcomers.
So now we've got this this highly integrated, networked black market that also
happens to have incredible technology, CO2 extractors and great labs competing with the
state. And so it's it's ugly.
So so in this in this first section of the show, we've talked a lot about some of the
unique and ugly risks that investors have to consider when when looking at these new
companies. And and, you know, it's it's enough to cause people just say, man, forget
investing in cannabis.
It's it's it's too noisy.
It's not a safe place for my money.
I'll put it somewhere else that's got less of these risks.
When when you hear people who are kind of looking for a reason because they want to
invest in cannabis, but they also see these risks, is there anything that you can tell
them to kind of soothe them to like, hey, you know, keep looking in cannabis?
Yeah, so I've been you know, I've been learning about these risks for a long time,
and it was really an inflection point in my cannabis career when the local CFA or
Chartered Financial Analyst Society asked me to speak in April and I I wouldn't have
done it until this year.
And I feel like the industry, the investment set has definitely improved.
The risks are still there.
I think they've gone down and they're better understood now.
And what I tell people in the 420 investor community is mitigate the risk.
Don't put all your money into the industry.
Put a little bit.
Don't put it all into one stock.
Spread it around.
You know, I give the same advice to any private investors were they to ask just in terms of,
you know, making sure you don't have too much exposure to any one situation because just
the fact that it's a new industry, you should be careful.
It's a venture capital type of approach.
Just, you know, if you have make 10 investments and one of them is a tin bagger, it doesn't
matter what happens with with the rest, really.
So that's kind of what I try to tell them to to be diversified and to not.
Well, that's mainly a diversification.
Yeah, right.
And that makes a lot of sense.
So we're going to take a short break and be right back.
You're listening to Shaping Fire.
And my guest today is Alan Brockstein, founder of New Cannabis Ventures and 420 Investor.
If you own a cannabis company, you know that finding good business partners, vendors and
allies is an essential part of your role.
And building your business in a new industry like cannabis doesn't always make that easy.
CannaCon is coming to Seattle, Boston and Detroit in the first half of 2018.
And the halls will be filled with every kind of ally you need for a cannabis company.
Technology, horticulture, packaging, marketing, legal, human resources and media.
Everything you need for your business will be there and your customers will be there
too. CannaCon is a premier cannabis business and networking event with nationally
recognized speakers and the opportunity to have serious conversations with your business
peers and investors.
Reserving yourself a booth at CannaCon can unlock a lot of doors for you.
Not only do you get to network with all the people who pass your booth, but it is not
uncommon for CannaCon vendors to do a million dollars in business during the event.
Booths are already sold out for Seattle, February 15th, 16th and 17th.
So reserve your booths now for Detroit in June and Boston in July while you still can.
Attendee tickets are still available for all three events.
Whether you reserve a booth or attend for a day, do not miss the opportunity to become a
serious player in your local cannabis market.
Visit CannaCon.org for tickets, booth reservations and more information.
That's CannaCon.org.
While I certainly still enjoy smoking joints, I moved over to using vaporizers about three
years ago. The high was a little different than burning the flower and in the end I
decided I preferred it for daily use, especially because I have asthma.
More importantly though, I could taste my flower so much more.
It's hard to express to you how significantly different cannabis with a good terpene
profile tastes when vaped instead of burned.
I have brought my vape with me to visit growers and they are astonished by the clarity of
taste and they say they feel like they're tasting their flower for the very first time.
The AirVape vaporizer from AirVapeUSA.com is a great device to use on the go or at home.
When you pick it up, it feels satisfying like a medical device.
It isn't flimsy like many vapes are.
I like how the flower is inserted in the top instead of the bottom, so it travels a
shorter path to my mouth.
With the cannabis at the top, I get a hit that feels more substantial, even though I'm
just inhaling vapor and not full bodied smoke.
Since I use this vape for flower, hash and concentrates, I really like that the digital
control for the temperature is right there on the front.
Three clicks of the button and it fires up to the temperature I specify really quickly
and discreetly.
You know, vape concentrates are a milder experience than dabbing, but you still get the
potency in your hit.
Also, the taste is great, as would be expected with a low temp dab.
I love that this vape gives quick little vibrations when it gets to the right
temperature. That way, if I'm chatting or distracted while it's heating up, it lets me
know when it's ready. If you are ready for a nice pocket sized vaporizer, consider the
AirVape. The new AirVape X has just come out and it's gorgeous and includes many
updates. You can find more about the AirVape vaporizer at AirVapeUSA.com.
Welcome back. You are listening to Shaping Fire.
I'm your host, Shango Los.
And our guest this week is Alan Brockstein, founder of New Cannabis Ventures and 420
Investor. So during the first set, we talked a lot about the high risks that are
involved with investing in these cannabis companies and the importance of being
diversified. And, you know, most everybody is getting their information about these
companies on the Internet.
And these, you know, most of these cannabis companies are so obscure and a lot of the
news about them seems somehow canned and prepared.
How should folks interested in cannabis investing go about starting their research
into their target companies?
Yeah, that's a good question.
I mean, this led me to start a new business because I was running 420 Investor from
late 2013 into 2015 and just really scratching my head about
the bigger industry instead of just the public stocks.
We're talking about the whole industry.
And one of the things I was known for at 420 Investor was being a really good filter
and there's so much noise and people wanted to get information on the good companies
only, not all the noise out there.
And that's really what I was trying to do for 420 Investor.
And so we started New Cannabis Ventures in September of 2015 with that goal to kind of
focus on just the really good companies and the really good investors because there's a
lot of fake investors, too, which we can talk about.
So it is hard to find news.
And I think your listeners deserve to know that there's, you know, that whole concept of
fake news is supreme in the cannabis industry, in the public stocks especially.
But I've seen it even in private companies, these press releases.
Well, no, we don't have operations today, but we're going to have 100 million in revenue
in next year, that type of thing.
So there is a lot out there.
You know, I wish I could tell your listeners of all the different places.
There's some great content creators out there.
I guess they're kind of competitors of mine at New Cannabis Ventures.
We definitely have an investor audience, but we get a lot of operators as well.
Cannabis Business Times, I think, does a great job.
They have a cultivation focus, but they have real news.
You know, MJ Biz Daily has really stepped it up.
They have journalists on staff.
They've widened their content.
So I think that's a good place for people to get information from.
Cannabis Industry Journal.
There's some good podcasters besides you.
I'd include you in the list, but there's some others as well.
We don't have to name them all.
But I think it's important to really understand kind of what the source of the news is,
because if it's just being paid for and it's not really earned, it's not really that real.
And there's a lot of that going on.
Yeah. One of the sources that I like that does not overly pump things up is Alex Halperin over at Weed Week.
Yeah, yeah.
His curation is really nice and he doesn't add drama to things.
But, you know, that was originally what attracted me to your New Cannabis Ventures,
because I think you do a really good job curating as well.
And, you know, your intent when you curate is different than a lot of other sources.
A lot of other sources are they're curating because they want clicks and they want people to comment and they want the drama and the sharing and the arguing and all that kind of stuff.
But that's not your goal.
Your goal, you started New Cannabis Ventures to be of service to the investors in your 420 investors community.
Right. And so so instead of just trying to get the clicks, you're trying to create a base so that people have got good information in the community.
You run. And I think that that's a really important delineation.
Yeah. Well, it's not just in that community.
It's broader and it's really extending from that.
But our you know, so we have just so people understand our business model.
We're very transparent and go to our site and see exactly who our advertisers are.
And there's no doubt we run our advertisers news.
We don't we don't share our views.
Like I would never say you should invest in my advertiser, but we run the news of their competitors, too.
It's very I always tell our advertisers, our readers are the most important thing to us.
We if we don't have our readers, we don't have a business.
And we've earned the trust of our readers for two reasons.
Number one, that we've been very, very much a filter.
We we don't we will report on like I've written some pretty negative stories about posers.
I'm well known for that.
That's really a second point.
So they people can count on us if it's important news.
We're going to publish it.
And that's the first thing.
But they can also count on us to really call people out.
And when I do go to conferences, people will come up to me, Shango, and they'll say, you know, I got to tell you, I love the way you're willing to call these jokers out.
And so fortunately, I don't have to do that that much.
But it's actually kind of enjoy it.
It's it's a weird thing in our society that you can make a lot of money saying good things about people.
There's a lot to that.
At the same time, if you want to say bad things about people, you run a big risk.
I was sued for one hundred million dollars back in 2013 by a company that's now bankrupt.
And literally they called this libel.
I cut and paste their SEC filings and they didn't like that.
And they sued me.
And anybody can sue anybody for anything.
So, you know, I had to absorb the expense of getting that eliminated.
But it was a big you know, I was scared.
A hundred million dollars, a lot of money even for me.
So, you know, in cannabis, cannabis is drawing out a lot of first time investors.
And, you know, people who have maybe maybe they've talked their whole life.
And this is the time that they've always hoped would happen.
And and they want to get involved or or or people who were around for Google going public.
Everybody's like, oh, if I if I only would have invested in Google.
Heck, a lot of my friends are doing that right now around Bitcoin, you know.
And so so there's a lot of new investors.
And and I'd love for you to kind of just briefly explain for folks just to help them
be aware of this kind of news about the the the habit of of of I guess we'll call it fake
news sources pumping up a company or a stock to elicit excitement.
And then whoever's behind the play, then dumping it.
Could you kind of just explain that dynamic a little bit so that people can read with
a little more skepticism?
Oh, yeah.
And I love where you're coming from.
And you are spot on.
There are so many people of all ages that are showing up.
And, you know, this started not not recently.
It started back in 13.
But it's still happening with California about to legalize.
I'm seeing it again.
And I think this is what people don't understand about the OTC.
I mentioned it earlier.
It has nothing to do with the cannabis industry.
This problem that I'm about to tell you, it's just human nature and snake oil salesman and
all that.
And so anytime something's hot like Bitcoin right now, it draws in the scammers and the
cannabis industry has drawn in fake cannabis companies.
This has been going on for years now.
I like to point to the positive that there's a lot more real companies now, but it's undoubtedly
true that there's a ton of opposers out there and the people behind these companies.
This is what a lot of people don't understand.
The financiers, they they get free blocks of stock or very cheap blocks of stock and
they'll pay for news to go out there.
And it sounds great.
And people see this and they don't understand that it's not real.
And so it causes a temporary blip in the price of the stock and the volume.
And it allows these scammers to unload their shares.
And honestly, I wish I really understood it all.
The SEC is overworked.
I know if they had more money and more power, they would not allow this to happen.
But it's unfortunate.
There are companies that don't even file with the SEC, which I can't even believe that that's
legal.
They file on what's called OTC markets.
And in even some of the SEC filing companies, they do things that are just that should be
illegal.
Yet it goes on.
And some of these things would include like, you know, we read about it after the fact,
unfortunately, where the SEC enforces action.
And you have to wonder how many of these do they not catch, but they'll put out a press
release how they caught these people with these illegal offshore accounts.
And they were doing this and doing that.
Guess what?
This goes on every day.
And that's the unfortunate part about the cannabis market being on what's called the
over the counter or OTC.
Most of these stocks don't trade on the New York Stock Exchange or the Nasdaq.
There's a few exceptions.
And so it's very unfortunate.
And it leaves people with a really bad taste in their mouth because they're excited about
investing in the cannabis industry.
But they go in with their eyes wide open and they get taken advantage of.
And then they think there's something wrong with cannabis or something to that effect.
And it's really a structural problem, not related to the cannabis industry, but related
to over the counter.
Certainly, the idea of pump and dump is way easier to do thanks to social media, right?
Because it used to be so much more difficult.
But now if you coordinate two or three media sources and you put out a tasty bit of news
and suggest that everyone's buying it and then you buy a big chunk yourself so that
the stock goes up a little bit, which somehow proves to people that the news that they're
reading is true.
So now all these second wave investors jump in.
Now it's really going up, which then really doubly proves that the media source is true.
And then as soon as it hits the target level for the people behind this misinformation,
they dump all of their stock, the prices crashes.
And then all of these first time investors and even pros, their money just vaporizes.
You sound like you know what's going on here.
You sure you're not a pump and dumper yourself, Shuko?
I'm just a nerd and I did the dot com boom.
It was really common then too.
No, you're right.
And the social media part, for sure.
We see all sorts of Twitter bots.
I mean, my partner has actually researched some of the names that we've written on and
we'll see we're able to prove that there's fake bots out there pushing, saying good things
about the company on Twitter.
It's very easy to set up an Instagram account and show pretty pictures of Bud.
I mean, there's all these things that can really play to that psychology of making something
fake look real.
Yeah, that's for sure.
So let's talk about informal information that happens too.
One thing that I run into all the time being in media and being at conventions, listening
to Shaping Fire, listening to a podcast through your earbuds as many people do is a pretty
intimate experience, right?
I have access.
I'm in their ear and we're talking usually weekly.
And so a lot of these executives, they take me aside at events and they tell me things,
right?
They're excited about this merger that's about to happen or this company they're about
to acquire or this new technology that's coming out and they're bursting and they just want
somebody who they feel is going to appreciate it with them because they're excited.
And so they tell me or they tell an associate of mine.
And now suddenly we know information that's not publicly available.
And this is happening all the time, especially with executives who are new to playing at
this level.
They're used to just talking with their friends over beers or whatever.
And now they're playing with seven figures or more of valuation.
And so where is this line between being a smart investor and asking questions that other
people aren't asking so you can unearth valuable information versus straight up insider trading
where you could get in some trouble?
Yeah, you know, I'm very sensitive to that.
Your audience doesn't know this.
I don't invest in the cannabis industry.
This is one of the reasons why I don't because I don't want to be in that position of crossing
that line.
Most of the people I speak with, they tend to be in the public market.
So they're going to be very careful about that anyway.
They're very careful in general with me.
So I don't really get that crossing of the line and saying things that should be disclosed
publicly but aren't.
But I'm sure it happens.
To me, that's a big risk.
We have clients, as I mentioned, and they sometimes want to give me information and
sign an NDA.
I'm like, why?
I don't want to know anything that's not public.
I really don't.
So I try to protect myself and them by not accepting confidential information.
But I can see how that's a problem.
Actually, that lack of willingness to sign an NDA is a really interesting aspect.
I'm going to have to chew on that a little bit.
I don't want privileged information.
I really don't.
I'm not investing.
Especially with a public company, that's a huge risk.
You read about this all the time, these people getting busted for insider trading.
I'm not going to be one of those people.
So let's talk about companies that are on the far side of maybe not a pump and dump,
but are on the far side of the media's excitement about them.
So I'm into some cannabis companies that I bought stock in early on.
They got up to a couple bucks, a few bucks, and then maybe they lost a CEO or their product
didn't get adopted as fast.
Or like we were talking about earlier, their local laws changed or there was a moratorium
or something just messed them up.
And so they got up to a few bucks and now they're just kind of languishing at 30 or
50 cents or something like that.
What are the kinds of things that if the company is going to have a rebound, these are stocks
that are on sale.
These are things that you can get at a low price so long as they eventually go up.
So from on the investor side, what kinds of things can happen for these companies that
were up and now they're down that actually can revitalize and be seen as a value stock
that's undervalued?
So let me warn everybody because we're, I think, in the middle of our third big rally
since 2013.
The first one around Colorado, the second one in advance of the elections last year.
And so this one's in advance of California.
It's something I've been talking about for a while.
But I always like to point out to people, and I've even been writing about this, like
I think I posted something on LinkedIn, that historic rally in early 2014 when Colorado
legalized, there weren't that many stocks and there were a lot of people.
You were talking about the excitement earlier.
So imagine everybody's trying to get into the arena right in time, the lines long to
get in.
So that pushed prices way high.
So you had a lot of some of the early stocks that went to prices that really made no sense
and that weren't sustainable.
So I would caution investors just in general to understand that there are a lot more stocks.
I tracked maybe 20 stocks at the beginning of 2014 that were cannabis related.
Now I'm at 600.
Some of those are Canadian.
So you have a lot more stocks and just a little bit more subtle point.
Many of those stocks back then, the insiders held like 90% of the shares.
And so there was just a small amount that was in the public float.
And that created an artificial mechanism that really forced those stocks to really unsustainable
levels because if you factor in the other 90% that weren't trading, these stocks couldn't
have gotten to where they got.
So that's the first thing.
So look, I told you the industry in my view has really improved and we started at New
Cannabis Ventures tracking the companies that have $10 million a year or more in sales.
And this is something that I couldn't have done last year.
But we now have I think 14 companies on this page where we're updating it as the numbers
change that are on track to $10 million a year or more in revenue.
In fact, some of them are pushing $30 million or $40 million in a year.
So I think as an investor, this is to answer your question, what's going to make these
companies that are down work?
Check and see if they're generating revenue.
And of course, just generating revenue isn't in the long run going to be the only thing
because you have to be profitable ultimately or you're going to just have to keep going
back to the markets and diluting and forcing your price lower over time as there's more
shares.
But that would be my first clue to take a look and see what kind of progress they've
made because if you go back and you look at the companies that were trading at the beginning
of 2014, most of them haven't really done anything, Shangu, unfortunately.
Now, the good news is we have a bunch of new companies that have come along that I think
are pretty interesting.
A lot of them are on that list.
Right on.
I had never considered how much of the early cannabis stock was held inside and therefore
that 10% that was the public float, that was – people were investing not based on the
characteristics of the company.
The price was going up based on scarcity rather than value.
Exactly.
Yes.
No wonder so many of those turned around as their angel investors and original owners
dumped some of their stocks so that they could eat and live and re-up themselves.
It was a little bit that but just to be clear, these companies didn't have much in the
term of operations.
So just to keep the lights on, they had to – not the individuals necessarily although
that was partially the case.
I mean I'm sure you remember Medbox.
Yeah.
But they also just had to like raise some capital.
Oh, you mean like fundraising, using it as a fundraising tool.
Yes, yes, fundraising.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Insider selling but yes, fundraising and a good example – I mean this is such a sad
example and I actually like this company by the way.
It's called CV Sciences.
They've gone in a slightly different direction because they're trying to develop through
the FDA path a chewing gum with CBD and nicotine.
But their core business, they're on my list.
They're doing more than $10 million a year in sales selling CBD products.
They're highly regarded there.
And so this is one of these stocks that had that thin float and went to like $200 a share
and even today, it's at $0.30 a share.
So it's kind of funny but so the stock goes up to $200.
They get on the cover of Forbes magazine.
There was insider selling but then they ended up raising a bunch of money below $1 a share.
They raised some at $2 after the stock was at $200.
That was the reality.
$200 was not the reality.
Right on.
That makes sense.
Before we go to commercial, there's one more category of investor that I think that
a lot of people ignore and those are the people who are involved with sweat equity, right?
These are not necessarily public companies.
As a matter of fact, they're either pre-public or just privately held but they're people
who have been told, okay, I'd like you to come in and run my lab and set it up and use
your consulting expertise but we don't want to pay you decently.
We want to pay you $15 an hour and we're going to give you equity in the company.
And this happens so often during the dot-com boom.
Even to me where I had equity in six or seven companies that were worth less than a rubber
duck with a hole in it, right?
And so I think we're seeing a lot of that now where there are a lot of employees who
they want to be part of a company that's going to make it and they want to make their green
rush money by taking a low wage and also taking some sweat equity.
Do you have any advice for an employee who's thinking about taking some equity in lieu
of immediate financial compensation?
Yeah, well, that's a good question.
I have not given it thought but the first thing that comes to mind because I haven't
really seen that.
I don't really get into that granular of a level but if you're working for a company
and they want you to take equity, take a look at what they're showing outside investors
just so you understand exactly what you're getting.
I mean this is not just the cannabis industry but any industry and I've heard this before.
A lot of times people can be really smart.
They can be an engineer or some sort of graphic designer, really smart at what they do.
It doesn't mean that they understand how to value companies or anything like that.
So get a copy of what they're showing investors.
If you don't understand it, take it to somebody who does.
Pay them a couple hundred bucks, whatever it is to have somebody say, you know, what
is it or if they're giving me 10,000 options, what does that even mean?
Are there 10 gazillion shares or are there 20 shares at extreme?
So I think that can be really challenging for a lot of people because not everybody
has that expertise.
So that would be my advice.
Right.
We're going to take another short break and be right back.
You're listening to Shaping Fire and my guest today is Alan Brockstein,
founder of New Cannabis Ventures and 420 Investor.
We humans are attracted to plants because they offer us relief and are a whole lot of fun.
Sometimes though the best parts are buried inside the plant and we need to use specialty
extraction technology.
When it comes to cannabis, it is extraordinarily important to extract its precious oils without
changing them in the process.
We want to preserve the properties of the cannabinoids, terpenes and other constituents
that all work together.
Since 1994, Eden Labs has been developing extraction technology and processes to do
just that.
Eden Labs was founded by a cannabis loving engineer during the early days of medical
marijuana in California and the expanded Eden team has been designing and building industry
leading solutions for cannabis extraction ever since.
Eden Labs flagship product is the newly improved high flow CO2 extractor.
As other extraction companies enter the market, it is the high flow from Eden Labs that everyone
chases and tries to compare themselves with.
Not only that, but the improved automation software allows data to be collected, stored
and studied.
Eden Labs can outfit your whole lab.
Eden's cold finger ethanol extractor creates astonishing whole plant extracts working
alone or in tandem with an initial stream distilling step to isolate monoterpenes before
extracting the rest of the botanical constituents.
Eden offers you many options including vacuum distillation, column distilling, stirred reactor
units and accelerated solvent recovery.
When you partner with Eden Labs, your lab team is enrolled into the Eden Labs training
program to boost their understanding of Eden's best practices to ensure that your outputs
are exactly what you require for your application, whether it be dab oil, oil for pen cartridges
or edibles.
When you work with Eden, you're not just buying the tech, you are buying dedicated
customer support to help you attain your business goals too.
You can hear Eden's CEO, A.C. Braddock, talk about the company's values during Shaping
Fire episode 19 that was all about CO2 extraction.
So many of the new companies in the market just smell opportunity, slap an extractor
together and hire a marketing company.
Eden Labs has been listening to feedback from extractors and consumers for about 25
years now.
They care about both you and your consumer.
Partner with Eden Labs to extract astonishing cannabis oils and terpenes that you will be
proud of.
Go to shapingfire.com forward slash eden to find out more.
Skinny dipping, humpback whales, beatnik poetry, the Ottoman Empire, soil remediation,
interdimensional beings, and tree frogs.
These are just a few of the interesting topics you can find in the audiobooks library at
audible.com.
If you like podcasts like Shaping Fire, chances are that you'll dig audiobooks too.
Just like with podcasts, audiobooks speak to you, telling you stories and teaching you
stuff.
Here's the thing.
Audible.com has an offer I want to tell you about.
Right now they're offering a trial of their audiobook service for absolutely free.
You can go to shapingfire.com forward slash audible and you will get a free audiobook.
Straight up.
You can listen to it on your mobile device, computer, or you can download it and listen
to it like anywhere.
It's really simple.
Of course, they want you to subscribe to their service after the free trial and enjoy their
audiobooks forever.
But you don't have to.
All you have to do to get the free audiobook of your choice is to check out the service
for free.
So that's the deal.
Your first book is free.
It's easy to sign up.
It's easy to quit.
And their online library of free books is pretty incredible.
Just check it out.
Go to shapingfire.com forward slash audible to find out more or click on the link in this
week's newsletter.
Welcome back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire.
I'm your host, Shango Lowe.
So our guest this week is Alan Broxstein, founder of New Cannabis Ventures and 420 Investor.
So Alan, in this last section, you know, we've been talking a lot about what we see now and
so often with investing, people are they've got their head down and they're learning and
they're looking too much in the now.
What do you see out 10 years in this industry that investors should be considering when
investing in things at this time?
Wow, this industry changes so fast.
10 years is like 50 years.
Yeah, that's for sure.
I don't know if I have a 10 year view, but let me just answer it as a longer term view.
So one of the, you know, as a U.S. from a U.S. focus, one of the things obviously is,
you know, what's going to happen with the federal government.
And my own view there is we're not going to see any big changes in the next few years,
maybe after the next presidential election.
The problem is, as much as the federal politicians seem to be accepting of it, it's a very complex
issue and you have to deal with things like getting rid of 280E, which the government
makes a lot of money off of.
So do they want to do that?
Then you're going to get into things like, does Colorado really want it to be federally
legal?
There if so, they're going to lose tax money because California is going to be able to
export to Colorado.
We have so many different things that are going to have to be resolved in the next few
years that I don't think federal legality is in the next five years, I think.
And that's fine.
I mean, I wish they would legalize it, but I think from an investor's perspective, that's
fine because it allows a lot of companies to kind of build up without having to face
a lot of competition.
And there was a deal that your listeners should be aware of, which took place.
It was announced right at the end of October and closing early November, where a U.S.-based
liquor company or alcohol company, Constellation Brands, put 190 million U.S. into Canopy Growth,
which is the largest Canadian federally licensed producer.
And that was a game changer in a lot of ways.
But the main thing it really said was, A, the alcohol industry is a little bit concerned.
B, hey, maybe it's okay to make an investment in cannabis, but you got to structure it
properly, make sure it's federally legal.
And I think in the next few years, we're going to see a lot more interest from big
pharma and the alcohol industry and maybe a little bit tobacco.
I don't really personally see how tobacco has much to do with cannabis.
I know a lot of people like to say that it does.
And there's some distribution things, I guess.
But the reality is, I think those other two industries, as I look out in the next few
years, that's from a U.S. investor, that's going to be something to really focus on.
And at the same time, to watch some of the better companies really develop their franchises
in the very complex, difficult markets to navigate right now where you can't ship across
state lines and you have to deal with all these local rules and state rules and things
like that.
But the other thing I think is going to be really big, and I've been talking about this
for a while, is the globalization of cannabis.
And we're seeing it in Latin America.
We're seeing it in Australia.
We're seeing it in Europe.
And of course, Canada, which I mentioned before.
And the U.S. is getting left behind.
And it's kind of ironic to me because we have a president who likes to be a winner,
and we are a loser when it comes to the global platform of cannabis.
And the whole world is moving ahead.
And I think anybody that's looking at cannabis should really start to think long and hard
about expanding their opportunity set.
And especially when you look at things like Germany, and it's a little bit slow to play
out, but they have pharmacy distribution that's covered by insurance.
And it's a small program now, but it's going to get a lot bigger.
And that's the way the world is headed, where medical cannabis is going to be legal
everywhere, federally, except apparently the United States.
I think that's a really good point that you're making.
And I talk about it a lot with my own clients, this area of business, right?
Like, I think it's going to come in two waves.
You're going to have your first wave when eventually we'll be able to ship interstate,
right?
And so you've got all these states where you cannot naturally grow outdoors very easily.
I mean, my state's one of them here in Washington.
We've only got a small part of the state that gets enough warmth and sun.
And as soon as our market is able to be colonized by California, it's going to drastically change
the outlooks of companies here in Washington or anywhere on the northern side of the country,
where suddenly business plans that seemed solid if you only were doing business in your state
are suddenly going to be trashed because the southern states with a lot more sunshine
are going to be coming in.
And similarly, on the international level, oh my goodness, once Central America and Mexico
are able to grow outdoor and process organic cannabis oils and ship them to the United
States, the floor is just going to drop out of the oil market.
And I don't think a lot of investors are thinking about how drastically the market itself is
going to shift.
Hey, you want me to throw another one in there?
Yeah, do that.
They're not quite there yet, but this whole concept of biosynthesis, where you can grow
cannabinoids and not just THC or CBD, which are expressed pretty frequently, but some
of the cannabinoids that are expressed less frequently like CBDV that may be very valuable
for medical purposes.
You can do this without cannabis.
You can do it through this biotech process.
And imagine putting all this money into indoor grows, all that CapEx, and all of a sudden,
the infused cannabis industry just starts buying the biosynthesized cannabinoids.
And that's something I think people need to be aware of in the longer term.
Yeah, that's really interesting.
I can totally see an upcoming Shaping Fire on that topic now.
We did one, I don't know, about three months ago on synthetic cannabinoids.
And the general push on that is that they're synthetic and they've got attributes chemically
that are non-natural.
So they can have real negative, both agonist and antagonist attributes.
But what you're describing is actually growing the molecule exactly as it occurs in cannabis.
While it's isolate, and we can argue to what degree isolates are useful for health and
recreation, that's a different conversation.
But the fact that they could just grow CBDV in a lab and have it be molecularly accurate,
yeah, you're right.
That'll reshape parts of the industry as well.
Yeah.
Well, Alan, thank you so much for taking some time with us.
I've really enjoyed chatting with you.
And I appreciate you both kind of giving us your insight, but then also providing some
good, clean news for us there at New Cannabis Ventures.
Thanks.
This has been great.
I appreciate it.
If you'd like to know more about Alan Brockstein, you can check out his online cannabis investor
community at 420investor.com.
That's 420investor.
And also be sure to check out NewCannabisVentures.com for daily investor news and insight on the
cannabis industry's most promising companies.
And also, I just checked it out.
They have this great new news app that will push the news to you, which is really convenient
if you're waiting at the doctor's office or on a bus or something.
That's really great.
And their weekly newsletter is also good if you want to have the news pushed to you instead
of you having to search it out.
You can find more episodes of the Shaping Fire podcast and subscribe to the show at
shapingfire.com and on Apple iTunes, Stitcher, and Google Play.
If you enjoyed the show, we'd really appreciate it if you'd leave a positive review of the
podcast wherever you download.
Your review will help others find the show so they can enjoy it too.
On the Shaping Fire website, you can also subscribe to the weekly newsletter for insights
into the latest cannabis news and product reviews.
On the Shaping Fire website, you will also find transcripts of today's podcast as well.
For information on me and where I will be speaking, you can check out shangolose.com.
Does your company want to reach our national audience of cannabis enthusiasts?
Email hotspot at shapingfire.com to find out how.
Thanks for listening to Shaping Fire.
I've been your host, Shango Lose.
