For folks who have been defending and teaching about cannabis for years, it's
often difficult to let any argument stand that suggests that cannabis is
anything short of a perfect wonder herb. And while cannabis is a wonder herb, it's
also true that because of Prohibition, there's still a lot we don't know about
the cannabis plant and how it acts on the human body. Unfortunately, politicians,
law enforcement, pharmaceutical companies, and concerned parent types have used
this absence of research to promote cannabis fears that are not based on
evidence. One of these ideas is that cannabis use causes psychotic breaks, and
there's just not evidence for that. But here's the rub. Cannabis and
schizophrenia don't appear to be totally unrelated either. Based on the science we
have, it is a complex understanding and not the kind of thing easily discussed
casually in a Facebook group. If we are to really understand the relationship
between psychosis and cannabis use, we need a gently considered long-form
answer. Welcome to that discussion. Have you used CBG-dominant cannabis flour,
tincture, and other preparations in the last six months? Dr. Ethan Russo asked me
to let you know that he and others are conducting a study to determine the
benefits and drawbacks to cannabigirl, and they would love your opinion. The
questionnaire takes about 10 minutes and can be anonymous if you wish. The study
is available at bit.ly forward slash CBG study. That's bit.ly forward slash
capital C B G small case study. And the link is in the notes for this episode on
shapingfire.com too. Thanks for considering participating. If you want to
learn about cannabis health, business, and technique efficiently and with good
cheer, I encourage you to subscribe to our newsletter. We'll send you new
podcast episodes as they come out, delivered right to your inbox, along with
commentary on a couple of the most important news items from the week and
videos too. Don't rely on social media to let you know when a new episode is
published. Sign up for the updates to make sure you don't miss an episode. Also,
we're giving away very cool prizes to folks who are signed up to receive the
newsletter. This month we're giving away Farmer Fly Selections seed packs of
Chetawizzy and Vashon Lime Tonic to four different listeners who are
subscribed to the updates. We did this contest last month on Instagram, and
Farmer Fly had such a good experience that he suggested we run it again just
for the Shaping Fire newsletter subscribers. There's nothing else you
need to do to win except receive the newsletter, so go to shapingfire.com to
sign up for the newsletter this week and be entered into this month's and all
future newsletter prize drawings. Also, check out Farmer Fly Selections on
Instagram too. You are listening to Shaping Fire and I'm your host, Shango
Lose. My guest today is neuroscientist Greg Gerdemann. Greg Gerdemann has
joined me on Shaping Fire before, way back on episode 14 to discuss synthetic
cannabinoids, and then again on episode 46 to discuss exercise, athleticism, and
cannabis. Greg's work has been highlighted throughout cannabis media
and in crossover publications like Science, National Geographic, and the New
York Times. His scholarly research has spanned topics ranging from the synaptic
physiology of the endocannabinoid system, behavioral pharmacology of CB1
receptors and their regulation of habitual memories, the physiological
activation of the endocannabinoid system signaling in exercise, and the
evolutionary and comparative biology of cannabinoid receptors through studies on
invertebrate marine chordates. Totally great scientific work. Greg has also
consulted for a handful of nationally recognizable cannabis brands, helping
them develop medicinal cannabis products. Today we will be detangling
schizophrenia and cannabis use and teasing them apart to get a clearer
understanding of both. Welcome back to Shaping Fire, Greg. Really glad to be
here. Great to hear you. So, you know, Greg, we read in major media the assertion
that cannabis causes schizophrenia and psychosis, but you know for most of us
those are like buzzwords without very much basis in reality. Would you
start us off by describing schizophrenia first and then psychosis so that we can
have a better grasp on what we're even learning about today? Yeah, sure. I will
give that a shot. It's complicated, you know, for one thing. These are
descriptions of mental experience and mental illness that, first of all, we
certainly understand now exist on a continuum, right? It's like many other
situations of psychiatric or neurological disease. It's not like
something real simple like, hey, your blood sugar is off, you've got diabetes.
Schizophrenia is a complex disorder really characterized by disordered
thought and symptoms of disordered thought. And if that sounds like a broad
net, again, it's covering a broad array of symptoms. And let me be clear that I'm
not a neurologist, I'm not a medical doctor, and things like clinical
diagnoses change over time. So I wouldn't be the most cutting-edge person the
necessarily, you know, I certainly wouldn't diagnose someone. But that
disclaimer aside, schizophrenia is characterized by imbalances and a lack
of control over ordered thinking. And of course there are different levels of
severity. And there are also two major clusters that have classically
been described of schizophrenic or psychotic-like symptoms. So psychosis is
kind of, schizophrenia falls into a kind of psychosis, which again is sort of
an imbalanced, you know, disturbed thinking. Schizophrenia symptoms
classically get divided into what are called positive symptoms and negative
symptoms. And the negative tends to, in many cases, come on first. And when
people say negative symptoms of schizophrenia, it doesn't mean that
they're bad and positive ones are good. It refers to mental experience sort of
being absent when it should be there or present when it shouldn't. And what I
mean by that is, well maybe I could start with with the positive symptoms first
because that includes things like hallucinations and paranoid ideations.
You know, paranoid conspiracies that go on in the mind or thinking that goes on.
These are imagining, if you will, or sensing reality that isn't objectively
there to the rest of us. You know, a total auditory hallucination of someone
speaking to you when nobody else has any evidence that there's someone there. That
kind of hallucination is a positive symptom because something is layering on
to your conscious experience that is not objectively there. Then you have the
negative symptoms that are more like apathy, which is related to not having
motivation. Anhedonia, or a lack of, you know, feeling pleasure. And blunt affect,
where you're just flat. A flat sort of facial expression, a loss of
emotional expression. And how does that get us to work as an introduction to
what schizophrenia and psychosis are? Well, it's really interesting. I had never
considered the positive and the negative aspects, but as you describe it,
yeah, I get that. With the positive ones, the disordered thoughts are
creating things that are not objectifiably there in the outside
world. And then the negative ones are like some sort of lack of action, a lack
of participation, a lack of expression. And so, earlier, when you
use the term disordered thoughts, would these positive and negative
schizophrenic symptoms be considered disordered thoughts? Yes, they are
generally considered disordered thoughts. And, you know, the extreme psychosis, you
asked me where that fits in. You know, psychosis is a more general term. It's not
necessarily part of schizophrenia, but it is a severe mental condition or disorder
where thought and emotions are so column disordered or impaired that the
person is sort of lost from external reality. You are in your own world, and
that's where a state of psychosis is referred to. But some of that, that can be
obviously a disordering of sorts, or at least it makes sense to
call it that. But what about something more mundane like blunt affect? You know,
the way I liken it, and this isn't meant to be a textbook definition, but more my,
you know, what's coming out of my way of thinking. And I should say, you know,
when I started grad school 25 years ago, I started going into neurosciences and
interest in schizophrenia and finding, you know, therapeutic outcomes to help
schizophrenia, discovering something. This was a big motivation to me. I've always
had interest in this subject. And so, part of my speculation, my conjecture, when
someone, I mean, even just being a teenager is sometimes associated with,
you know, being blunt affect, right? Yeah. Whatever, I'm gloomy. But I think in the
in the situation we're talking about, this can come about because of a
disconnect between like yourself and future self. Like making the association
between what I want to do and where my hopes of where I want to be are, or what
my plan is, or maybe just not feeling the joy. You know, you could probably nitpick
about whether this is a disorganized thought or just something that's not
really well wired or connected in a productive way. But they are certainly
all symptoms that come together in diagnoses of schizophrenia, which
progress into more and more severe conditions where the individual does
become psychotic. Where this combination of, you know, so-called negative symptoms
and not feeling or expressing normal emotions and sensations, combined with
experiencing things that really aren't there, to just create massive confusion
that becomes an agitation from that confusion. That becomes sort of the
hallmark of, you know, madness. I mean, the names for these things have changed many
times over the years, right? But schizophrenic illness is a...you get
various levels of severity. But the popular thinking is one of madness,
insanity, sometimes violent, you know, insanity, but not always. Sometimes just
utterly withdrawn. Oftentimes complex, you know, the brilliant mind kind of reality
where someone in a fixation with understanding patterns in the world,
which is actually interesting because our whole conversation is couched around
conspiracies and making patterns in the world. You know, sometimes that is in a
very...leads to extremely brilliant outcomes, right? Mathematical insights in
someone who is otherwise incapable of functioning, except being utterly
withdrawn from the world. So it's a really fascinating terrain of the human
brain, you know, and we have...here I go into being an evolutionary
neurobiologist, but we evolved these utterly miraculous cognating brains, you
know, which were clearly evolved in humans because it made us successful. We
are able to figure things out. That is a recipe for planning and success and
reproduction and led to agriculture and architecture and culture and so many
aspects of what it means to be human. But it kind of has these traces of what makes
us sometimes neurotic about not only being able to figure things out, but
being driven to have to figure out connections. And one way this manifests
in both subtle and sometimes really neurotic ways is seeing patterns that
aren't necessarily there and getting convinced by them, whether it's a theory
of a global cabal controlling everything with the flip of a switch or other
things like, you know, my teenager wouldn't have happened like this if he
hadn't experimented with that weed.
It's really remarkable how...it's pretty startling actually to listen to you
describe the negative symptoms of schizophrenia and how similar they sound
to clinical depression. And, you know, you're describing this range from, you
know, some amounts of schizophrenia and some slight expression of the symptoms
all the way up to, you know, violent outbursts and people becoming, you know,
unhinged with reality. I've just got to think that there's a lot of people in
the...on the less obvious side where it looks like depression that are
undiagnosed.
For sure. And of course, then you get in the world of comorbidities, which is,
you know, when you seem to have both diagnoses. And there's lots of overlap in
this world. There's someone in my sphere right now that is dealing with being
diagnosed with schizophrenia, but he's like, no, I'm bipolar. You know, and I
certainly over the years...sometimes, I mean, I try to be very deliberate in what
I'm saying. I mean, the last thing I want to do is create stigma towards people who
have struggles with their mental health, whether it's depression or
schizophrenia. And, you know, at risk of going down a tangent, which we won't, I
go so far as to, you know, really follow people's thinking about cognitive
liberty. I mean, just because someone is a...I mean, people can be functional
schizophrenics if their surroundings and community, you know, and vocation allows
them to function. But anyway, that could go down a little wormhole. Yeah, there's
similarities for sure. And again, I've never been a medical doctor and I have
empathy for psychiatrists when they have a balancing act like this and in
figuring out, you know, and putting a name to things. There again, our
underlying human neuroses, we've got to put names to things. And molecular
psychiatry, meaning, you know, since the advent of pharmaceutical drugs that,
you know, have useful roles in psychiatry, well, it's changed everything. I mean,
on the one side, it's made things kind of a medicine bowl approach, like here,
try this pill. And if it has an effect, well, that'll influence my diagnosis as
of what we've learned. And then you can go back to the very first
antipsychotics like Thorazine that came out in the 50s and 60s that had huge
social impact. I mean, there was a mindset, hey, we don't have to have homes
for the mentally insane anymore. And so those sort of sanitariums and inpatient
mental health facilities are now sort of historical vestiges. And of course, there
were horrific things that happened, you know, lobotomies and other things like
that. But on the other hand, it wasn't really a golden ticket, you know, that
many, many homeless people are schizophrenic, many of them end up on the
street. So it's a very complex issue. How about that? Yeah, schizophrenia is
complicated. And there are many ways to simplify it, including the idea that, you
know, there's some simple trigger. Schizophrenia, typically, when it gets more
serious, happens in the late teens to mid to late 20s. And there is very often a
precipitating kind of event. And it has been observed that, you know, without being
cued to go further into our conversation, I mean, associations have been observed
scientifically that sometimes people who are precipitated into having a psychotic
event that turns into more manifest schizophrenia, have experimented with
cannabis. Smoking tobacco is statistically associated with a greater likelihood of
psych of developing schizophrenia. Going to college is more statistically likely to
lead to a psychotic event that turns into schizophrenia, you know, but but nobody
talks about, you know, banning kids from college, it's a matter of someone, and
we'll get into much of this, you know, as we go on to the hour, but someone who may
already, you know, be be disposed to schizophrenia, experiencing that stress
and, and, you know, environment.
So those other causalities are really interesting. And you're right, they're never
mentioned. And we will go we will go into that more in the second set. But before we
before we go into that, now that we've established what schizophrenia is this kind
of this basket of attributes, both positive and negative attributes, things that we see
that don't exist, and then ways that we should express ourselves that we're not,
they're all in this big basket. Let's let's look at a different basket. And that
basket is, you know, what people experience when they they over medicate, you know,
most people who have used cannabis at some point or another have had that experience
of taking too high of a dose of THC, and feeling like they're coming unhinged, right?
I'm very familiar with it myself. paranoia, situational hallucinations about what is and
is not happening, sometimes freestanding hallucinations if you get a really big dose,
and it eventually goes away as the body processes the cannabinoids. So what I'd love
for you to clarify, Greg, or you know, what are these over medicated experiences in
medical terms? And are these moments of psychosis?
Well, you know, I mean, THC is a profoundly powerful substance, isn't it? And, you
know, I flashback some to being a college professor. And, you know, the secret was
pretty well known that I was the pot guy, you know, scientist and, and so a lot of
kids, a lot of students in the college would feel like, therefore, I was a safe
person to open up to on their experience of, you know, the classic experience, right? I
went to Amsterdam, I tried a cookie, and it wasn't hitting me an hour later. So I ate
two more. And those those edible experiences are, you know, the classic ways to get into
that place. And, you know, frankly, I learned this from our mutual friend Ethan Russo,
that clinicians will refer to that state of having way too much and being in that place as
a toxic psychosis, meaning that a psychosis being completely, like I mentioned, you
know, separated, you're, you're kind of out of it. Sometimes, you know, you're way out of
it. In your own mental state, in your own mental bubble, and by saying toxic psychosis,
meaning it's brought on by a toxin, in this case, I know that cannabis people, sometimes
myself included, can be averse to calling THC a toxin. But it takes you to a place you
don't want to be. I mean, hey, it always stands to mention that the reason why we're all so
enamored with cannabis is because of all the good things it can do. And the fact that even
in these worst case scenarios, you're going to wake up in the morning and be over it. But
yeah, it can be called a toxic psychosis. Now, this happens with other substances, right? I
mean, amphetamine and cocaine, likewise, can create a very different kind of psychosis,
which, in the case of amphetamines, is, I've been, I learned this when I was taking med
school classes as part of my graduate training, that an amphetamine-induced psychosis from
taking way too much, you know, speed, we used to call it, Adderall, other kinds of
amphetamines, in an emergency room setting, that's indistinguishable from someone having a
paranoid schizophrenic psychosis. And, and indeed, there's a whole dopamine hypothesis of,
of why, you know, amphetamines stimulate dopamine. And there's, in the drugs, many of the
drugs that are therapeutic for schizophrenic patients for that illness are blockers of those
drugs. So I don't want to confound them too much. I mean, they're very different experiences,
going way too far on THC, than going, you know, overdosing on an amphetamine. But they both can
be called psychosis, that are triggered by, by another substance.
It is interesting how, if we go back to the positive and negative schizophrenic symptom
definitions, you know, take, let's take a minor negative, which would be, for example, like the
lack of expression on your face, right? There, you know, there are, it is not uncommon for
somebody to have so much THC, that their, that their facial expression is, is checked out.
They're just so stoned, right? And, and at that point, you know, they would, they would be
showing evidence of, of schizophrenia. And, and certainly if we go on the positive attributes,
like seeing things that aren't there, or in my experience, imagining situations that are
happening that are not right, which, which from your definition, I think would would fit as a
positive symptom. You know, I think we've all been in a situation where like, wait, is this, is
this thing happening the way I think it is? And, you know, more often than not, you know, you
totally are misinterpreting the situation, but it's, it's a type of hallucination I would
suggest. So, um,
well, and it's important, you know, clinically, and again, you know, okay. I've said the
disclaimer enough. I'm not a medical doctor, but you know, the, to, before someone could be
diagnosed with schizophrenia, there's, there needs to be, you know, it's recognized that many of
these things are, are real or phenomena that we all experience at different places in time. You
know, imagination, creativity is, involves imagining things that aren't there. Um, and
being, you know, distracted in your thoughts is not in itself a disorder. Um, but, you know,
I mean, so that there's just a disclaimer there, but you, you bring up an interesting point. I
hope I didn't interrupt you, but I know, keep going. I liked the way you were saying
how getting stoned can lead to a blunting of affect. And I do tend to think in many of those
cases, it's because you're in your head, um, or in the ways that cannabis sort of can take you
out of the temporal moment, you know, you've lost track of time and you're just sort of there and,
and being, and I sometimes, and this goes into my own conjecture, but I think people who are, um,
experiencing it as part of a mental condition that may be something more, um, like a
schizophrenic or someone who's prodromal going to be schizophrenic, um, the blunt affect can, it may
be that there's an inability to sort of want to feel where you're at or plan the future, or maybe
it's a rumination going in your head. There's something similar to cannabis, um, and in
particular THC, you know, also sort of taking you out of your head and, and being blunt like that.
And maybe, maybe that's, um, part of why schizophrenics can find cannabis therapeutic. It
gives them a sort of a ease and a comfort in that space. And there again, as a subject, I know
we're going to talk about a little bit later, but there's overlap and there's sort of, there's, I
think it's important. I go into this in this, you know, um, essay I wrote for Project CBD that the,
the link, the accusation of reefer madness, that cannabis leads to madness, to schizophrenia, that
it is a trigger, you know, a little time bomb. There's all kinds of metaphors that are used to
drive this association home. Um, part of the reason it's why it's successful is there is a sort
of face value validity that you have to realize that, that cannabis is a, is a powerful psychoactive
substance. And there are aspects of it that will look to the non-user as being as, as sharing traits
with symptoms of disordered thought. I mean, smoking cannabis does take your thought out of
the normal order than it's in. Um, but that doesn't mean it's the same kind of situation
of schizophrenia. And again, you've brought up the talk, what I've called the toxic psychosis of a
going way too far on THC, you know, THC overdose as it were. Um, and that even, you know, someone
who experiments with, with cannabis and goes too far may come away from it saying, yeah, it made
me crazy. I mean, look at the article that, uh, journalist Maureen Dowd wrote a few years ago,
that famously, you know, she decided to just way overindulge in edibles and wrote about it as a
horror story. And going back to the marijuana tax act, that really was the major piece in this age
of cannabis prohibition. We hopefully are, we, that we are coming out of, um, you know, one of
the powerful testimonies that supported criminalizing marijuana, aside from the fact that
they threw the name marijuana on it, um, was, was a, um, a psych psychologist from Temple University
who, who testified that he, uh, used, I forget if he smoked it or ate it or he used cannabis and
that he turned into a bat and flew around the room. He didn't say, I imagine it. He said like
on the congressional record that he turned into a bat. Um, here's someone who clearly,
if he didn't have some ulterior motive, I mean, if you take him as believable, he nonetheless had a
really disturbing experience. And again, we, you know, we as humans tend to look for simple
explanations and science is really not different from that. And certainly politics and, and
rulership isn't, you come up with a simple explanation like, Hey, I experienced this
really out of my mind phenomenon. I believe it, that somebody could go crazy. I felt like I wasn't
going to come out of it. What if that's true? What if sometimes you never come out of it and
you stay there forever? Um, there's a certain level where you gotta sympathize with where
people could come to that conclusion. And even when we look at ancient history, you know, those
of us who are really cannabis buffs have enjoyed learning from some of our, some research into
ancient history. And, and we, I mean, it's, it's really informative that humans have used cannabis
therapeutically and as a sacrament since before human written history, but also some of those
early texts that refer to cannabis as medicine and what have you make reference to them as,
to cannabis as being like a substance that takes you out of your mind. Um,
this isn't new, you know, that, that we have a recognition that cannabis can cause,
um, serious impact to your mental state, but you come out of it.
And in many cases, it's what we're going there for in the first place. Right. Yeah.
I think that, um, one of the challenging aspects with this particular topic, Greg, and why I
so appreciate both the tone you took in your article for project CBD and just, you know,
how you are as a scientist overall is that so much of the cannabis media and, and, and, you know,
in stoner family and everything, you know, me included, we, we want, we're so used to being
on the defensive from the taboo reefer madness people saying that cannabis is so terrible and
will just destroy your life, that it puts us in a position to kind of be reactive to that,
to, to react to it, their gross hyperbole of how bad it is by, by kind of taking our own hyperbole
and saying there is, you know, cannabis is flawless, right? There's, there's nothing that
could possibly wrong with it. And, and you know what, I don't even feel comfortable using the
word wrong, right? Um, but there, there are certainly parts, there are certainly experiences
that I and others have with cannabis, which was not necessarily the intention and are dysphoric.
And, and generally as humans, we, we want to avoid dysphoria and, and it feels like so much,
so many of us in cannabis, we feel constrained from talking about some of those less attractive
aspects of cannabis because we're really afraid that, that the, the prohibition folks will like
grab on that little thing that we say and say, aha, see, here is the evidence that it is the
absolute worst. And we're like, no, all we're saying is that if you get too high, it really
sucks, you know, which is, which is not hyperbolic. And, and, and so it pushes us to not
say anything. And that's one of the reasons why I appreciate the shaping fire audience because
the shaping fire audience can make that delineation. You know, the folks that listen to this
show are, you know, pretty reliable thinkers, right? And then they're like, oh, I get, I get
this, right? I get that there can be some parts of cannabis, which are less attractive to me
without the opposite being true. And that it's a demonic drug. And, and so, so we're going to go
to commercial break right now, but when we come back, that is where we're going to start with
this idea of reverse causality that, that just because there are some of these attributes that
cannabis that we don't like does not mean that the inverse is true. And then, and then we're
going to take a look at how the, the nature of our country is set up that, that reinforces this
reefer madness. You are listening to shaping fire and my guest today is neuroscientist, Greg Gerdeman.
As cannabis regulations become more demanding and consumers become more educated, it is
increasingly important to avoid the use of chemical pesticides when cultivating cannabis.
Beneficial insects have been used for decades by the greenhouse vegetable and ornamental plant
industry. And today many cannabis cultivators are moving from sprays and chemicals to beneficial
insects. Copert Biological Systems has the beneficial insects, mites, and nematodes,
microbials, sticky cards, and air distribution units you need to partner with nature to defend
your garden. Whether you manage acres of canopy or have a simple grow tent in your home,
Copert is ready to help answer your questions and help you transition away from chemical sprays
towards clean and natural solutions. Since 1967, Copert has assisted growers in identifying pests
and devising reliable solutions while providing healthy insects and mites that will protect your
yield. Since the 1990s, Copert has been a leader in cannabis pest and disease control worldwide
and have highly trained consultants to assist you in Canada and the U.S. from coast to coast.
No matter where you live, Copert Biological Systems can help.
Visit copert.com, choose your country, and get detailed information. That's copert,
K-O-P-P-E-R-T dot com. For the most up-to-date cannabis-related biological control information,
you can also check out their Instagram, at Copert Canada. You know getting away from pesticides is
good for health and good for business, and Copert is ready to help. Visit copert.com today.
If you listen to Shaping Fire and you grow your own cannabis, chances are high that you are very
particular about the inputs you use for growing. People like us painstakingly self-educate on
cannabis nutrients and techniques so we can cultivate the best tasting and cleanest flowers
possible. And when we go to purchase those nutrients, we want to be sure that our supplier
shares our values and is providing exceptional quality. This is why I recommend buildasoil.com
to my friends who care about quality. Build A Soil empowers organic growers to do their best work
by sourcing and shipping only the finest cannabis growing supplies. From organic inputs, soils,
soil testing, and pots, to lights, growing tents, sprayers, and cover crops, Build A Soil founder
Jeremy Silva doesn't just stock his store with what's available. He goes deep to personally vet
each product for quality and determine that there isn't a better version of the product that he could
be selling. Because of this arduous process, you know that your options on buildasoil.com have been
carefully curated to create the results you are looking for. Not only that, but the Build A Soil
way is a philosophy that will permeate your interaction with the company. From website design
to pricing and shipping to after-purchase support, Jeremy and his team always strive to do their best
and give you the best customer service in the business. Check out buildasoil.com today for
top-tier quality cultivation supplies and a friends and family buying experience. And check out their
educational videos and extraordinary social media while you're there too. Quality organic
growing supplies at buildasoil.com. Oxygen is an essential plant nutrient and keeping sufficient
dissolved oxygen in the root zone is a challenge. Gaia's brand of ultra-fine nanobubble systems will
help your garden thrive in ways you may not have considered. No matter if you grow in soil,
hydroponics, or aquaponics, Gaia's ultra-fine nanobubble systems will increase your dissolved
oxygen and increase your yield. Often, the first sign of inadequate oxygen supply to the roots is
wilting of the plant under warm conditions and high light levels. Insufficient oxygen results
in an accumulation of toxins and an insufficient amount of water and mineral absorption.
If oxygen starvation continues, mineral deficiencies will begin to show, roots die back,
and plants will become stunted. Healthy roots supplied with sufficient oxygen are able to
absorb nutrient ions selectively from the surrounding solution as required. In studies,
this has shown a 30% increase in plant growth. Not only do ultra-fine oxygen bubbles allow your
plants to thrive, but they will keep your drip lines and irrigation pipes and plumbing clean too,
because algae, pythium, and other invasive species only survive in low oxygen environments.
And the Gaia system only costs about $2 per day to run. Gaia ultra-fine oxygen nanobubblers are
also great for making compost teas and wild-crafted nutrient teas. The smaller bubbles of truly
dissolved oxygen allow more microbes to reproduce faster. Go to Gaia's website at H205.com to learn
more about using dissolved oxygen and how to purchase this simple yet amazing technology.
That's H205.com. Welcome back. You are listening to Shaping Fire, and I'm your host,
Shango Lose. And our guest this week is neuroscientist Greg Gerdeman.
So Greg, during the first set, we set up what schizophrenia and psychosis are, the baskets of
attributes that they tend to have. And then we talked a lot about what it's like to over-medicate
on THC and what's that like. And we definitely found some similarities between the two,
but it doesn't mean that one necessarily causes the other or is even the same thing.
We've seen this happen historically in the press and how the general population looks like cannabis
never so obviously as when there is some sort of psychotic crime or murder or something.
And they find out that the individual who committed the crime was a cannabis user or
used cannabis earlier in their life. And then they suddenly tie these psychotic breaks to
the actual crime, which of course was very useful during the height of the Prohibition
and Reefer Madness days. I know that you have studied this in depth. So, would you
kind of summarize how that has happened and that phenomenon in the media of taking these folks who
commit these crimes and dumping all of that at the feet of cannabis?
Yeah, I will try to do that. I mean, it goes in line with this, you know, thinking of it as a
conspiracy theory in that when something seems to, a story has been told that, you know, the reefer
causes madness. And when that story is out there and there's a believability to it and a desire to
believe it for ulterior motives and what have you, it snowballs every time you get, you know,
something that can be seen as a piece of evidence. And you mentioned that it was instrumental in
Prohibition. It certainly was. And there's a very specific case that I came to find out about
because I was living down in St. Pete, Florida. And this case happened in Ybor City in Tampa
in the 1930s, early 1930s. This fellow named Victor Licata was a terribly troubled
young man. And it's a horrible story. This guy became an axe murderer. He killed his entire
family, his parents, his siblings. And it became a cause celebs sort of, you know, a publicized face
because he was, it was said that he was a marijuana addict. The police found in some way,
I mean, I don't remember all the details, but the police had like a marijuana cigarette and said he
had been addicted to smoking marijuana cigarettes for like six months. Well, this was, as these
things happened, picked up by powerful figures like Harry Anslinger, who was probably the most,
well, was the most important driving force in that, you know, Prohibition.
And he became the face of the drug crazed, murderous madman, the marijuana dope fiend.
All of these pejorative terms got created, justified by an individual case of shocking
horror value, you know, absolute tragedy. But as historians have looked back at that
case, and I think it happened, you know, it didn't take too long for it to happen that
it was recognized that this person had a history, a preexisting history of disturbing mental illness.
In fact, he never did time for that crime. He was institutionalized for his psychosis because he was
considered unfit to stand trial. He was diagnosed at the time, what was called dementia precox with
homicidal tendencies. But it was called that some kind of a powerful psychotic schizophrenia.
Also, it's worth noting, so he was committed to the hospital of the insane.
He had a family history of severe mental illness, like an uncle, his parents had some insanity
in their family. His parents were actually first cousins of one another. And during his time at
the mental institution, the records never really focused on saying that marijuana use had any
cause in his condition. But that creates such a graphic story and became very powerfully
associated with a drug that was not well known, certainly not as marijuana in the United States.
And it helped to propel cannabis into the prohibited status when it was effectively
banned by the Marijuana Tax Act. And these kinds of things do go on, you know, I don't
at the top of my head have a more graphic, you know, example as that. There may not be another
example as important, but there's been, you know, there are elements of that that still continue. I
mean, I remember when I was in Florida a few years ago, there was a case of, remember that case of
the guy who like was caught by police, like trying to eat the face of another man. He was
completely psychotically deranged. And the media had a field day with that without any
details. And it was, at least for a brief period of time, blamed on marijuana because of
drug talks that this guy had THC in his system. It was actually, it was something that was,
he had also been ingesting like some of these powerful bath salts that are
just intensely psychoactive and certainly can lead to psychotic,
severe psychotic behaviors. I mean, and the notion that it was linked to cannabis at all was ridiculous,
but it serves what is, you know, been a political will to support the theory. I mean, the mindset,
the fallacy that cannabis creates schizophrenia. You know, there are lots of ways that I think
these theories get supported. You know, one I've said, you got to have some face value believability
to it, right? Okay, check. Secondly, for something like the conspiracy of Reefer Madness,
um, it, I think, you know, there tends to be certain ulterior motives. Certainly
Anslinger had interior ulterior motives. He was a prohibitionist. He was on a crusade against
Satanism, which he associated with jazz music and their reefers. He was racist. And, um, there's
another insidious ulterior motive, right? When the bulk of the country doesn't know anything about
marijuana and it gets colored as something that is associated with the ethnic minorities that,
you know, you might want to blame for something. There are ulterior motives that get these things
set up. And when a story gets so heavily institutionalized, um, that marijuana is a
slippery slope to, to madness. It's one of the ways that cannabis hijacks your brain.
There are vested interests in just not being wrong. You know, certainly the prison industry
and imposter, you know, law enforcement doesn't want to be wrong with that. Clinicians that,
you know, have come to think that that's how it works. They don't want to believe that they've,
uh, been wrong about it. Um, and, and, you know, flash forward to, you know, the last 20, 30 years,
the funding structure for research into cannabis has all been biased. It's not anymore,
but for many years, it was very perniciously biased towards you. You're not really going to
study marijuana unless you're proposing to understand how it's bad for you. There's a
presupposition. And in the world of brain sciences, that was, I'm going to conduct
university-based research to show how cannabis leads to the use of other drugs or how you get
addicted to it, like you do other drugs or how it leads to, um, insanity, which was never really
based on a scientific argument or scientific evidence, but nonetheless, it gets kind of
institutionalized and, and sheltered by a scientific paradigm.
It's like, it's become this cultural prejudice. Like, like, like it was posited at this,
at one point and people jumped on it and started repeating it. And so that be suddenly became the
status quo. And then everybody kind of fell in behind that status quo because either a,
it was convenient and useful to them or B, um, there was not a good reason for somebody to stand
against this, this wave of belief in this cultural prejudice.
Yeah. You know, I mean, the history is just fascinating. There's so many fascinating things
about cannabis, whether it's scientifically social, cultural, right. I mean, when I've
mentioned how this, you know, this reefer madness mythology and this ax murderer and the testimony
from the, from the professor moonshoe said, he turned into a bat, all these things drove
prohibition. The one voice that was standing out against the marijuana tax act in 1937 was the
American medical association saying, wait, that's not right. Characterizing this reefer in ways that
you know, cannabis is a medicine. It's been an apothecaries. You know, we understand this.
It's got great potential. Um, but man, there was, I guess the convergence of world war two and
everything else going on and how successful Anslinger was with literally going to these
apothecaries and smashing it up, destroying all of the bottles of cannabis. They was removed from
the pharmacopeia. Um, it changed our cultural memory and yeah, then you get into the situation
where there's a story that's been repeated. It has a certain face value to it. There are
horror stories that you just don't want to be true. Um, it's associated with a counter culture
or with racial minorities. Um, and, but, but for me coming into this, you know, I came to cannabis
as a brain scientist and it wasn't because I wanted to study cannabis is more because I wanted
to study these intersections of the mind and the brain and when they go wrong. Um, but a lot has
been said, rightly so a lot will be said for many years to come about how the research bias has
existed. That's made it so hard to study cannabis as a medicine, you know, and there's many ways we
can go into that, but one of them is this, you know, the fact that cannabis research has been so
monopolized, so to speak, by the drug abuse arm of the national Institute of health,
the national Institute on drug abuse, um, and the whole paradigm that you're studying it as
a problem and trying to understand how it can damage the brain. One of the beautiful,
fun ironies is that research led to show that it protects the brain. I mean, the cannabis acts on
an endocannabinoid system that is fundamentally part of our brains neuroprotective system. Um,
and so the fallacy in that level that cannabis damages, the brain is just been completely
be debunked and, and, um, and reversed, but the fallacy that it leads to insanity still kind of
lingers and, uh, big grant dollars are still reserved and, or go to applying new tools to ask
the same questions, like really sophisticated brain imaging methods to say what's different
in the fine granular, you know, tracts of the brain. If someone's experienced it, you know,
experimenting with cannabis and there have been papers that have been splashes. I've had a whole
talk on this, um, over the years that there have been papers that really hit the media, like, Whoa,
the verdict is out. You smoke cannabis. It changes your brain. We know it because we can see it in
these super powerful magnet scanners. But most of those studies find these very small changes,
uh, in structures of the brain without correlating it to any functional deficit.
So because of this institutionalized story, the deficit can be inferred. And even in a scientific
paper, you're writing an article in a way that will most, you know, be accepted by the funding
structures and tell the story that you've been trying to tell. And you are, I mean, and I don't
like to discredit or, or, uh, be harsh on scientists, but I, I see these places where some
difference in the brain structure, a very small difference, not something that a neurologist
could point out on a, on a looking at the brain scan, you have to have computer algorithms say,
Hey, there's a slight difference in the volume of the left amygdala in someone who's been using
cannabis. And that difference is interpreted as damage or compensation for damage, which gets
really pretty ludicrous. So Greg, I would like to change the, I don't know, maybe the vocabulary
of where we go next for a moment, because, um, one of the things that I so enjoy is that, you know,
you can teach things very, very effectively in a common folk language because, you know, you've
been a professor and you've been teaching students and people for, for a long time.
But then I also know you as a research scientist and have heard you get like super nerdy and you
do both in this recent article for project CBD. And so what I'd like to ask you to describe is
this idea of reverse causality, capital R capital C, um, in its, uh, scientific terms, because
up till now in this set, we have, um, hit the nail pretty hard that, that, uh, this idea of having
too much THC giving this, this dysphoric experience has similarities with, with schizophrenia and how
historical criminals, um, who had some connection to marijuana were then used as kind of like
scapegoats or patsies for this, um, political, uh, racial position that people wanted to take.
But at the same time, um, there is a very specific logical premise that fails that, that these,
the studies that try to support these taboos of reefer madness, they fail. They, the, the,
the science itself fails to prove the point that cannabis will cause, um, schizophrenia and
psychotic breaks in cannabis users. And, and, and you don't have to go down this path too far, but
I, for those folks who are really into the forensic nature of the science, if you would describe
reverse causality and why, um, the mad, the, the reefer madness fails on this very important,
um, uh, standard of evidence. Um, I think that, I think that that would be tasty.
Okay. Um, well, you know, it's not just that there are associations made in, you know,
the popular press and the shock stories. There have been correlations observed in scientific
studies between cohorts of people who are schizophrenic and cohorts of people who are not,
and finding that those who develop schizophrenia were slightly more likely to have used cannabis
prior to that earlier in their life. You know, almost all of these are sort of these retrospective
studies that are set up like that. Basically you find a clinical population. The first one that had
impact was a group of army soldiers in Sweden. Now they found, they took a group of them that
had been diagnosed with schizophrenia. And then the, you set up, you've tried to find an equally
sized group that's similar, um, and, and that don't have schizophrenia. And you ask the question,
well, was cannabis use different? And these kinds of situations have looked back and said, well,
there is a correlation. Science is always able looking for correlation. And it's often said that
correlation does not prove causation. And it gets a lot harder to do that. And yet we want to
ask the question of, does it cause it? So there have been multiple studies and of course,
this gets very politicized and it's why it's important for the cannabis culture and industry
to not just dismiss this, um, because there is a considerable body of science that says the use of,
or the, the, uh, diagnosis of schizophrenia is correlated with a greater likelihood
of having experimented or being a cannabis user. It's more often than not a heavy cannabis user.
So there's a correlation and there, and that gets flipped around into saying that
heavy cannabis use is therefore a risk factor for, um, contracting schizophrenia.
This starts to imply causation. The cannabis use is a risk factor when really rigorously,
the statistics of it just mean that they are associated. And several, you know, studies have,
have in more recent years, you know, when I think that that the bias and even the scientific,
you know, uh, bravery to challenge assumptions, uh, has arisen. People have taken very close
looks at this and tried to tease out where there could be family history involved or other
confounds, as we call it, if you make a correlation, but you know what, it could be due
to other factors. Like the weed smokers came from a different background, a different socioeconomic
background than the others. And that maybe was leading to the problem. In some studies,
socioeconomic background is a confound that's not well-controlled. Um, family genetics is certainly
one that has been hard to track down, but just, you know, in the last 10 years or so,
it's become much more, the abilities to sequence DNA have led to so much insight into the human
genome. And you get these powerful, like genome wide association studies that are able to,
let's keep it a little simple and say, you know, just categorize people's genetic history
more carefully and, and qualify it. And at least two, there are two particular studies, um, that
really looked well at this. I mean, many studies have said, well, there may be a confound,
you know, and I, and there are studies that show like identical twins, um, you know,
the cannabis use, if there's identical twins that are discordant for cannabis use, one uses and one
doesn't. Um, it doesn't really pan out that the cannabis user is more likely to get schizophrenia.
Um, but there've been a couple of studies that have indicated that, you know, there's a, that,
yeah, we too see a correlation and that there is a risk associating heavy cannabis use with
schizophrenia, but that it seems to be connected to genetic markers, meaning that there's a genetic
similarity to people who, or that is a more strong driver in these studies that wasn't
necessarily obvious, but that if you look at the genetic markers, there's a stronger drive
to the schizophrenic associate cannabis schizophrenia. So again, this does get delicate,
difficult to talk about, but it's scientifically very, um, accepted and rigorous. And what it
points to is the idea that cannabis users, I mean, that is this, there are people with
latent sort of predisposition to schizophrenia, um, that may be more inclined to use cannabis
heavily prior to being diagnosed. I mean, this isn't a new idea, but it's fairly new research
has been able to test it well using modern genomic methods. And so I'm, we've talked about
negative and positive symptoms to begin the first set cannabis. I mean, not schizophrenia
very often is associated with what's called a prodrome or prodromal patient or prodromal
schizophrenia, meaning it's been long recognized that, um, individuals can suffer from those
negative symptoms of blunt affect and anhedonia. It gets identified in them prior to actually
having a psychotic, you know, break from reality and becoming diagnosed with more manifest
schizophrenia. So we know that there are latent individuals that are latently predisposed to
schizophrenia. They start to experience the prodrome early and studies have shown that,
that, um, it, well, I get a little confused about what I'm saying with what studies have and haven't
shown. Those prodromal patients tend to have negative symptoms first. A study that I cite
out of Australia in the, in my article found, and it was not the only one that I found that
schizophrenic patients do self-medicate with cannabis. And it's primarily to alleviate
negative symptoms by self-report, you know, and I could give some of my conjecture about why that
might be, but the users themselves say, yeah, I'm smoking to medicate. Um, and it helps to alleviate
these aspects of not feeling, you know, connected to my feelings. Um, so the question of
reverse causality is an important one and helps to explain the confounds between environment and
genetics and this association. The reason that triggered my article in my little essay in
Project CBD, I've thought about these things for many years, but I actually, you know, the other
night when we were all anxiously thinking about counting ballots and the election returns, and
you can't get your mind off anything else. And in the, my inbox dropped this new table of contents
from JAMA psychiatry, the journal of the American medical association psychiatry, um, publication.
And it had this brand new study that is a breakdown by these authors, Gillespie and Kendler.
Two different, I have no affiliation or don't know them. Um, but they wrote what I consider a
really elegant review and statistical re-analysis of studies, looking at the question of causality.
And they, you know, they reviewed the literature. They looked at these, including studies that,
you know, concluded there was reverse causality, but their paper again, that's brand new,
asked the question, they said, let's consider that there are three hypotheses. Hypothesis one,
which is the one that's been kind of traditionally ingrained is that schizophrenia, cannabis is
causal for schizophrenia. It's like putting a match where there would not otherwise be a fire.
Those are my words, not theirs, but that, you know, cannabis is a risk that will make someone
turn schizophrenic who otherwise would not. Hypothesis two is that it's complicated by
confounding factors and that someone's genetics may be predisposing them and cannabis use could
kind of tip the scale. And, uh, hypothesis three was that it's a completely reverse sort of thing
that there's, I mean, that cannabis, that, that only if you're schizophrenic, do you use cannabis
and there's, you know, it's, there's no real connection. Um, and, and what they found in a
nutshell, I mean, I direct people to the article in my project CBD essay, um, is that the hypothesis
one is completely out the window. The studies that have shown reverse, have found evidence for
reverse causality, which were published in very good journals, very good science were, are, are
compelling. And they did a fresh statistical breakdown that I won't try to explain about how
the data point to the fact that the, that studies showing increased use of schizo, of cannabis
leads to a greater risk of psychosis are greatly overstating the, the, the relationship that
the reverse causality may actually be the case for, and for the kind of reasons that I've embellished
here, that someone who is already likely to be come schizophrenic or at greater risk because of
their genes, because of how their brain is getting wired up throughout your teenage and twenties
years, um, schizophrenia is a risk for that person say with a family history. And that person may
be more likely to enjoy cannabis and getting into a habitual pattern with cannabis. So there's a
statistical association that is actually in the reverse being someone that is because of your,
the nature of your genetics and environment are going down a path towards a schizophrenia
that that more likely pushes them or influences them to be ever so slightly more likely to be
a cannabis user. That would be so interesting. I mean, it is so interesting that simply because
people who may be experiencing early life mental challenges turn to cannabis for comfort
could actually be misread as being the cause. And then all of this hyperbole and
reefer madness culture has come from that. Um, before we go into that, let's go ahead and take
our last break. You'll be right back. We'll we'll all be right back. You are listening to shaping
fire and our guest this week is neuroscientist, Greg Gerdeman. Sometimes the topics I want to
share with you are far too brief for an entire shaping fire episode. In those instances, I post
them to Instagram. I invite you to follow my two Instagram profiles and participate in the
online. The shaping fire Instagram has follow-up posts to shaping fire episodes, growing and
processing best practices, product trials, and of course, gorgeous flower photos. The shango
Lowe's Instagram follows my travels on cannabis garden tours, my successes and failures in my own
garden insights and best practices from personal grows everywhere, and always gorgeous flower
photos on both profiles. The emphasis is on sharing what I've learned in a way that you can
replicate it in your own garden, your own hash lab, or for your own cannabino pathic health. So I
encourage you to follow at shaping fire and at shango Lowe's and join our online community on
Instagram. After you've caught up on the latest shaping fire episodes, do you sometimes wish there
was more cannabis education available to learn? Well, we got you shaping fire has a fabulous
YouTube channel with content not found on the podcast. When I attend conventions to speak or
moderate panels, I always record them and bring the content home for you to watch. The shango Lowe's
YouTube channel has world-class speakers, including Zoe Sigmunds lecture, understanding your
endocannabinoid system. Kevin Jodry of Wonderland nursery, talking about breeding cannabis for the
best terpene profile. Frenchie cannoli's lost art of the hashish and presentation. Nicholas Mahmoud
on regenerative and polyculture cannabis growing. Dr. Sunil Agarwal on the history of cannabis
medicine around the world, Eric Vlosky and Josh Rutherford on solventless extraction and Jeff
Lohenfels on the soil food web. There are several presentations from Dr. Ethan Russo on terpenes and
the endocannabinoid system too. While there, be sure to check out the three, 10 part shaping fire
session series. One with Kevin Jodry, one with Dr. Ethan Russo and one with Jeff Lohenfels. And even
my own presentations on how to approach finding your dream job in cannabis and why we choose
cannabis business, even though the risks are so high as of today, there's over 200 videos that you
can check out for free. So go to youtube.com forward slash shango Lowe's, or click on the link
in the newsletter. As a business owner, you are incredibly busy. In reality, you are responsible
for everything your company does. You've got so many responsibilities every single day that often
you just don't have the time to really dig into your marketing as deeply as you'd like. You know,
there's more that you could do to reach out to new customers and encourage loyalty in the
customers you already have, but you certainly don't have the time for it. And you're not ready
to hire somebody full time for that role either. For you, I recommend blunt branding at blunt
branding. Kirsten Nelson and her team are focused on improving your bottom line. You know, most
marketing firms are excited to make your logo packaging and website very pretty, but they leave
responsibility for improving your bottom line up to you. They don't want that kind of responsibility
but that's pretty much the most important part of marketing right? Kirsten and her team will help
you engage new customers, funnel them to your point of sale, whether it be online or a storefront,
and keep them coming back to you and telling their friends. Now if you happen to be a new cannabis
company or an established company moving from medical to adult use in your state, Kirsten
especially can help you. Not only is she well versed in marketing and finance, but she totally
gets cannabis, whole plant medicine, terpenes, heritage farmers, and the particular needs of
startups. Check out what she did recently for Moon Time Medicinals and Humboldt at moontimemedicinals.com.
Kirsten and her team put together a whole brand package for them, built their website, and wrote
their sales materials. No doubt this is a paid commercial spot, but that does not mean they bought
my opinion. I've worked with blunt branding on five projects now for various of their clients,
and every single time they have done more than they have promised and over delivered on results.
I love how they generate new revenue and focus on that as the goal instead of just making a pretty
logo. Similarly, every single friend I've referred them to has come back to thank me, and that just
does not happen every day. Grab a pen and paper because the website address is coming up. If you
want someone to implement marketing programs that feed your bottom line, give blunt branding a call.
They will share proven techniques to increase your audience and generate sales while using
cutting-edge technology solutions in the background that make all of this easy, automatic, and trackable.
Go to shapingfire.com forward slash blunt branding to find out more. You can also click the link in
our newsletter. Blunt branding, marketing that makes you money. Welcome back. You are listening
to Shaping Fire. I'm your host, Shango Lose, and our guest this week is neuroscientist Greg Gerdemann.
Right before the break, Greg, you were telling us about the Gillespie and Kendler study
and what it was showing, the fact that folks who turned to cannabis for comfort because they were
experiencing some mental challenges then got conflated and were seen as it being the cause.
You also bring up in your Project CBD article how other data points miraculously appear
in the science that are not actually supported by science but they become the default setting
like this belief that cannabis causes madness as well. Another one that you point out is the 10%
THC threshold. Now we're starting to see suggestions like we did two years ago,
having a lot of states say, yes, we will have legal cannabis but it will be CBD only, which,
of course, that's just playing into fears and not at all based on science. This idea that cannabis
that would be sold in recreational stores should not be more than 10%, it also has got a questionable
genesis. Tell us more about that. Well, I'm not sure where it first appeared, but there has been
a real thrust that I saw in the state of Florida to identify this 10% level as where THC becomes
too high. Again, the cannabis culture and industry is very quick to dismiss this,
hey, it's just more prohibitionist talk. But people were pointing to a publication in a very
prestigious journal, The Lancet, Lancet Psychiatry, that said this is all based in science. You got to
follow the science. That's a catchphrase. That's why we do have to look at the science and be able
to address it on its real terms and not just turn that over to those who are making a counter
argument. So the notion is that there's been a long connection with cannabis and schizophrenia,
right? And we've all been hearing for years that today's cannabis isn't your daddy's weed,
it's much stronger. But in order to make something actionable, there's a statement that 10% THC
is too high. Where does that come from? The fuel that people were pointing to was this article in
The Lancet that had a great deal of prestige to it. It was a multi-center study in numerous
countries. It put itself as a study across Europe, but it also included Brazil, and I think another
Latin American country. And it was primarily led by a group in London that is one of the most
productive groups that have published over the years again and again, this notion that, you know,
strong cannabis, the skunk, leads to psychosis. There really are only a handful of labs that have
put the most of that out there. This study, what it did, I'll break down how it was designed,
it basically recruited into the study clinics from various different countries. And this adds
to the prestige of the article because there are lots of authors on it from different countries,
and they've got funding from their national institutes of health or research. And so you
get this byline that's enormous, that looks very impressive. And I can tell you, you know,
in legislature committees, a lot of times that's the most influential thing. Well, this was published
by all these important people. But what they did is they recruited clinics and clinicians within
them so that when someone showed up with a first episode psychosis, that they would follow this
certain protocol to assess their cannabis use in the past. And, you know, and that's not schizophrenia,
right? We've described psychosis as a break from reality, and it can be triggered by,
it can be triggered by taking a substance. It can be triggered by having an enormous
amount of stress or trauma. But in instances of first episode psychosis, there was an interview
following where individuals were asked about their history with cannabis, and they were
allowed, it was the study is designed so that people would use whatever their local expressions
were. You know, there's no looking at labels, there's no describing, you know, quantitatively
what they had taken, but they would say, you know, they smoked homegrown or they smoked hash,
or, you know, whatever you refer to these things in French or Portuguese or what have you, they
would use their colloquial terms. And then that would be correlated with what the national record
was on what those substances are in terms of THC. So now, this isn't even obvious in the main body
of the paper. When you're reading it, they're just saying that individuals were, and there's a
lot of complicated statistics, but they were saying that people that were users of potent
cannabis greater than 10% THC were more, I mean, that people with psychosis were more likely
to have used, if they had used potent THC, it was a greater risk factor. Sorry, I was garbling that
a little bit. Whereas low potency THC under 10%, the correlation wasn't there. And, you know, when
I'm reading it and it's being waved around, I'm like, well, how did it get to this 10%? So I'm,
you have to go to the supplemental materials online. And then still you just see these tables
where it's, you know, determined that like hashish in Spain is greater than 10%.
Hashish in Brazil or in England is less than 10%. Homegrown, self-reported homegrown in England is
higher than 10%, but imported is less than 10%. If they call it skunk, it's above 10%. And all of
these different things, which that was buried in the references and where they got to that
was buried in the references of the supplementary material. And it was like these
government white papers, like reports on health in Europe. And, you know, that's how I had to dig
and realize that they're basically taking police records that say, hey, hash from Spain was like
this Moroccan stuff that was 12%. And those kinds, that kind of chain of custody, if you will, was
used to define an arbitrary border where, where they said, and you know, it's scientifically,
you shouldn't, you should make your hypothesis in advance, but it certainly leads one to suspect
that they chose a border of high low where the statistics might work out.
Maybe 10% was just what they were looking for, but I don't know. At any rate, it was arbitrary.
And it's just, that gets claimed as being scientifically based when anybody who knows
about the process of testing cannabis for potency in terms of THC percentage,
knows that it's tricky and how you prepare the sample and the kinds of machines you run it on.
And there's lots of different variability in, in substances. And first of all, the notion that,
you know, a sample of recorded, you know, confiscated, imported cannabis in England
is necessarily representative of what somebody was smoking is, I think, quite a stretch,
but it was really be heralded. Actually, there was an editorial that accompanied it in the Lancet
that was saying, well, this is an innovative approach. That's like combining like a material
history to show that it's the strong stuff that really reveals a time bomb for schizophrenia.
And what kills me is that that strength or lack of strength and that correlation
was used in this scientific article to justify all kinds of hand-waving. I've never read an
article before that in so many places says, if this, you know, hypothesis of causality is true,
then they conducted a whole new set of thought experiments saying like, hey, if this relationship
we've put out here is true, then like X percent of all of the psychosis in the Netherlands is due
to high potency cannabis. 30, half of all the schizophrenia in the city of London is due to
smoking high potency cannabis. I don't know if they said half. It was a tremendous jump. And over
and over again, it had, I'm sure a reviewer made them repeat over and over again, if this causality
is true, because they had not established that causality, it was no better in that regard than
any of these other papers that I've made reference to in this course of our conversation. The
causality could just be every bit a reverse causality. It could entirely be a reverse
causality where again, someone reporting with a first episode psychosis, and they did control,
at least they attempted to control that it wasn't that they were acutely, you know,
stoned out of their mind. And that was the cause of the experience. Now, you have to take on faith
if that was true, maybe it was or not. But at any rate, someone experienced a psychotic, you know,
reaction could have been that propensity could have been driving them to be using cannabis.
The 10% threshold at any rate is arbitrary. It's based on a flimsy record. I mean, sometimes
years and years old, the measures that of how potent Brazilian hashish would be the way I was
digging through the reference, it seemed to be from like 2004 to 2006. But even if it's more
recent, what if it's 2015? Who's to say how that cannabis was stored, how it was ground up? I mean,
as we know, and I referenced in the article, you know, it's been quite a issue in the US labs that
are dedicated to the cannabinoid detection, you send same sample to different labs, and they can
get different methods if they're not following the same methods of calibrating it and validating
their methods. And I'm sorry, but national law enforcement from a scattering of, you know,
half a dozen or more, I mean, more than that 10 different countries to think that they're
using the same methods and that you're comparing apples to apples is kind of ridiculous, even like
comparing flour to a, you know, dense packed rosin, you know, the preparation methods are different.
When you tell me that the data sets that the studies were based on were using product
categories like skunk or homegrown, there's so much very, I mean, first of all, skunk really
isn't a category, right? And so it's a misunderstanding of the community as a whole.
But then even if we just had to have a category of homegrown, well, you know, how it's grown
indoor, outdoor, the genetics, the talent of the grower, all of these things add so many
variabilities to tell me that the underlying data is just garbage. And then the rest of the study
is built on this garbage data and then made to look good for whatever motivation. And, and that
is the part that really red flags for me, like, like how, why, why is it worthwhile to even put
out the rest of the study when it's based on, on this sand? Yeah. Yeah. But it has been
sensationalized and it was right from the beginning, even finding quotes in the media
from the authors and even in the study itself saying, you know, that this was, they went through
this analysis of guesstimating how much, what proportion of, you know, psychosis in these
different areas was due to cannabis. I mean, for the sake of influencing policy out of a fear that
potent cannabis products shouldn't be there. And then that, that jumps to another, you know,
important fallacy, which is this obsession over percent composition and THC. I mean,
if you're so scared about the percent composition, I mean,
Dronabinol is a pill that's been FDA approved medicine since their, what, early eighties. And
I mean, if you're going to go down to percents, well, inside that capsule, it's better than what,
98% THC. And popping a bunch of those pills can lead to pretty profound, you know,
reaction. But to say that you put this arbitrary limit on flour, it's just,
it's not, it's, it's not, it's certainly not rooted in this claim that we got to follow
the science and science has shown, you know, over 10% THC to be a ticking time bomb. That's,
it's ridiculous. It hasn't shown the causality any better than the, than the,
than the rest. And, you know, I would be remiss not to say that this whole body of research,
you know, is still, it's still consistent with the thinking that if someone does have a genetic
latent predisposition to schizophrenia, even if using cannabis is something that they feel
improves their quality of life, it could be a risk factor for progressing their disease or
speeding the onset of frank schizophrenia. That may be, and this is my own thinking on it,
that may be simply because if you get into a habit of cannabis, you're, you're more likely
to eventually have one of those moments of taking a lot, or it may be that using it regularly,
high THC cannabis desensitizes, down-regulates your endocannabinoid system, your receptors,
and that, that at a moment of developmental vulnerability sort of takes away the,
the buffering capacity that the endocannabinoid system is meant to serve. You know, so these,
these are very, I take these issues seriously that someone who has a family history of mental
illness, especially psychotic illness, schizophrenia, should be very cautious around
high THC cannabis. And, and I think that there's really credible and interesting research out there
that having balance of CBD, you know, whether it's a type two cannabis flower with balanced ratios,
formulated products, it may be that that would be less of a risk factor.
In, if there is truth that, you know, someone with a disposition to schizophrenia
may hasten the onset by, by using cannabis, it may be less so with what are more modern,
well-controlled medicinal preparations and, and trying to include CBD.
You know, this is a nuanced conversation, right? It's an important one. And we value
people's lives and don't want to steer them wrong. But the, the blunt hatchet of a law
that says, you know, ha ha, you've thought you've legalized this, but we're instead going to make
it only legal to use less potent THC. I mean, the vast majority of the population is never going to
experience psychosis or schizophrenia. And there are large swaths of people among the medical
cannabis community, patients who benefit from higher doses of THC. And those who are using
cannabis and, you know, adult use responsible way, I mean, may enjoy, I mean, hell,
an irony, an irony here is that, you know, sort of the, some of the legislation that's been
proposed only focuses on flower at all and not, you know, a vape pen that can have 80% plus THC.
But that's sort of the next step. If they're going to, if somebody is going to ban flower
on the base of 10% THC, why wouldn't they go to concentrates? Yeah. It feels like a setup
for dabbing for sure. Yeah. And anyway, you know, if they're going to use the mantra,
let's follow the science. Yeah, let's do. The tide has changed on our cannabis, our perceptions of
cannabis, you know, the pendulum is swinging back in a way that is exciting. I mean, cannabis has
been discovered and celebrated and forgotten and demonized over and over again throughout cultures.
But one thing we can say is that it is spread around the globe more than it ever has.
And our understanding of cannabis and how it works in our body is far more developed and
sophisticated and scientific than it ever has just by the evolution of science. And, you know,
we just, we know better than to rely on these fear-based simplistic models. And I just celebrate
studies by, you know, straight laced white coat physicians who were looking credibly at the,
at the question and saying, you know what, this sort of direct cause and effect that
is smoking heavy cannabis is going to enhance the risk of schizophrenia is not well-founded.
The reverse causality hypothesis is very well grounded. The whole body of literature needs
to be viewed through that lens. And it, and it changes the story to one that's more sober. You
know, it's more, it's less, it's less demanding of cannabis being this boogeyman that,
that is a slippery slope to, you know, wrecking our youth. So that's kind of where all of that
boils down to. And we can't just dismiss whether it's, you know, a new flash in the pan brain
imaging study that says, Hey, you smoke weed, your brain looks a little different. Or this kind of
study that says, look, we've, we've studied large numbers of people in many countries. And we know
that people smoking potent cannabis are at risk of, you know, a life of madness.
You have to look at it from the mindset of really critiquing the science to, to understand what's
there and what's been oversold. Greg, that's great. And I really appreciate you, you know,
taking this measured approach, this topic with me, because, you know, as we talked about before
we recorded you know, to, to gently detangle a topic that's this complex you know, this is not
usual podcast fair for most shows and we had to walk a lot of lines, but that's one of the reasons
that I like you is that you're always willing to walk that line and and you, and you give it to us
straight. So, um, I'm, I'm, uh, yeah, well, and I, and I hope, you know, my, my motivation for
this show was, you know, most of us, you know, you and I, and the listeners of this show,
unless they're joining us for the first time, probably believed all of this to be true.
And they believed this very easily because they knew the fix was in against cannabis to begin with.
And we've all been smoking it and it's been doing good things for our lives, but a show like this,
um, I think arms us better for conversations with our families and with our kids school systems and,
and with other stoners, right. Who, who are, are jumping on the bandwagon, um, misguidedly,
or are themselves, uh, repeating falsehoods about science in support of cannabis, just like people
falsehoods against cannabis. So, uh, so yeah, man, I, uh, I appreciate you and, uh, thank you for
joining us and sharing your, uh, experience and, uh, and I, you know, I look forward to having
you on the show again. It's my pleasure. Thanks a lot. I am. I do a lot more educating now on more
straightforward and bite-sized subjects, but these deep dives are sometimes, um,
are sometimes really important and we can't just be reflexive and say, ah, everything these guys
say is garbage. Um, and, and I love what you said about being able to speak with
whomever school boards or activists going to legislature committees. I mean,
um, it's important to, to address science on its own merits. Fantastic.
So if you'd like to connect with Dr. Greg Gerdeman, you can follow him on Instagram at,
uh, ganja Nash and that's G A N J A N E S H ganja Nash. Um, you could also just search for
Greg Gerdeman if you want as well. Um, the article that was at the basis of our discussion today,
I highly recommend that you check out there on projectcbd.org. It is entitled Cannabis and
Schizophrenia, a Conspiracy of Causality. And, um, the link to that of course is on the Shaping Fire
website. And, you know, if you like, uh, how Greg works through complex topics, I encourage you to
check out the other two Shaping Fire episodes that Greg was kind enough to join me for.
That is, um, uh, Shaping Fire episode 46, um, focused on exercise, athleticism and cannabis.
And then all the way back to episode 14 on synthetic cannabinoids in case you want to learn
what all the hoo-ha is about making synthetic cannabinoids in the lab. You can find more
episodes of the Shaping Fire podcast and subscribe to the show at shapingfire.com and wherever you
get your podcasts. If you enjoyed the show, we'd really appreciate it if you would leave a positive
review of the podcast, wherever you download your view will help others find the show so they can
enjoy it too. On the Shaping Fire website, you can also subscribe to the newsletter for insights
into the latest cannabis news, exclusive videos, and giveaways on the Shaping Fire website. You
also find transcripts of today's podcast as well. Be sure to follow on Instagram for all original
content, not found on the podcast. That's at shaping fire and at shango Lowe's on Instagram.
Be sure to check out the Shaping Fire YouTube channel for exclusive interviews, farm tours,
and cannabis lectures. Does your company want to reach our national audience of cannabis enthusiasts?
Email hotspot at shapingfire.com to find out how. Thanks for listening to Shaping Fire.
I've been your host, Shango Lowe's.
