There are some things in life that take a lot of effort to make, are made with quality
in mind, and are really truly premium. I'm talking about things like shoes that were
handmade by an actual cobbler, or a coat that is so impervious to weather that you feel
safe when you put it on. Some coats, like maybe the one your grandpa used to wear hunting,
are so well made that they just look better the more wear and tear they get. Some expensive
sports cars too have a certain purr that just sounds expensive. We may not always have
the money today to buy these luxury items we desire, but there's no doubt that we
respect them for their beauty, quality, and craftsmanship. There's not much like that
on the cannabis market so far. Most products are whipped together and put on the market
as quickly as possible. That's why we see so much uncured cannabis flower out there,
and why some vaporizers are so unsatisfying to hold. Today we're focusing on one of
the few cannabis products anywhere in the country that drips luxury and craftsmanship.
You are listening to Shaping Fire, and I am your host, Shango Los.
Today we are going to profile Lyra Cannagars. I want to be clear that this is not a paid
spot. I'm focusing on them because of their leadership in the industry, and because I'm
totally a fan of their attention to detail. Today's guest is Ariel Peope, founder of
Lyra Cannagars. Lyra's cannagars are handmade, contain ultra-premium ingredients, and have
a style and price to match. Welcome to the show, Ariel.
Hey, thanks for having me.
So Ariel, in an industry when so much retail packaging is ugly, and we have to question
the quality of the cannabis contained within, it's encouraging to come across a product
like yours that is not only beautiful, but also packed with top-shelf cannabis. Why did
you decide to serve the ultra-premium market instead of the mass market?
There's a lot of labor put into creating a cannagar, and so it's impossible to make
it cheap. For somebody to be paying that amount of $420 for a 6-inch cannagar, you want to
make sure you have premium cannabis and no complaints. I don't want to sugarcoat crap.
So that's just my thing.
Were you excited about the ultra-premium market because you wanted to reach out to that particular
audience, or is it just because you are a connoisseur and you really only wanted to
work with ultra-premium inputs?
Kind of both. I just saw an opening for it because nobody was really marketing their
products that way. There are a few, but I just felt like this cannagar would set a garden
apart especially if they have premium product. If people want premium product, they'll pay
the money for it.
It's nice to be in a position where you're not really competing on price. So many cannabis
product folk, they're all trying to get the cheapest inputs possible so they can get their
price low so the maximum number of people can buy it. I've been an entrepreneur for
a long time. I actually prefer not having the cheapest product in the market because
there's a certain satisfaction in providing quality. That sounds to be your approach as
well.
Yeah. There are a couple of cannagar companies that I'm starting to see show up, which is
pretty cool. When I started my brand, I told myself, look, I'm sticking to premium quality,
materials, solventless oil and that. It was a big challenge trying to find that perfect
garden that met those qualities. There came a point where I did get laid off with a job
and I was desperate. All these gardens that I was meeting weren't meeting my expectations.
I almost jumped ship and just went with it and just hopefully hoped that my cannagars
would work out. But I was still worried because the quality wasn't that great. But luckily,
last minute, an opportunity was brought to me by Goal Leaf. They contacted me. I was
like, oh my God, these guys are perfect, all organic. They care about the product that
they give their customers. You can tell when you look at other gardens, they're just all
about creating large yields and making that profit. I didn't want that with my brand.
So as far as how you judge quality, I mean, obviously all of the legal states are having
issues with pesticides and all different flavors, but what were you looking for that you would
call quality flower to go into your cannagars? I mean, what were the standards you were looking
to have met that you didn't really see being met until you met Goal Leaf?
I was just looking for a good garden that cared about their customers and they grew
organic and didn't use any like crazy pesticides and they had good flower.
Do they make your rosin as well or do you do that in house?
No, we make the rosin also. Also, we get my friend, which is crazy. He started working
after me. We've been best friends since high school. He runs Polar Ice Track, so he's good
for making like full melt bubble hash and he created the hard press rosin press and
he started working there. So now we collect his bubble hash and we press that into rosin
for our cannagars. So everything's solventless, everything's handcrafted. I try to make sure
that there's nothing negative people can say about our products.
So when I first found out about your cannagars and I was looking into them, I'm like, wow,
these are incredible. And if you just would have used premium Gold Leaf flower, they would
have been amazing just in and of itself. What possessed you to go ahead and put dabble rosin
oil in there as well?
The more concentrates you put on there, the slower the burn and plus you get more flavors.
People love rosin. Rosin is like the new thing since people are trying to be clean with their
cannabis now. So I looked at it like this. Before I got into this, I saw what was going
on with food. Everybody's talking about non-GMOs, this and that. And then you see the cannabis
market booming with like hydro sedatives, cocos, just feeding bottle nutrients. And
I was like, well, these guys are trying their best to make their money, but nobody's really
trying to create that premium product where you let the plant grow the way it's supposed
to be grown, with living soil. And Gold Leaf is the only garden that I know of in Washington
State that can provide that and we're stuck with them. It's crazy. It's just like, wow,
how did that... It was like a perfect match. If I told you the story from beginning to
end, well, it's not the end yet, but everything is just falling into place somehow. I don't
know how it happens, but you got the top premium flower producer in Washington and then one
of the premium bubble hash producers in Washington and also started his own Rosin Press. And
then now you have us, the Canegars, all under one garden. I mean, what garden do you know
in the world that has that and can say they're clean green?
Yeah. Right. And then that's where you get the whole ultra premium vibe behind it. It
was actually about a year ago, actually very much a year ago that I first got turned on
to Gold Leaf. We were on our way driving down to Emerald Cup and Aaron Varney of Dockside
was in the van with us and he whipped out some of the Gold Leaf Tangy, which is just
like insane. If you smoke Tangy and go in somewhere, you don't smell like weed, you
smell like Tangy. It's incredible. And their packaging is nice. So yeah, if you're going
to be stuck with somebody, those are good folks to be stuck with. That's an interesting
point you made, though, about how adding the rosin oil slows the burn on the Canegars,
because we all know that when you're smoking a joint, it can run or it can burn down faster
than you want to. And I can imagine that when your Canegars are big and long and you're
passing it around a bunch of folks because your Canegars can just, they can serve a lot
of folks. I can imagine that having the rosin in there so that the burn is slow is a really
good thing. But how long does a typical Canegar last? I mean, they've got to be more than
20 minutes, right?
Oh, yeah, most definitely. The Corona, the six inch one, it can last from, I've heard
from five to six hours. I know of a couple that took it to Fiji and that's all they brought
on. It lasted them for two weeks. So they just took drags in there. So I know the longer
ones, they burn a lot slower than the petite ones. I don't know why, maybe because it's
just longer. But when you first light the tip of the longer ones, you don't see it budge
hardly ever. It's crazy. You got to experience it to understand what I'm talking about. It's
just amazing. So once I figured that out, I was like, damn, I got to brand this and
I got to market this.
So what sizes do the Canegars come in and do you see them being sold to different niches
in the market?
So we have our petite Corona, which is eight grams of flour and two grams of rosin and
it's wrapped with the cannabis leaves. That one retails for $300 and that's around four
inches. And then our big one is the Corona, which is six inches, 12 grams of flour and
three grams of rosin. That retails for $420.
It's interesting because at first, some people get sticker shock off of the price because
it's like, oh my God, $420. But then when you see it on your Instagram or something,
you see that there's this beautiful Canegar and it's wrapped with multicolored leaves
and it's in this beautiful packaging. How long does it take to make, say, for example,
a Corona? Because obviously there's a lot of hand artisan love going into it.
Yeah, it takes around an hour and then up to three to four weeks to cure.
One of the flourishes that really makes the final product look really regal is that you
seal the ends with purple wax. What brought you to decide that you wanted to do something
extra like that?
Man, because when I was in medical, man, like packaging was horrible. Everybody had horrible
packaging. They always talked about how great of a product they had. Like, buy this, it's
the greatest, it's fire. And then they throw it in like a Mylar bag. I'm like, come on,
dude, show that you care. Show that you care about your customers. Give them the full experience.
And I'm all about that. From the first visual appearance to unwrapping it to everything.
I want my customers to get that full experience because people remember that.
Totally. That's a good point. It is an entire brand experience, especially since I would imagine
a lot of people are using these for celebrations. So we're going to take our first short break and
be right back. You are listening to Shaping Fire. As a business owner, you are incredibly busy.
In reality, you are responsible for everything your company does. You have so many responsibilities
every single day that often you just don't have the time to really dig into something as deeply
as you'd like. You know there is more that you could do to reach out to new customers and to
encourage loyalty in the customers you already have. But you certainly don't have the time and
you're not ready to hire someone full time for that role either. For you, I recommend blunt
branding. Blunt branding principles, Kirsten Nelson and Anthony Garcia are focused on improving your
bottom line. You know, most marketing firms are excited to make your logo, packaging and website
very pretty, but they leave responsibility for improving your bottom line up to you.
They don't want that kind of responsibility. But that is pretty much the most important part of
marketing, right? Kirsten and Anthony will help you engage new customers, funnel them to your
point of sale and keep them coming back to you and telling their friends. No doubt, this is a paid
commercial spot, but that does not mean they bought my opinion. I've worked with blunt branding on
three projects now for various clients and every single time they have done more than they have
promised and over delivered on results. I love how they generate new revenue and focus on that as the
goal instead of just making me a pretty logo. Similarly, every friend I've referred them to
has come back to thank me and that just does not happen every day. So grab a pen and paper because
the website address is coming. If you want someone to implement marketing programs that feed your
bottom line, give blunt branding a call. They will share proven techniques to increase your audience
and generate sales while using cutting edge technology in the background that make all of
this easy, automatic and trackable. Go to shapingfire.com forward slash blunt branding to find out more.
You can also click the link in our weekly newsletter, blunt branding, marketing that makes you money.
Welcome back. You are listening to Shaping Fire. I'm your host, Shango Los, and our guest this week
is Ariel Peope, founder of Lyra Kanagars. So before the break, we were talking about the
artisan craftsmanship that goes into making these and how these take an hour or more to make
and all of the very ultra premium ingredients that go inside. Did you already have a pre-existing
background in making cigars and such or did you have to teach yourself how to do this?
I kind of taught myself. I saw people doing the Kanagars with the string method where they
form the cores around the skewer and it just looked awesome to me. The first person I saw
do that was an artist called Afkuhed and he's the one that blew my mind with these Kanagars.
I was like, well, you can actually make Kanagars with cannabis and I just watched
how he did his thing. But I thought in my head, there's no way this could be
done in full-scale production because that would take hours to slowly twine buds around a skewer.
So I didn't even bother doing that but I was just always in my head trying to figure out a way to
speed that core process up because building a clean core is the biggest foundation to creating
clean Kanagars. I told my buddy, Serang, the hard press guy, he also got fascinated by the
Kanagars and he got into it but he was still doing the string method and I was like, there has to be
another way around this because I'm not doing this thing with string. This is not going to sell
to a garden or anything if I told him I wanted to go into business with this. So later on as he was
rolling these Kanagars, he just quit because he said it was just time consuming but he told me a
tip. He's like, you know what, if you're going to get into this, try this method. It might work.
Sure enough, I took off with it. I was like, yup, this is it. This is what it takes to
make these Kanagars in full scale production. So I just attacked it once I figured it out.
And that was just abstract enough of a description to let us know that
you've developed some best practices that are now your trade secrets, right?
Yeah, yeah.
So when you were trying to figure out how to make the production as reliable as possible,
did you find that you were just doing trial and error or did you go back and
research how cigars are made and then cross apply that manufacturing technique or did you not even
really bother to go to how tobacco cigars are made? Oh man, I watch, man. I love YouTube because
I watch so many YouTube documentaries on how they rolled cigars and just because you only need that
one little tip to just spark that idea in your head. And man, I watch hours and it only took me
a minute of all those hours that I watched to figure out certain tricks on my Kanagars. I mean,
if you really want to figure out how to roll a Kanagar, you'll get it. But
if you're just going to keep bugging people, they're not going to tell you their trade secrets.
So that's how I am with a lot of things. I don't have patience for people to
teach me stuff or do stuff for me. So I like to figure things out on my own, which is why
is a cool thing how I got into branding it and stuff like that because I taught myself. I went
to school for graphic design and I have a little like photography skills. So I figured I'd just
combine that and help brand my – help market my product for free. You certainly have an aesthetic
quality because the whole package from your Instagram and showing the pictures to creating
the product to all the way to the displays that you make for the stores. I mean, it's an entire
ecosystem of gorgeous, which is probably demanded to be able to get the prices that you're asking
for. When you are having so much success, I can imagine that you have to continually add more
folks in manufacturing, rolling. You spent all of this time kind of being mentored by YouTube
and trial and error. Do you find that it's challenging to teach the new hires how to do
this properly? Do you find some people that just don't have the chops for it and you just have to
like get somebody else? Well, right now I just taught – I've taught my brother and then my wife
and also my sister-in-law how to roll. My brother only took him like a week to learn. Same with the
girls. It took them like a week or two and once you get into it, you're flowing after that.
The real problem is like streamlining the whole process, like making sure that we always have
like a stock of fresh leaves that we can use or making sure the rosin is always there and the
flowers are always there. But the biggest pain is the leaves because you can't just use all the
leaves. You got to use the nice ones and out of all the leaves we grab, we only use like a small
percentage of them. One of the things that is especially cool about how the Kanagars look is
that a lot of them have got two-tone leaves and we all love how different ladies express themselves
in the leaves, especially if it's outdoor and fall time comes and they start to change color
and that's gorgeous. But it really adds to the artisan vibe of it. You're reminded that this is
a product that's from nature and that these are being made by hand when they're not uniform,
all the same. Each one of them, you can almost – you can see the variety of nature in that.
I think people really dig that. Yeah, yeah. That's what I've heard. Like
when I first got into it, I was like, is there – I always thought like, should there be a way
we can make these like perfect so they look all the same? And then a lot of people are like, no,
it looks original. Like each one looks unique. Just keep it that way. So I was like, OK.
With your relationship with Gold Leaf, did that come with a distribution deal as well
or are you out there going to retailers yourself trying to encourage them to carry your product?
Well, we don't have enough product to supply the retailers. So we only work with certain retailers.
Yeah. So are you planning on increasing your production? Is that the idea right now is that
you're setting up best practices and figuring out how to do it and then scaling up? Or is it like,
hey, you're already using everything that Gold Leaf has available and you're kind of
restrained because of the inventory of quality inputs that are available?
I'm kind of in the middle of that right now trying to see which direction I should go with my
company. I have some advisors that I'm speaking to that will help me find direction because business
is all new to me and doing this is all new. It's crazy. I'm like doing everything. And
I thought about like either licensing out my brand to other states or even getting my own facility
to a bigger market such as California or maybe New York or something like a large market like that.
Are people already asking you about the licensing? Are you already
fielding calls from people who want to do your best practices?
I get a lot of messages about, hey, come here, come there. How can we carry your product and
this and that? It's like a lot of people don't understand is you can't push these out like
joints and bullets or whatever. They're all handcrafted. So a lot of investors,
they get – when they look at that, they want to see a big return with these
categories with large volumes but you can't do that. You have to respect it as an art because
if you rush this, you could ruin the quality of the product.
Yeah, and people are only going to pay the premium price if it is actually a premium product. I can
imagine that all sorts of folks who are more interested in the margins than in the quality
of the product would quickly dilute the quality of what you're putting into it whether it is an
effort or in inputs. Yeah.
Right on. Well, we're going to go ahead and take our second short break. We will be right back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire. Businesses everywhere are constantly
striving to reach out to people through advertising. We all know though that trying
to reach a cannabis audience with a quality message is pretty difficult.
That's why many people choose to advertise on the Shaping Fire podcast.
Advertising on this show allows us time to talk about your product, service, or brand
in a way that really lets people know what sets your company apart from others.
Bold people who own companies know that getting in a relationship with their customers is essential.
That is what we offer. We will explain your service or product and what sets it apart as
desirable and help our audience get in contact with you. It's pretty simple really. Advertising
does not have to be all whiz-bang, smoke, and mirrors. Nowadays, I find that people prefer
just to be spoken to calmly, accurately, and with good intentions. If you want to make your own
commercial spot, you can do that too. Because the podcast is young but growing at an
exceptionally fast rate, if you become an advertiser on the Shaping Fire podcast now,
you are going to pay a fraction of the cost we will be asking for in just a few months.
And yet everyone listening both now and to the back catalog of interviews later
will hear about your company again and again for years. It's a great deal for you. Pay a small
amount now because the show is new, but take advantage of the huge listening audience we
will have forever. Do yourself a solid and contact us today for rates on podcast and
newsletter advertising. Email hotspot at shapingfire.com to find out more.
It would seem to me that a big reason for your success is how gorgeous your social media feed
is. Do you have a background in social media or did you hire somebody on? What's the secret to
your special sauce that makes your stream so gorgeous? No, I don't have any background in
social media. I've just been watching how other brands do their social media. For one, I know my
categories were very limited so I try to model off of clothing brands such as Supreme, how they
do their marketing, and Nike, just showing little snippets of the product and hyping people,
what's that, what's that. I just like creating hype. I just want to change also the lifestyle of
the image of your cannabis user. People think so negatively about people who smoke cannabis and I
want to change that. There are successful CEOs, business owners that smoke cannabis every day,
but they don't like to admit to it. Now that they have my product, they're like,
oh yeah, I smoke cannabis, this is what I smoke. People look at it differently, like, oh,
what is that? It's crazy. I did my first wedding and they ordered 20 cannabis for their wedding.
Whoever thought about having cannabis at their wedding like that is crazy.
It certainly makes it a lot easier for wealthy stoners, if you will, to identify with your
product because so much of cannabis marketing is big clouds of smoke and people, let's just say,
not acting in a premium market kind of way, let's say. Your stream is filled with people who are
having some success in their life and they're all like, I work hard and I deserve nicer things
because I put in so much effort and so I'm enjoying this cannagar with my friends on a
beach because we can do that. I bet you that that market is not only large, but really grateful to
have something that speaks to the amount of effort they've put into their own lives.
Yeah, it's crazy. It's just seeing people from all walks of life
being interested in these cannabis. I have a lot of cigar aficionados messaging me.
Some of them, they've never tried cannabis before. They'll be like, oh, that is a great product that
you have. I've never tried cannabis, but if that was in front of me, I'd definitely smoke it. Or
you had that cigar smoker that just, they always tell me, I grew up smoking weed in my high school
years, but as I advanced in life, I came home and I smoked blunts and joints or out of a bong. It
just seemed like cannabis grew up. And now that you've created this more mature side of cannabis,
I wanna start smoking weed again. So it's kind of crazy. I always ask people, I have a lot of
friends that used to be big stoners in college or this and that. And then they tell me they just
grew out of it. I was like, what do you mean you grew out of it? You still drink. Nobody grows out
of drinking unless they just wanna quit due to health reasons or something. So I wanna know why
people wanna quit smoking cannabis. And they just basically told me they just got tired of it. They
feel like they're advancing or anything. So now I got that top shelf product where they're like,
yeah, I want that. That's something that I wanna look forward to this weekend or for the celebration.
Yeah. It is certainly a desirous thing. There aren't a lot of products in cannabis that I
kind of fetishize over, but I've been following your Instagram for a while now and I'm like,
oh my precious. I see these things and I'm like, oh man, I want one of those for myself.
Because they're an art object as much as they're a smokable thing. When you were mentioning these
folks who toked back in college or whatever and then they got into business and they haven't
toked in a long time, now they suddenly do. I bet you those folks need to be careful too,
because going from toking all these years ago in college to suddenly hitting a Tangy and
Rasen Cannagar, I mean, one hit could put a novice away.
Yeah. Well, it's crazy too. When you smoke these Cannagars, you're super, super high, but
you're not tired, which I don't understand. I've smoked, I've rolled it with Indica or
Sativas and you're just not tired. You're just super high. Or maybe just because I'm around
people. I know for one, when I smoked a Tangy, I'm very high and a lot of people are just talking,
joking around. It's a cool thing because it's really a product that's meant to be enjoyed with
everyone or maybe just intimately. Do you find that most people who buy it are buying for
celebration? I mean, do you even come in contact with your customers? Do you know who's buying
them? Oh yeah. A lot of people buy them for celebrations or then I have those customers that
just smoke them right as they get them. That was a funny thing. When people would pick up
Alera, they would be, oh, thank you. And then they just crack it open right there and light
it. I was like, no dude, save that for a special occasion. I could just buy another one. I was like,
okay, man, you got money like that. He's like, damn, yeah, totally. That's pretty cool. I aspire
to that as well. Some of those people, they're coming to get your cigars from all over the place.
We've got to talk about your recent Cannagar sale. You sold a $3,600 Cannagar through
Diego Pelser retail store there in Seattle. It contained 21 grams of Gorilla Glue number four,
four grams of peppermint cookies rosin and was wrapped with two-tone cannabis leaves.
Dude, who the hell bought that? I can't really say, but the person that bought it flew in
his private jet just for that product. Oh man, that's so baller. Did he contact you or the shop
ahead of time to say, hey, I'm flying in, hold that for me? No, no. The owner of Diego Pelser
told me about it and I was just blown away. I was just like, wow. At first, I was just wondering
who's going to buy the Cannagar, but someone had to fly in a jet to make a statement.
It's funny too when you were originally moving into the licensed market via your social media,
you were sharing with people like, all right, we're moving from medical to 502. Hopefully,
they like my stuff here too. Then you started posting images of sales receipts and you're like,
damn, this is working. Everybody who's following is like, yeah.
Shared in the astonishment that people wanted that kind of a premium product,
but in retrospect, it's not really all that surprising, I guess.
Yeah. I don't know. I'm just really amazed by all the attention that I've been getting,
all the attention and the help that I've been getting with this product.
A lot of people, especially magazines and websites have been asking for interviews with me
or they just place my product in their magazine for free. Usually, you have to pay for something
like that, which I'm very appreciative for because they see the image that I'm trying to do. I'm not
just trying to have my product out there. I'm trying to change the stigma of cannabis. That's
what they see. With this luxury market, it's working.
I think that's something that companies that are trying to do things the right way
naturally will attract marketing. Heck, even from me, right? You certainly didn't pay
to be on the show today. I reached out to you because I'm a fan. When you make fans,
everybody wants to show you to their friends. I think that says a lot about the efforts you went
to source quality organic material, get the best rozz in. The fact that you're even hiring your
friends and family is really cool too. You keep that loyalty close at home and I think it sets
a good example. Thanks for being on the show today, Ariel. This has been really interesting
and hopefully, it'll inspire some other folks to do businesses in their own area that is just as
righteous. Lots of success to you and Lyric Antigua. Thank you. Thanks for having me.
Ariel Opeope is founder of Lyric Antigua. You can find out more about Lyric Antigua
at lyricantigua.com. Lyric is spelled L-E-I-R-A. Also, make sure to follow their
fabulous Instagram at forward slash Lyric Antigua. You can find more episodes of the Shaping Fire
podcast and subscribe to the show at shapingfire.com and on Apple iTunes, Stitcher, and Google Play.
If you enjoyed the show, we'd really appreciate it if you'd leave a positive review of the podcast
wherever you download. Your review will help others find the show so they can enjoy it too.
On the Shaping Fire website, you can also subscribe to the weekly newsletter for insights
into the latest cannabis news and product reviews. On the Shaping Fire website, you will also find
transcripts of today's podcast as well. For information on me and where I'll be speaking,
you can check out shangolose.com. Does your company want to reach our national audience
of cannabis enthusiasts? Email hotspot at shapingfire.com to find out how.
Thanks for listening to Shaping Fire. I've been your host, Shango Lose.
