Humans have been using various plant medicines together as blends for as long as there has
been medicine. A root of this, a twig of that, a mushroom, maybe add some heat, and we found
that we started to heal. Over millennia, we refined our process and got more adept at
interacting with the natural world. In the modern day, even people who don't consider
themselves herbalists are becoming quite adept at blending plant and other medicines together
to feel better. So many of my friends are using smoked cannabis, oral CBD oil, microdosing
mushrooms, and have an essential oil diffuser in their house. Gang gang, we often heal in
similar ways.
If you want to learn about cannabis health, business, and technique efficiently and with
good cheer, I encourage you to subscribe to our newsletter. We'll send you new podcast
episodes as they come out, delivered right to your inbox, along with commentary on a
couple of the most important news items from the week and videos too. Don't rely on social
media to let you know when a new episode is published. Sign up for the updates to make
sure you don't miss an episode. Also, we're giving away very cool prizes to folks who
are signed up to receive the newsletter. There's nothing else you need to do to win except
receive that newsletter. So go to shapingfire.com to sign up for the newsletter this week and
be entered into this month's and all future newsletter prize drawings.
You are listening to Shaping Fire and I'm your host, Shango Lose.
Today's episode is different from anything I've offered before. I was recently invited
to San Francisco to moderate a private panel recording on synergistic medicine. The panel
was entitled Cannabis, Mushrooms, and Terpenes for Optimum Health and it was produced by
Cookies. I did not choose the panelists or the topic, but Cookies reached out because
they love Shaping Fire and I was happy to go to the Bay Area to participate. When we
were done recording, I ended up driving the Pacific Coast Highway down to Southern California
alone for a few days too. It was a pretty nice break from quarantine here on Vashon
Island and allowed me to travel while interacting with less than 15 people the entire week.
That drive along the PCH never fails to be spectacular.
So the episode today is the audio from that panel recording. I asked Cookies if I could
publish it as a Shaping Fire episode because the insights expressed by these speakers is
exceptional and there's a lot to learn in it. Because there were multiple mics used
at various locations and online, and some of us were even outside to be COVID safe,
some of the sound quality is variable. All in all, it sounds good though, so don't let
the audio of my speaker introductions get you down. It gets better really fast.
So I hope you enjoy this departure from the regular show format and the great info on
blending synergistic natural medicines.
Hi everybody and welcome to today's roundtable discussion brought to you by Cookies. Our
topic for today is Cannabis, Mushrooms and Terpenes for Optimum Health. I am your moderator
for today's discussion, Shango Lose. If you enjoy meaningful interviews with the top minds
in cannabis cultivation, solventless extraction and cannabis medicine, I invite you to check
out my podcast at shapingfire at shapingfire.com or wherever you get your podcasts.
We have an impressive and eclectic panel today to talk about synergistic medicine. In the
modern era, people are encouraged to take medical advice only from doctors. And the
advice patients are usually given by most doctors is to take pharmaceutical company
blends of single components rendered from the plants and other naturally occurring life.
These are often what's called for, but not always. Today's discussion will focus on cannabis,
mushrooms and terpenes and how modern formulators, healers and citizen scientists navigate the
interplay between them. So let's get to know our speakers. So because of the present pandemic,
two of our speakers will be joining us by video feed, which you've probably already
figured out. So we'll start there via video link from Vashon Island, Washington. Dr. Ethan
Russo is a world renowned neurologist and cannabis researcher. He is author of several
books of cannabis medicine and has published over 30 articles in neurology, pain management,
cannabis and ethno botany. He is presently founder of Credo science. Also via video link
from Vancouver Island, British Columbia, Canada is Jeff Chilton. Jeff has pioneered the development
and manufacture of organic mushroom extracts since 1973. He received a fellowship to the
Dutch school for mushroom growers. Jeff coauthored and published the classic bestselling book
on small scale mushroom cultivation, the mushroom cultivator. He is currently founder of Namex
organic mushroom extracts. So here on the set with me, we've got Tony Verzura. Tony
founded blue river terpenes and extracts and is a visionary on the extraction and use of
terpenes. Most recently, Tony has founded Advisa, a licensed cannabis processor in California,
developing groundbreaking solventless extraction technology. Tony developed these companies
as a mechanism to reach his extraordinary goals as a formulator of modern cannabinoid
blends. And across from me is Berner. Berner is a rapper, songwriter and entrepreneur.
He is founder and CEO of Cookies, one of the most influential lifestyle brands in cannabis.
Berner uses his success and influence to work with others to bring reliable access to emerging
medicines for minority neighborhoods that are often left out of breakthroughs in health
care. So welcome to all of you. Thank you so much for being here. And so let's get right
into it. So since we're going to be focusing on blended medicines with synergistic components
today, let's start by establishing their efficacy in history. So, Dr. Russo, we're going to
start with you. I know you have studied indigenous and tribal medicines your whole life and have
spent a good amount of time in Peru working with indigenous people there. Is there a good
basis to believe that humans have combining different plant medicines for thousands of
years?
Absolutely. Certainly among the Machu Genga and all the tribes in Amazonia, it's common
to mix things, particularly the ayahuasca admixtures. You necessarily have to have at
least two components. You have to get the harmaline alkaloids from the Banisteriopsis
vine and the dimethyltryptamine from psychotria leaves or other donors. There are hundreds
of plants in the Amazon that have dimethyltryptamine and there are many other complex mixtures
that they employ. The prototypes that are probably most familiar to people, though,
are traditional Chinese medicine where you might have several components that attack
the problem itself, but there are a multitude of other components that might deal with the
side effects from the main components. So, mixtures of the norm as opposed to simples,
meaning one ingredient. Additionally, in Western tradition, among the Greeks, there were Theriacos
which were often again complex mixtures and you see this again through Arabic medicine.
Some of those included cannabis, for example. And then coming up to modern times, let's
take a complex problem like cancer. It usually is not sufficient to attack one aspect of
the cancer. Rather, you have to attack multiple areas of weakness so that you get a good tumor
kill at the beginning. So, particularly for something like leukemia, people get a cocktail
of medicines. And then we have the example of cannabis which is a cocktail of medicines
in one plant between the cannabinoids and terpenoids and potentially other components
like the flavonoids. But it absolutely makes sense to combine cannabis with other herbal
agents. And the beauty of it is that our bodies are really equal to the test. They're used
to dealing with these complex mixtures because a lot of these things would be components
of our foods. So, it's very much the norm as opposed to Western medicine where they
might identify a target in a receptor and computer design a molecule to fit there with
the highest affinity and highest potency. But that doesn't mean it won't be toxic. With
these natural products, although there can be things that are toxic and too high a dose
or even low doses, for the most part, our bodies are capable of metabolizing them. And
there's usually very little harm attached.
That's great. So, Jeff, I know that you have researched both the history of Chinese medicines
as well as interacted with the indigenous folk in China to learn them firsthand. So,
you've probably seen these ancient mushroom blends that come out of China too. Why does
Chinese medicine blend mushrooms?
Well, I think Dr. Russo was correct. I mean, there's so many different aspects to putting
these different formulas together. And traditional Chinese medicine is the perfect example for
that. I mean, that's what it's kind of based on. The traditional Chinese doctor will prescribe,
he'll diagnose, he will prescribe different herbs that he believes will address the particular
illness that is present.
Regarding mushrooms, they've been used for thousands of years. There's one mushroom in
particular, Poryococcus, which is a diuretic. And one of the other things that we've found
too and what researchers have found is that different mushrooms will have effects on different
tumor systems. So, let's just say you wanted to either prescribe one for as an adjunct
to a certain tumor, you could do that. Or in fact, you could put them together into
one particular formula and that would work in different ways on that particular illness
that somebody has in terms of cancer. So, there are definitely reasons that you can
blend these together. And certainly, when it comes to triterpenoids, which is something
that we're really looking at, there are over 130 triterpenoids in Reishi mushroom and they've
found that specific ones will have specific activities. So, that's something too that
is pretty interesting in what you're talking about.
I totally agree that that is an interesting aspect. In fact, when we talked last time,
I was actually surprised to find out that mushrooms had terpenes as a primarily, you
know, cannabis enthusiast. Of course, I've talked about and done my research in true
terpenes. By the time the mushrooms get to me, or at least the mushrooms that I usually
participate in, they kind of don't seem to have all that much smell. But then when you
smell one that is fresh, you're like, oh, this is an entirely different experience.
Indeed. And just to be clear, not every single species will have triterpenoids. There's a
couple of species in particular that are famous for that. One would be Ganoderma, the Reishi
mushroom, and the other would be Chaga. And Reishi is really packed with these triterpenoids
and that's what gives it its bitter flavor. But a lot of the mushrooms do not have those
compounds.
So now that we've kind of talked about how blends have been made throughout human history
and we realize that actually blending medicinal properties together is more the expectation
rather than separating them out and isolating them. Let's talk a little bit about what people
do when they blend them. So Tony, I'm coming over to you. As a professional formulator
and healer, what attributes do you look for when designing a healing blend or formulation
from different components?
I subscribe to both what they're talking about when you look at Eastern versus Western. And
I think really the difference becomes in the pharmaceutical world, they're really keying
on a compound, an active ingredient. And many often times they're creating a synthetic version
of that. So if we look at what the FDA and what the world is approving in actual medicine,
when we look at that, they're looking at an active compound or one singular type of
molecule that they're isolating and they're utilizing that to go through their research.
And like you guys were talking about, you're kind of addressing one issue but then you
might actually have a side effect to another issue. And so when you're looking at synergistic
properties of all herbal medicine and you look at what's called grass approved, that's
what Ethan was talking about. And these things are made in earth, they're made naturally.
And so when you put them into your body, we're also from the earth. And so if we put things
into our body that is synthetically made, it leaves a footprint, right? And even it's
like plaque. So if we were to start printing 3D cannabis, it's like, oh, well we know what's
in cannabis, we got the cannabinoids, the terpenes, flavonoids. We put a computer together
and we start printing that herb, you're never going to ever, ever capture all of those compounds
that are naturally produced on earth. And as we put those things into our body, then
it leaves footprints and then we don't have a sustainable and a very synergistic type
of approach to what we're doing as a medicine. And so I think when you look at the world
of healers and the world of pharmaceutical compoundists, they have a completely different
approach. And so there's a chemist and there's an alchemist. And so I don't really subscribe
to, and I think there is a place for chemistry and I think it has a wonderful place in the
science world. But for me personally, I'm trying to like figure out a way to naturally
capture what's available in the plant and remove impurities that are maybe in the plant
that we don't want to particularly have. And so that way we can actually do what the Western
world is trying to accomplish, but in a plant-based effectiveness. And so if I look at the plant
of cannabis and Berner gives me a particular type of strain, I'm going to look at the statistics
of it, right? I'm going to look at the compounds and say, okay, this has THCA, CBGA, CBCA,
you know, different kinds of actual available phyto cannabinoids. And then we'll look at
the terpene profiles and we're looking at, you know, upwards to 300 compounds. And in
between that, there's also those other oils, like we were talking about the flavonoids,
that also play into these oils. And so the terpenoids or terpenes, mainstream cannabis
viewers see it, or even terps. That's where, you know, when I first started calling that,
everyone was upset because it's terpenoids or terpenes. And I'm like, well, it's easy
for the most people to understand them as terps, but those are really not just the aroma,
not just the flavor, but they're really the catalyst and the effect behind all of that.
And our friend on the panel here inspired me, by the way, in Taming THC, I think it
was 2007 when he wrote that. You know, everything I've done has come from those that came before
me that laid the ideology down in front of us that said, hey, here's a concept. The human
body can have an endocannabinoid deficiency. And that means that we're working off receptor
base in our body. Our mind, our body, and our soul has a synergistic spirit, if you
will, we're here. And so how do we interact with those? And so we want to be able to target
that receptor system as a formulator and try to pull out all the really good parts in everything
we're talking about to then overlay that similar to probably like how he makes music, right?
Everyone thinks that you probably have four tracks. There's probably hundreds of tracks
to make sounds and have this whole thing come together in the same way a beat or songs
lay down. I look at it the same way as how am I going to take the worlds of what's available
in this cannabis plant, what's available in the mushrooms that he's talking about, and
how do we create this overlay to create that synergistic natural compound and reaction
that we think is going to do X, Y, and Z. And it probably will do X, Y, and Z, but there's
probably other beneficial things that's tapping into a different consciousness there.
Wow, there's a lot of good stuff there. The first thing for anybody who has not read it,
I do recommend that you check out Dr. Russo's Taming THC paper that Tony just referred to.
For many of us, it was the thing that opened our doors to terpenes and understanding how
they interact with our endocannabinoid system. And it's old enough now that it's free online.
So you just want to search Taming THC and Dr. Ethan Russo and you'll find it. And it's
actually a very readable paper, even though it's also very legit science.
The other thing that you said, Tony, that I want to follow up on is I like this elegant
delineation that you make between chemistry and alchemy. Whereas one, you're trying to
reduce things and spread them apart and break them apart. Whereas with alchemy, you're trying
to bring essential essences together. And they sound like they could be very similar,
but they're certainly different in intention. And then as we look at different extraction
technologies and separation technologies like solventless, we also learned that the effect
of the final medicine is drastically different. I can't really imagine what would be a rule
of thumb, but I figured I'll ask you for it. Is there any borderline or delineation that
you come up against where you're like, oh, I'm drifting from alchemy into chemistry and
that's not the direction I want to go? How do you know if you're thinking too chemistry
minded?
Well, I don't have a chemistry degree, so I don't know how to use chemicals. So I guess
that's where everyone gets to that roadblock. It's like, I have no choice. So I just don't,
I feel like I have counter partners in the industry that there's a few individuals out
there that seem to be following in the same path that I am where I'm at, where it's like,
how do we break this thing down, but retain what's there? And so I do feel there are people
out there that use chemistry and from a molecular standpoint, we get into these debates all
the time. So it's like, hey, if I've got this solventless THCA that tests 99% and someone
says, well, I have this chemical THC that tests 99%, there's no residuals left, there's
no footprint left. Is this the same thing? The answer is in short, it is. It is the same
thing. But how we get there is important, I think. And ultimately how we're utilizing
that and what we're doing to get to that. So does it have an environmental impact? And
so that's something that I look at and a lot of people don't really understand. So if I'm
using a chemical to extract something from a plant, what happens to that plant? What's
left in that plant for that particular chemical? Is it reintroduced into earth? Or are we
being able to capture everything from that actual plant and use everything in every part
of it? And I think that maybe is where you're going with this because alchemy is how do
I use, I think we kind of had a conversation once about this, how do we use everything
from that flower without creating pollution or an environmental effect? We want to break
this apart but every part has a use. We don't want to just focus on, hey I want this THC
from this cannabis plant, let's throw the rest away. And if I used ethanol or I used
butane or something like that, now we've kind of created the next problem which comes back
to this medicine. So what does it take to make that synthetic opioid in the process
of making that? Just to make that particular pill or that fentanyl? So they've done a great
job making the synthetic but then what did they do in the process of making that? And
what kind of environmental impact? So I think it doesn't just come down to a chemical versus
mechanical, it comes down to a consciousness of what you're making and then how do we make
both the impact on the human and on us, on this planet.
Right on, cool. Thanks for breaking that out. So Berner, you've spent a lot of time with
what I'll call citizen scientists, right? People who may or may not have the degrees
but they are experimenting with good intention to make either medicinal or recreational and
that's a pretty blurry line too. But you work a lot with citizen scientists, cannabis breeders
and psychonauts too, who experiment with the body by ingesting all sorts of things and
substances, right? What do you and other citizen researchers look for when combining healing
or recreational drugs? I mean I think it's important for people to
understand that even if they're going into a recreational store to buy cannabis and smoke
it, it's still a medicine. I think that's the biggest message we try to get across is
that this is something that helps in so many different ways. So as you may be smoking weed
and a lot of people, a lot of friends I've met or a lot of people that I've hung out
with along the way, they don't really realize that they're using it as a medicine. To them
they're just getting high, they're kind of healing their pain, they're enjoying the taste
but so much of that plant medicine is important for a lot of us. It unifies people, it brings
people together and furthermore it helps a lot more than some of the pharmaceutical
medicines out there. So I think it's pretty interesting because we have a voice and a
platform to educate that this is a medicine and that's why I was in the proposition
two fifteen days and I've been doing this legally since I was eighteen and I've personally
saw first hand off-duty cops coming in and buying cannabis and lawyers and teachers and
it made me really realize that when it went wreck that we shouldn't lose that. We shouldn't
lose that message that this is a medicine. Where I grew up working at there was a lounge
there so essentially people would be able to come in and buy their herb and they'd be
able to blaze and just that releasing of the mental anguish. So if someone was coming from
the VA and they've had a really bad time and they just wanted to come in there, not just
the medicine but the way that people bond around the herb is super healthy, it's good
for the mind, it's good for people in general. So I feel like the people I'm around and the
people I'm trying to educate is that no matter if it's recreational or not, no matter if
you enjoy smoking butt or not, it still is a medicine. Whether it's helping you with
anxiety, depression, you're celebrating, you're mourning, you're helping with your appetite,
I think that it's important to kind of get that message across that this is still a medicine
whether it be recreational or not. Yeah I think that's a good point. A lot of us don't
even realize sometimes that we are taking it for medicinal reasons even though in our
head we're doing it for recreational, right? Well yeah, you may think that you're smoking
the herb because you like the way it tastes and you know it puts a smile on your face
but there you go, it puts a smile on your face and you know happiness is everything
especially during COVID and what's going on in the world right now. We need more smiles,
we need more good vibes and good energy, more unity, people need to love people more and
that's just kind of why we do what we do. I mean heck, if at its very basis being in
a good mood and being joyful boosts our immune system and so if using cannabis can help get
us there, well let's go for it, right? Absolutely. The price of peace of mind, right? That's
medicine. And a quick story, I was in Colorado once and I was in the medical world and it
turned into the rec and you said it was kind of a gray line and I was really down because
I spent a lot of time there. I spent a lot of time with patients and trying to help people
and I too was behind the bar every single day if you will and getting to know people
and I saw people coming in and we helped a lot of people. When it went to recreational
I kind of got down and I actually came out to the Bay Area and I always looked up to
you and what you guys were doing and he started with one spot and I came out and I was like
oh man, Cookies is still keeping it real, they're still with the people and the patients.
And so I left that whole entire industry for nothing behind me because of an adult use
and I was thinking I had that chip on my shoulder, it was recreational, you know? And then it
just had that awakening. I'm in the Bay and the community here and the people that were
behind it, it has something, you know? It's not just the plant, it's how it brings people
together and then how we take care of each other and there's a certain community that
comes behind it. And so I started to have a much different approach to it and realized
exactly what Berner is saying is that I don't even like the word anymore recreational. It's
just responsible adult use and now it's full access for anyone that's 21 and up. Now we
don't have to have an excuse to say you need to go see a doctor before we can come talk
to you about getting whatever herb makes you feel good because it is an herb and it is
a medicine.
Well if you look at the diversity of this conversation right here, we all have different,
we all come from different walks of life but we're united on this conversation. I probably
wouldn't be speaking to you if it wasn't for cannabis, vice versa. These gentlemen are
super educated and been doing this for a long time but we're all coming together in this
conversation because of cannabis and that's why I still do it.
If there is this sometimes not so subtle mindset from the medical days where a lot
of people honestly were kind of sketched about going into some of those stores but once you
were inside it was a very loving, homey, huggy, good environment. And then nowadays the adult
use stores are very, they've got a lot more money behind them. So they're very shiny and
people are being programmed more for the recreational mindset by media and yet they
can still get a huge variety of quality flowers often and so it's got a good existence as
well. What do you see that may have been lost in the transition from medical dispensaries,
kind of more grungy, lovey days to this cleaner but maybe more commoditized environment that
we might want to encourage to bring back?
Yeah, so when you used to come into a medical dispensary it was like cheers. It was like
taxi cab confessions. People would come in, you'd be able to show them the herb out of
the jar. If they could smell it, they could pick it up. It was way more personable. You
can get to know what they like, you can recommend things. I might even give someone a bong hit
and let them taste it for their purchase. So if you look at the way that we're doing
cookies right now, I encourage people to do this. If you step into my store, someone
greets you right away and they have an iPad and they walk with you to the flower menu
and they're kind of going through and talking to you about each and everything that you
want to know about. They're educating you, they're giving their personal opinions and
from there, when that customer is done with that Budtender, then they go to get checked
out. So point being is the personal experience, hands on, you come to some of these flashy
dispensaries, it's just a menu on the wall and you kind of get in line and you kind of
just put your order and you bounce. It's not as personable. What we're doing with the
cookie store is we kind of created a huddle. I believe a lot of good things happen in a
huddle. So you got the flower table is round and people are sitting around that flower
table and it's just like this. I'm smelling something, you're seeing my reaction, I'm
seeing your reaction. We may have a conversation. The personable experience with people working
with people is still there and that's what we're doing with our dispensaries. And so
I encourage people, when you open a dispensary, keep the customer in mind. Like I said, some
of them may be coming from the VA, they may be coming from the hospital, they might have
a terrible day. You want to give them your full attention and kind of make it more personable,
not so in and out. And so that's why we chose the dispensary set up the way we do. We kind
of keep that good personable interaction in place. I think it's very important.
Yeah, I would say that because I've gone through that experience, right? And now that you say
that, I do see that being the difference in what's going on in those stores. And now I
see how you took that from the medical side because you're right, there are a lot of stores
out there, they just got their counters. And before when it was medical, it was that cheers
kind of thing. But I can tell you that being behind the bar at times where it was just a
couple of registers and you wanted to wrap with someone and talk to them, everyone else had to
wait. And that actually wasn't the most efficient way to help someone. But now looking at thinking
about what you just said, and you're right, because I came into the store and I'm like,
oh, this is kind of neat because this person did come with me. And I'm like, I don't know
what flowers I need to come. I came in with my wife, right? And she loves all the cookies,
flowers. She's like, oh, she's very particular. She wants to smell everything. She wants to know
about everything. She wants to know everything there is. And I realized that that first experience
was like, oh, this is very personal in the sense that we had someone that catered to us and we
were looking at everything and they weren't transactional. They weren't there for the
transaction. They were there for the education. And then it was like, okay, then you get in line.
So I do think he's got the right vibe there and the right mentality in the sense that that's how
store looks amazing. And you're right. It's got a lot more bells and whistles behind it and there's
a lot more products there. But there's that touch. And for us, I have a duality, right? So a lot of
people know me as Blue River and I look at that as my top shelf extracts that it's like, how far
can I push the world and the boundaries of solventless? To me, that was always like the
products that we'd inhale. It was my push for what can I do in the adult use world? And then everyone
that says to me, oh, well, that product is so expensive. I'm a patient, blah, blah, blah. That's
where this other product line that I created with Advasive Wellness was capsules, sublinguals,
topicals, creating CBN and these different things because I'm like, well, if you're really hurting
and you want something affordable, let's switch you over to a different delivery method with a
different price point. And they do carry both wide ranges of these products. So I think that
if you're opening a dispensary, it's not just about the flowers or the extracts, but make sure
you also still carry the medicinal products too, because there are people that are looking for them.
So sure. Amen. I hadn't thought about that, about how the cookie stores are designed.
I experienced that at the cookies geodesic dome at Emerald Cup last year. I just generally liked
how you go in one side and out the other side, but inside there's all these like little kiosks
where people can mill around and learn and ask questions. And that was pretty cool.
They create a conversation. People that like herbs or like to smoke, they want to understand
other people's experiences. And that conversation is priceless. And in two to 15 days, that's what
we know. That's what I loved about my job is talking to people. Even the jar, if you see the
jars that we designed, it's so you can pick it up. You can look at it, you can twist it, you can smell
it. Even though you can't do a deli style at a big jar anymore, we created a jar custom for our store
so people actually see what they're, they can actually see it clearly, they can smell it,
they can still be hands on a little bit, you know? Clutch. Yeah, totally. When I saw that,
I really missed the days of the mason jars and sticking your nose in it. And we're probably
away from those days forever. But we got to be creative about new ways for people to be able to
shop with their nose again. Well, you, and real quick, you remember that? Like I used to open
those big jars, we'd shake them up and kind of like, so if you think about what that just did,
was that I don't want to sell the product from that jar that I've opened all day long.
With all the broken tricots. With all the broken tricots, especially what's going on right now.
It's like, you want to get your, like, look at the sample, but let me buy something brand new
and sealed. And so that's also another really good touch that you guys do that I think is different.
Thank you. We're going to take a short break and be right back. You are listening to Shaping Fire.
Sometimes the topics I want to share with you are far too brief for an entire Shaping Fire episode.
In those instances, I post them to Instagram. I invite you to follow my two Instagram profiles
and participate online. The Shaping Fire Instagram has follow up posts to Shaping Fire episodes,
growing and processing best practices, product trials, and of course, gorgeous flower photos.
The Shango Lowe's Instagram follows my travels on cannabis garden tours, my successes and failures
in my own garden, insights and best practices from personal grows everywhere, and always gorgeous
flower photos. On both profiles, the emphasis is on sharing what I've learned in a way that you
can replicate it in your own garden, your own hash lab, or for your own cannabinopathic health.
So I encourage you to follow at Shaping Fire and at Shango Lowe's and join our online community on Instagram.
If you listen to Shaping Fire and you grow your own cannabis, chances are high that you are very
particular about the inputs you use for growing. People like us painstakingly self-educate on
cannabis nutrients and techniques so we can cultivate the best tasting and cleanest flowers
possible. And when we go to purchase those nutrients, we want to be sure that our supplier
shares our values and is providing exceptional quality. This is why I recommend buildasoil.com
to my friends who care about quality. Build A Soil empowers organic growers to do their best work
by sourcing and shipping only the finest cannabis growing supplies. From organic inputs, soils, soil
testing, and pots, to lights, growing tents, sprayers, and cover crops, Build A Soil founder Jeremy Silva
doesn't just stock his store with what's available. He goes deep to personally vet each product for
quality and determine that there isn't a better version of the product that he could be selling.
Because of this arduous process, you know that your options on buildasoil.com have been carefully
curated to create the results you are looking for. Not only that, but the Build A Soil way is a
philosophy that will permeate your interaction with the company. From website design to pricing
and shipping to after-purchase support, Jeremy and his team always strive to do their best and give
you the best customer service in the business. Check out buildasoil.com today for top-tier
quality cultivation supplies and a friends and family buying experience. And check out their
educational videos and extraordinary social media while you're there too.
Quality organic growing supplies at buildasoil.com.
One of the reasons why no-till cannabis growing is so valued by farmers is because the mycelium
networks in the soil remain established from year to year. And we know these fungal networks are
essential because they are the nutrient superhighways that extend far and wide in the
substrate to feed your plants. The trouble with growing in new soils or blended cocoa substrates
is that it takes most of the plant's life just to create these mycelium highways.
Dynomyco endomicroysal fungi inoculant reduces that time and gets your plant eating a wider
array of nutrients faster. And it's three times the concentration of the current leading brand
in the US at 900 propagules per gram of two fungal species selected specifically for cannabis
cultivation. This new product called Dynomyco is the result of 30 years of research and trials at
the Volcani Agriculture Research Institute in Israel. It has also been vigorously trialed by
cannabis and food growers across the US since the product first arrived here last year. You may have
already even heard about Dynomyco by its original name, Dynomyc. Now, Dynomyco is available at
grow shops and online in the United States for the first time. I love using Dynomyco to both
speed up the growth of mycelium networks in the soil, but also as a biostimulant to make clone
cuttings more virile. You can see side by sides showing the comparative growth on their Instagram
at Dynomyco. If you demand reliable growing results and appreciate the importance of an
active root zone in creating a thriving plant, I encourage you to check out Dynomyco at
Dynomyco.com and find out where you can get yours. That's D-Y-N-O-M-Y-C-O.com.
Whether you are starting with new beds or pots, or if you want to add some zing to tired soil,
choose Dynomyco to maximize your plant's potential. Dynomyco, endomycorrhizal inoculant.
Welcome back. You are listening to Shaping Fire and I am your host,
Shango Lose. And our guests this week are Dr. Ethan Russo, Tony Verzura, Jeff Chilton,
and Berner. Let's return to the panel discussion now. So, Jeff, the medicinal and psychedelic
mushrooms are becoming increasingly popular in the U.S. and throughout the world, right?
And you can buy tincture and concoctions like nearly everywhere, including like some gas
stations even, right? It's so strange to see medicinal non-psychedelic mushrooms at a gas
station. Because of that, there's a wide variety of qualities and price points of medicinal
mushrooms now, even though we know that they've got varying amounts of medicinal qualities to
them. What attributes do we want our medicinal non-psychedelic mushrooms to exhibit so we know
they will be potent and have a positive effect on our lives? Well, you know, one of the biggest
issues in this category right now is the fact that a lot of the products out there are not
actually even mushroom. And, you know, this speaks to, you know, like with cannabis, for example,
there are multiple parts of this plant. So, you've got the roots, you've got the leaves,
you've got the flowers, and each one of those is going to have a certain chemical profile.
Now, it's no different with mushrooms. And what we call a mushroom is actually a fungal
organism that's got what I call three plant parts. Mushrooms don't have seeds. So, how do
you grow a mushroom? Well, mushrooms have spores. The spores will germinate into a fine filament
called a hypha. Those hypha come together and produce what's called a mycelium. This is the
actual body of this organism. When conditions are right, it will produce a mushroom. And then that
mushroom will grow up mature, it'll produce spores, we've got a completion of the life cycle.
So, we've got three plant parts. We've got spore, we've got mycelium, and we've got mushroom. Now,
the mushroom is what's traditionally been used as medicine. And the mushroom's very complex on what
it can actually produce. But there are actually products out there where they grow the mycelium,
but they grow it on a sterilized grain in a laboratory. And at the end of the process,
once the grain has been covered with the mycelium, they will actually dry it,
grind it to a powder grain and all and sell it as mushroom. So, this is one of the key issues
out there. Again, it gets back to would somebody want to be selling a cannabis product and they're
just grinding up leaves and saying, hey, I've got these great joints of pot. And it's like, well,
no, no, of course not. I mean, that's something maybe in the 60s we might come across, right?
Somebody would say, hey, I got this great pot. It's like, oh, yeah, huh, tastes pretty bad. What
is this really, right? Well, that's what's going on right now in the medicinal mushroom category.
There are products out there that are not mushroom, yet they're being sold as mushroom. They
are mostly starch. So, and one of the things I'd like to stress here too, is that what I love,
and I'm sure you guys do too, and that is analysis. I mean, that's one of the things that cannabis is
really built on is analyzing. And this was something in the mushroom category that was
non-existent five years ago, where maybe they would be measuring what are called polysaccharides,
when in fact polysaccharides can also be the starches. And these products that are manufactured
on this grain, well, grain is a polysaccharide. We have tests for beta glucans that can demonstrate
that we've got the compounds in there that are actually important. Those are the compounds that
provide the medicinal benefits, the immunological benefits. These myceliated grain products are
mostly starch with very low amounts of beta glucans. If you know what tempeh is, that's
actually what's being ground up to a powder and sold as mushroom. And if you hear people out there
touting mycelium, basically, they're not, mycelium is good on its own, not quite as good as the
mushroom, but it's sometimes spoken about or being sold, but it's on this grain as a carrier.
So for us, that's the key thing that you have to look for when you're out there looking for
a mushroom product and primarily look and see whether they're analyzing for the beta glucans,
because that's the important compound you want to see. If they say polysaccharides, well, forget it.
It's probably one of these other products and maybe you'll have a really high number of
polysaccharides, but that's because the product is mostly starch. So again, we love to analyze.
We have about four different compounds that we analyze for every single lot that we produce.
It'll be beta glucans, alpha glucans, ergosterol, ergothionine. We've got a profile. It's got to
meet that profile. Then when you're talking about, let's for example, triterpenoids,
we've reached a point now where we can actually analyze for up to 20 of these triterpenoids and
get a much more robust profile. And this is kind of like the future of analysis for us when it
comes to the reishi mushroom or chaga to where now we've got this amazing profile, much like you guys
have these profiles of the cannabinoids. I mean, it's just a whole new universe for us in terms of
as we move forward and being able to actually have this type of profile for our reishi, for example.
It seems to make it really clear that it doesn't matter really whether we're talking about
cannabis or mushrooms or terpenes. There's so many people trying to do it different ways,
and so many of them are being motivated by the dollar that it's important to always do your
homework to make sure that the products that you're blending together are good products to
begin with. And we are still at a point in this market where no matter what you're buying,
you will be rewarded by doing your homework. Well, you know what? The fact of the matter
is that adulteration has been with us since the beginning of commerce. I mean, it's just a fact
of life out there, so it doesn't really matter what herbal product it is, for example. Adulteration
is out there and always will be. I was going to say something. It sounds like in the world of
cannabis versus mushrooms, it's interesting as he was describing that. And from our side,
we see this as the trichomes develop as first little stalks and then they get that little
mushroom head. And from an extractor side, it's like I can't even, I was like, I can't extract if
I don't have the mushroom head, right? And I was like, so what he's basically saying in my kind of
world is that he's saying that there's people out there that aren't even getting to the resin gland,
they're just growing the little stalk. They're not even doing it on the plant,
they're doing it on some other, they're like on a yeast. Like when you hear like,
oh, someone's growing like THC on yeast, it's like apples and oranges here. It's like two
different things. But it's interesting because he's got a big macro mushroom head and we're
looking for those little micro mushroom heads because that's where all the nutrient dense base
is. And I also looked at your testing when he was talking about the testing thing, which we're also
big into testing and providing a certificate of analysis. You guys have been like FDA approved
since like 90 something, like 96 or something. Well, you know what? Nobody actually gets FDA
approved in that sense, certainly not in our industry. I mean, there's FDA laboratories that
you could have things analyzed by. No, not FDA, I'm sorry. You're certified organic since 19-
Oh yes. I mean, my company has been certified organic since 1993. I mean, I totally believe
in that. I mean, you were talking before about how something is produced. Our mushrooms are produced
as naturally as possible. And one of the key things about it is we produce them on natural
substrates and most medicinal mushrooms, for example, grow on wood. That's what we use to
grow our mushrooms. It's like the wood is important. It's got the precursors necessary
to produce those medicinal compounds. So again, you know, it is something where, and the whole
process, I mean, when we're finished, that wood that the mushroom has been growing on,
now that gets to be recycled onto the fields as an adjuvant to the soil. In some cases, they dry
out that wood block that the mushroom has come off of and they use it as fuel. There's just,
there's very little waste in that. And not only that, mushrooms generally are growing on
agricultural waste products. They're an amazing organism. I mean, can you imagine
straw and sawdust and everything else that's out there after growing all of the foods that we eat
or the timber that we're using? I mean, what do you do with all that material? Well, you know,
feed it to the mushroom. It will love you for it. It will produce you a good food or a good medicine.
So, for us, and you know, this is it. The mushroom is an organism, this fungal organism. It
repurposes organic matter. So, that's part of what it's doing out there in the environment. All of
that, the leaves, the perennial, annual plants that grow up and die every year, the wood that
falls down, repurposing it into humus. So, let's move on a little bit. So, Ethan, terpenes, like
mushrooms, are also vastly increasing in popularity. And of course, a great deal of the credit for
people's interest in terpenes goes to your milestone paper that we've already talked about.
Humans have been using terpenes for healing and romance for ages. What are the different ways that
we can consume terpenes and what is the mode they use to influence our human functioning?
Sure. Well, let's start at the beginning. So, terpenoids come in different flavors
that relate to the number of carbon atoms. In cannabis, we're usually talking about
monoterpenoids with 10 carbons, sesquiterpenoids with 15. There's a single
di-terpenoid, which is phytol, that's only present after drying. And then there are triterpenoids,
but only in the roots. So, that's something that cannabis roots and the medicinal mushrooms have
in common. The monoterpenoids and sesquiterpenoids are what give cannabis its specific aroma.
People may be surprised to learn that the cannabinoids themselves are odorless. You could
have a bucket full of pure THC and there'd be no aroma to it. But what they are really doing
is synergizing with the cannabinoids and modulating their effects. This can come in
different flavors, but mainly we think in terms of modulating the psychoactivity. THC, when there's
too much of it, produces anxiety rather than alleviating it. But that can be modified by
other components. Historically, both pinene from pine nuts and limonene from lemons or other citrus
were noticed to be good for people who had overindulged with hashish or whatever it was.
And then there are agents like linolool, which we don't see as much of as we should have in most
chemovirus, chemical varieties of cannabis. And it's a very powerful anti-anxiety agent without
being overtly sedating. So, these are just a few examples. But additionally, synergy includes the
ability to contribute to the therapeutic effect. An example there is caryophylline,
which works on what's called the CB2 receptor. That's the non-psychoactive receptor that also
is a pain reliever, an analgesic receptor, an anti-inflammatory. So, having a lot of caryophylline
will contribute to its ability to treat pain or inflammation without adding to the high,
which often isn't necessary because there's plenty of THC around.
So, Ethan, while we have you and while we have the audience's attention, I would like to
give you the platform to speak on one of my favorite topics that you'd speak on,
which is, you know, so much of the consumer market is trying to get the most bang for their buck.
And so, they go and they are shopping for the highest percentage of terpene that a laboratory
will say they have, right? And what? THC. Yeah. So, would you explain how, as far as the experience
goes, the higher the THC, it means a lower terpene profile and how we want to get that more into
balance? Yeah, well, it may, particularly with concentrates. When we're talking about vape pens,
you'll often see that there could be as much as 90% THC or mixed cannabinoids and it leaves very
little room for the terpenoids. One of the problems that we're seeing is a lot of the
CO2 extraction, which is very clean, is done in a way that it really squanders the terpenoid content.
And so, it resembles nothing like the fresh flower from which it was derived.
This is really a shame. I would advocate to people that the number on the THC is not really
that important. You can always get more by an additional inhalation or a little bit more orally.
But what you really are looking for is the effect. And I think what bud tenders should be asking
consumers is, what are you trying to do with this? Not how high do you want to be? You know,
are they doing this to treat anxiety? Are they doing this because they need to clean the garage
and cut the boredom? Whatever it is, there is a terpenoid profile that's going to enhance the
experience. And I really would underline that word enhance three times because that is really
what it's about. I think this message that just smoking as much THC as we can without understanding
that terpenes sculpt the high is one of the most important consumer messages that we as a group of
folks trying to produce medicine and educate people can say. So, thanks for weighing in on that.
I would love to jump in if that's cool. Yeah. So, you know, when Nevada first opened up and
Washington first opened up, people were coming in and buying strictly on the THC. And some of the
best herb I've ever smoked might be 16, 17 percent THC, but the terpenes and the cannabinoids and
everything else in it make it so much better. And so, you know, urging everyone else that's
watching this, just like you said, there's so much more that goes into some good herb
that will do a lot more for your body than the THC. You know, me and my friends joke about,
it's the guy that wants to go get the thickest burger. It may not be the best. It's kind of dry.
It's big. You know, what are you looking to get? Do you want a tasty burger? Do you want to enjoy
so THC? You know, people shopping for just a THC number, it's just not the best idea. There's so
much more that goes into a plant that makes it special and that helps your body and makes you
enjoy that smoke than just a THC. I've never been a, let me get a 30 percent THC guy. You know,
let me get the best smelling, the most euphoric, the best, you know, what the best looking for
myself. You know, there's so much more that goes into it. So, I'm glad you touched on that because
big. Yeah. I'd like to jump in on that too because there's a big misconception with that.
And I subscribe to exactly what both these guys are saying in the sense that somewhere along the
line, the consumer has got it in their mind that the highest THC is the best bang for the buck.
And this is the latest thing in the last definitely a couple of years. It's the worst
thing because I just don't understand where it came from because ultimately our bio essay, like
we go to smell that we want the consumers like, you know, at least for me for 20 years smoking
cannabis, it's what does it smell like? What does it taste like? And most importantly, what's the
effect on your body? What is the effect that I'm looking for? And so I can tell you from the extract
side and I am a terpene hunter, right? I'm not so much about the terps and that's why I'm sitting
here and that's why we do projects together because they're creating terpene flavors that
are mimic things in life that we're used to that we're like familiar with. And I think when you
take the brain and somebody is a consumer and like, I smell something like this gelato or this
cookie or this type of lemon cello, you know, it's like a familiarity that like I have, I smell this
somewhere else. I recognize this, but it also has that cannabis, you know, smell too. And then
what's the effect? And he nailed it about the different types of terpenes. And ultimately,
this is where I kind of geek out with extracts when someone says, oh, the flan or the terrone,
like I come up with names that are these like familiar to desserts based on their textures,
but it's actually what I'm doing with my signature extracts is I'm modulating and it's because of him.
Once I take a solventless extract, I'm like, am I, once I'm able to get THCA, THC, the full
spectrum, all of the terpenes and remove all the lipids and waxes and cellulose. And I can say to
myself, well, now I'm going to, I'm going to build a designer dab here for an effect. And so when I
deal with rosin, that's to me a full spectrum effect, right? And then I do a terrone and that's
like cleaning it up a little bit, like he's talking about the burger, but I'm actually
overlaying certain things to create a modulation effect. And the flan is the most, most modulation
effect. So I'm actually able to like look at something and target something. And most of our
extracts, you know, what we're known for is everyone's averaging extract is like three to 5%,
but we've had this conversation before. I don't have to reintroduce anything if it's already in
the plant. So there's a lot of times where we would do like a cookies extract and someone's
like, oh, that's 15 or 20% terpenes. It's like, they didn't need a reintroduction if the terps
are there. So, and that's your, that's what I always call the volume knob, you know? And so
like we all watched, I'm sure these guys were familiar with spinal tap, right? I remember when
I was a kid, I was like, those dudes got amps that go to 11, right? And so that's what we're trying
to do. We're like, well, can I get it to 15? Can I, that's what I'm doing as a kid. I'm like, can I
get this thing any louder? And it has nothing to do with the THC. We don't go to the bar and order
Everclear. You get, you get a Chopin or a Hennessy or, you know, a nice bourbon or something. You're
not saying give me Everclear. I want to get, I want to get as drunk as possible. You get the
drink you enjoy that tastes best. And you know, that's, that's part of, that's my opinion.
I think he also has a, another paper out there, maybe that you did once upon a time with another
company. I'm not really sure. I thought it was you that they had a study about just pure THC
without terpenes and what that effect was. And then we looked at, I think then, you know, there's
other papers about synthetic THC and how it relates to pain and just pure THC, like he was
saying, doesn't have a smell, doesn't have a flavor, doesn't have a lot of medicinal effect.
It's only when you start adding these like nuances of terpenoids and you start building
those profiles that we start to see a real medicinal effect from anything.
Another great thing too, it was when people start purchasing based on terpenes, it's going to change
the dynamic of the market because right now it's strange to think that consumers are buying
cannabis based on what company could influence their local analytical lab to give them a higher
percentage. And, oh gosh, you know, we all know that that's a problem in the industry right now.
Whereas I would much rather people are buying based on what companies are able to treat their
flower well, not cause the terpenes to volatilize off and who's using good genetics to begin with.
And I think that's where our emphasis should be instead of what lab we happen to use and what
influence we have over them. So, moving on, we're going to come back to you, Tony.
So, you were just talking about the really high quality terpenes at good numbers that
give a really great experience. We're going to talk about the other side now, right?
Because since we're talking about quality, we should talk about what happens to lower quality
terpenes. So, when we're considering synergistic medicinal compounds, we have to be aware of how
quickly terpenes degrade, right? And what are some of the causes to terpene degradation and what is
left when a terpene degrades? Great question. So, Russo touched upon this a little earlier,
monoterpenes and sesquiterpenes. And ultimately, in the world of cannabis, this is live,
fresh frozen, right? When the plant is alive, it's got a real high abundancy of monoterpenes. I would
say it's probably got about 80% of the full profiles of monoterpene when it's alive and on
the plant. And if you disagree, I have no problems you correcting me. So, from my experience, when
the plant's alive and it's cut down, if it's quickly frozen, we're going to have a lot of
monoterpenes. If we were to cut that plant down and naturally dry it, traditionally dry it for
smoking, we start to see that we go from lots of monoterpenes and they're volatile at room
temperatures. So, people that are curing their cannabis, they try to keep it around 60, 65,
if they know what they're doing. They keep it at a certain humidity because they're like trying to
preserve the flavor in it as they're trying to cure it. But let's say if you kind of got a little
warmer or you let it dry, some people have sun drying it back in the day, you would start to see
this monoterpene from it being alive to when it's completely dried and cured, you start to see less
of that and more sesquiterpenes. So, I actually started in 2015 extracting fresh frozen live
monoterpenes from flowers and I would extract terpenes and sesquiterpenes. And I saw clearly
two different pathways. And for me, and we kind of educate people as well, we have different
vape carts that are dried and cured and more sesquiterpene based and the ones that are live
are going to be more monoterpene. And one tastes very fresh like the plant and those trichome heads
are not oxidized and they're retained at low temperatures the whole time. And so,
what ends up happening is that I think those that are traditional smokers tend to actually like the
dried sesquiterpenes, right? Because if I've given 10 people out the live cart and I give people the
cured cart, if they didn't look at it because it obviously looks different, they just did a blind
test. They'd be like, if they're a smoker, they're going to hit that cart and be like, wow, that
tastes just like the herb. The people that are desiring those fresher monoterpenes are going to
be looking for like this totally different real plant live taste and feeling. However, they
evaporate very quickly. So, those that are making live extracts have a shelf life problem, right? So,
when the product goes onto the shelf and they have a live rosin and they say, hey, here's what it
looked like and it looked cool in the picture, it can quickly dry up. And so, what you end up
happening, this could actually use to your advantage. And back in the day, I would be able
to utilize monoterpenes for a recrystallization or precipitation of CBD or THCA or different things
to precipitate out from a base of all these other cannabinoids, allowing the terpenes to evaporate.
This was like kind of what I was doing a long time ago. I don't do that anymore, but I learned
that, like you said, how do we capture these beneficials in monoterpenes without letting them
just fly off into the air? And so, that is like where I started doing these like different extracts
and flans and jellies and things where how do I break this apart and then utilize active THC
and raw THCA and those terpenes and create almost a natural preservative within those actual extracts
to hold and trap those together. And then, obviously, the next transition was, well, I need
to be able to powderize this or put this into a suspension of a liquid and then be able to retain
it as real medicine, which then gets into a capsule. And so, I think that that is the biggest
challenge, is being able to capture those from the cannabis side. And what I really liked about
with Jeff and what he was talking about and as I researched his company was the other group of
terpenes, right? And so, and I learned something today, which another chapter will open in my mind
because of you, about the roots of cannabis and these mushrooms having the same terpenes. Thank
you for that one because I'm going to start making terpenes from roots. Because what I realize is
that he's making a pure product. We're doing the same thing on our side. He's a 10 to 1 ratio and
he's being able to get these very heavy concentrations of that terpene concentration.
We don't even know what that synergistic effect is yet. We start laying these cannabinoids on,
we start laying these terpenoids on from cannabis and I'm able to preserve those, right? And I'm
able to overlay them like we were talking about earlier with the terpenes that's coming from his
mushrooms because he's using the purest form of it and he's getting the highest concentration.
This is an unknown synergistic effect that excites me.
All right. So, Berner, you've worked extensively in the cannabis community to curate flowers
that have an attractive aroma and desiring healing effects. What have you learned from
consumers about what they actually look for in a terpene experience?
They love the fruity, foodie type smells. We came out with cherry pie, sunset sherbet, gelato,
biscotti, the food kind of flavor profile, the sweet and gassy, people love that. I curate our
menus and encourage our breeders to go strictly for flavor. We're not really hunting for the
biggest yielding plant. We're not really hunting for the most THC. We're going for the most
enjoyable smoke possible. Cannabis is now recreational and it's 2020. You want to be
able to enjoy your smoke as much as possible. So what we look for and what I've seen people react
to more than anything is the good smelling, the good tasting flavors. We kind of got a hype around
flavors. Exotics is what they call them. People are really into OG Kush. They're really into the
hazes. They're into the train wrecks and stuff like that. But once we introduced this certain
flavor profile that was sweet and very aromatic and would leave like a soap pissy smell in the air,
it became a huge, huge hype. And so I think that our customer base is looking for flavor
over everything. So I've got two follow-ups on that. The first one is in your experience,
are do people, are they aware that there is terpenes, that the terpenes are playing a role
in what they like? And so they are buying with their nose and they're familiar with the vocabulary
of terpenes or are most people all like, oh, this is the gelato. I smell the gelato. I like the
gelato without ever actually thinking about terpenes. Yeah. I think there's a, not a lot
of education around terpenes. You know, like they mentioned earlier, people are shopping for THC, but
there's no denying that nose. You pop open that jar and that's why we created the jar. We,
the way we did, once you smell it, I mean, it's like when you smell some good home cooking,
you know, you smell a restaurant while walking down the street, your nose doesn't lie. And I
think that people are just shopping on based on what they're smelling and what they're seeing.
And I think that, you know, hopefully after people watch this, they're educated on actually
how big of a role terpenes play in cannabis. The second follow-up is, you know, you've got
a long breadth of experience with curating for the public, right? And, and as you're saying,
the things that people are most attracted to at this point in the market are sweet smelling,
food reminiscent things that have got some gas to them. Right. And, and I agree. I like those as
well, but I also like a lot of the cultivars that we used to get that were rank, right?
They smelled like baby diapers or rotting flesh or some of this really gross stuff that, but that,
when you taste it, you're all like that gross thing is so delightful. And the buzz is so
wonderful. Do you think that with a consumer driven market, we're going to lose those old,
nasty, beautiful things? No, absolutely not. Especially because I got a breeding project
going on at my house right now. And I bring it all those old school gases back. And that's why
I named Cheetah Piss, Cheetah Piss to kind of get the consumer away from looking for the,
you know, you know, ice cream cake or the, you know, the fruit roll up. Like that's cool. That's
cute. We've done that for a while. I'm bringing back the gas. So when I'm breeding myself personally,
and this is the first time I've actually done my own breeding project, instead of, you know,
art directing a breeding project, I'm bringing straight gas back and there's going to be a lot
of baby diaper and, you know, a lot of, a lot of burnt rubber kind of vibes. And, you know,
as a pie head, you want to have a variety, you want to have a lot of different tastes. So
my goal is to keep that alive and to educate, you know, our customers while I still got a good voice
and platform that there's so much more out there than the fruity stuff. Some of these old school
gases and the super skunks and the kind of musty, dirty sock smell. It's still good. It's a very
different high, you know, may smell crazy, but when you smoke it, it's just, you're like, wow,
that's, that's gym socks. It tastes nuts. Like, you know, so I'm, I'm into bringing that back to
life for sure. So Ethan, I'd love to get your thoughts on this too, you know, as, as thinking
about the medicinal nature of terpenes and people are often very attracted to these, these sweet
terpenes. Is there anything that you might have to add about the medicinal benefits of these,
these smells that we would normally consider gross, but as you develop a connoisseur's palette
for cannabis, you actually find yourself very attracted to? Oh, sure. I don't deny that that's
the case. You know, it really depends on the blend, the proportions of these different components.
And the funny thing about terpenoids is a trace component may really totally alter the smell.
And with these complex mixtures, once there's more than three terpenoids, it's really hard
for anyone, even experienced people that really have an idea of what's in it. You know, I use the
comparison, if we blindfold somebody and put before their nose, a lemon, a lime and a grapefruit,
everybody is going to be able to tell them apart. They all have limonene at their base,
but it's the trace components that really make the difference in the, both aromas and the flavors.
And the same would be true about the effects, you know, the psychopharmacological effects.
So, you know, it's an art and a science. I spend a lot of time looking at certificates of analysis
and, you know, I also want to know how are people affected by this. And they're generally,
if you know what you're doing, they're good correlations. So I think this really highlights
that one of the advantages of cannabis as a medicinal is that it really brings about the
possibility of individualized medicine. You know, we really can tailor the contents of the cannabis
to what the person really needs. You know, what ails them on how do we help them with that through
the right profile in cannabis. We're going to take a short break and be right back. You are listening
to Shaping Fire. With the National Hemp Program influx due to stringent THC testing requirements,
brothers Seth and Eric Crawford continue to release seeds to hemp farmers that will be legal,
no matter how you grow them or when you test them. These new varieties from Oregon CBD seeds have
substantial amounts of CBDV, CBGV, CBCV, and THCV, while always staying below the 0.3% THC limit
and guaranteeing compliant crops for farmers every time. Also, these new varieties cannot be
pollinated by your neighbor's uncontrolled pollen or a rogue male in your own crop either.
Oregon CBD seeds are non-GMO certified too. Oregon CBD seeds was founded and funded in 2015 by Seth
and Eric maxing out their personal credit cards without outside investment. They continued to
refuse outside investment that would change their company culture. Oregon CBD grows tons of fresh
food on their research farms for local food banks. They also give away tens of thousands of pounds of
R&D flour to patients. As their company began to succeed, Seth and Eric started donating money to
the Cannabis Medicine and Hemp Fiber Cause too by giving millions of dollars to Oregon State
University in order to establish the world's leading cannabis genomics research program.
And they treat their employees right. Oregon CBD pays for full health and dental coverage for their
employees, a 401k program, and their minimum starting wage is $20 an hour. Plus everyone
shares food from the farms. Seth has been on Shaping Fire a few times to talk about novel
cannabinoids. You can check out episodes 25 and 37 on CBD cultivars in the hemp market,
episode 66 on triploid cannabis genetics, and the very first Shaping Fire Live episode 47
with Seth and soil expert Jeff Lowenfels talking about autoflowers. If you are a hemp farmer and
you want to grow reliable seeds that are sure to thrive in past testing, check out
OregonCBDCeeds.com to learn more about buying seeds for the 2021 season. That's OregonCBDCeeds.com.
After you've caught up on the latest Shaping Fire episodes, do you sometimes wish there was more
cannabis education available to learn? Well, we got you. Shaping Fire has a fabulous YouTube
channel with content not found on the podcast. When I attend conventions to speak or moderate
panels, I always record them and bring the content home for you to watch. The Shango
Lowe's YouTube channel has world-class speakers including Zoe Sigmund's lecture, Understanding
Your Endocannabinoid System, Kevin Jodry of Wonderland Nursery talking about breeding cannabis
for the best terpene profile, Frenchie Canoli's Lost Art of the Hashishin presentation, Nicholas
Mahmoud on regenerative and polyculture cannabis growing, Dr. Sunil Agarwal on the history of
cannabis medicine around the world, Eric Vlosky and Josh Rutherford on solventless extraction,
and Jeff Lowenfels on the soil food web. There are several presentations from Dr. Ethan Russo
on terpenes and the endocannabinoid system too. While there, be sure to check out the three
10-part Shaping Fire session series, one with Kevin Jodry, one with Dr. Ethan Russo, and one
with Jeff Lowenfels. And even my own presentations on how to approach finding your dream job in
cannabis and why we choose cannabis business even though the risks are so high. As of today,
there's over 200 videos that you can check out for free. So go to youtube.com forward slash
shango lose or click on the link in the newsletter. As a business owner, you are incredibly busy. In
reality, you are responsible for everything your company does. You've got so many responsibilities
every single day that often you just don't have the time to really dig into your marketing as
deeply as you'd like. You know, there's more that you could do to reach out to new customers and
encourage loyalty in the customers you already have, but you certainly don't have the time for
it and you're not ready to hire somebody full-time for that role either. For you, I recommend blunt
branding. At blunt branding, Kirsten Nelson and her team are focused on improving your bottom line.
You know, most marketing firms are excited to make your logo, packaging, and website very pretty,
but they leave responsibility for improving your bottom line up to you. They don't want that kind
of responsibility, but that's pretty much the most important part of marketing, right? Kirsten
and her team will help you engage new customers, funnel them to your point of sale, whether it be
online or a storefront, and keep them coming back to you and telling their friends. Now, if you
happen to be a new cannabis company or an established company moving from medical to adult
use in your state, Kirsten especially can help you. Not only is she well-versed in marketing and
finance, but she totally gets cannabis, whole plant medicine, terpenes, heritage farmers,
and the particular needs of startups. Check out what she did recently for Moon Time Medicinals
and Humboldt at moontimemedicinals.com. Kirsten and her team put together a whole brand package
for them, built their website, and wrote their sales materials. No doubt, this is a paid commercial
spot, but that does not mean they bought my opinion. I've worked with blunt branding on
five projects now for various of their clients, and every single time they have done more than
they have promised and over-delivered on results. I love how they generate new revenue and focus on
that as the goal instead of just making a pretty logo. Similarly, every single friend I have referred
them to has come back to thank me, and that just does not happen every day. Grab a pen and paper,
because the website address is coming up. If you want someone to implement marketing programs that
feed your bottom line, give blunt branding a call. They will share proven techniques to increase
your audience and generate sales while using cutting-edge technology solutions in the background
that make all of this easy, automatic, and trackable. Go to shapingfire.com forward slash
blunt branding to find out more. You can also click the link in our newsletter. Blunt branding,
marketing that makes you money. Welcome back. You are listening to Shaping Fire, and I am your host,
Shango Lose. Our guests this week are Dr. Ethan Russo, Tony Verzura, Jeff Chilton, and Berner.
Let's return to the panel discussion now.
How do endocannabinoids interact with the human body?
Sure. Well, it is a very complex issue, but we have this thing called an endocannabinoid system
within us. The endocannabinoid system is the master regulator of homeostasis. Homeostasis
is a balance in function. Let's look at the brain. We have neurotransmitters, chemical messengers,
between nerve cells. The endocannabinoid system regulates their release. It actually inhibits the
release. If it inhibits a stimulatory neurotransmitter, it damps down that signal.
If it inhibits an inhibitory signal, it is magnifying the effect. There are more
endocannabinoids, CB1 receptor, in the brain that have a greater density than that for all
of the neurotransmitters put together. That is any aspect of brain function that is influenced
by the endocannabinoid system. The same thing applies to digestion or any other functions of
our body. This really gives the foundation for why cannabis as a medicine is so versatile
for so many different conditions. It's not a panacea, but it is amazingly versatile in what
it can do for many conditions where conventional medicine just doesn't quite do the job properly.
Right on. Thank you. Back to you, Tony. Tony, everyone on this roundtable is a proponent of
whole plant and fungi medicine, meaning that the medicine should respect the structure
that nature provides in it. Some folks get confused about what is and isn't a whole plant.
Unfortunately, with the arrival of extracts and some of these newer products, people are
bent playing with the vocabulary to include their products when they often might not.
Some folks get confused about this. How should we think about the oils of a cannabis plant as
whole, even though it's no longer a part of the entire plant?
Another good question. The way I look at this is it's very interesting because when we talk about
a full spectrum oil, as an example, we have to think about how did we get to that, right?
So he was talking about CO2 earlier. CO2 itself is under a lot of pressure and it takes the buds
themselves and it passes at very high PSI from gas to liquid and it goes through the plant and it
generally pulls a lot out of the plant. It's a clean process. I personally don't like this process
because of a couple of things. It's not the process of the CO2, it's the post-processing.
Because if we're able to pull all of this raw extract out and if you were to stay with
raw CO2 and did nothing else, that's a different conversation. But you're going to be pulling a lot
of these lipids and plant fats and waxes and honestly a lot of heavy metals because of the
way that extraction method works. And so everyone tends to winterize or de-wax their full spectrum
oil, right? And in the process of using ethanol is what they do is an eight to one. And so they
just take that muck, they pour alcohol over it and then they turn it into a solution and they
freeze it and then they bind that alcohol to the fats and then they pour everything out.
Which as Russo knows, destroys all the terpenes. Because we're also talking about polar,
semi-polar, non-polar and polar properties of the plant. And so if we're really talking about a true
full spectrum oil that's been unadulterated, it wouldn't be CO2 through winterization.
It wouldn't be ethanol through distillation. It wouldn't be a hydrocarbon and then distillation.
But if we talk about hydrocarbon and there are good extraction methods with hydrocarbon,
that's using those monoterpenes and terpenes that we were talking about, they're also a group of
hydrocarbons. So terpenes themselves are hydrocarbons and the hydrocarbon used in the
BHO extraction actually kind of binds to it. And so it's a low PSI pass. So it's going to pass right
through and if they know what they're doing and they have a full recovery system, they're making
live resin and making all these particular oils. That's really a full spectrum oil if there's none
of the butane left in it. But again, we have to look at ourselves and say, well, did that chemical
or that solvent that passes through the plant alter the full spectrum oil? And to me, the answer
is also yes. And so that then takes us to the next category of, say, particular flower rosin.
So we move to flower rosin, right? And so when we get to a flower rosin, similar to CO2, much less
waxes, we would have 8 to 12 percent, but we're actually going to get a full spectrum oil out of
flower rosin if we just press the flowers, put them under pressure. We are basically using high
pressure and steam to secrete all of, expel all of those oils. That's a true solventless
full spectrum oil. We'll have some of the lipids and waxes in there. But if we were talking about
that before and we said, what's the cleanest and the most accurate representation is flower rosin.
However, in the dabbing world, if we were using that for capsules and other things, it would be
very good. In the in the world of where we're at, the scalability of creating that, being able to
say, hey, do you have 100 pounds? Can you press 100 pounds of flowers this week to keep up?
That's also very difficult. And to be able to take that flower rosin, it used to be a popular
thing like four years ago. But then dabbers, they start using quartz and they start using
puff copeaks and different things. And I'm like, man, they're leaving a bunch of stuff behind.
So that's the waxes. So then we then there's only a couple other methods. Right. And then we move to
hash rosin or live rosin, which then we're just separating out all the resin glands to get a full
spectrum profile of the actual plant. So we have to say to ourselves, there's, you know, there's a lot
of terpenes. There's about 50 percent of the plants terpenes are inherently in the leaf and in
the surface of the leaf. But then the ones that we're actually desiring that we want to smoke and
has the most abundant is in the heads. So just like what Jeff was talking about, these mushroom heads,
I'm looking for the trichome heads. And so when we separate, we're going to get heads and we're
going to get a little bit of the stalks in there. And so when we talk about a full spectrum from a
hash rosin, we're trying to isolate the best of the fruit. Right. And so I'm going to try to pick
these grades of fruit from it. And if we were talking about a lemon tree and the tree was ripe,
you know, if you hit the tree the right time, you're able to shoulder it. Boom. All the lemons
that come off as your first the best the best lemons. And you kind of pick through the tree as
it gets ripe and you pull those off. And so for me personally, I'm going to try to get all of the best
fruit to make my juice from it, to make that full spectrum oil. Now, when I do that, that's right.
Then take it to the next level where people like you said, there's misunderstandings where they
think, oh, you're reintroducing or you're altering it. When I could get to this particular before it
gets to that oil, let's say we were able to get expel all of those heads. So if we're looking at
the surface of the trichome head as a grape, like like as a grape is I want to remove these skins.
And that is when we make hash rosin or live rosin. We're pressing it and we're keeping the skins in
there. But a little bit of those skins melt in the process and it gets into live rosin or it gets
into hash rosin. Not a lot, much less than flower rosin. And so we're going to end somewhere around
three percent. What all I'm doing is being able to remove those impurities and it's naturally
allowing the terpenes and naturally allowing all these other cannabinoids to boost themselves.
So the world of what I'm saying, deconstructing and rebuilding, it's kind of just like an easier
way to educate people because it's already typical for you guys to for everyone to like follow that.
And that's why I went from terpenoids to terpenes to just terps. Like it's the terps, right? And
then it's like people were like, all right, what's your wax? Now we're like, no wax, right? So
deconstruction, people get that in their head and it's just an artistic way of saying, hey,
I'm just breaking these things out, but I'm really maintaining and preserving the thing.
So for me personally, full spectrum is getting to the purest portion and trying to do a 10 to 1
as what Jeff's doing and some of the extracts that I'm doing, I'm even getting to a 15 to 1.
I like that explanation too, because it again, focuses on the fact of how much consumer education
that we all have to do as an industry, because I mean, how many of these threads have we seen
online where people are arguing about this when nobody involved in the discussion actually
understands the science, right? So hey, so hey, Jeff, you know, earlier you were talking about how
the different varieties of mushrooms play well together and how the ancient Chinese folks
recognize this and they made these blends. When I go to my acupuncturist,
she is going to do some physical acupuncture on me. She's probably going to recommend a mushroom
blend for me for whatever I'm looking for relief from, but then she also gives me a particular diet
and foods. And she actually told me she wanted to learn more about terpenes too recently. And it was
funny. I gave her a true terpene sampler. I'm like, here, start smelling these and learn, right?
But where I'm going with this is that she says that mushrooms are a type of medicine that plays
well with other medicines. And because I pay her based on time, I couldn't get a full explanation
from her. But I'm really curious to hear your insight on mushrooms ability to play well with
these other synergistic inputs we've been talking about, like cannabis and terpenes.
Well, you know what, Shango, there's actually not that much research out there on that subject
specifically. You know, the way I look about mushrooms is that they are, in a sense,
food is medicine. So you can start out by just putting them in your diet. Mushrooms are kind
of a forgotten food in Asia. Everybody eats mushrooms. There's like 12, 15 different species
in the marketplace that people are eating. And this kind of too gets back to what Ethan was
referring to earlier about products that actually will help with homeostasis, for example. Mushrooms
are the perfect food and medicine in that sense. They're what are considered an adaptogen and
adaptogens. That's kind of their role. Homeostasis, harmony. I mean, when you talk to
anybody in China, Chinese medicine, traditional Chinese medicine practitioners, for example,
that's really what they're trying to do. I mean, disease, they did look at that as you're out of
balance some way. So they're really trying to bring you back into balance. And so for me,
that's a big part of what mushrooms do. They're one of the great balancers. They're one of the
great harmony herbs out there. And so in a sense, you can combine them together. But the one thing
you have to understand too is that sometimes when you put too many different, for example,
in this case, mushroom species together, you end up diluting the primary species that are giving
you the major benefits there. So you can only go so far. I mean, you know how sometimes there's a
race to like what I call the kitchen sink products out there too. You know, everything in one jar,
you never have to eat anything else or supplement with anything else because it's got everything
you need. And it's like, well, no, thank you. Right? There's a certain level where you do
have a synergy or where we're putting things together makes sense. But for example, for me,
there are maybe five mushrooms that I would say, okay, you get up to five, don't go any further,
because now you're just going to actually lessen the benefits that you're looking for. And so,
really, and again, in terms of synergies, it's kind of interesting because there was actually
a study that was just done in Australia where they were utilizing our mushroom extracts and
they, it was testing them against a whole panel of cytokines. And so they were, okay, what is,
what kind of cytokine stimulation do we have there? And we've got each single one, how they did. And
then when they put them together, actually, they got a higher level of cytokines production through
the putting the three together, then each one individually. So there's definitely those types
of benefits from putting them together. But we're still kind of new in that sense there. I mean,
we're not anywhere close to being what Tony's doing right now, for example, with the triterpenes. I
mean, and the other thing to getting back to just full spectrum, what I'm really trying to do is
I'm trying to bring everything out of the dried mushroom, all of the constituents of it, I don't
want to leave anything behind in my extracts. I mean, we're not the point where we're trying to
build up this or build up that. What we can do there is basically through the cultivar itself,
because different cultivars, for example, reishi cultivars are going to have different levels of
triterpenoids. A researcher that I saw his presentation back in 2002 tested 12 different
cultivars of reishi, the level of triterpenes was from 2 to 12%. It was just amazing. So the key
thing for us is making sure that we have a cultivar that's going to give us a good measure
of triterpenoids, which I think are really important and what sets ganoderma or the reishi
apart. So I think that's very important constituent of that. We really do the cultivar
itself and testing it to make sure our starting material when we are creating that extract
is high and what we want. Right on. Thanks, Jeff. So Ethan, you know, because this panel
is involves cannabis, chances are that a lot of the folks who end up watching it are going to be
tokers, you know, people who have smoked cannabis for some or all of their life. And, you know,
as the only medical doctor on the panel today, I would like to hear your thoughts on alternative
forms of ingesting these synergistic medicinals that we're talking about. Most of us are used to
smoking our cannabis medicine in flower form. And, you know, more people are getting interested
in edibles. But honestly, a lot of folks are selling, you know, a cookie or a gummy or something
that is more like candy. And maybe some companies use isolate and all this. Whereas if people are
really thinking about the medicinal nature of delivery, capsules are a really good way to go.
But the thing is, I've never explained to people why that's true. I just know it's true from
working with patients. So would you talk to the idea of taking, you know, these synergistic
medicines in a capsule form to kind of educate people on why putting the stuff in their belly
works for them? Sure. Well, let's preface this by saying that, you know, I really don't recommend
smoking because of lung irritation. Vaporization is better. And in terms of getting the most bang
for the buck from terpenoids, vaporization or topical application that does get through the skin,
those are both going to be really efficient. When terpenoids are taken orally, they're not
going to be quite as prominent. They certainly will have effects. You don't lose that entirely.
The effect orally is going to be better when there is a lipid carrier. In other words,
with a fat and certainly with a gel cap that is an oil base, you're going to get good absorption
of the terpenoids. And with a proper edible, there will definitely be a difference
that people will appreciate as compared to an isolate with just cannabinoid.
Right on. And so while we're used to smoking our cannabinoids and having it hit our bloodstream
through our lungs, you're saying that when we take it as a capsule and it finds its way to our
stomach, that our stomach is very effective in pulling all these apart. And while they may have
a different experience, we're still getting the medicinal qualities from it. Is that a right
summation? That's true. When terpenoids are taken orally, they're going to hit the liver and be
metabolized somewhat faster. When they're inhaled, they're going to have the ability to go straight
to the brain without passing the liver first. So again, the effect is going to be more pronounced,
but with a good formulation orally, it will get absorbed and it will modulate THC and the other
cannabinoids. So certainly, in a gummy, it's most likely going to be an isolate, just THC.
You're not likely going to see a lot of full spectrum gummies that are going to give a quality
experience. And I wouldn't think of those as medicines for the most part.
Cool. Thank you, Ethan. So we're to our last question of the panel, and it's going to be the
same question for everybody. But I want to hear all of your thoughts as we look into the future
and kind of put our visionary hats on. And as far as answering it, the order, I'm going to ask it
first to Berner and then Jeff, if you would jump in and answer the question, and then Ethan, we'll
come to you third, and then we'll finish off with Tony here. So this last question is the same for
all of you, and it's about your motivations and hopes for the future of synergistic medical blends.
All right. So where we want to see our community go. While pharmaceuticals can do much good,
and we've all seen the substantial amount of bad that they can do too, that has led to this,
our movement towards alternatives we are seeing now, we've been talking about today,
and we all participate in. What is your vision of the future for the creation of new medicinal
blends and an increase in their accessibility to patients directly? So let's go ahead and start
with Berner. Yeah, I feel like it's our job to educate. We all had different platforms. These
guys know the science of it a lot more. I've been experimenting with some stuff that Tony created,
and it's kind of a blend on some of the stuff that we talked about today. But I've noticed a major
change in my body when it comes to anxiety. I've had anxiety for a very long time. I have to take
Xanax to kind of calm my body down. And wasn't really having the best sleep because of metformin,
which I take because of my diabetes and whatnot. And recently just mixing the CBD, the CBN,
and some of the mushroom blend that Tony has put together has really changed my life for the better
a lot. And I feel like it's my job that I have a nice platform and a voice to the Black and Brown
community and to the urban community to educate them on this. A lot of people think mushroom,
they think we're getting high, or they think gas station mushrooms, not really real mushrooms.
I feel like my role right now, my kind of mission and the future of plant medicine is to educate,
put in hands, and kind of help everyone's bodies. I feel like the CBN, I never really was up on CBN.
I didn't really understand how important CBN is or CBG. I've just been a pothead for a long time,
and I've been smoking herb, but by taking daily blends, I've noticed a big change in my body and
my sleep patterns and my anxiety. And so a lot of people that I speak to, my audiences, deal with a
lot of post-traumatic stress, anxiety, pain, depression, sleep problems, especially the
diabetics. So I think the future of plant medicine is educating, putting in the hands,
and providing real access. We don't want people to buy gas station mushrooms and have a bad
experience. We don't want people to buy gas station CBD for their grandma that really needs it. We
want to provide safe, real, credible access to the medicine that's helped change my life. And so I
just look forward to being able to kind of roll this out properly and kind of just educate my
people, the younger people, the people that don't really think that this is a medicine or any of
these things. Mushroom or cannabis is a medicine. So we talked about that earlier, but that's kind
of my agenda and my objective moving forward is just putting in the hands of people and letting
them understand it's really good for your body. It's beneficial. And a lot of the stuff that we're
prescribed, like metformin or Xanax, is not the best for us long-term. Our bodies don't want that.
So there's ways that we can educate, put in the hands, and just kind of like, you know,
his education will be a lot different than mine, which would be a lot different than yours,
which would be a lot different than his, but combined is very powerful. I think we all need
to play our role for sure. Right on. Thanks. So Jeff, let's get you on this. So where do you see,
where would you like to see these synergistic medicinals come together going forward?
Well, let me first say, it looks like we've got a new term that's come out of this gas station
mushrooms. That's really a good one. You know, what's really interesting having been in like
the supplement industry for quite a while. I mean, I started growing mushrooms in 1973
commercially. So I've been doing that for a long time, but in terms of the supplement industry,
I've been there since 1989 when mushrooms were still not even in the industry at all. No company
had a mushroom product and I had to really do a lot of education. But back then the industry was
full of actual herbalists and people who were, you know, some of them actually coming out of
being cannabis growers, for example. I mean, people who were really deep into it in a totally
different way, let's say today. And one of the things that's happened is our industry has gone
from what I would call products that are a little more natural, a little more earthy to a pharmaceutical
model. And a lot of that has come just from the regulations that have been put in place. We are
saddled with regulations that make us adhere to a pharmaceutical model. The way everything is
produced in terms, not necessarily the way we grow our mushrooms, that's still quite natural,
but in terms of processing and in terms of the different standards that we have to meet before
we can sell the product. And that's something that I'm really kind of concerned about. And so are a
lot of people in the industry because I totally believe in organic production and certified
organic products and keeping with that whole, whether it be regenerative agriculture or
basically staying closer to the earth and not so much into the pharmacy, so to speak, those kind of
sterilized, you know, it's like getting a certificate of analysis and you look at the heavy metals in
there, a pharmaceutical model would be or the microbe, for example, the microbiological panel,
zeros. You know, if I see zeros, I think, okay, now somebody along the line has irradiated this
or done something to it to kill off all the microbes. And that's not a place where we really
want to go. So for me, going forward, what I think is really important is just maintaining that
natural component of this and not getting too far away from what it's really about. It's just
like me being in Mexico back in the 70s and, you know, smoking the different weed from different
states and living in Oaxaca and the plants that were being grown there, which were just
amazing. And those are kind of a pot that I really love and makes me feel really good. So
again, for me, I think moving into the future, there's a lot of things that we can do, a lot of
synergies that we will find, especially like right now. I just love the fact that Cookies is putting
mushrooms in with their cannabis products. I just think that's, you know, we'll see where that
goes. It's really interesting to me. But again, the key for me is keeping it natural, keeping it
close to the earth and not getting too far into that whole pharmaceutical model. Right on. Yeah,
nice. So Ethan, I know that you think about these, you know, synergistic products a lot with
Credo Science that you founded. What's your vision of the future? Sure. Well, in addition to
internal projects, we're really moving now into formulation. Our whole ethos is to make cannabis
safer and better, but also to extend it out into combinations with these other plant-based medicines
and fungal-based medicines. And I very much am in tune with what Jeff said. We want this to be
done in a holistic, clean manner, organic, preferably through regenerative agriculture.
So we're absolutely in support of those endeavors. Right on. So bring us home, Tony. I know you are
a big thinker and kind of an alchemist philosopher. I hope I didn't put too much on you right there.
But like, what do you see as a formulator for the direction that we should be going?
So I kind of subscribe to what the panel is saying. I really think what Berner said is well
said as well as Jeff and Ethan. I subscribe to that. My mission since 96, when I got on this,
I started at 16 and 18. I had my own personal experiences with different types of things that
were prescribed to me that once I found cannabis and the herb, I got upset and I realized that
we don't, you know, not every condition in the world, but the things that you touched on
in the general basis, you know, people need their sleep. People have anxiety. People have pain.
People have digestion. There's amazing breakthroughs with other types of conditions, but
those are the four main major things that's going on. My mission since 1996 was to get people off of
synthetic opiate based products and synthetic drugs that we can bring plant-based medicine into
a pharmacopeia level of grade. So I always think of plant-based, but how do we do this at a
pharmaceutical level to where people will take this serious enough and understand and like just
hearing what he said about the capsule is why I do what I do. You know, it affects me as a person
and it's like why I do what I do because I just want to be able to positively influence as many
people. I think this panel and this type of synergy is going to do tremendous education, but
ultimately that's the next move for the next generations. Like if we start getting
caught up in synthetics, we start getting caught up in artificially trying to create
experiences and things in life, we're going to lose ourselves. And so that's for me, the mission
is plant-based. Cool. Thank you. I like how Tony finished with suggesting that this
synergy that we have created here, all experts from different fields. And I think that's
a beautiful thing. So in wrapping up, so let's first, we'll thank all the speakers via video.
Thank you, Jeff Chilton. Thank you, Ethan Russo here in California. Thank you to Tony Versura
and to Berner. I've been your moderator, Shango Lose of Shaping Fire. And thank you to all of you
for tuning in and learning a little bit about synergistic medicines. Thank you for being here.
You can find more episodes of the Shaping Fire podcast and subscribe to the show at
shapingfire.com and wherever you get your podcasts. If you enjoyed the show, we'd really
appreciate it if you would leave a positive review of the podcast wherever you download.
Your review will help others find the show so they can enjoy it too. On the Shaping Fire website,
you can also subscribe to the newsletter for insights into the latest cannabis news,
exclusive videos, and giveaways. On the Shaping Fire website, you'll also find transcripts of
today's podcast as well. Be sure to follow on Instagram for all original content not found on
the podcast. That's at shapingfire and at shango lose on Instagram. Be sure to check out the
Shaping Fire YouTube channel for exclusive interviews, farm tours, and cannabis lectures.
Does your company want to reach our national audience of cannabis enthusiasts?
Email hotspot at shapingfire.com to find out how.
Thanks for listening to Shaping Fire. I've been your host, Shango Lose.
