One thing I can tell you for sure is that we're doing it wrong.
We're not really legalizing cannabis.
Our state governments are allowing some normalization of cannabis so tax revenue can be raised to
feed their bursting budgets, but it's little more than that.
Also, regulation at the state level is being implemented mostly by folks who have little
understanding of cannabis markets, cannabis culture, and they certainly don't get cannabis
patients.
So far, nearly every state to allow and tax cannabis has done very little to embrace and
include the prior prohibition era producers.
What do you think happens when you allow cannabis culture to flourish and yet restrict participation
by the heritage growers who produce during prohibition?
Well, of course, they just keep on producing for the unregulated market like they always
have.
This could potentially be a huge mess for the future of true nationwide legalization.
Does this mean a new drug war 2.0 where law enforcement officers could bust growers not
because cannabis is illegal, but because they don't have their tax stamp?
This is Boston Tea Party shit.
The states give lip service to decreasing diversion to other states, but when state
regulators try to dominate a state cannabis market without including the black market,
they are directly causing the diversion of product to other states.
And for those who choose not to start shipping out of state, their family cannabis business
must be dismantled even though they were the ones helping patients and keeping the flame
alive during the dark days of prohibition.
And you know what?
This mess of diversion, neglected patients, and unstable markets will be blamed on cannabis
companies instead of where the blame belongs with the regulators who devise the system.
We are doing this wrong, this thing being called legalization.
What we are experiencing is industrialization of cannabis and the demise of artisan heritage
cannabis farming in America.
And I am not down.
If you want to learn about cannabis health, business, and technique efficiently and with
good cheer, I encourage you to subscribe to our newsletter.
Every week you'll receive a new podcast episode delivered right to your inbox along
with commentary on a couple of the most important news items from the week and videos too.
Don't rely on social media to let you know when a new episode is published.
Sign up for the updates to make sure you don't miss an episode.
You are listening to Shaping Fire and I'm your host, Shango Lose.
My guest this week is Dr. Dominic Corva.
Dominic is Executive Director of the Center for the Study of Cannabis and Social Policy.
He is a political geographer and public policy scholar.
He is an affiliate researcher for the Humboldt Institute for Interdisciplinary Marijuana
Research at Humboldt State University.
Dr. Corva's work has been published in the International Journal of Drug Policy, Political
Geography, the Annals of the Association of American Geographers, and ACME, a journal
of radical geography.
His dissertation research examined the political economy of international drug policy in the
Western Hemisphere and his post-doctoral research has focused on the political economy
of cannabis agriculture in the Southern Humboldt area.
Today we're going to be talking about how the licensed and unlicensed cannabis markets
interact.
Welcome to the show, Dominic.
Hi, Shango.
How's it going?
It's great to be back.
Awesome.
So glad to have you here.
It seems like it's been a long time since last time we talked during the very first
episode.
So here we are again.
So thanks for making the time for it.
I know your time is valuable.
Well, I'm super stoked to do it.
You've really done some amazing work on this podcast since that first one.
Right on, dude.
So hey, the history of cannabis in America is mostly told through its black markets,
which is why we're talking about it today.
And while there are certainly new markets being created all around the country, these
informal markets have lasted generations.
Do you think that it's unrealistic to think that black markets will disappear simply because
a new licensed and taxable market suddenly comes into existence?
Well, the short answer is yes.
But I actually want to commend you on your use of the plural when you're talking about
these things and also how you're actually using several different concepts, black markets,
informal markets.
And so I kind of wanted to start by just reframing things conceptually a little bit, which is
to say that the black market singular is a super problematic concept in so many ways.
Black markets help us get somewhere by describing the heterogeneous nature of the different
kinds of illicit informal markets that we're talking about.
And on another related note, I've been encountering and I have encountered over the years a certain
amount of resistance to the term black market.
It doesn't come from an anti-black market point of view, but one that is concerned about
concepts of race and racial justice.
And so a lot of folks these days are a little concerned because they feel like it's a racist
term.
And I'm not, but I do want to kind of respect the fact that folks are actively working on
the stigma aspect of things when they talk about the black markets or informal markets
or whatever.
So I will also be using the terms a little interchangeably, black market, illicit market.
Here's another one for you, legible and illegible markets.
To me, that gets it more like what the meaning of a black market is.
It is something that is very difficult to read.
In no small part, obviously, because what we know about it comes through stories, comes
through anecdotes, comes through things that kind of trickle into our consciousnesses,
either in face-to-face conversations or media headlines.
And so there's a whole range of values attached to discussions about illicit, illegible, informal
black markets.
That's kind of hard to do that work and still talk about it with any sense of clarity, but
it's very important to note that what we know about illegible markets are stories, and those
stories are framed by interests, and those interests have certain goals.
And certainly, broadly speaking, legal cannabis has as one of its goals the mitigation of
the black markets.
And of course, that's one of the problems is that when their story happens, it's very
singular.
And when they're talking about the black markets, what are policy makers thinking about?
They're usually thinking about organized crime.
They're actually not thinking about the reality of informal markets that are highly decentralized
livelihood strategies for many people in the United States.
So I think that when the legal market is talking about getting rid of the black markets, let's
give them a little bit of credit because what they're thinking of is not actually the
reality.
It's part of the reality.
And it's one that we should acknowledge as well, that organized crime certainly is part
of that ecology of illegible markets that we want to be able to talk about.
And it is also the one that I think there's a public interest in mitigating fairly strongly.
At the very least, with respect to, for example, very large grows on public lands that do environmental
damage and so forth.
I think that there's an interesting economic justice concept lurking behind this legal
cannabis desire to get rid of black markets because they're able to frame the issue of
cannabis unlike with the rest of society as one in which we're actually kind of concerned
about the commercialization of our economy.
And I think that there's a kind of a, I think that there's a channeling going on, the frustration
with how our economy works and how we'd like it to work into this debate about, you know,
getting rid of black markets and not.
So with respect to, you know, the legal cannabis policy makers goal of especially, you know,
diminishing the structural violence associated with organized crime and so forth, and particularly,
you know, highly commercial informal markets.
I think that the response that has to say, well, you know what, like actually the other informal
markets have been doing that work for you for a very long time.
And part of the problem here is that you're not enlisting them in your project to actually reduce
the harm of highly commercial, you know, barely different from, you know, exploitative capitalism,
you know, you know, cannabis industry, which does exist and also looms very large in legal markets.
So is it unrealistic?
Yeah, it's unrealistic, especially because they're using the term black market in a singular fashion
and they're referring to organized crime when in fact medical markets, informal markets that are
highly decentralized, the ones that actually over the last 20 years have made, you know,
US cannabis consumption, usually a mostly local issue as opposed to an imported issue.
You know, they've been doing that work.
They've been getting rid of organized crime by overgrowing it, you know, in the same way that,
you know, you over overgrow essentially prohibition.
So it's an interesting, I think, framing issue that's, you know, policy makers, they just simply don't
understand. They don't get the, you know, pluralism of the illicit and informal markets and how many of
them are actually quite socially beneficial.
And this range is not just to like a small little home grower, you know, with a few plants in the
backyard. But, you know, to me, it also applies to, for instance, for example, you know, in
California, the unlicensed dispensary system that certainly they've been encountering, especially in
Southern California and the L.A.
area in particular, you know, over the last 10 to 15 years.
And my argument has always been actually that kind of black market transformation has been quite
helpful because it gets cannabis off the streets and very least gets it into, you know, a
situation where, you know, people are not, you know, doing this on the streets and in public and so
forth. But there's like a place to go to to do it.
So, you know, the range of like the concern we have about organized crime and public safety
should also recognize the ways in which black markets have been actually dealing with
themselves, especially because of, you know, the medical cannabis or gray market, which is
still kind of an informal market, but a little more legible, you know, action that's been going on.
A final note on the black market situation is that, you know, policymakers.
Are attaching a stigma, usually unconsciously to organized crime, and it usually is about
actually brown people, not black people, because they're they use this term, you know,
cartels and Mexican cartels usually is the stand in for all organized crime.
So.
It's, you know, it's rare that you hear like a policymaker, you know, talk about, you know, the
problem of, you know, gangs, you know, opening dispensaries.
And to me, again, whether you review that as a problem or not really depends on whether you
understand that, you know, what, like this actually gets cannabis off the streets and
generally detaches it from other illicit drugs and drug markets.
You know, I think that's a really good point that you make that that that that the people who
you and I both know are artisan growers, are family growers, are small undercapitalized
producers who we think are the, you know, the backbone of the American heritage grower
movement that that because legislators do are not really aware of them and don't necessarily
spend time with them and their interaction with those with those folks are well, actually,
they think that those folks are all black market.
They think unlicensed people are cartels and mass.
And so they put everybody who's not licensed in one big basket, similar to how all of we
cannabis activists put all of our legislators in one basket as well as not understanding
and trying to limit our freedoms.
And so it seems like we've got we've got we've got a classic negotiation where where each
side doesn't know each other very well.
Yeah.
Yeah, I think so.
But what are the stakes of one not knowing the other?
The stakes are much higher for policymakers because they are entrusted by the public to
actually create policy that works.
And, you know, their lack of understanding is what's driving.
You know, let's let's look at Oregon, for example, which already produced way more than
it consumed, you know, years ago.
And then with legal cannabis coming in, you know, they licensed a whole bunch more new
people and new grows, new license grows.
They you know, they instead of integrating the existing producers in Oregon, you know,
they doubled their problem.
Doubled their problem.
And now they're calling, you know, they're blaming essentially a situation that had developed
a long time ago and is not new for exacerbating their oversupply issue.
Right.
When, in fact, the proper thing would have been to do would have been like, you know,
don't issue like new licenses, take the people who are already especially in the medical
programs and and and and integrate them, which they did at first.
They really did it first.
That's how they started was they said, you know, adults over the age of 21 may now just
purchase at dispensaries and they can tax that right away.
Right.
So they kind of got off on the right foot.
But then, you know.
Do their accommodation of, you know.
Well, capitalized interests who also didn't understand that they were going to have a
big problem actually making any money in a system is incredibly saturated, as it was.
And they've created a problem that now they want to respond to with, you know, more policing,
which, you know.
Has always been more of a price support for the black market than for black markets in
general than a something that actually, you know, controls or or diminishes the informal
market activities.
It seems to me that the only way to combat air quotes a black market is either to make
it smaller by brute force, like, you know, Duarte is doing in the Philippines or by
embracing it and becoming one with it.
And it seems like the way that the market is progressing, you know, neither is really
happening.
The war on drugs didn't work.
Legislators generally get that now and they're embracing it more and more.
And yet, you know, you already see people who have already received their license in
California snitching on other people who have not yet gotten their license because
they're all like, now that we have our monopoly, we want to keep all the unlicensed sellers
out.
And and like you were saying, them not necessarily allowing the heritage growers in.
I mean, that's certainly what happened in Washington.
We had 18 years of medical marijuana that, yeah, it could use some regulation and people
should have been doing more, you know, lab testing once they got access to it.
But by taking that entire market and saying you can't play in licensed cannabis, it are
our Washington 502 market.
And now we're seeing it happen in Oregon and California.
It is structurally creating a black market by not letting everyone play.
And do you think that they're realizing that they're doing that?
Or do you think that the fact that, oh, my gosh, the black market is sustaining, even
though we're air quotes, letting them have their weed?
Right.
Do you do you think that they know they're creating this black market?
Or do you think that they are just this ignorant to how social policy is going to interact
with the economic policy?
Well, I mean, I think that they just lack knowledge whatsoever of the dynamics of cannabis
markets.
I think that that's probably the biggest issue.
But I do want to kind of point out something else, which is that.
The licensed cannabis markets is being set up so that you have to be highly commercial,
because if you are not highly commercial and efficient and able to generate volume at scale,
you will not be able to stay open because you will not be able to pay your taxes, which
are all extremely high.
You know, you will not be able to pay your license fees.
You will not be able to bribe your local city council to not have a ban.
You know, which is how it works, especially in California.
You know, what they're doing is actually taking a critique of of informal markets that is
founded in, like, basically, I think, a well-grounded fear of like what commercial, you know,
markets do, which is they don't have any regard whatsoever for social or public benefits or
are positive things for society other than generating money.
And they're creating a system that is just that is just just for commercial, highly
industrialized, exploitative, you know, for profit, no room to do any good in society.
You know, actors.
It's it's it's, you know.
And I don't know what to say about that other than like, OK, you have a fear of, you know,
unbridled capitalism, basically.
So your response is to create unbridled capitalism, you know, and it's highly counterproductive.
It's like once you're talking about the license market, now you assume that all the
license actors are all, you know, good guys.
There's no stigma attached to them.
And especially if they've got a whole bunch of investment money behind them, you know,
you know, from the financial sector, which has been wrecking our economy.
You know, who knows how long, 30 years, roughly.
Wow.
You know, there's that's that's a lot to chew on.
You know, the idea that the the regulators, you know, they're essentially driving without
a map.
That's that's scary in and of itself.
And the fact that, you know, by the wave of their pen, they are, you know, destroying
small family income and and, you know, not nobody's going to be able to afford to pay
for their medical bills.
And, you know, not no longer holding a place for patients.
It's an awful lot of power for people who don't know what the hell's going on.
I would like to I mean, maybe I'm too idealistic to think that to the people who are making
policy would at the very least get consultants who understand what's going on in the cannabis
market is is no one speaking to them and giving them the truth that they can they can make
a difference.
So there's two sides to that.
I think that in a very highly uneven and localized fashion, there are a lot of municipalities
that are more sensitive to that than others.
You can look at, you know, the Bay Area's equity programs and, you know, their criminal
the criminal record expungement part of California.
You can look at L.A.'s appointment of Cat Packer to be in charge of, you know, what
they're doing.
And that's someone with a civil liberties and social justice background.
You know, it's happening, but it's highly uneven.
And, you know, to some extent, it's not just sort of an issue with the policymakers,
i.e. the legislators who are making the laws, but it's the bureaucrats making the rules
and the bureaucrats making the rules.
Are not that concerned about the reality of markets.
They're much more concerned about the reality of politics and in particular federal politics.
And so, you know, there's there's an element to which you could argue, you know, the Washington
system.
It really was not rolled out with any real concern over, you know, justice in the markets
or economic justice.
They just wanted to get that system going and do it in a way that modeled deference
to federal prohibition.
And I think that like there's nothing controversial about that statement.
It's quite clear, I think, from the LCB director, from.
You know, from the folks who are particularly well associated with how our system is gone.
That's what they're doing is advertising to the feds that the feds don't come get us,
you know, go get somebody else, but don't come get us.
So they'll take, you know, confusion with the markets.
They'll take a complete breakdown of the traceability system that's supposed to be
the cornerstone of why it is the feds aren't supposed to come get us.
They'll take that all day long, you know, as long as the appearance of deference to,
you know, the Federal Department of Justice is there.
And I think that that's becoming a little more generalized as well.
I think that the way it's evolved towards deference to the feds is a reflection of the
licensed industry's desires not to get cracked down by the feds, not just the policymakers
desire not to have, you know, public employees get arrested.
I think that as the licensed, you know, the licensed market grows, those people are managing
risk.
And the way they manage risk is, you know, well, who could come get us?
And if you've got a lot of investment money, you know, your concern is with the feds.
It's not with local police.
It's not with, you know, traceability breakdowns, whatever.
If there are, you know, millions of dollars in, you know, financial system cash, you know,
propping up your operation.
Yes, you want to actually crack down on anybody who's not licensed, not just because to protect
your own competition, but to, you know, protect your place in the market going forward.
So, you know, there's certainly a, you know, a greedy aspect to that.
But there's also just sort of a risk management, financial risk management aspect to that.
That's just cold blooded, calculated, you know, no concern for, you know, how it affects
the rest of society, in particular, the people who are able to get by because they participate
in this particular informal market.
Yeah, that's a really good point.
If what is making the policy is the folks who are bringing the fresh capital into the
cannabis market, and their primary role is to decrease the risk of the capital, the idea
of decreasing the risk for the capital does not leave a whole lot of room for patients
and small artisan folks and the lack of the need of like huge security systems.
So let's go ahead and take our first short break and be right back.
You're listening to Shaping Fire, and my guest today is Dominic Corva of the Center for the
Study of Cannabis and Social Policy.
While I certainly still enjoy smoking joints, I moved over to using vaporizers about three
years ago.
The high was a little different than burning the flower and in the end I decided I preferred
it for daily use, especially because I have asthma.
More importantly though, I could taste my flower so much more.
It's hard to express to you how significantly different cannabis with a good terpene profile
tastes when vaped instead of burned.
I have brought my vape with me to visit growers and they are astonished by the clarity of
taste and they say they feel like they're tasting their flower for the very first time.
The AirVape vaporizer from airvapeusa.com is a great device to use on the go or at home.
When you pick it up it feels satisfying like a medical device.
It isn't flimsy like many vapes are.
I like how the flower is inserted in the top instead of the bottom so it travels a shorter
path to my mouth.
With the cannabis at the top I get a hit that feels more substantial even though I'm just
inhaling vapor and not full bodied smoke.
Since I use this vape for flower, hash, and concentrates I really like that the digital
control for the temperature is right there on the front.
Three clicks of the button and it fires up to the temperature I specify really quickly
and discreetly.
Vape concentrates are a milder experience than dabbing but you still get the potency
in your hit.
Also the taste is great as would be expected with a low temp dab.
I love that this vape gives quick little vibrations when it gets to the right temperature.
That way if I'm chatting or distracted while it's heating up it lets me know when it's
ready.
If you are ready for a nice pocket sized vaporizer consider the AirVape.
The new AirVape X has just come out and it's gorgeous and includes many updates.
You can find more about the AirVape vaporizer at airvapeusa.com.
If you own a cannabis company you know that finding good business partners, vendors, and
allies is an essential part of your role.
And building your business in a new industry like cannabis doesn't always make that easy.
CannaCon is coming to Boston and Detroit this summer and the halls will be filled with every
kind of ally you need for a cannabis company.
Technology, horticulture, packaging, marketing, legal, human resources, and media, everything
you need for your business will be there.
And your customers will be there too.
Because CannaCon is a premier cannabis business and networking event with nationally recognized
speakers and the opportunity to have serious conversations with your business peers and
investors.
Reserving yourself a booth at CannaCon can unlock a lot of doors for you.
Not only do you get to network with all the people who pass your booth, but it is not
uncommon for CannaCon vendors to do a million dollars in business during the event.
CannaCon's Seattle event in February sold out well in advance so reserve your booths
now for Detroit June 1st and 2nd and Boston July 27th and 28th.
Attendee tickets are still available for both events.
Whether you reserve a booth or attend just for a day, do not miss the opportunity to
become a serious player in your market.
Visit cannacon.org for tickets, booth reservations, and more information.
That's cannacon.org.
Welcome back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire.
I'm your host, Shane Golos.
And our guest this week is Dominic Corva, Executive Director of the Center for the Study
of Cannabis and Social Policy.
So, before the break, we were talking a lot about the misunderstandings that legislators
have about the cannabis market as a whole and why they're acting on this through regulation
is tending to both kind of make a mess of the situation, but more importantly, sustaining
the informal unlicensed market that they're trying to get rid of.
And we all understand that many regulators, even though more of them understand cannabis
than there used to be, so many of the regulators just don't understand that, A, cannabis is
not an unhealthy, bad thing, but then also, B, we all know that they want to get their
money from the cannabis because they're like, oh, wow, we've got new money to make our budget
bigger so that we can take care of our pet programs.
But me, as someone who thinks cannabis is a positive thing, I'm not really all that
into the state adding a sin tax, you know, S-I-N, like they do with alcohol or using
of gasoline, where they are, a tax kind of discourages use or says if you want to use
this product, you have to pay extra because it's not good for you.
I don't understand where the government gets its right to tax cannabis.
Where does that work historically, Dominic?
Well, there are a number of things going on here.
And first, let me say that I'm not sure the right to tax frame is, I mean, it definitely
gets us going, so let's just roll with it.
Obviously, the government, as a term, refers to a whole huge ecology of public sector,
bureaucracies, from the federal down to the very local level.
And, you know, in each state, there are different powers to tax that are, you know, permitted
or not.
So obviously, in the state of Washington, we are not allowed to have an income tax.
So let's start there.
That makes it very, very important for the legislature to be able to fund public programs,
many of which are absolutely essential, such as public education.
They've got to find that money somewhere and they can't tax income.
So they tax property and they do sales taxes and they have B&O taxes and there are other
business taxes and so forth.
Most of those business taxes, you know, also disproportionately punish small businesses
as opposed to large corporations that can achieve efficiencies of scale and manage
departments that, you know, pay people to avoid taxes and, you know, all sorts of things.
So the whole thing is already, the tax regime in the state of Washington is set up to really,
you know, it's there because we need the money for public programs, some of which we may
like, some of which we may not.
But we can't tax income, which means that, you know, this five-year boom in the Washington
state, especially in King County, Seattle, around Amazon, is the state has not really
benefited from that much at all because they have not been able to raise money from income.
So they have been raising, you know, property taxes, which raises rents.
You know, they've been, you know, increasing their capacity to find and collect fines.
You know, so what's happening with the cannabis industry actually has a parallel in what's
going on in the rest of the state in terms of the relationship between taxation and the public good.
Now, it's one thing to like, sort of like put that into perspective and say that actually
the cannabis industry's best move would be to lobby for a state income tax to replace sales taxes.
That would be, I think, one of the smartest things the cannabis industry could do.
Because the state is raking it in at 35 percent excise tax and they don't want a penny less of
that. Right. So to replace that, you would essentially have to find a way to replace
that revenue. And most obvious place to replace that revenue would be to tax all these higher
incomes that have been created in Seattle around Amazon in particular.
Then there's the level of taxation. And here I actually just stay on Washington for now.
Like we get to the other states in a moment. I want to actually take a moment to praise Mark
Kleiman, really weirdly enough, who at the very beginning of this, one of the things that he did
point out was that the state is going to face a challenge not to get addicted to taxes, basically.
That's. Once once they start raking in the money, they're not going to stop raking it in,
and they're going to find different ways to really monetize these revenue flows,
especially in the context of the state budget that remains broke.
It's as broke as it was during the financial crisis 10 years ago, because, again, we haven't
been able to actually raise income taxes. So there's all this wealth around and no money to
manage it. We have this massive homeless crisis and apparently, you know, money, no money to really
deal with that. You know, we remain completely in the hole in public education spending. Our
infrastructure is decaying, as in the rest of the country. And so, you know, I do think that,
you know, collecting taxes on cannabis isn't necessarily a problem. But the problem is
at what rates and the justice for that rate is going to depend on, well,
what kinds of business are being taxed? You know, if it's small businesses, then really high honors
taxes is going to put them out of business and centralize the actual legal markets. And of course,
what that is going to encourage on many fronts is the folks who are barely able to hang in the legal
market because of the taxes are actually going to create new avenues of the black market, right? So
diversion, basically. That this is not just simply a function of like criminality. It's a function of,
you know, opportunity and also, you know, what is that business owner facing? You know, how are they
able to pay the rents on facilities that, you know, have a six month delay in licensing because
the city hasn't gotten to it yet or the LCB hasn't gotten to it yet. And so, like, you know,
they're almost forced to, you know, operate the ones who come from, you know, the illicit market
in a way that like floats the boat until you can actually get revenue coming in. Right.
So, you know, the high taxes, whether or not they're, you know, they're just or not,
they certainly seem counterproductive with respect to incentivizing
diversion in particular. And that's, you know, at every level.
At the other end of it, really, you know, it's because, you know, in Washington State, we
handed it to the Liquor Control Board. Right. And the Liquor Control Board took a look at their
own history of, you know, emerging from alcohol prohibition and, you know, has attempted to sort
of copy that even though cannabis prohibition, alcohol prohibition are not very much alike and
neither are cannabis and alcohol, broadly speaking. You know, you could talk about cannabis and wine,
you know, you could talk about even cannabis and liquor when it comes to, you know,
concentrates and so forth. But at the end of the day, you have this tax on cannabis products
that actually is really, really takes a bite out of, you know, the botanical products,
you know, at the same level that it takes the bite out of these highly processed edibles,
concentrates and so forth. So the tax regime is kind of just screwed in general.
It's counterproductive. Is it just, is it right? Is there a right? Yeah, there's a right to do so.
But again, like what's the driving force behind this? Well, the driving force is that in, you know,
the beginning of the 21st century, our public budgets are broke. And they're broke because of a,
you know, 30, 40 year long process that is seeing essentially the privatization of
gains in society, way beyond the ability of the states and legitimacy state to actually collect,
you know, a tax on the wealth that's being produced by the society that we're creating.
So there's a long-term bigger problem here, and that is economic inequality in this country.
And, you know, the high taxes here and there have everything to do with that.
Have everything to do with that. And the question is, well,
you know, what do we do about that? How do we fund, you know, public spending?
Well, first you have to actually agree on the idea that public spending is a good idea versus
a bad idea. And I don't know that, like, I think in this country, like we've gone
to a place where really like, because we don't see much return for what are, you know,
what little pittance we actually, you know, provide for public servants to actually
create infrastructure, create, you know, social safety nets and so forth. Those are just gone.
You know, we don't spend money on things that actually help the people who need it.
I think there's a legitimate kind of revulsion at funding, you know, the stuff that we're doing.
The 280E taxes that are actually, you know, a large source of revenue for the federal
government right now, you know, that goes straight into, you know, a budget, which is like, you know,
56% defense and an ever shrinking, you know, percentage of actual, you know, social safety
nets, you know, spending and so forth. So it sounds to me that actually in how I
asked the question, I wasn't actually looking at the perspective large enough. It's like, yeah,
maybe a syntax on cannabis is not really justified or appropriate based on the product,
but no one's looking at it from that regard. They're looking at it as, oh my God, we've got
this underfunded budget and how we do state budgets is wrong. And therefore we just need to
pour money on the beast to buy us through another budgetary cycle. And therefore we're going to have
massive taxes on cannabis because there's not really anybody pushing back. And, you know,
even though you've been using Washington as your examples, it seems like this is the same way it's
playing out in every state and is about to play out in California. Yes, there's no question.
I think that that's absolutely, absolutely the case.
Well, well that certainly is saddening, right? Because I was kind of hoping we'd come out of
this with some kind of a path to try to undo cannabis tax. And that sounds like it's wildly
naive of me because before we can get rid of the cannabis tax, even though they just got it,
we would have to both fix how the budget is even made, which is a monumental problem.
And now you're saying that we would have to replace the money as well. And, and those,
those are both a lot bigger, a lot bigger than just cannabis. So let me, let me give you,
let me give you an example of, you know, a contradiction, which is, you know, the founder
of the Washington Cannabis Association, Martin Tobias, who certainly doesn't like that 37% tax,
and he certainly doesn't like the 280E tax, is also one of the big, you know, funders of
the folks who keep Washington state from having an income tax. So it's like,
he gets to have his cake and eat it too, right? Which is that like, yeah, there's high taxes,
but it's driving out the smaller businesses and the bigger businesses can consolidate and take
over the market. The cost of those high taxes in the short term is unpleasant, but really like,
there is no alternative because he's standing in the way of there being an income tax, right?
And people like him and people like him include, again, every highly capitalized investment fund
investing in marijuana, because those people also work against actually a just and equitable
taxation system. And here we go with really, you know, one of the issues in legal cannabis,
besides people snitching, which is that the legal cannabis people are not interested in creating a
fair or just economy. They have no interest in it whatsoever. And I think that the way that they're
able to both complain about the cannabis, you know, taxes, but at the same time do absolutely
nothing on their part to, you know, create a society that actually could, in which we could
afford to reduce those taxes is to me something worth keeping in mind. Yeah, that makes a lot of
sense. And it seems to me that going forward with everybody looking out for themselves,
we're probably going to get more of this. The patients are looking out for themselves.
The legislators are looking for their own re-elections and their ability to meet budgets
so they're not embarrassed. And the cannabis business owners that are on a more capitalized
size, they're looking to protect their markets. And so we've got not very much coming together
in the middle. Let's go ahead and take another short break and be right back. You're listening
to Shaping Fire and my guest today is Dominic Corva of the Center for the Study of Cannabis
and Social Policy. Now that the health benefits of terpenes have become well-known in the cannabis
industry, people everywhere are looking for the purest terpenes without adulterants. The problem
with most terpene providers is that they're not sourced naturally and instead are made as a
by-product of refining petroleum. And that's so sketchy. The terpenes sold by True Terpenes are
entirely different. They are certified organic, non-GMO and food grade. That means they are
extracted from real plant sources. There are no solvents of any kind used during the extraction
process. They are distilled only with steam. That's right, only steam. In fact, terpenes from
True Terpenes are so pure that you can eat them. Not only that, but you can stack them with better
results too. What I mean is other companies' terpenes have got a few percent of impurities
and when you stack those terpenes to make a blend, you're adding a variety of impurities
that degrade your final product. True Terpenes also has strain-specific terpenes for a wide
range of cannabis strains like Durban Poison, Sunset Sherbet and Granddaddy Purple. True
Terpenes has robust and supportive customer service so your questions will get answered
fast and efficiently. If you've shopped for terps before, you know how rare that is.
So whether you want to cup your hands to smell some beta-caryophyllene to calm down after getting
too high or if you want to dab some alpha-pinene so your lungs feel fabulous and your mind feels
liberated, True Terpenes will provide you with a truly natural experience. If you are a cannabis
product developer, these are the terps you want to add to your oil or edible or capsule or whatever.
True Terpenes are simply the best your money can buy. Don't try and make a premium product
with substandard terps. Choose True Terpenes for a top-shelf experience. Go to shapingfire.com
forward slash true terpenes to find out more or click on the link in this week's newsletter.
Skinny dipping, humpback whales, beatnik poetry, the ottoman empire, soil remediation,
interdimensional beings and tree frogs. These are just a few of the interesting
topics you can find in the audiobooks library at audible.com. If you like podcasts like Shaping
Fire, chances are that you'll dig audiobooks too. Just like with podcasts, audiobooks speak to you,
telling you stories and teaching you stuff. Here's the thing, audible.com has an offer I
want to tell you about. Right now they're offering a trial of their audiobook service for absolutely
free. You can go to shapingfire.com forward slash audible and you will get a free audiobook,
straight up. You can listen to it on your mobile device, computer or you can download it and listen
to it like anywhere. It's really simple. Of course, they want you to subscribe to their service after
the free trial and enjoy their audiobooks forever, but you don't have to. All you have to do to get
the free audiobook of your choice is to check out the service for free. So that's the deal.
Your first book is free, it's easy to sign up, it's easy to quit and their online library of
free books is pretty incredible. Just check it out. Go to shapingfire.com forward slash audible
to find out more or click on the link in this week's newsletter. Welcome back. You are listening
to Shaping Fire. I'm your host, Shango Lose, and our guest this week is Dominic Corva,
executive director of the Center for the Study of Cannabis and Social Policy.
So during the first set, we talked about why the informal market, the unlicensed market
still exists even in states that have got a regulated licensed market and why they're
probably going to continue to exist for the foreseeable future. And during the second set,
we focused very much on the idea of taxation and the reason why that's happening and also,
the damage it's doing. In this third set, I'd like to talk about the kind of market we are creating
in the licensed market because the personality of any market is created both by the people who are
in it and the regulatory structures that guide it. And I've got real concerns about the
corporatization of cannabis, which historically has been this healing, patient-centric,
even for fun, right? Even if you're going to get high and go out in the forest, you were out in the
forest being high and hiking and there was no regulatory structure. But this new regulatory
structure and the people who are coming to the market, I'm not so confident that the market that
we are creating is all that healthy. What are your thoughts?
Well, we're creating an industrial market, right? So corporate and industrial are kind of two terms
that I want to tie together. But industrial largely means that it's highly centralized,
it's attempting to use economies of scale and branding and marketing to create value for
shareholders in particular, not necessarily for low-wage, minimum-wage workers, trimmers,
bud tenders and all getting paid $12, $15 an hour. There's a difference between that model,
which is corporatist industrial. And what we're talking about, we're talking about what was good
about the other kind of black market, which was the decentralized craft version, which sprung up
in many ways is the one that has been turning back the tide of industrial cannabis imports from
Mexico by what are essentially black market capitalists, drug trafficking organizations.
So I think that it's unfortunate we've gotten to the point where
the legal market wants to create this industrial corporates model of what a legal cannabis market
is allowed to be. And their main enemy seems to be craft producers who really aren't even
in direct competition usually with the new legal cannabis industry, which is heavy on the edibles
and the concentrates and the vape pens and so forth. And certainly there's flower, but that
flower is not really, because it's happening at scale, it's hard for the consumer to purchase it
based on anything other than what's on the package. It's not the cannabis itself that matters,
it's the package. And so we're allowing for the continuity of what to me is an economically
destructive model, the corporatist industrial model from that particular kind of black market.
And we're pitting it against as though it could possibly be against craft cannabis, which by the
way, isn't suffering from a problem over supply, is not having issues with pesticides and so forth,
and is in fact getting to people who do not have the financial means to purchase legal cannabis
because the taxes are too high and so forth. So there's a limited extent to which those markets
are really competing with each other. And to me, it's more of the legal cannabis is creating these
new cannabis products that are aimed towards new cannabis consumers and older people and so forth.
And that's great, that's one of the positive things that's happening. And there's plenty of
room for development on the edible side and the concentrate side and the Bay Penn side for new
users. But for cannabis culture enthusiasts who prefer flower, they don't want to buy cannabis
based on what's on the package. They want a direct experience of the product itself.
They want it to smell great, taste great, and even to know the person who's growing it.
The idea that the way the markets work right now is that you can't go in and open up a Mason jar
and get a good whiff of it. And instead, you're buying it based on the copywriting on the package
is just absurd. I mean, we all know from using the medicine that reacts to a terpene profile that your
body knows it needs. And so that's what we're used to going towards. And now, I mean, without
even going into the sustainability of adding so much plastic to a one gram, right? But outside
of that, the black market will continue to have this power because you can smell the cannabis in
advance. There's a social experience of interacting with your neighborhood provider. And there's more
fun too, right? The black market can still use copyrighted names, for example, like all the
malarkey going on around the strain Gorilla Glue and the Gorilla Glue company suing individual
retailers for carrying a product called Gorilla Glue. Well, all those crazy names are going to
continue to happen in the informal unlicensed market, which just increases the underground's
prestige. I mean, to some extent, I mean, what you're referring to really is a branding development
in the unlicensed market that people are trying to carry over into the licensed market.
So there's, you know, like when we think about black markets, we usually think about, you know,
production and so forth. But actually, there's been branding in the informal markets, you know,
and in particular, strains are kind of brands now. And it's helpful to some extent because,
you know, there's some vague correlation generally between that brand name and what it actually is.
But it's not that effective. And, you know, I don't really mourn, you know, the issues that
people are having with, you know, using branding from the black market on the white market.
I do think it actually was one of the problems with the black market is the extent to which,
you know, these branding of cultivars has not really matched the reality of what it is.
And I think if you look at the Phylos Bioscience, you know, work that they've done,
you know, it at least shows you, you know, the fairly large, often very large distance between
what the brand name is on even the black market and what the product actually is.
So it's fun to do that. And also, you know, those brand names usually have something to do with,
you know, the crafts that the cultivar came out of. So the names that end up happening
are not that random and often contain a little bit of genealogy in them, which helps, you know,
consumers get educated about, you know, what's a cultivar, you know, wait a second. You know,
there's been innovation and we can kind of track it a little bit.
But I think that it's also important to understand, too, that's, you know, for especially
folks on the East Coast and so forth, you know, I think that we're, our variation of
the black market that is craft and you can smell it and everything and you have a lot of choice
isn't that well reflected on the East Coast necessarily where like, you know,
stuff goes out in bulk and, you know, it may or may not be of the highest quality.
They haven't developed the small scale cultivation system that we have out West,
you know, as much. So I'm not necessarily sure where I'm going with that, but because I try to
emphasize continuity, right? And I also want to emphasize heterogeneity. And so I want to
celebrate, you know, the craft and creativeness that's allowed when you don't have intellectual
property lawyers breathing down your neck. And also to say that, you know, that's not necessarily
new either. That there's been, you know, a little bit of, you know, inconsistency that now,
you know, has carried over into the white market, probably because of, you know,
the Leafly periodic table, which is completely absurd.
Yeah. So I want to circle back around before we close here. You know, before I drifted you
off down the branding path, you were talking about the commercialization of cannabis versus
social policy. And I feel like you probably have something more to say on that because,
you know, what do you really think is the future of cannabis based on how the regulatory
structures are presently evolving? Well, the future of legal cannabis,
I think that there's definitely room for well-made, well-crafted, you know, cannabis,
a la the microbrewery part of the alcohol industry. It is not a very large part of the
overall industry, but we are definitely moving towards, you know, a system in which you have,
you know, the cores and the buds and so forth kind of dominating the volume.
I think that's where we're headed to with the current situation. And I think that's the craft
aspect to it and the innovative, you know, differences in the terpene profiles and so forth,
the non-standardized, you know, product that results from non-standardized production systems.
There's going to be some of it in there, but like we're definitely, it favors the very large sort
of industrial, corporate, commercial products that I'm not that interested in for anything else
either. You know, like I'm a no logo guy, you know, like I'm not into, you know, standardized,
you know, products made by, you know, sweatshop workers in China. Right. And of course, you know,
that's kind of where we're headed towards the sweatshop workers in China model, which is a
return to, you know, the organized crime model, really, which was, you know, didn't benefit,
you know, the laborers who worked in the fields as much as it benefited, benefited the, you know,
the DTO chiefs and the government officials, they paid off. It's kind of like, well, all right.
So we've decided that the legal model is going to be the cartel model of production. And I think
that that's just ridiculous. And I don't want that. And I do feel like that's kind of where
we're headed right now. But California is a place where this is getting played out in a way with a
lot more resistance. You know, you have very, very large trade groups there that are that have been
on this since the beginning. A concern about commercial, you know, capitalist cannabis,
basically. And by capitalist, actually, I don't mean necessarily anything other than financial
capitalists, you know, because I do believe that, you know, there are different kinds of capitalism,
and certainly small business capitalism is helpful and worthwhile, as opposed to the kind of
capitalism that devours small businesses, which is financial capitalism. Right on. That makes a lot of
sense. And it makes me really hope for how California plays out. I mean, I know you and I
both spend a lot of time down there, both with the heritage producers and with the transitioning
retailers. And, you know, I spend a little time with legislators. You certainly spend a lot more
time down there with those folks than I do. But California being as big of a market as it is,
and having so many forthright people involved, and having so many, you know, really top-notch
cannabis trade organizations in the state, hopefully they will be able to push back against
things like the removal of the one-acre cap, and, you know, the local moratoriums, and a
handful other things that could make or break California. So for those of you in California
who are listening, our hearts and minds are with you, and we really hope that you really
do us all right. Because, you know, the way that California goes is probably the way that the rest
of the country is going to go. I mean, those of us states like us in Washington who have, you know,
been the first to, you know, normalize, if not legalize, we were more test states. But California
is like the big leagues now. And if they can pull it together and push back against some of these
policies that are a mess in the early to regulate states, I think it'll have a lot of impact on the
rest of the country. I share those sentiments completely. Yeah, we're pulling for you,
California. Right on. If any way we can. But like, if things are going to change, it's going to be
because of you, not because of what happens here in Washington. Dominic, thanks so much for being
on the show. You know, I always love having you as a guest, because you approach this in such a clean,
academic way and without all a lot of the hype that not only you get online, but also comes with
some of my other kinds of guests. So thank you very much for sharing your, you know, ability to
get right to it and lay it all in historical perspective. So thank you very much. Thank you,
Shango. Always a pleasure. If you'd like to learn more about Dominic Korva and the Center for the
Study of Cannabis and Social Policy, you can visit CannabisAndSocialPolicy.org. There's a
wealth of good reading on the blog there for folks interested in the reality of cannabis policy. And
if you really are a wonk, if you loved this episode and you want to hear more of this,
make sure you go back to Shaping Fire episode number one, where Dominic Korva and I talk about
a policy transfer between the states and how likely it is that early to adopt states will be
influencing the policy of the rest of the country. You can find more episodes of the Shaping Fire
podcast and subscribe to the show at ShapingFire.com and on Apple iTunes, Stitcher, and Google Play.
If you enjoyed the show, we'd really appreciate it if you'd leave a positive review of the podcast
wherever you download. Your review will help others find the show so they can enjoy it too.
On the Shaping Fire website, you can also subscribe to the weekly newsletter for insights
into the latest cannabis news and product reviews. On the Shaping Fire website, you will
also find transcripts of today's podcast as well. For information on me and where I'll be speaking,
you can check out ShangoLose.com. Does your company want to reach our national audience
of cannabis enthusiasts? Email hotspot at ShapingFire.com to find out how.
Thanks for listening to Shaping Fire. I've been your host, Shango Lose.
