In the early days of medical cannabis, growers learned that a particular strain they grew
had more of a medicinal value than usual because of the feedback from the people who smoked
it. A grower would hear that it helped stop someone's seizures, or it decreased pain,
or maybe a Parkinson's patient's tremors subsided for a while. After enough comments
like that, a grower knew that this particular chemovar was one to keep.
Around 2009, the first publicly accessible cannabis analytics labs began to open and
cannabis producers could, for the first time ever, get reliable scientific potency testing,
and they realized that many of these especially medicinal strains contained cannabidiol, more
commonly known as CBD. Because there is no federally allowed cannabis market in the US,
we now find ourselves at a moment where CBD is sold separately and differently in the
four existing markets of state regulated medical, state regulated recreational adult use, the
unregulated market, or black market, and the international market for CBD isolate.
Production and distribution of CBD right now is wild and volatile, and the markets continue
to crash against each other as price, availability, and quality between the different markets
continues to shift. Anyone involved with cannabis business or caring for patients will benefit
from an understanding of how these market fluctuations will affect them.
If you enjoy hearing frank discussions that dive deep into cannabis health, business,
and technique, I encourage you to subscribe to our newsletter. Every week you'll receive
a new podcast episode delivered right to your inbox, along with commentary on a couple of
the most important news items from the week and videos too. Don't rely on social media
to let you know when a new episode is published. Sign up for the updates to make sure you don't
miss an episode. You are listening to Shaping Fire, and I am your host, Shango Lose.
My guest today is Seth Crawford. Seth is a deinstitutionalized academic with a master's
in public policy and a PhD in sociology. His focus has been on the political economy of
cannabis. For years now, he's been consulted by lawmakers and policy specialists for a
better understanding of how the underground cannabis economy works. He's now co-founder
of Oregon CBD, a company researching, developing, and wholesaling high CBD cannabis seeds. Today,
we're going to talk with Seth about the past, present, and future of the CBD market.
Welcome to the show, Seth.
Thanks so much for having me.
So Seth, until the research on CBD began to be more readily available in media everywhere,
there really wasn't a CBD market at all. But now, through the efforts of hardcore CBD evangelists
like Martin Lee and Dr. Ethan Russo and Kevin Jodry and Lawrence Ringo and lots of others,
including the Sanjay Gupta TV special, a profound search for whole plant CBD is in the hearts of
patients everywhere. When do you think that we first began seeing something that we could call
the CBD market?
It's a good question. You can almost look at it as something that has organically emerged with the availability of CBD-rich plants.
I listened in to the oral history with Kevin Jodry, and it was absolutely fantastic.
My personal experience with the CBD market started really with the availability of ACDC clones.
And so hearing that oral history was really informative, and it was neat to hear how it all ended up forming.
ACDC in Oregon, where I'm at, really became available after about 2013.
That's when it kind of hit the scene.
And that was the same year that industrial hemp production took off in the state of Colorado.
Now, this occurred before the passage of the 2014 federal farm bill, which allowed industrial hemp
production in the United States to happen.
The following year, 2015, is when I would say the CBD market really exploded.
It really took off, just in the sense of product actually being available for consumers.
Just that plant availability seems to be the big driver.
And as, you know, obviously, as we've seen, as more people get into the production side of CBD,
it's become more available.
The price has gone down, and more and more people are becoming exposed to it today.
Yeah, that makes a lot of sense, too, because it really is not the academic papers or even,
you know, to a certain degree, it's the media attention.
But the thing that's really driving the CBD market, from what I've seen,
is the fact that people are actually getting relief from it.
Because someone will get relief, and then they'll tell their sister and their sister-in-law
and their uncle and their kids.
And then suddenly, now you've got five more people who are looking for CBD,
and then they tell someone.
So, you know, we know that referral is the best marketing.
And when people get relief, man, they just, they want to talk about cannabinoids.
They do.
They really do.
And the fact that it's non-psychoactive is, you know, it's really a godsend,
I think, for a lot of people who are suffering and find some relief from CBD.
And I know there's quite a few people, even in the, still in the medical marijuana community,
who don't view CBD as something other than, you know, a passing fad.
They view it as snake oil, because maybe they've tried it, and it didn't work for them.
But when you see the look on a child's face or on a grandparent's face,
when they have some sort of suffering relieved from it, you know,
whether it's Dravet syndrome and epileptic seizures in children,
or osteoarthritis from age and just, you know, long-term degeneration for
the elder members of our communities, it's real.
And it strikes a pretty powerful chord for those of us that are participating in this side of the
cannabis market.
Right on.
So generally today, we're going to be focusing mostly on cannabidiol or CBD.
But, you know, CBD is only one of over 100 cannabinoids that are in whole plant cannabis.
And before we move on, I just want you to touch on, you know, other emerging markets
for cannabinoids, because, you know, I've seen, you know, people marketing CBN,
CBG, THC-V for appetite suppression.
Are you seeing the market for other cannabinoids other than cannabidiol coming along as well?
They will be.
Yeah.
You know, the thing about plant breeding, at least the way that we've experienced it,
it takes about six months to develop a new variety.
And that's when you're really, really making progress.
We're lucky enough now to have a lot of analytical labs on board.
We have PCR screens that we can use with some folks that are putting that stuff together
for us.
The emergence of new cannabinoids, I think, is going to accelerate.
Now, most of them are not on the market at this point, but they will be in the next three
to five years.
CBD was really the forerunner, I think, on the non-psychoactive cannabinoid side.
It's really created a groundswell.
And in terms of just having, as we were talking about before, having people from a range of
backgrounds and ages and life experiences being more open and accepting of a compound
that's coming from a cannabis plant simply because it's non-psychoactive.
I think CBD has definitely paved the way for future inroads in that department.
Yeah, yeah.
I buy that.
After that Sanjay Gupta special on television that focused on the wide-ranging uses of CBD,
lots of folks like the Stanley Brothers in Colorado renamed high CBD strains that they
had come across and began to market them aggressively.
And they found a really warm welcome by both the media and patients.
The challenge being, of course, that the patients believed that it was only the Stanley Brothers
Charlotte's Web that was the only strain that had health benefits, and that was certainly not
the case.
And a lot of people fault the Stanley Brothers for their approach, but it was really the media
attention that they garnered that helped explain the benefits of whole plant CBD to everybody
and got it to reach middle America.
That's when my family back in the Midwest started talking to me about it, was after the Sanjay
Gupta TV special.
So to what degree do you think that the heavy media coverage has led to that fast rise in
the popularity of CBD?
Oh, it could not be overstated.
That's the thing with just about any type of idea or product, though.
As soon as it's picked up and moved into popular consciousness either by media or today, active
social networks on social media, people moving ideas around, once it gains traction, it
definitely takes off.
I mean, there's some fascinating research that looks at the popularity of specific songs and
whether or not a popular tune will catch on.
There's formulas for crafting music that will sell millions and millions of records or whatever.
The same thing is probably true when it comes to either cannabis varieties or any other idea.
It just comes down to being able to get it out into the marketplace and have people pick it up.
I understand where you're going with the Stanley Brothers and Sanjay Gupta.
It definitely had a positive impact in terms of being able to get the word out.
The dangers with something like that, when you have one particular plant that gets identified
as the be-all and end-all, is that you lose out on the amazing diversity that is actually
present in the cannabis family.
Yeah, and it confused a lot of people, right?
Because even though it was wonderful to have people talking about cannabis as a medicine,
there was also a handful of misinformation mixed into the reporting.
Now, folks like you and I and our contemporaries have to go and help people unlearn the first
wave of information that came out and help them fine-tune it so that people can get the
proper medicine that's going to work for them.
Yeah, no kidding.
The same thing is true, I would say, on the THC side as well.
People go to a dispensary and they're asking for something that's going to make them uplifted,
that's going to have a positive euphoric feeling for them or give them pain relief.
The thing that they've been taught is indica and sativa.
Let's see, the little bit more sophisticated version is narrow leaf and broad leaf plants,
but the reality is, and you had Ethan Russo on a few weeks ago, we know that it's not
just those things, it's terpenes.
And in our breeding program, we've noticed that in open-pollinated F2 generations, we
can find every combination of terpene and plant shape imaginable.
If it's a properly bred line, you can find anything in those.
So it's different small things like that where the folks who are learning and doing
it by experience end up having to correct some of that information as we go.
But I think that's science, right?
Yeah, totally.
I also appreciate that you're plugging some of my former shows.
You've already plugged two in our interview, so I appreciate it, both the oral history
of CBD with Kevin Jodry and the two shows that I've done with Dr. Ethan Russo.
So I'm glad that you've had a chance to listen to the show too.
Definitely.
And these are good people doing great work.
It's a very small community, I think, of people who are really out on the forefront of this,
and it's neat to be a part of.
The misinformation about CBD that we were talking about just a moment ago, I think that's
what has led us to a lot of these CBD-only medical marijuana laws at states.
These legislators who are pushing for CBD-only laws because they don't want to involve evil THC,
they just are missing the point.
They don't understand the importance of the entourage effect and that you really need
all of the different cannabinoids in the plant to create the best medicine.
And secondarily, a lot of people, especially cancer patients and others,
it's the THC part of the plant that is healing for them.
CBD is super healing and can be used by every human because we all have endocannabinoid systems.
But really, depending on what your issue is, it may be the THC, that part of it,
that's the medicine for you.
And I think a lot of those legislators miss that.
100%.
And one of the issues that I think is probably contributing to that is the piecemeal approach
from state to state with different type of legalization frameworks.
What I've seen is a lot of the more conservative states, particularly in the South,
end up passing these CBD-only laws.
And I don't want to say they're totally misguided, but I think they're pushed in a particular way
by people who have vested interests in the production side and who are trying to develop
drugs that would fit whatever laws they come up with in those places.
There's certain laws, they call them CBD-only laws, but you can have up to 5% THC in your
extracts and compounds.
To me, that's not a CBD-only law.
That would be more like a one-to-one law, which is great.
And like you mentioned, that's probably one of the more efficacious medical applications
is the synergy that's involved between THC and CBD in the body.
But it's led to a very, very interesting patchwork of legislation across the country that in some
cases makes good sense and provides access, and in other cases just is bewildering.
Yeah.
And since we're talking about the CBD market today, I think it's important to point out that
patchwork of laws has made a really weird market where at least two things are happening.
The first thing is that patients are leaving their state and going to another state, either
temporarily to just make a purchase or permanently so they can have a long-term supply of whatever
part of the cannabis plant that they need that's not available or in their state.
So that's number one.
And number two, the simple arbitrage where people are going to another state, buying
thousands of dollars of whatever specific medicine is needed in their locale and then
bringing it back and then distributing it amongst their friends and family.
If we had sane national cannabis medicine law, then this kind of arbitrage and cherry-picking
where you were going to purchase from state to state would just not have been happening.
I mean, this is not people trying to be criminals.
This is people trying to work around an unworkable law.
100%.
Yeah.
And what you're saying, too, is highlighting just the overall legal landscape in the United States.
To me, it's fascinating.
We can basically divide it into, you can look at it as a tripartite division in terms of
legalization going forward in the United States right now.
On one component, you have medical and recreational laws or CBD-only laws that are either passed
through citizens' initiatives in states or by state legislatures.
You have large pharmaceutical companies who are pursuing FDA-approved cannabinoid drugs
for very specific conditions.
And then you have industrial hemp, which is federally legal, and the products that come
out of industrial hemp programs can be shipped to any state legally in the United States.
In addition to the cannabinoid research that's going on with that, there's a lot of agronomic
research as well.
And having those three totally separate divisions that are all operating simultaneously with
different restrictions and different barriers to entry for both people who are in that marketplace
or trying to consume products from those marketplaces, it's just created all kinds of
issues while at the same time providing just enough gray area, I think, for a lot of people
to move forward with some pretty interesting work.
And it gets even more messy because the lexicon is so messy.
I mean, people's usage, right?
A lot of people argue back and forth between using the word marijuana, which has got a
sordid history, versus using the word cannabis, which is more accurate and scientific.
But even beyond that, you've got people who are in industrial hemp who like to call their
product cannabis because technically it's cannabis sativa.
And then you've got people who are in medical marijuana, which is also cannabis sativa,
who want to also use the word hemp because maybe they were grow hemp for victory people
back in the day.
And so the industry itself doesn't even have a stable lexicon where people who are in what
you and I would probably see as different product categories using each other's vocabulary,
which not only makes it more confusing for investors, but just totally loses patience.
Yeah.
And the legal definitions do exactly the same thing.
100% agree with you.
I mean, you look at the federal guidelines and marijuana, quote unquote, is any type
of cannabis that contains THC over 0.3% by weight.
That's the definition that's used.
Anything else is considered industrial hemp.
When we step back, all of it is cannabis.
It's all part of the same larger family.
And all of these divisions that we've put in front of us, whether it's from a marketing
perspective or from a legal perspective are all social constructs.
I mean, the plants are the same in the same way that we've created.
I think about it from a social science perspective.
Race is probably the best example of it.
We have no real genetic difference, not a meaningful difference between the racial categories
that have been constructed over the years.
If you take one person and analyze their genome from one particular race that they've been
assigned to and you compare it to another person from a different race, you will end
up with more similarities than you would get if you had taken two people from the same
race and analyzed their genomes.
Same thing is true with cannabis.
These are socially constructed boundaries that are basically vestiges of 20th century
prohibition mentality.
Now that we've established pretty thoroughly that there is a CBD market and that it's
growing really quickly, including both the licensed cannabis market or medical marijuana
market and, if you know this, the gray market, what would you calculate the total size of
the CBD market to be in the United States?
Honestly, and this is weird, this is my area of expertise, but I have no idea.
I think that that would be the honest answer that anyone who's looking at this seriously
would tell you.
I know that it has dramatically expanded in the last two years in particular, and a lot
of the high CBD hemp or CBD flowers that are being produced in the United States, at least
under the industrial hemp program, get exported to the United States.
At least under the industrial hemp program, get exported to other countries.
Israel is a very large buyer.
There are a lot of companies in Europe that are creating, basically using high CBD flowers
as an alternative to tobacco for smoking cessation, or at least nicotine cessation.
It's large, and like we talked about earlier, I think the more that's available, the more
you're going to end up seeing produced because the demand is actually there.
I did this back of the envelope calculation last year as some legislation was going through
the Oregon legislature that was going to be changing some aspects of the industrial hemp
program here.
The number that I came up with was specifically for horses, for aged horses, old horses with
arthritis, because one of the cool things that has been demonstrated with CBD is that
it not only helps people, but it also helps animals as well, specifically with age-related
degeneration.
Arthritic horses are large animals that would require a lot of CBD, but it's basically
16,000 acres worth to be able to treat all of the horses in the United States.
That's horses, right?
I mean, there's other animals too, and people could probably benefit from it as well.
At this point, we're getting close to having that many acres.
Well, actually, this year we will be over it nationally.
I think the state of Kentucky has 14,000 acres licensed.
I know the state of Oregon has 3,000 acres licensed this year.
It is getting very large.
Now, compared to the THC market overall in the United States, it's still smaller in terms
of total amount demanded, total amount produced.
But I think we're going to see a change in that definitely within the next 10 years.
Yeah.
Isn't that an interesting aspect of this, right?
I mean, CBD availability is low, and the demand for it is on a wicked rise.
And yet, nearly all of the licensed cannabis producers in the United States emphasize high
THC strains as their flagship products.
But the price of THC is crashing, and CBD is going down a little bit just because it's
not prohibited as much anymore.
But really, the demand is so high that you can't even keep CBD on the shelves.
And yet, because they think they want to decrease their risk, most licensed producers are still
focusing on THC, where if I had a license, I'd be going all in on CBD because that market
is going to outpace any kind of price decrease for years and years and years to come.
To a certain extent.
I agree with you on that over the long term.
I think in the short term, at least the way that we've seen it unfold in Washington and
Colorado and Oregon, and I'm assuming we'll see the same thing happen in California, with
adult use legalization comes a lot of restrictions, a lot of security requirements, and a very,
very high overhead in terms of barriers to entry.
You have to have a lot of money to get into those markets.
The prices that we've seen per pound on CBD-rich flowers, they're way below what high THC
flowers command at this point.
So I think in the short term, it makes good business sense to get into the THC market
if you're in a state legal recreational program or adult use program.
On the other hand, we've seen this both in Colorado, Washington, and Oregon now, the
production for THC has typically outpaced the demand.
And so it makes it very difficult for these farmers to actually sell their product.
Whereas with the CBD side, it tends to go pretty quickly.
You know, I think that's a really good insight.
And I think I'll amend my position a little bit based on what you just said.
And I think that one of the reasons why the price for CBD is not on par as much with THC
is because the right CBD products are not necessarily in the market yet.
You know, a lot of folks are taking CBD and spiking them with flavorings or using CBD
isolate in an edible or, you know, so much of the recreational mindset of the products
is not bringing products to the market that is actually CBD for patients.
And I think that as product designers get more sophisticated and honest with themselves,
more sophisticated and understand patients more, the demand will increase.
I see that happening for sure.
Well, let's go ahead and take our first short break and be right back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire.
And my guest today is cannabis policy analyst, Seth Crawford.
We humans are attracted to plants because they offer us relief and are a whole lot of fun.
Sometimes though, the best parts are buried inside the plant and we need to use specialty
extraction technology.
When it comes to cannabis, it is extraordinarily important to extract its precious oils without
changing them in the process.
We want to preserve the properties of the cannabinoids, terpenes, and other constituents
that all work together.
Since 1994, Eden Labs has been developing extraction technology and processes to do
just that.
Eden Labs was founded by a cannabis loving engineer during the early days of medical
marijuana in California.
And the expanded Eden team has been designing and building industry leading solutions for
cannabis extraction ever since.
Eden Labs flagship product is the newly improved high flow CO2 extractor.
As other extraction companies enter the market, it is the high flow from Eden Labs that everyone
chases and tries to compare themselves with.
Not only that, but the improved automation software allows data to be collected, stored,
and studied.
Eden Labs can outfit your whole lab.
Eden's Cold Finger ethanol extractor creates astonishing whole plant extracts working alone
or in tandem with an initial stream distilling step to isolate monoterpenes before extracting
the rest of the botanical constituents.
Eden offers you many options including vacuum distillation, column distilling, stirred reactor
units, and accelerated solvent recovery.
When you partner with Eden Labs, your lab team is enrolled into the Eden Labs training
program to boost their understanding of Eden's best practices to ensure that your outputs
are exactly what you require for your application, whether it be dab oil, oil for pen cartridges,
or edibles.
When you work with Eden, you're not just buying the tech, you are buying dedicated
customer support to help you attain your business goals too.
You can hear Eden's CEO, AC Braddock, talk about the company's values during Shaping
Fire episode 19 that was all about CO2 extraction.
So many of the new companies in the market just smell opportunity, slap an extractor
together, and hire a marketing company.
Eden Labs has been listening to feedback from extractors and consumers for about 25
years now.
They care about both you and your consumer.
Partner with Eden Labs to extract astonishing cannabis oils and terpenes that you will be
proud of.
Go to shapingfire.com forward slash eden to find out more.
Now that the health benefits of terpenes have become well known in the cannabis industry,
people everywhere are looking for the purest terpenes without adulterants.
The problem with most terpene providers is that they're not sourced naturally and instead
are made as a byproduct of refining petroleum.
And that's so sketchy.
The terpenes sold by True Terpenes are entirely different.
They are certified organic, non-GMO, and food grade.
That means that they are extracted from real plant sources.
There are no solvents of any kind.
They are distilled only with steam.
That's right, only steam.
In fact, terpenes from True Terpenes are so pure that you can eat them.
Not only that, but you can stack them with better results too.
What I mean is other companies' terpenes have got a few percent of impurities.
And when you stack those terpenes to make your blend, you're adding a variety of impurities
that degrade your final product.
True Terpenes also have strain-specific terpenes for a wide range of cannabis strains like
Durban Poison, Sunset Sherbet, and Granddaddy Purple.
True Terpenes has robust and supportive customer service, so your questions will get answered
fast and efficiently.
If you've shopped for terps before, you know how rare that is.
So whether you want to cup your hands to smell some beta-caryophyllene to calm down after
getting too high, or if you want to dab some pinene so your lungs feel fabulous and your
mind feels liberated, True Terpenes will provide you with a truly natural experience.
If you are a cannabis product developer, these are the terps you want to add to your oil
or edible or capsule or whatever.
True Terpenes are simply the best your money can buy.
Don't try and make a premium product with substandard terps.
Choose True Terpenes for a top-shelf experience.
Go to shapingfire.com forward slash true terpenes to find out more or click on the link in this
week's newsletter.
Welcome back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire.
I'm your host, Shango Lose, and our guest this week is cannabis policy analyst Seth
Crawford.
So during the first break, or excuse me, during the first set, we talked pretty much exclusively
about the size of the market and how it's just going to get bigger and bigger for all
the cannabinoids in cannabis, but at the moment, specifically CBD.
And interestingly, because of federal prohibition, there are some states where you're not able
to get legal whole plant CBD.
And so what we're seeing in the market is a lot of folks have started extracting the
single molecule of CBD out of industrial hemp plants, which are not only increasingly legal
in the United States, but also you can buy the single molecule CBD overseas and then
people can put them into whatever the product they're making.
And there's become a lot of infighting between the CBD from hemp people and the CBD from
whole plant cannabis folks.
So let's start with, Seth, how big has the CBD from hemp market become?
Seth Crawford Big, big.
And I think part of that is driven, as you just described, folks importing either crystalline
isolate from European countries or from China, or importing actual industrial hemp flowers
and then doing the extraction here in the United States, which is again, federally legal
under the Farm Bill.
And that one actually goes back to 2004.
That was the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals decision with the Hemp Industry Association
versus the DEA that allowed for the importation of industrial hemp seed products, flowers,
fiber, et cetera, from other countries, so long as it met that 0.3% THC threshold.
Dr. Peter T. Leitner For folks who aren't very familiar with what
we're talking about, about the CBD, whole plant CBD from medical plants versus extracted
from industrial hemp, would you go ahead and just give a nice little summary of that for
folks?
Seth Crawford Yeah, industrial hemp traditionally was,
we know the history of it in the United States.
It was basically made illegal along with all other cannabis.
The European Union today, individual European countries previously had allowed industrial
hemp production and different requirements on THC ranging from 0.2% up to 0.3% were allowed
in those countries.
And over the last 20 years, they developed a number of different varieties that meet
those requirements.
But to meet those requirements from a plant breeding perspective, the easiest way to do
it is to just shut off the THC production.
So if you'd like to grow cannabis on an industrial scale, you have to have plants that have the
THC synthases essentially turned off, inactive alleles.
What normally happens in any cannabis plant, if the THC side is turned off, the opposite
side is essentially the CBD production.
So these European breeders were by accident, not necessarily understanding what they were
doing.
They were creating CBD cultivars that were then being used in production.
Now, the problem with that is that to attain the 0.2% or the 0.3% THC also requires that
your total cannabinoid content be very, very low.
And there's a lot of overlap between total oil production, total oil production and the
overlap between total oil production with terpenes and cannabinoids.
Those two things are definitely linked together.
So what you end up with is cannabis plants that come in at, say, 2% CBD, or I know there
are some cultivars now up to 5% CBD in Europe.
But what they lack are terpenes.
And we know about the synergistic relationship between terpenes and cannabinoids.
It's a very important distinction.
So on the one hand, we have very cheap, massive scale flowers that have been seeded, grown
in hundreds and hundreds of acres, and then mechanically harvested, compressed, and shipped
over to the United States for extraction.
That's going into the CBD isolate market.
And then you have other folks who've realized that, you know, we can actually make high
CBD plants that are also terpene-rich.
And that's sort of been a renaissance in breeding in the United States.
And I'm very happy to be here in the US at this point because I feel like we are definitely
leading the world in regards to that approach.
Right on.
And for folks who this information is new to you, I recommend that you go back and listen
to the episode about, oh, I don't know, about eight weeks ago with Dr. Ethan Russo, where
we go through his historically significant paper, Taming THC, where he talks about the
different components in medical cannabis and how each one of them is important from CBD
and THC, like we're talking about today, but also the terpenes, the flavonoids, even the
lipids and the chlorophyll for some patients.
And it's how all of these different constituents work together versus the other option, which
we're also talking about the CBD from hemp, where they're using extraction processes to
just pull out the CBD molecule and make it into an isolate and then put that into a product.
So it's interesting when you say, Seth, that to see the folks who are buying CBD from hemp
without understanding the entourage effect, be surprised when they don't necessarily get
the medical benefits that they were hoping for.
It's true.
Yeah.
And you can actually see it reflected in the marketplace at this point as well.
It's very funny timing.
I got, some would call it internet spam, but I got an email this morning from someone who
was trying to push CBD isolate just because I am working in that market.
And the prices right now for CBD isolate are half, half of what the raw oil, raw CO2 oil
prices are in the United States.
And I'm convinced that it's because people are realizing that the isolate just doesn't
work as well for most conditions.
I'm not going to say all, but for most conditions that you actually need to have what people
refer to as the botanical drug substance, the BDS, the full whole plant extract that
contains both the terpenes, major cannabinoids, but then also the minor cannabinoids as well.
Those seem to be playing an interesting role that people are working to figure out at this
point, but sort of at the nascent stages.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I think that it's interesting because, you know, the, the folks who are selling CBD isolate
as a cure-all, they refer to all of the great things that CBD can do, and they refer to
the studies, but the studies are not using CBD isolate.
The studies are always using CBD in the presence of THC and other cannabinoids.
And so they're, they're referring to these studies, which are not actually talking about
isolate to support their isolate, which is, which is a challenge, but you know, they're
marketing people and they're trying to sell their CBD isolate.
And, and yet when it comes right down to it, it's, it's, it's not a product that's going
to get you where you want to go.
So that's interesting.
I had not realized that the, that the, the wholesale prices for isolate had, had crashed
so much.
Do you think that that there are any good uses for CBD isolate?
I'm sure there are.
I personally haven't found any.
It's not something that has been very effective.
But I will also say that from my own personal experience, that certain, certain cultivars
of CBD rich cannabis plants don't work very well either.
It's, it's really about finding something that works really, really well for your particular
condition.
And unfortunately, a lot of this is still clouded in mystery.
Just in, in part because, you know, the plants change, environmental conditions change the,
the, the overall composition, even if you're working with a clone.
And realistically, I don't think the analytical capabilities of many of the labs are on par
with what we need to be able to identify all of the substances that are actually medically
useful for particular conditions.
Amen.
You know, we have problems all the way down the line, right?
We've got labs that need to get more complex.
We need more research in it.
And also each plant has got its variables and each human has their own variables.
So we're talking about highly personalized medicine here, which needs a lot more research.
You know, I talk about not being a fan of CBD isolate from hemp when, when I'm doing
public speaking and I always get somebody who wants to argue with me and, and, and I
have to be open to two possible applications of CBD isolate, which can be helpful to patients.
One is that it seems that CBD isolate, it tends to work with, for some people with eczema
and psoriasis topically.
I've got patients that I've talked to who they aren't taking any other form of whole
plant cannabinoid or THC or anything.
They're just using that topically and they've gotten some good anecdotal results.
So I'm open to that being a possibility and also patients who can't afford as much cannabidiol
as they need.
They may be taking a, like a whole plant tincture and also maybe smoking some.
And so they're getting all this whole plant.
So they're getting a wide variety of cannabinoids, but then they're also taking some CBD isolate
to kind of spike how much CBD they're getting each day, each day.
And that, you know, spiking in, in the environment of all this other whole plant, I kind of got
to be open to that potentially being, you know, offering some benefit too, I think.
Yeah, yeah, definitely.
But again, it's for, for most of these things, it's, you're dealing with the entourage effect.
And in the case with psoriasis, psoriasis and eczema, you're dealing with a whole new
set of cannabinoid receptors that have not been investigated properly that happen to
exist in our dermal layer.
So again, it's just all kinds of, every time we uncover something new, it raises 50 new
questions.
And that's the beauty of being sort of out on the, out on the outskirts of something
new and fun.
Yeah, and it's hard that patients need to be so flexible at this point and also be doing
so much research, right?
Because when you're a patient, you may not have a lot of money.
You may not have the wherewithal to be doing all this research.
And yet the cure that you need is somewhere in all of this, all these data points and
all this education that it has to happen.
And so I come across folks who have spent hundreds of dollars on the wrong products,
and then they get frustrated and then they go back to their pharmaceuticals or, you know,
it's just, it's so frustrating to see the people who are at most risk in our society,
not being able to get clean information because in some instances, the plans aren't developed.
And in other instances, the research hasn't been done.
And so there's so much anecdotal information that people are making serious buying decisions
based on.
Totally, totally.
It's a problem.
And, you know, it's both a problem, you know, a blessing and a curse.
It's difficult for people to get good information and to have, I'd say, a consistent treatment
regimen for whatever it is that ails them.
That's definitely an issue.
And the normal answer in the United States and in other countries to deal with that is
the pharmaceutical route.
And in the United States, you know, the FDA drug approval process is one that is incredibly
reductionist.
It's sort of the worst aspects of the 20th century ideas about science and methods that
you can possibly dream up.
And cannabis is, by its very nature, in its internal synergy and the way that it works
with people, it ends up challenging that very reductionist approach, which means that it's
incredibly difficult for a large pharmaceutical company to step in and come up with a particular
formulation that can be replicated over and over and over and actually work that involves
all of the compounds that you would find in a whole plant extract.
So both good in the sense that, you know, it's very complicated, but also bad in the
sense that it's really hard to nail down.
Yeah, well said.
So we're going to hit the pharmaceutical industry as a whole after the break.
But before the break, I know you are a a gosh, how would I would I say you're a medicinal
hemp breeder?
Because what you breed is kind of different, right?
You're taking you're taking medicinal strains and crossing them with traditionally industrial
hemp to create this kind of, you know, hybrid that grows fast and close to each other, but
also has got great turps and a high CBD percentage.
So what do you what do you call what you grow?
Oh, man, I'm just a farmer.
All right.
I would say that what we are doing and it's not just us, there are others who are participating
in this kind of craft renaissance.
We're trying to create cannabinoid rich terpene rich plants that can be grown, grown in an
industrial scale.
And a lot of that is just being made possible under the farm bill with less restrictive
canopy requirements and basically just a federal legal framework to operate under.
It allows us to, you know, at this point we have we're running a test field right now.
We have 30,000 plants out there on four foot centers.
We can go through and identify the standout candidates that are really doing interesting
things, not only with the terpene profiles, the cannabinoid profiles, but also on the
agronomic side.
We're a breeding company that's trying to not only make oil rich plants, but also make
those plants flower at the right time.
You know, once you step outside of, you know, growing in a small space or in your backyard
and you apply industrial agricultural techniques and try to do it organically and responsibly
as possible, you run into a whole host of new issues.
So like I was mentioning before, this is just one of those avenues within the legalization
framework that's coming out.
And what's really driving our work on the terpene and cannabinoid side is the demand.
As you were mentioning before, the market is actually demanding terpene rich plants
rather than these isolate compounds.
So I've got a really nerdy question for you.
So a lot of people take a shot at CBD from hemp by saying that CBD from hemp is bad because
there's so little CBD in any particular industrial hemp plant that you have to extract from just
acres and acres of plant material in order to get a viable amount of CBD for sale.
And that is dangerous because hemp is an exceptionally good heavy metal and toxin
aggregator from the soil.
It just pulls it out of the soil, which is why they use hemp to clean up the areas around
toxic spills and such.
Now, on the other side, people are crowing about CBD from medical plants, but at the
end of the day, they're both cannabis sativa and pull from the earth.
So is there a difference in the botany between industrial hemp pulling up toxins out of the
soil versus medical cannabis plants pulling toxins out of the soil?
If the toxins are there, they will be bioaccumulated.
What we have seen, there's a really interesting paper that was put out.
It's a white paper from the Cannabis Safety Institute.
It's an organization that was put together.
Mowgli Holmes with Phylos was one of the originators of the group, and they did some work on heavy
metal accumulation in cannabis plants.
And their actual final analysis was that it's not something that we need to worry about.
It's something I'm very worried about in moving forward.
But I think it's less of a problem than just traditional agricultural pesticides.
One of the things that we've seen in Oregon, and I do want to give Oregon just a little
bit of a mention here, because I think in some ways we are doing things very right from
a safety perspective with cannabis testing, testing of products.
We have some of the most rigorous pesticide screens in the world at this point for cannabis
products.
And what we're finding is that even the people who are doing everything exactly right, who
did not spray anything on their plants, who are operating biodynamically and organically
and just farming in a sustainable way, they still end up getting contaminated.
And it's not because of anything they've done.
It's because of just how pervasive pesticides and herbicides are in the environment and
widely used in agricultural areas.
That, I think, is something to be very, very concerned about.
And to be honest, that's why you see so much of the industrial hemp from other countries
getting turned into isolate.
It's because of contamination from pesticides.
Right on.
I'll buy that.
So let's go ahead and take our second break.
When we come back, we're going to be talking about the opportunities in the pharmaceutical
industry with CBD.
You are listening to Shaping Fire, and my guest today is cannabis policy analyst, Seth
Crawford.
If you grow cannabis with sunshine, you can often feel limited by the seasonal cycle.
You want to grow sustainably and save money, so you use as little electricity as possible.
But if you haven't studied or implemented light deprivation techniques into your greenhouse,
you're leaving a lot of money on the table.
By incorporating light deprivation solutions into your greenhouse, you can often add two
or three additional growing cycles to your year.
When you pencil out the financial benefit of those additional cycles, you'll realize
why commercial-scale light deprivation technology is remaking the cannabis industry.
What used to be done by pulling tarps over hoop houses has been scaled up over the last
few years in such a way that it's become mechanized, easy, and affordable to even
small-scale commercial cannabis operations.
Forever Flowering Greenhouses is the industry leader in light deprivation, greenhouse design
and operation for the commercial cannabis industry.
Their team of greenhouse experts have been in the fields of Northern California for decades,
and they're now building greenhouses for commercial cannabis companies across the country.
If you are new to light dep and growing in greenhouses, I encourage you to go back to
Shaping Fire episode 13 with guest Eric Branstad of Forever Flowering.
I talk with Eric about the importance of intelligent greenhouse management,
as well as the huge financial benefit of incorporating light dep techniques.
There are so many aspects of utilizing a greenhouse that can go wrong.
From temperature and airflow to light dep and workflow, Forever Flowering will help
you produce crop after crop of well-cared-for flowers.
They can help you retrofit your existing greenhouse with light dep and other modern
systems at a level that fits your budget.
If you're just starting out, Forever Flowering can help you plan and build your new greenhouse
so that you get started on the right foot.
The cannabis business has enough risks without trying to go it alone with your greenhouse.
Contact Forever Flowering Greenhouses to partner with folks who have an indisputable reputation
as knowledgeable and easy to work with.
Go to shapingfire.com forward slash ffg to find out more.
As cannabis normalization sweeps the country, knowledge of how to grow cannabis naturally
and without synthetic inputs has become more and more available.
In fact, probiotic growers are experiencing large yields and exceptional terpene profiles
without using chemicals banned in their state.
Move away from the risks inherent to chemical nutrients and instead invest in your soil.
Use your soil again and again, reducing costs and improving the vitality of your soil with
each cycle.
Keep It Simple Organics has been a leader in aerated compost teas for years and now
provide premium soils and nutrients to the cannabis industry.
They offer a full line of all-natural inputs for building your soil, feeding microbe communities,
and brewing nutrient and compost teas.
They can even help you test your soil to spot deficiencies that may be holding you back.
Check out their website at kisorganics.com.
Enter the word shango into the format checkout to receive 10% off your first order.
Stop pouring bottled nutrients on your soil only to throw it out each cycle.
Start building living soil that will serve you for years to come.
Visit kisorganics.com and grow healthy, thriving cannabis.
Welcome back, you are listening to Shaping Fire.
I'm your host, Shango Lose, and our guest this week is cannabis policy analyst Seth Crawford.
So, so far we've talked about how huge the CBD market is
and why it's important to know your source.
And that of course is going to lead us into the opportunities for the pharmaceutical industry
because the pharmaceutical industry has certainly seen the promise in CBD
and has begun bringing products to the market like Sativex from GW Pharmaceuticals.
But medical cannabis activists are very concerned that if cannabis is made schedule 2,
it will leave it solely in the hands of Big Pharma,
which won't benefit anyone except for Big Pharma pocketbooks.
So Seth, what are your thoughts on the attempts by pharmaceutical companies
to develop and profit from CBD medicine?
It's complicated, just like the plant, which is why I really appreciate it.
GW Pharmaceuticals is a great example.
So they were granted essentially a monopoly in the UK to do cannabis research.
And the research that they have done is phenomenal.
It's actually changing the way that people look at not only THC,
but more importantly, the non-psychoactive cannabinoids.
They have a world-class breeding program.
They're in possession of some absolutely incredible plants that nobody else has.
The rest of us are just basically trying to play catch up.
Now, the problem with that is that we're playing catch up with, as I just mentioned,
a government-granted monopoly in the UK.
And American farmers, American researchers have not had the ability
to be able to make the inroads that GW has in the last 15 years.
The other issue with this is that they're trying to basically protect their long-term profit
with the creation of Epidiolex.
It's a 20 to 1 CBD to THC compound that is going through clinical trials in the United States
for Dravet syndrome, for childhood epilepsy.
Now, those are all really good things.
The main issue is that now GW Pharmaceuticals is engaging with lobbyists in states all across
the country, particularly states that do not have adult use, medical, or even CBD-only laws
in place yet.
And what they're trying to do is lobby those legislatures to pass bills that essentially
ban non-FDA-approved CBD.
Anybody who wants to get a CBD product then in those states would be required under the
state law to purchase GW Pharmaceuticals' version of that.
There's a whole host of other issues that come along with that in terms of creating
problems for patients and other types of consumers.
But the main issue to me is just from a supply standpoint.
GW Pharmaceuticals just spent $40 million to build out a brand-new production facility
in California specifically for their CBD products.
$40 million was how much it cost them to, in the letter that they sent out to their
investors, to be able to produce 1,000 pounds of CBD-rich cannabis per year.
If they're successful in being able to lobby CBD products out of states and they put their
own product on the market and they're only able to produce 1,000 pounds a year, I think
we're all going to be in a world of hurt and we're going to be paying, in their estimates,
their own financial estimates, anywhere between $83 to $166 per gram.
A thousand pounds, that's not nearly enough.
No.
I mean, if they have an exclusive market, that's ridiculously low for all the people
who need it.
There are, in the state of Oregon, we have the epidemiological estimates are 615 children
with Dravet syndrome, just based on representation in the population.
Each one of those children require 12 pounds of cannabis, high CBD cannabis, and we're
talking 15% CBD or higher, extracted and turned into oil just to be able to meet their needs
for a single year.
12 pounds is significant, but that's something that any decent, successful business owner
industrial hemp farmer who's growing a high cannabinoid content seed can do it on one
acre.
And one acre of farmland, say here in the valley in Oregon, rents for say $300, $350.
The equipment that it would take to actually go out and plant and harvest an acre of cannabis,
most farmers have it just sitting around.
The scale and the cost, the economics of trying to pursue some of these different compounds
from a pharmaceutical perspective with all the regulatory burdens and investors and that
sort of thing is just completely out of line with what this plant can actually do and what
farmers can do with this plant.
Jeez.
My mind is racing ahead thinking about if the pharmaceutical companies are successful
with their lobbyists to not allow independent licensed cannabis producers to create and
distribute CBD, and two things will happen.
Number one, the pharmaceutical companies will have it locked up and so ordinary law-abiding
people will be forced to get some kind of not whole plant stripped down version from
the pharmaceutical company.
But then what's really going to happen is that the gray market for CBD is just going
to explode because most people know that they want whole plant CBD and they don't want it
from a pharmaceutical company.
What an enforcement and legal mess that would be.
Completely.
And it gets even more complicated, as it always does, in that states have the ability to regulate
their own medicines as well.
And that's why GW has gone after individual states trying to pass these laws rather than
trying to do it at the national level.
They're definitely lobbying Congress and the FDA and the DEA on a regular basis to be able
to make their product the only one available.
But at the end of the day, there's always been a lot of people growing cannabis and
that was the reason that it made enforcement of any type of prohibition impossible.
And right now, the genie is completely, completely out of the bottle with hemp production and
all other forms of cannabis production at the state level.
I think it's going to be very difficult for any pharmaceutical company if they don't have
a very unique product that works incredibly well and they can get doctors to be able to
prescribe it.
I think they're going to have a very difficult time in recouping all those millions and millions
of dollars they've put into research.
GW Pharma is one of the companies who are working on CBD products.
Do you have an idea of how many other pharmaceutical companies have got CBD products in the works?
Not CBD products specifically, but the last time I checked with the Federal Register,
there were over 60 different companies that had registered with the DEA to be able to
produce cannabinoid products.
Under the new, there was a call for proposals that the DEA put out for basically new product
development and production to increase the total supply of cannabis that was available
for researchers through the National Institutes on Drug Abuse.
Apparently, the University of Mississippi's 12 acres is not enough and the stuff that
they have there is not good enough to meet all the researchers' demands.
But what it's led to is a pretty big explosion of mostly small but also some medium-sized
firms entering into the cannabinoid pharmaceutical marketplace.
So to go back to your one example with GW Pharma, if they spent $40 million on this
series of greenhouses to grow, I think you said, 1,000 pounds of over 15% CBD a year,
will they simply just scale up and produce more of those to reach demand?
Or does scaling up at those numbers not work to bring the price down?
Yeah, what we're dealing with is the demand and the need is so much higher than what could
be achieved with a closed system.
And the reason that GW had to spend so much money on that is all the security requirements
that go along with producing a Schedule I compound.
The greenhouses have to be completely secure.
The product facility has to be spotless and cameras everywhere.
Everyone has to be monitored at all times.
If you come out to our farm, it's a field full of plants, and we don't have any of that
stuff except for a time-lapse camera because we just like watching what happens to the
plants over the season.
It's a totally different environment.
A lot of the other farmers that are doing this have scaled in a similar way.
Like I was mentioning before, you can't provide CBD to all the arthritic horses in greenhouses.
It's just not going to work.
I think that's a really good point you made because the idea  the way that GW is doing
it with all of the fences and the security and the cameras and all this stuff, it's
an assumption that it's still a prohibitive or criminal drug that people are going to
be  wild drug-crazed people are going to be trying to break in to steal all of this
stuff that won't get them high at all.
Yeah.
Yeah, it still might be cannabis, and yeah, the taboo might still be out there, but people
do not routinely steal CBD because they're patients and they're generally too sick to
steal anything.
Yeah.
Again, this goes back to that tripartite division when you've got folks that are developing
pharmaceutical products, you have people that are developing recreational products, and
you have people who are just doing things a little bit differently on the economic side.
I think there is always going to be a market for the types of products that these cannabinoid
pharmaceutical research companies are putting together, and I think that it's really important
for us to not necessarily support a company that got to their spot and their market position
via a natural monopoly in another country before Americans could actually do the research
on it, but I think it's also important to see the benefits that have come out of that
research because, I mean, as a plant breeder, I read the work that GW Pharmaceutical Breeders
wrote.
They published these articles in peer-reviewed journals about how to attain different types
of cannabinoids in plants, and after that, it just became an analytical and a sifting
process for us to find those things.
So, they're doing good things, but when you turn it into a monopoly and you try to control
access to something that is already proliferating throughout the country, that's when I start
to have issues and question the motives.
Oh, well, that's an awesome transition to our last topic, which is I, too, read the
GW Pharma papers because I wanted to find out what was in Sativex, and when it comes
right down to it, it's essentially roughly 2.5 milligrams of THC and 2.5 milligrams of
CBD in an oral spray that you're supposed to take as needed up to five times a day.
That's so easy to reverse engineer into an alcohol tincture, and then, boom, you've got
whole plant Sativex that you made at home.
One thing for sure, the gray market will be providing CBD to neighbors and family and
loved ones probably forever now that CBD genetics are all over the country.
Do you think there's any model that would quell people from growing and sharing their
own CBD with sick friends now that the genetics are everywhere?
The only thing that would make sense is if you can walk into a store and buy the product
and you don't have to grow it, prepare it, and basically compound the substance to give to
your friends and family.
If you walk into most stores at this point, those products are already on the shelf when
it comes to CBD.
And I guess the challenge, of course, is the model that you and I were just discussing
where CBD goes schedule two and is solely in the hands of pharmaceutical companies.
That would theoretically put pressure on the states to remove CBD from their licensing
structure, which I don't know how that would work.
But the idea is that you just can't limit availability of CBD because if you put any
restriction on it, the people will work around it because their health is way more important
to people than following the law.
100% accurate.
I'm looking at this move by GW Pharmaceuticals and reaching out to the farmers that we work
with here in Oregon and saying, if they're going to go forward with this, and this is
something to keep in mind as well with just the way that the laws are written, as I mentioned,
the states actually do have a little bit of control over drugs.
It's not just the FDA.
So if you're manufacturing a product in your state and that product does not leave your
state, it's sold within the boundaries and under the legal framework of your state, the
FDA can't do anything to step in and say, hey, you can't do that unless you're making
medical claims.
So in the case of CBD and say, children with Dravet syndrome, we could just give it away.
Which, I mean, from a perspective of seeing cannabis culture change now that it's been
permeated by legalization and the forces that come along with modern late stage capitalism,
to me, that's a beautiful contribution to kind of keep in line with what the people
who kept cannabis alive during the prohibition would want to have happen.
So I honestly, I think companies like GW need to be very careful with their approach because
people have the ability to undermine what they're trying to do.
Monopolization doesn't work.
I don't think people have been saying, free the plant for all these decades, free the
plant for pharmaceutical companies.
They wanted it back in the hands of the citizens.
Amen.
Yeah, I agree with that.
And at the same time, I also, I'm going to hammer it home one more time.
The research that they're doing is stuff that, you know, I have a PhD and I know how
science works.
I can't do what these big companies are doing.
They're doing some really incredible work and they should be able to get that product
in the hands of people who could benefit from it.
And they deserve to make some money off of it.
But total control of the marketplace is not something that should ever be ceded to any
individual or corporation.
Right on.
Well, Seth, thank you so much for taking the time to be on this show.
It's really nice to talk to somebody who's got a command of the economics of the CBD
market like you do because so much of the talk around CBD is just myth and rumor and
people are playing the telephone game with facts.
So to be able to come and talk to somebody like you who has done doctoral research in
this and is essentially an uber nerd is very refreshing.
So thank you so much for your time.
Thank you so much for having me.
You can find out more about Seth Crawford at OregonCBDCeeds.com.
You can find more episodes of the Shaping Fire podcast and subscribe to the show at
ShapingFire.com and on Apple iTunes, Stitcher, and Google Play.
If you enjoyed the show, we'd really appreciate it if you'd leave a positive review of the
podcast wherever you download.
Your review will help others find the show so they can enjoy it too.
On the Shaping Fire website, you can also subscribe to the weekly newsletter for insights
into the latest cannabis news and product reviews.
On the Shaping Fire website, you will also find transcripts of today's podcast as well.
For information on me and where I'll be speaking, you can check out ShangoLose.com.
Does your company want to reach our national audience of cannabis enthusiasts?
Email hotspot at shapingfire.com to find out how.
Thanks for listening to Shaping Fire.
I've been your host, Shango Lose.
