The more I learn about cannabis plants, the more I understand the complexities of designing
cannabis gardens.
One of the first things I had to rid myself of was the belief that everything I already
had learned was correct.
True learning in any field necessitates that I remain willing to adapt my understanding
when presented with new information.
No doubt, this is a challenge we see on cannabis forums and social media threads all the time.
Folks argue vigorously and even get angry defending what their mentor taught them even
though there isn't any reproducible support for their belief.
Similarly, I often think that I know what I'm talking about only to find out I do not.
On Shaping Fire, I'm very careful with the kind of information I spread because I know
folks trust me to not repeat bullshit.
Today is an episode that makes this most clear to me.
I thought I was building an interview about why banker and trap plants were so important
to the garden and which ones to choose.
Well, I was wrong.
If you want to learn about cannabis health, business, and technique efficiently and with
good cheer, I encourage you to subscribe to our newsletter.
We'll send you new podcast episodes as they come out, delivered right to your inbox, along
with commentary and a couple of the most important news items from the week and videos too.
Don't rely on social media to let you know when a new episode is published.
Sign up for the updates to make sure you don't miss an episode.
Also, we're giving away very cool prizes to folks who are signed up to receive the newsletter.
There's nothing else you need to do to win except receive that newsletter.
This month, regenerative farming nutrient company EverFlux is giving away their full
line of products to one lucky subscriber to the newsletter.
You'll receive a full-sized bottle of their BioFlux fermented plant booster, their bamboo
wood vinegar bio-stimulant, and a big ol' bucket of TeraFlux, their infused biochar
blend.
You'll get all three.
Make sure to listen to their commercial during the first break to learn more.
And go to shapingfire.com to sign up for the newsletter and be entered into this month's
and all future newsletter prize drawings.
You are listening to Shaping Fire and I'm your host, Shango Lose.
Today my guest is entomologist Suzanne Wainwright-Evans, also known as the Bug Lady.
Suzanne graduated from the University of Florida with degrees in both entomology and environmental
horticulture and has been working in horticulture for more than 28 years and in cannabis since
normalization began.
Her focus has been on biological control and using pesticides properly.
She has worked throughout the United States and internationally consulting to greenhouses,
nurseries, theme parks, and gardens.
She is, without a doubt, the preeminent cannabis pest expert in the United States and is a
sought-after speaker for cannabis events everywhere.
While I thought today was going to be a guide to the best plants to use and why trap and
banker plants were so essential, instead we're going to learn about trap and banker plants
in depth while also realizing how hard they are to use, the complexities and challenges
of using them in the cannabis garden, why the plants suggested so often on forums don't
actually work in real life, and finally some strategies for making banker and trap plants
work for you if you're willing to put in the effort.
Welcome to the show, Suzanne.
Oh, thanks for having me.
So thank you so much for being here.
So let's get right to it.
You know, a lot of people throw these terms banker plants and trap plants back and forth.
They use them synonymously in a lot of ways and then they kind of put them all under the
category of companion plants.
So what I want to do is tease these apart so we can really understand how to use these
more effectively in the garden.
So would you start by defining what banker plants are and what trap plants are and how
they're different?
So basically the idea of banker plants is a food source for your beneficials, an alternate
food source than what you want them to feed on in the crop.
One of the most popular, popularly used ones right now in ornamental production is the
aphid banker plant system.
And the idea is that if you release these tiny parasitoid wasps, which kill aphids,
if you just release them and you don't have many aphids in your greenhouse, they're all
going to die because they can't, they don't really have a food source and have a place
to lay their eggs.
So what you do is you provide this plant and on the banker plant you're actually providing
a different aphid species.
So it's kind of a complex system that you have the plant and you have a pest insect
on the plants.
But what's crucial is is that you have to make sure that those pest insects in this
situation, these aphids don't move onto your primary crop.
So it's kind of a way to maintain a population of your beneficials without actually having
the pest in your crop at the time.
So we're able to use like an aphid banker plant system.
And then we also have one for aureus, which is the minute pirate bug.
We're able to use that to build populations of beneficials in the greenhouse before the
pests arrive.
So you already have this standing army of beneficials ready to go.
So they can provide food that your crop necessarily can't provide.
Because when you look again at aureus, the minute pirate bug, it needs pollen in its
diet and most crops do not have readily available pollen or the right kind of pollen.
And so by providing the pepper plants, we're providing a pollen source that aureus really
love so that they can reproduce successfully.
The flip side of that are trap crops.
And they do kind of exactly what they say is they trap your pest.
There's actually been some really good research done on this.
And unfortunately in some situations it's not been very successful.
But the idea is to plant a crop that is tastier than the plants you're actually growing.
And to try to draw the pest out of the crop you're growing into the trap crop.
Some people will then either bag these plants and remove them.
Other people treat them with a pesticide so that when the pests feed on them, they die.
Again, there's been work trying this.
One of the more famous studies was done up in Canada and they were looking at poinsettias
and eggplants for whitefly management.
But unfortunately the whiteflies were just way too happy on the poinsettias and they
wouldn't leave to go to the eggplant even though eggplant's a really good host for whitefly
also.
So it's not that common as seeing the trap crops as banker plants because the thing you
also have to be careful of is if you put out these plants and you're growing let's say
all these eggplants to try to pull whitefly, if you don't take care of those trap crops
it basically can turn into a pest breeding system.
And I see that happen a lot with banker plant systems too.
People forget about them, people ignore them.
And then like on the banker plant systems, the pepper plants then become breeding grounds
for aphids and thrips.
So these are programs that you have to stay on top of.
You can't just plant them and walk away because you do have to treat these plants for pest
crops, I mean for pest insects and mites.
I'll throw in there also, there's also insectary plants.
Those are plants we use that provide pretty much pollen and nectar for beneficials.
That's a term that's used a bit more outdoors when you plant plants around like, well alyssum
is one that's used, calendula, things like that that provide pollen and nectar for the
beneficials.
Let's dig into the banker plants first because you caught me off guard.
I actually never realized that folks who have got a good program are actually, I don't
know, pre-charging their banker plants with an associated species.
For example, like your example, an aphid, but not an aphid that necessarily prefers
cannabis plants.
So they are creating a food source for, in this case, the wasps, but the species of aphid
that they are setting up on those banker plants are actually not one that is harmful to cannabis.
Do I understand that correctly?
Yes.
So on that particular system, we generally use barley.
Some people use oats, but basically it needs to be a type of grass.
Again, there's been studies done looking at what works the best and barley produces
the most aphids on it.
And it's the bird cherry oat aphid is the species we use.
And it's a feeder on monocots.
So it won't move to dioecious plants.
It will stay on grasses.
So if you are a grass grower, you would not use this system.
But if you are growing not grasses, there could always be one weird example, but generally
you're okay.
So again, if you grow in Dracaenas, no, we don't use this in those.
And also there can be some issues with some lilies, but so far as to date, we have not
seen the bird cherry oat aphid actually on cannabis.
And so that way you're rearing these aphids and this particular system only works with
aphidius colmani.
There are several different aphid parasitoids, but this particular system is for colmani,
which the colmani will parasitize things like cotton melon aphid.
And it does also parasitize the cannabis aphid.
Is it the magic silver bullet for cannabis aphid?
No, but it definitely is part of the management program for it.
Yeah.
And overall integrated pest management in the truest sense.
Yes.
Yes.
I find it interesting that banker plants actually have got two very distinct roles that not
only can they be pre-charged with an associated non-pest that can feed your beneficials, because
I think all of us who have used beneficials in the past have run into the problem that
when the beneficials do their job and suddenly the pest numbers are down, suddenly there's
no food source for them and they either die or wander away.
But then also secondarily, since the banker plant is of a type that the pest also likes,
the pests are hopefully moving over to the banker plants as well.
So not only are you providing a secondary food source for them so they stay alive, your
beneficials stay alive, but also it creates a secondary environment that's not your cannabis.
Yeah, but I don't think it's ever really with the barley, it's not really going to pull
any of your pests from your cannabis.
Now on the pepper banker plant systems, because anybody that's ever grown peppers know the
Western flower thrips love them, onion thrips can get on them, spider mites can get it
on them, several aphid species can get on them.
I mean peppers could possibly function in a way as a trap crop, but, and it was funny,
I was just talking to another researcher about this the other day, oftentimes when an insect
is raised on one plant, it's very difficult to transfer it to an alternate host.
Even though we know it feeds on it, it tends to want to stay on the same plant species
that it grew up on, and often it's prodigy too.
So again, this is why, you know, trap crops not completely sold on it for key pests we're
dealing with, I would say in cannabis and ornamentals.
I'm not talking about agriculture or other settings, but it's something that you really
would have to really work on, and generally again, it's too much work for most people
to deal with.
Yeah, well the research alone to make sure that you're fine tuning your alternative pest
and also, you know, pre-charging them, I mean this is certainly at a commercial scale.
You know, the commercial folks who are listening and they're probably getting a lot of value
out of that, but that's way beyond what a state medical grower or a personal grower
are probably going to use.
So are you saying that if our pests are growing up on cannabis and they have grown up eating
it, and so therefore they like it, that in most cases, using a trap plant that we perceive
is going to be tastier than cannabis might not actually be an effective, that folks in
cannabis are using these trap plants, but it's really not a solution?
It's more of an ornamental solution than a cannabis solution?
Well until the research is done, and we know for sure, it's hard to have an answer.
And also, let's take for example bean plants.
Bean plants are one that we started doing some stuff with actually in roses outside,
and because spider mites love bean plants.
If you want to raise spider mites, like I'll raise them sometimes here at the house, you
know, I'll raise them on bean plants.
That's one of their favorite food sources.
When we were using them in roses, it's like, okay, as soon as we see spider mites on the
bean plants outside, we know they're coming on the roses.
So then is when we would start our predatory mite program.
Interestingly enough, we found out that it turned out to be a better indicator plant,
and that's really what an indicator plant lets you know when a pest is in an area because
it indicates to you that it actually worked out better for flea beetles, because the flea
beetles would actually hit the beans before they would move into the roses.
So it actually, we learned something from that situation.
I sometimes wonder, you know, if we have these bean plants out, how do we know that's just
not a separate population breeding on the beans than what's actually breeding on the
roses and are those two spot spider mites in the beans going to move into the roses?
And we don't know until there's study done with a control.
It's hard to know.
But again, the number one problem I see over and over and over again is someone forgets
about the bean plants, they get busy doing other things, and then next you know you have
bean plants covered in webbing and they're infested with spider mites.
A little late.
It's a little...
Your indicator was probably 10 days ago.
Yes, yes.
And again, I see that happen.
And the other thing, and I just had a situation with this in Maine where somebody contacted
me freaking out because they had aphids all over their foliage.
And it turns out that they were using a cover crop.
And this happens all the time in cannabis.
They're using cover crops indoors.
And the cover crops turns into just a breeding ground for all kinds of insects.
And aphids often will, you know, if they're not happy or their populations get high, they'll
pick up and leave and they'll start walking up the cannabis plants.
So in that situation, the aphids weren't doing any damage to the cannabis.
They were just out looking for a new host coming off the cover crop, which some people
are using air quote cover crops as either banker plants or insectary plants, but they're
not paying attention to what other potential pests they could get.
So as far as indicator plants go, I understand that there's a lot of specificity from one
pest to another, but are we lucky enough in cannabis that there happens to be an indicator
plant species that is similar to cannabis, perhaps that's a little maybe sweeter or tastier
for these plants that we may be able to plant alongside our cannabis that would draw the
pests first and we could keep an eye on those before they hit the cannabis?
Well, it depends on what pests.
And you know, if you look at right now, what our major pests, the stuff that I get contacted
about every single day, you know, cannabis aphid, hemp russet mite, root aphid, those,
they're cannabis specific.
They don't live on alternate hosts at all.
Now I have been contacted a lot this year about thrips.
Now thrips, because again, a lot of what I'm finding are onion thrips, which I will consider
a generalist.
You know, I hate when they say the name onion thrips because everybody assumes, oh, it's
just a pest of onions, but that's not necessarily true because there are a problem in ornamentals.
There was just a survey done in Canada and something like a quarter of all thrips found
in the Niagara region were onion thrips over Western flower.
So they're definitely around.
But you know, again, are they going to want to be in a ornamental pepper over the cannabis?
Don't really know.
Also, remember the immature insects cannot fly.
So all you can do is pull adults.
You can't pull eggs.
You can't pull immature.
Mites can't fly.
So you really can't pull mites either.
So really, again, this could only be for flying adults and it's possibly, you know, they've
already on your crop laid lots of eggs.
I just see growers trying to do a lot of this stuff and I don't want to say they get
in over their head, but we don't have enough specifics yet and enough research yet to support
a lot of that.
And growers have to stay focused on maintaining these plants, which tends not to happen.
Again, I was at a facility out on the West Coast earlier this year and they're like,
yeah, we have banker plants.
You know, the peppers, they're sitting around.
I'm like, well, are you putting aureus on them?
And they're like, no.
And I'm like, then get rid of them.
You know, because again, they're just a breeding ground for broad mite, western flower thrips,
onion thrips, spider mites, you know, aphids, you know, just get rid of it if you're not
going to do the program.
Let's double back to the interesting comment you made about cover crops indoors.
Because of course, polyculture is becoming increasingly popular, both outdoor cannabis
growing and now indoor.
And there are some great examples of it because of course, you know, having these other species
of plants, not having the monocrop is really great for the rhizosphere and for, you know,
the plants to be able to communicate and share nutrition and all this great kind of stuff.
But you're suggesting that these indoor cover crops are also a potential threat.
Will you speak to that a little bit more?
Yeah, well, I'm going to say this, and I've said this a million times, you know, when
growing indoors is not like growing outside.
And outside when you do cover crops, you know, you've got the natural ecology, the natural
soil-ish, I'm giving you air quotes on that natural soil because we all know soil's been
altered too much.
You also have thousands of insects and mites that can move in naturally and help keep things
a little more in check.
When you enclose yourself into an indoor grow that's sealed up, it is nothing like outdoors.
You don't have rain which washes pests and bugs off of plants.
You don't have, again, parasitoids just flying in.
You don't have all these different beneficials showing up.
And basically, you put up a giant wall against beneficials getting in.
And so when pests get in, that's why they go really crazy indoors because there's nothing
really to control them.
And that's, again, kind of the issue inside is because a lot of these cover crops have
complex pest systems and people don't think about managing pests on them.
So now essentially you've got two crops.
You've got your cannabis and you've got your cover crop.
You have to research what pests and diseases those are going to get and you have to treat
those for the pests and the diseases now.
Yeah, that's frustrating too.
I mean, because most of the folks who are going to be running an indoor polyculture
environment, they are probably also of the mindset that they are going to be using beneficial
insects.
And so that's great on its face.
But listening to you describe all of the different variables that help us when we are growing
outdoors, reproducing those indoors becomes less and less likely based on time, resources,
and just the difficulty in trying to, for example, bring in the variety of beneficial
insects that we're able to get outside.
So clearly you're not a big fan of cover cropping or probably more accurately green mulching
indoors.
But let's turn that on its head for a second.
If somebody were to going to polyculture indoors, even if it's a thin sliced window, what do
you think would be the best way for them to go about it?
If 95% of people who are going to do it are going to do it wrong, is there a 5% best practice
that you would recommend for people who are dead set on doing polyculture indoors and
what would be your best advice for them?
Well, first of all, and this is the thing that I bang my head on the wall kind of thing,
because again, I get contacted by numerous growers every single day and a lot of the
polyculture living soil people freak out when they find bugs.
And the thing is, is if you're trying to recreate indoor ecology, you're going to have bugs
in there.
And remember, you know, less than 1% of insects are really a problem of economic, you know,
because their economic importance where they're going to damage the plants.
But people want to do this stuff inside, but want to see no insects at all.
But a lot of the insects that I am getting images of are just absolutely benign things
that, you know, detritivores or, you know, maybe specific to feeding on the cover crop.
But if you wanted to do it, the first thing I would do is I would pick your plant, I would
research that plant and look, is it a host for spider mites?
Is it a host for cotton melon aphid?
Is it a host for onion thrips?
And I would look to make sure that not, can it just feed on it occasionally, but is it
a major problem?
I mean, I'm going to pick the worst possible cover crop ever, soybeans.
Because soybeans are beans, you know, we were talking about before, and they're great for
breeding spider mites.
Right there, soybeans would be off your list.
I'm also pretty anti-marigold, because when we grow marigolds in greenhouses, they get
every pest problem known to man.
They get spider mites, they get thrips issues, they have a lot of disease issues.
People like to hold marigolds in this, you know, holy vessel of this is this amazing
plant.
This is true, you're so right.
But the problem is people don't understand genetics.
They don't understand breeding.
A lot of, you know, old stuff that refers to marigolds are actually pot marigolds, which
are calendula, which are not today's marigolds.
And today's marigolds, and this is a whole other rabbit hole discussion, these plants
that you get today and the seeds you get today have been bred for human characteristics.
What do we want?
We want them this height, we want them this color, we want the big showy petals.
They've not been bred for feeding beneficials, for feeding pollinators and things like that.
And we've bred a lot of the characteristics out of these plants that insects need.
You look at a marigold and how tightly petaled it is.
How is a beneficial supposed to get down in there to get pollen and nectar?
If you look at some of the older, simpler marigolds that are more single petaled, you
know, you have easier access there.
Same thing when you look at roses, the older rose varieties that open up, the bees and
beneficials can get in there to the pollen and nectar.
These new, really tight, bald, fancy roses, they can't have access to it.
And in some plant species, they've actually bred to the point there's basically no pollen
or it's useless pollen in the plant.
So you have to be really careful about looking at these plants and understand just saying
marigold.
Marigold's like saying almost automobile.
It's a generic term.
It can encompass multiple, you know, again, it could be calendula.
It could be different things.
So it's too broad of a term.
So you know, I know a lot of people look at clover and then of course I get the messages
they're freaking out.
They got thrips.
Clover mites.
Oh, clover mites.
Yes.
And they're very visible.
But again, thrips is secondary.
Now the question is, is what thrips do they have on the clover and will it feed on cannabis?
And this is where it gets into identification.
And you can't just use a hand lens normally to identify thrips species.
To tell the difference between like Western flower and onion, I mean, you pretty much
have to have super high magnification or put them under microscope, which is high magnification.
I know a few of them like, you know, echinothrips.
That's easier to identify, but that's super high magnification.
But you know, you can't just stand there and say this is that without, again, you got to
get in there and look at their little hairs basically on their bodies to tell them apart.
And this is why it's complicated.
And what frustrates me when I go to a lot of these meetings is people just oversimplify
it.
They're like, Oh, just plant this cover crop and you'll never have any pest issues.
If it worked that way, why do I have all these growers contacting me every single day?
So I'm going to go right down that.
I'm going to put salt in that wound, Suzanne.
So certainly people who are commercial growers who are listening, you know, and they've got
a dedicated IPM person and they are, you know, hopefully have got the time to do the kind
of research that we've been calling for so far so that a proper program can be developed
for their bio region and particularly their types of, you know, environment and plants,
whether indoor, outdoor or greenhouse.
But the vast majority of people who are listening today are not commercial growers.
You know, they've got somewhere between, you know, four and 40 plants in their yard and
they don't necessarily have the time and access to resources to do an entire program.
With the touring that you have done so far, and I know that I'm talking about an entire
country, but bear with me.
Have you come across any plants that you think are, you know, pretty good surefire plants
to plant alongside your cannabis that are going to provide either some banker or trap
benefits so that people who, the same people who are just like, Oh, I heard that marigolds
are good around my cannabis plants.
So they, so they grew marigolds.
Right.
And we now know that's not appropriate, but, but even though we know that done properly,
this is a bigger question before we go to commercial.
Is there, are there any like varieties that you think are generally going to help?
And if you're going to plant anything without doing your proper homework, you should go
with these.
Well, you know, you should ask me what I do in my yard because, you know, even though
I don't grow cannabis here, you know, I grow tomatoes and I ring all my tomato plants with
alyssum, all of them because we know, and there's been good research looking at this.
Alyssum is a really good, a pollen nectar source for Oreus, the minute pyre bug, which
loves thrips, which will feed on spider mites and loves cannabis plants.
Whenever I scout cannabis outdoors, whether it be New York state or California or Oregon,
Washington, I always find Oreus in cannabis.
So we know it loves that crop.
And again, it needs pollen and nectar and your cannabis isn't going to have pollen and
nectar.
Tomatoes early on don't have pollen and nectar, but I put the alyssum around them and then
that will feed them.
And commercial growers actually grow pots of alyssum early in the season.
And then they sprinkle Oreus on there and they build the Oreus population up on them
so that when the thrips come in the spring, they have a whole army of Oreus there for
you.
I will tell you, Oreus though, needs at least 12 hours of sunlight or it will, you know,
go into what they call diapause, which is basically, you know, insect hibernation.
And you know, in the Southern regions, we don't worry about that too much, but up North
in greenhouses, when we start the alyssum early, we just put them under, you know, if
you don't have artificial lighting, we just put them under artificial lighting to make
sure they get 12 hours of light first.
But for the homeowner, the smaller grow, you know, you can buy alyssum from seed and you
can just start it.
I would not recommend buying finished plants in because you do not know what they've been
treated with.
You don't know if they've been treated with an insecticide.
You don't know if they've been treated with a PGR or anything.
So it's better off to grow them yourself just to make sure.
But I think alyssum is one that we have a really good track record in ornamentals and
vegetable width that we're seeing it slowly being adopted into cannabis.
And it's got a good track record of being a good banker plant as well as a nectar and
pollen resource plant.
Fabulous.
So we're going to go ahead and take our first short break and be right back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire and my guest today is entomologist Suzanne Wainwright-Evans,
the bug lady.
For years, organic cultivators have been looking for a replacement for using peat moss.
Peat moss has long been the go-to soil amendment for water retention and container growing,
but organic growers know that peat moss is an unsustainable resource and the mining of
peat bogs destroys habitat and releases sequestered carbon.
But peat moss works so well that many have continued to use it.
But now there's finally a revolutionary replacement for peat moss that shares the same benefits
while also being sustainable.
Pit moss sounds and acts like peat moss, but instead of being mined from fragile ecosystems,
it actually is made from upcycled organic paper and tree bark.
Pit moss is excellent at retaining water in your substrate and creating air pockets and
tiny living environments for microbes.
Pit moss instantly increases aeration, nutrient absorption, and water conservation too.
Carefully and locally sourced, pit moss is the result of decades-long research into the
use of recycled paper fibers.
Pit moss has the fluffy nature of peat moss and handles exactly the same.
And like peat moss, pit moss is inert, so it won't change your pH.
Pit moss is available in a range of preparations including a nutrient enhanced blend, a coco-coir
blend, and also as an organic soil conditioner with no added nutrients.
Pit moss is also available as an animal bedding.
So go to pitmoss.com now to learn more.
That's P-I-T-T-M-O-S-S dot com.
Growing healthier, more sustainable plants.
Pit moss.
For many, transitioning to organic gardening can be overwhelming.
There's so much to learn about soil biology and fermentation.
BioFlux, fermented plant boost from EverFlux, simplifies organic farming so you can start
growing organically today.
Invented by a California farmer growing organic for 40 years, BioFlux is a fermented natural
farming preparation for those who want a natural micro-booster without having to brew their
own.
This extraordinary chemical-free growth and terpene enhancer improves root development,
accelerates the conversion of organic matter into humus, increases nutrient use efficiency
and uptake, and increases beneficial microbe activity.
In addition to the BioFlux fermented plant booster, EverFlux also makes an activated
biochar called TeroFlux that is infused with the BioFlux plant booster.
Imagine combining the buffering and rhizosphere enhancing qualities of biochar infused with
a range of earthworm castings, insect frass, kelp and crab meal, oyster shell, and other
ingredients.
I'm using TeroFlux infused biochar this summer myself and it smells alive, rich, and
potent.
These products have been scientifically proven to match yields and increase flower quality
and pest resistance when compared to traditional NPK inputs.
If you are looking for reliable organic fertilizers that will free you up to focus on other aspects
of your garden, consider using the range of all-natural regenerative fertilizers and natural
bio-stimulants from EverFlux.
Find out more at everfluxtechnologies.com or by following their Instagram at everflux.
While I love growing under the sun, there's a lot of good reasons to grow indoors.
And if you're like most folks, you want a lighting source that grows high-yielding,
healthy plants without using excessive amounts of electricity.
Bios lighting creates biological lighting solutions that brings the natural brilliance
of the outdoors into your grow room.
Bios lighting has the attributes that I look for in a horticultural lighting solution.
I've bought those cheap lights online and they're difficult to work with and fail
in no time.
In contrast, my bios LED light is industrial grade to last a long time.
It is IP66 wet rated so little foliar overspray won't harm it.
It is easy to clean without taking it down and of course, the most important aspect,
it is built for the exact light spectrum I want for great-yielding, healthy cannabis
plants.
I've heard that their lighting rigs look badass too.
Many horticultural LED lighting systems are based on irrelevant performance metrics and
people love to argue online about these numbers.
I prefer to judge on PAR photon efficiency and how happy my plants are and the bios lights
exceed my expectations in these categories.
Bios lights have an optimized broad spectrum that maximizes photosynthesis and plant growth
while also providing the ideal conditions for superior PAR efficacy and a comfortable
visual experience.
I also love their attentive and over-educated customer service folks.
Bios starts with a team of biologists before getting the electrical engineers involved.
They have studied how light impacts cannabis plants and devised an overall strategy that
works.
I encourage you to check out their website at bioslighting.com to learn more about how
this strategy can work for you.
And Shaping Fire listeners can get a special deal.
Use the discount code SHAPINGFIRE, all one word, no caps, for 10% off your entire purchase.
That's bioslighting.com.
Welcome back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire.
I'm your host, Shango Lose.
And our guest this week is entomologist, Suzanne Wainwright-Evans, the bug lady.
So Suzanne, we were talking in the last set about how folks want to be polyculture and
organic and regenerative.
And when they try to do that indoors, often they've got a head space that they also want
sterility, right?
And one of the things that we know from trying to do regenerative agriculture outdoors is
that sterility is not really our goal outdoors because we are trying to create an entire
ecosystem back and forth with the ecosystem around us.
We're trying to blend with the ecosystem and not stay separate so that the natural benefits
of the outdoor environment can be supportive of our cannabis garden as well.
Indoors, of course, we are not getting the benefits of being couched in a regular organic
environment.
And so indoor folks, they try to walk this line between we need to keep the grow clean
and air quote sterile so that we don't run into any disease or pest pressure.
But at the same time, doing that is not going to be very effective for trying to replicate
an ecosystem.
What kind of advice do you give folks who are trying to walk that line?
I think it's a very difficult line to walk.
And again, there's this mindset of you can reproduce outdoors, indoors.
I just I don't think it's completely possible.
You can be sustainable, but you also then understand that you are running at higher
risk of pest and disease by doing that.
I know that's not what you want to hear, but that's especially over the last few years,
working with more regenerative growers is what I see over and over again.
If you're going to not change out your soil, for example, and you're pumping in all these
fungi and bacteria and top dressing with compost, mites and insects are going to find their
way in because decomposers are going to want to live in that soil.
And you're going to have a lot of that kind of stuff living in the soil.
And just again today, I was contacted by somebody else that, oh, my gosh, there's all these
mites in my soil.
How do I kill them?
Well, they're most likely just either detritivores or they're feeding on fungus or some kind
of soil decomposer kind of thing.
And they're not hurting anything, but they can get to such high numbers that you literally
can scrape them off the edge of the beds with credit cards because they get so heavy.
And people don't want to see that.
But if you're going to grow in these kinds of systems, that's the kind of stuff you're
going to have to deal with.
And that's just the trade off.
And you're going to have to expect to see, you're going to have a lot more springtails.
You're going to have a lot more, again, of these decomposing kind of insects and mites
in those systems.
The question I get all the time is, do they damage the plants?
And honestly, we don't know.
And things like springtails, which are Calimbola, we honestly, they haven't been studied as
extensively and there are numerous species of Calimbola.
So if someone just contacts me and said they have springtails, super high numbers, are
they going to cause damage to my crop?
Honestly, I don't know because we don't know what species it is.
And does that species actually cause damage?
Because in Europe, they do have problems in like antherium production with springtails
damaging the roots on antherium crops.
And they're busy trying to kill them.
Where oftentimes over here in the US, it's seen as a sign of soil health.
Again, I think this comes down to different species and the different environments and
what's going on.
So you can't just make a broad blanket statement that they're good or bad.
But the reality is, is if you have a high organic matter soil, you're going to end
up with a lot of them and you're just going to have to learn to live with them.
And it brings us back to your gospel, which is identification is everything.
And it's interesting.
I tour quite a few regenerative cannabis gardens and how few of them I also see people having
a microscope nearby.
And what I continually tell people is, it's one thing when you are going to do kind of
like a non-regenerative synthetic grow when your best practice is kind of like kill everything.
And you're just kind of like carpet bombing your grow with the things.
But in a regenerative grow, when you're like, okay, we only really want to get rid of the
1% of the pests that may actually be a threat.
The only way you're going to do that is if you get educated on identifying these pests
and have a microscope, which honestly you should probably have to be making sure that
your compost is active anyway.
And I can imagine that you are busy giving lessons to people when you tour their grows
that says, you need a bench over here with a microscope.
Well, I generally, I find that most growers don't know how to use microscopes.
And if they have microscopes, they don't take care of them, which is painful to me.
They don't keep the covers on them because speaking from someone that had to have their
microscope recently, one of my microscopes recently serviced, see it's a microscope clean.
It's $300.
Put a cover on it to keep the dust out of it.
Cause yes, there's dust in grows.
That's why I really push people to the dynolites because it's sealed.
You don't have to worry about stuff getting in there.
They're easy to use.
You can take pictures because when you say microscope, microscopes are meant to be used
with slides and a lot of the insects, growers aren't going to slide mount insects.
It is a pain in the backside to do.
You got to put the special glue mount down.
I use like a little one hair bristle brush to get their legs in position and get the
slide cover on.
That's not going to happen.
Dissecting scopes are more, I think would be appropriate.
But remember a microscope or dissecting scope don't necessarily come with the camera.
So now you got to buy a camera and that's why a dynolite is so easy because it's essentially
a dissecting scope with a built-in camera.
And that way you can easily take pictures and send them because learning to use a microscope
is a whole thing in itself.
When I saw you present with the dynoscope at regenerative conference in Humboldt, I
was really blown away by it.
But I had the impression that it did not have the sensitivity for everything that I might
need in the garden.
And I was thinking, oh, might as well not get it because I'm still going to need a microscope
at some point anyway.
And what I'm hearing you say now is actually making me think, well, if I don't actually
need the microscope, if actually what I need is a dissection scope, that the tool that
you showed us, the dynoscope actually may be the one tool for all the gardeners needs.
Is that your experience?
Well, I don't want to say all the needs because...
Probably not for cutting, probably not for looking at compost tea.
Compost you need a microscope.
In fact, for insect stuff, the first thing I bought 20 years ago, well, first big fancy
thing I bought was a dissecting scope, not a microscope.
A dissecting scope, you can put a leaf under, you can cut a branch under because you can
put things with height on them.
A microscope, you can only put things with slides.
So you have bugs on a leaf, you don't put a leaf under a microscope.
You got to lift the bug off.
You got to put it on a slide.
You got to put a slide cover on and do all that.
A dissecting scope, you can just slap it under and look at it and away you go.
A dynalite basically functions as a dissecting scope with a built-in camera.
Now you can buy cameras for your microscope or your dissecting scope, but when you buy
your microscope or dissecting scope, you have to make sure it's a triocular system.
So you have one for each eye and then you have a third hole that you can mount a camera
on because it is ... I mean, the pictures people send me, and this is one of my grapes
too, if you want free ID, at least meet me halfway and send me decent pictures.
Stop putting your camera up to the eye hole on your microscope and trying to get an image
that's blurred around the edge and all that.
You can get a dynalite, the entry level one is like a hundred bucks.
I think the one that's $325 is a better place to be.
But you can even get a decent dissecting scope for like $300 these days.
We're not talking ... Yes, you can go spend as much as you want.
You can spend $10,000 on a microscope, but for most cannabis people, the ones from Celestron
makes a really nice dissecting scope and I really love the Celestron microscope.
I love that microscope.
If you're somebody that's going to spend 10 hours a day at a microscope counting cells
or things like that, yes, you need the $10,000 microscope because it will really reduce the
eye strain.
If you're just slapping something on there, looking for five minutes and then you're done,
you can use these three $400 microscopes and they work perfectly fine.
The one from Celestron, that microscope, I've had it now a year and I absolutely love it.
I have nothing negative to say.
It's a triocular one and you can mount a camera right on it.
One of the things that's great about the DynaScope 2 is that it's so compact that it's really
easy to safely pack in your gear and take with you either out into the field or if you're
doing the rounds over multiple commercial grows.
Most of us think about a microscope or a dissection scope.
It tends to be more ... You set it up and it stays and it lives in this one place, but
the DynaScope is really ... It's highly mobile.
For folks who are going to forget the name DynaScope, I'll go ahead ... Excuse me, Dynalite,
like I just did.
I'll go ahead and put a link on the page for the podcast episode at shapingfire.com.
Going back to the banker plants and the trap plants, Suzanne, a lot of people have a difference
of opinion of actually where you plant them with container gardening.
Some folks believe that you should be planting them below the cannabis plant in the same
pot so that they're close, whereas from what I'm gathering from what you've been saying
so far and how I like to do it is you actually put the plant in its own pot along the edges
of the growing area.
What do you find is the best practice?
I think having them in their own pots because if they get a pest problem and they're in
a pot, you just pick the pot up and chuck it out the door and it's gone.
The aphid banker plant systems, we replace those every two weeks.
It's a constant revolving door.
Alyssum, if it gets too hot, it can stop blooming.
Now you've got all this greenery in your pot.
Absolutely, do them in separate pots.
They have different watering requirements.
They're not the same plant.
I would not plant them right in the pots.
I would have them in pots you can remove.
The other thing is let's say, okay, let's just pretend everything's going great.
You've got great aureus going in there with your alyssum, but oh my gosh, now we've got
hemp russet mite.
Well, you're going to have to come in and spray because I've said this before and I
know a lot of people hate me, but I do not think that any of the biocontrol agents are
really controlling hemp russet mite.
All our successes have been coming in and spraying with a good solid horticultural oil.
Now if you've got those banker plants and they're planted in your pots and you come
in and spray, they're going to get oil on the banker plants and possibly could either
damage the plant because I don't think alyssum really wants a coating of oil.
And also it could kill some of the insects.
If you're going to spray something like Bavaria or Izeria, whatever you're going to spray.
The banker plants, what we do, and this is what we do in ornamental systems, is we go
through, we just gather up all the banker plants, we take them away, we do our spray,
we wait a few days and then we bring the banker plants right back in.
Yeah.
So that way you want to keep them in their own pot so they're mobile.
You can remove them and you can bring them back and you can swap them out when you want.
And honestly, if you're going to be properly taking care of these plants, the food that
their rhizosphere wants or whatever, the soil requirements are likely going to be different
than what you want to be doing for your cannabis anyway.
Yes.
And I had one grower that he does the diet, again, this is ornamentals, but again, I've
had a bajillion years of experience in ornamentals and then what I've been doing is how can we
take that knowledge and apply it to cannabis?
But this one ornamental grower, he keeps lined along the wall of his greenhouse, mullein
plants with another beneficial insect called Dicyphus.
It likes thrips, white flies, and also a snack on spider mites.
And then when he has a pest issue, then he picks up a couple of pots of the mullein plants
and he goes and sets them and he just sisters them next to where the pest problem is and
leaves them there so that the Dicyphus then move into the crop, clean up the problem.
Then eventually he moves the mullein plants back together into their lineup along the
wall where the Dicyphus can just sit there and continually breed on the mullein.
So he uses them as like a hotspot treatment.
So again, another reason why to have them in pots.
Yeah, that's a really great best practice.
That's an awesome idea.
So when choosing them, I mean, certainly it sounds like the majority of the time we are
going to choose our plants based on the specificity of what our pest is and what our alternative
snacking pest will be for our beneficial insect.
And really that will kind of reverse engineer which plant we want to go with to sister with
the cannabis plants.
There is a secondary awareness that folks have about annuals and perennials because
some of these plants that people have a tendency to use, they've got shorter life cycles and
they really just want to plant it and forget it, right?
Which is part of the problem.
How do you explain to people or get them thinking in the right way about matching the life cycle
with of the plant, the banker or trap plant, with the life cycle of the cannabis?
And my suspicion is you're just going to say grow a whole ton of them in their own pots
and swap them in and out.
Yes.
Yeah.
You just answered your own question.
Right on.
As I was asking it, I'm like, I think she's already taught this today.
So that's essentially it.
This is not to say down the road somebody may find the magic bean that you can plant
under cannabis and it thrives and it has no pest issues.
But as of yet, we've not found anything like that.
And I think having them in separate pots and try to look for, again, where there has been
a little research done and not just anecdotal stuff because, you know, I mean, I know anecdotals
is oftentimes where research starts, but I'm just seeing a lot of people getting themselves
into trouble because remember, people generally don't call me when everything's hunky dory.
People contact me when there's a problem.
So I get to hear about what everybody's done to get to that point.
And I definitely see a pattern of, you know, cover crops and, you know, same soil with
multiple plants planted in it.
And pest numbers are just going to build in those situations.
Yeah.
There really is a fine area between, you know, citizen science and bro science.
You know, one of them you're actually testing things and the other one you're probably not.
It's just how you learned it from your friend or your mentor.
And, you know, we cannabis people, we've been on our own for a long time and we haven't
had access necessarily to legit entomologists.
So I think it's going to take a little more time for not only their research to come about
and to actually be done, but also for, you know, cannabis cultivators to realize that,
you know, there is useful information available outside of cannabis culture.
So I think you're going to hate this next question, Suzanne, but let's go for it anyway.
Because, you know, you are, you know, you are very clear that, you know, you have to
be aware of your bio region, right.
And that, you know, when you answer a question, it's going to be a different answer for California
versus Florida versus Maine.
And that all makes sense.
However, with the cultivators in the different parts of the country, each having their own
sorts of pests that they need to deal with.
How do you recommend like a mental methodology?
How do you suggest thinking through what trap plant or what pests the cultivator is going
to want to think?
Which ones do they want to prepare for is what I'm trying to say.
Like you want to prepare for the pests that you don't have yet.
But there is a wide range of pests that could be a problem with cannabis plants.
So what hints do you give to cultivators to kind of be prescient and look into the future
of what pests you want to prepare for?
Because these are the ones that you're most likely to get where you live.
Well, one of the things is that for the indoor grows, we're seeing a lot of the same stuff
because they're a bit excluded from the outdoor ecology.
It's when we have outdoor production or greenhouses where the sides roll up or a high
tunnel situation where we do have regional stuff.
But the one thing that has been very interesting to watch is basically how the cannabis
industry has managed to spread their pests throughout their own industry.
Because you look at the cannabis aphid, which was somewhat isolated to the West Coast and
now is everywhere on the East Coast.
And it's moved through people sharing plant material and cuts.
And the industry has done it to themselves.
They've completely shared hemp russet mite across all US and Canada.
They've totally shared, again, the cannabis aphid.
They've shared root aphid.
Because even though the root aphid species we're dealing with has other hosts, it's not
something you're going to walk out and find in your yard like a two spot spider mite.
You find those everywhere.
But, you know, these cannabis specific pests, I mean, everybody wants to blame the soil
company. You want to blame, you know, your neighbor.
But the reality is, is you brought in plants that were infected to begin with.
And so one of the things I, you know, where did your plants come from?
Look at your genetics. If you came from the West Coast, it's a good chance you brought
hemp russet or cannabis aphid right along with it.
Where if someone's on the East Coast and like, OK, we're growing from seed, then they're at
very low risk of having cannabis aphid or hemp russet mite.
So I don't think there needs to be necessarily preventative programs for them.
But again, you know, cuts from other production facilities, especially if they
originated West Coast, man, you better be prepared, especially for hemp russet mite.
And that's that's a problem.
So, I mean, when I think about a program, we we follow the genetics of the plants and
what's their history.
And then that gives me, you know, what kind of risk are we at?
And so that's the first place I start.
And then, you know, we look at what their history of pests have been.
You know, have you had probstitutes, spider mites?
Have you had, you know, history of, you know, aphids?
And if so, what species?
And, you know, we look through that to try to put a program together and then always,
you know, have such a good scouting program so that if there is a new pest issue that
pops up, it's detected early.
And then that way, then we can get in and decide the best treatment method, which
oftentimes when something newer is discovered, you know, it may be doing a
knockdown spray may be the best initial option.
Unfortunately, in most states, what's allowed on cannabis, the the stuff that's
approved for cannabis is are the very broad spectrum pesticides.
They're non-selective in the sense that it kills good and bad and, you know, just
kills everybody. So often we after we spray, we have to come in and then re-release all
the beneficials where you look at industries, again, ornamentals and vegetables.
And, you know, we can be releasing parasitic wasps and we can be releasing predatory
mites. But if we have a flare up of a two spot spider mite, we can come in and there's
this one chemistry. It only kills like five species of spider mites and we can spray it
over there. It doesn't it only kills the two spot spider mites and their eggs.
It doesn't kill the predatory mites.
It doesn't kill the parasitoids.
It doesn't kill anything else.
And so that's what makes cannabis growing hard, is that the few products you do have
are non-selective and they kill everything good, bad and indifferent.
And so that adds to the challenge there with with managing pests and putting programs
together. And honestly, a lot of these products that, you know, are not EPA registered,
you don't really know even what's in them.
Yeah. And then we've run into in the cannabis scene so many times that not everything
that's in the product is even on the label.
Nope. And that's why, you know, I'm pretty preachy about using EPA registered
pesticides. You know, and it was like, oh, my God, pesticides.
But soaps and oils are pesticide.
Pesticide only means it kills pests.
So a good horticultural oil can kill a pest, but it's very safe for humans to use.
It's interesting because you see some products that have the same active ingredients
and one's EPA registered and one may not be because sometimes people will still go
ahead and EPA, they'll go and register their products, even though it's not required
on some of these exempt products.
We keep on coming to this idea that either the research hasn't been done for cannabis
or the products have not been that work well, have not been, you know,
properly crossed over to cannabis.
So one way or another, cannabis is not on par with all of the work that's been done
in ornamentals due to its historical prohibition.
In your seat, you kind of are able to look both up and down the railway, right?
You're able to look at where the cultivators are and the problems that they are
experiencing. But you're also able to look upstream at the vendors who would, you know,
theoretically be selling these solutions to cultivators because they're the same folks
that are selling solutions in ornamental.
What are you seeing?
Are you seeing that these companies are like, oh my God, cannabis is going to be so
valuable. And so now they are all hardcore moving into research to cross apply these
these solutions and to come up with new products.
Or are they kind of sitting on their hands because they don't necessarily want to play
with cannabis folk?
Well, it's not that they don't want to play with cannabis folk.
When you just look at sheer acreage of cannabis in the United States, there's not much,
realistically. And whether it's a cannabis plant or it's a corn field, if you're going
to use traditional pesticides, it's generally going to be per acre the same amount of spray.
So if you develop products for corn, you're going to be using the same amount of spray
and if you develop products for corn, you're going to be able to sell an insane amount
of chemistry. If you're going to sell to, you know, cannabis, you're not there.
The market's in a way not there.
It's not worth their time because they're not going to get the money.
This is the exact same problem actually ornamentals have.
And realistically, ornamentals, when you look at pesticide usage overall, they use a very
small amount. And so really the products often we get in ornamentals are ones that
were developed for soybeans, corn, big ag. And then they're like, okay, can there be
an application in ornamentals for this? And then they see if they can make them fit.
Because again, overall, the ornamental market is still really not a big business as far as
big ag is concerned compared to, you know, again, corn, soybeans, or even just turf.
And so cannabis will probably sister right along with ornamentals and be considered a
specialty crop, kind of like cut herbs. And that basically in ornamentals, again, we just
kind of get the crumbs in a way. Now we still get good products, but you know, when we get
a new pest, like right now in Florida, we're dealing with this hibiscus bud weevil.
Is any chemical company going to take the time to develop a chemistry that's going to take 10
years? It's going to cost millions and millions of dollars to treat for that pest. Absolutely not,
because they'll never get the return on it. And it's the same thing in cannabis. It's,
I don't think it has nothing to do with the fact it's cannabis. It has to do with sheer acreage.
Now, if outdoor hemp ever gets to the levels being grown that like corn, soybeans, wheat,
you know, and all that's being grown at, well, then there'll definitely be products for that
market. And then it will probably be looked at to say, okay, can we get a specialty label for...
Yeah, it'll trickle down to THC products.
Yes. That's exactly what will happen. And, you know, I see mixed growers out there too,
because there's some growers that will just never use a synthetic pesticide on cannabis.
You know, that's just, and that's fine. You know, that's, I'm not judging anybody. There are other
people that are like, oh my God, I can't wait till we have registered pesticides to make this
growing a lot easier. I mean, you know, you have people all the way across the board and some
people are in the middle and it's just like, you know, just give me what works. And so it will be
interesting to see how, if it ever, you know, we need the, it's all the legal stuff becoming
federally legal so that the EPA can register products and all that stuff. But even if then,
let's just say tomorrow that EPA products could be registered through the EPA for indoor cannabis,
it's still going to be years before products will readily come available. We might be able to get
some special use labels, which can be pushed through and those, you know, are temporary use
labels, but you still need research to back up that it's safe. And, you know, cannabis is somewhat
considered more of a food crop. My guess is though, is that probably the tobacco companies have
already been doing a lot of testing and they probably got a lot of research already in their
back pocket, just waiting that we don't know about because it's, you know, still a lot of secret,
secret stuff. Cause there is big money in this. And I think there's probably more research done
than anybody knows, but you can't publicly let anybody know you've done the research.
Right. They don't want to, they don't want to give up their position or, or suggest what they're
working on IP wise. Sounds like for the, for the time being, we're going to be putting together
like various biological hacks and paying higher prices when products do come out.
So let's go ahead and take our last short break. You are listening to Shaping Fire and my guest
today is entomologist, Suzanne Wainwright-Evans, the bug lady.
One of the reasons why no-till cannabis growing is so valued by farmers is because the mycelium
networks in the soil remain established from year to year. And we know these fungal networks are
essential because they are the nutrient super highways that extend far and wide in the substrate
to feed your plants. The trouble with growing in new soils or blended cocoa substrates is that it
takes most of the plant's life just to create these mycelium highways. Dynomyco endomicorrhizal
fungi inoculant reduces that time and gets your plant eating a wider array of nutrients faster.
And it's three times the concentration of the current leading brand in the U S
at 900 propagules per gram of two fungal species selected specifically for cannabis cultivation.
This new product called Dynomyco is the result of 30 years of research and trials at the Volcani
Agriculture Research Institute in Israel. It has also been vigorously trialed by cannabis
and food growers across the U S since the product first arrived here last year.
You may have already even heard about Dynomyco by its original name, Dynomyc. Now Dynomyco is
available at grow shops and online in the United States for the first time. I love using Dynomyco to
both speed up the growth of mycelium networks in the soil, but also as a bio stimulant to make
clone cuttings more virile. You can see side by sides showing the comparative growth on their
Instagram at Dynomyco. If you demand reliable growing results and appreciate the importance
of an active root zone in creating a thriving plant, I encourage you to check out Dynomyco at
Dynomyco.com and find out where you can get yours. That's D Y N O M Y C O dot com.
Whether you are starting with new beds or pots, or if you want to add some zing to tired soil,
choose Dynomyco to maximize your plant's potential. Dynomyco endomycorrhizal inoculant.
If you listen to shaping fire and you grow your own cannabis, chances are high that you are very
particular about the inputs you use for growing. People like us painstakingly self-educate on
cannabis nutrients and techniques so we can cultivate the best tasting and cleanest flowers
possible. And when we go to purchase those nutrients, we want to be sure that our supplier
shares our values and is providing exceptional quality. This is why I recommend buildasoil.com
to my friends who care about quality. Build A Soil empowers organic growers to do their best work
by sourcing and shipping only the finest cannabis growing supplies. From organic inputs, soils,
soil testing and pots, to lights, growing tents, sprayers and cover crops, Build A Soil founder
Jeremy Silva doesn't just stock his store with what's available. He goes deep to personally
vet each product for quality and determine that there isn't a better version of the product that
he could be selling. Because of this arduous process, you know that your options on buildasoil.com
have been carefully curated to create the results you are looking for. Not only that, but the build
a soil way is a philosophy that will permeate your interaction with the company. From website design
to pricing and shipping to after purchase support, Jeremy and his team always strive to do their best
and give you the best customer service in the business. Check out buildasoil.com today for
top tier quality cultivation supplies and a friends and family buying experience. And check
out their educational videos and extraordinary social media while you're there too. Quality
organic growing supplies at buildasoil.com. Growing cannabis in greenhouses is taking over
the cannabis industry. An efficient and effective blend of sunshine grown terpene profiles and the
controlled environment of indoor, greenhouses can be the best of both worlds. For many greenhouse
operators though, building their greenhouse before gaining insight into how cannabis
greenhouses differ from ornamental crops can be the start of a world of hurt. Eric Branstad and
team at Greenhouse Advisory Group have the experience and technical know-how to help you
avoid these pitfalls. Eric Branstad has been helping cannabis growers find locations, design,
build and equip their greenhouses for over a decade. First starting in Northern California,
but expanding over the last five years to helping clients throughout the world.
He has an impeccable reputation for both depth of knowledge and kindness in communication.
You can hear Eric explain some of the challenges facing cannabis greenhouses
and how to overcome them in episode number 41 of the Shaping Fire podcast.
No matter where I go in the country, good people with smart backgrounds still are making the
mistake of building without knowing cannabis and it causes them to burn through capital and time
fast. Everyone has their own failure point. For some it is improper ventilation planning,
for others it is surface temperatures of the building or the plant's leaves or both.
Some folks that build their greenhouse from scratch make really basic errors like placement
of the greenhouse on the property or not understanding the natural environment where
the greenhouse sits. Some have even built a decent greenhouse but are inefficient in their
deployment of light deprivation techniques and never really hit their target yields.
It's great when you learn from your mistakes, but it's even better when you learn from the
mistakes of others. When you bring on Greenhouse Advisory Group, you will learn from the mistakes
of their many clients and you'll take advantage of the best practices developed by Eric Branstad
over his years of working with clients just like you. From location development to choosing a
builder and tricking out your new greenhouse or retrofitting or rescuing your failing greenhouse,
Eric will help you through it. Visit GreenhouseAdvisoryGroup.com to learn more and connect
with Eric and his team. That's Greenhouse Advisory Group. Welcome back. You are listening to Shaping
Fire. I'm your host, Shango Lose, and our guest this week is entomologist Suzanne Wainwright-Evans,
the bug lady. So let's take a one step back to the end of the last set, Suzanne. We were talking
about the cost associated with buying these products, and I kind of make this off-the-cuff
comment at the end before going to break that we people in cannabis are used to paying more for
things. We call it the green tax, right? That we all have to pay a little bit more for things
because there hasn't been a lot of research done on a lot of the products that we need,
and everybody kind of, because cannabis is taboo nature, everybody thinks they can kind of stick
it to us a little bit. But during the break, you're all like, yeah, and cannabis people don't
really know how to shop right. And I'm like, whoa, now that's an interesting thought. So
let's break that out for everybody to hear. What are your best practices that cannabis folks should
know about how to shop for these solutions to get the most bang for their buck?
So yeah, so what I find is, well, I call it the cannabis tax, which just so you know,
Bug Lady Consulting does not charge cannabis tax on consulting. I charge the same fee,
whether you're ornamental vegetables or cannabis. We appreciate that, Suzanne.
Yes. Well, I mean, to me, and I know I get haters this too, but to me, it's just another crop. I
mean, it's just, it's another crop. Let's solve the problem and, you know, move on. But as far as
the economics, so yes, people think that they can charge more to the cannabis industry because
there's this idea that they can afford it. I don't think they can because, you know, prices get, I
mean, there's more competition and growers need to learn to grow without saying to me, it doesn't
matter how much it costs. Please do not say that to me because it always matters how much it costs,
because again, you need to turn a profit if you want your business to stay in business.
What I recommend to my growers is that when you need to buy products, especially,
let's say spray products, you guys all know I'm in love with product Suffoil X. It's one of my
favorite things. Okay. You need to buy a product. Well, don't go just on the internet and search
and that's right there. You need to get connected with traditional horticultural supply companies
that have been servicing greenhouses and nurseries for years. Those tend to have your better pricing
because you're going to pay a premium generally. I mean, occasionally you can find a good price
on the internet, but generally those companies are going to work with you with these products
and get you better pricing. Also, I mean, I've had numerous heart attacks over the years
looking at biocontrol agents and what some of these cannabis people have been paying. A sachet
that should cost maybe 15 cents. I've seen cannabis people paying $2 through distributors.
I know, again, this always frustrates some people, but when it comes to buying the biocontrol agents,
I think it's important to attempt to buy them direct from the insectaries because generally
you're going to get the best pricing. The bugs are going to come directly to you from the insectary
and you tend to get better information because those people are, for the most part, trained on
their products. I mean, just as in the industry, there's some idiots out there, but for the most
part, that's where you're going to get your best information and pricing. Also, when you call and
ask for pricing, because for the biocontrol agents, you are not going to find pricing for
them online. If you're a commercial grower or a larger hobby grower, call them and give them your
size and say, this is how much we're planning on doing. That way you can get grower pricing,
not necessarily retail pricing off a website. Because again, it's unbelievable some of the
prices that are charged on some of these retail websites that are distributors for biocontrol
agents. So do your shopping. This is something that I recommend again to all my growers is,
and you can't do it this year because everything's canceled this year, but get to
horticultural trade shows too. That way you can get connected with the horticultural,
again, professional companies that have been around a long time that sell at what I call fair
pricing. No, are all cannabis distributors price gouging? Absolutely not. But is it happening?
Absolutely it is. So just get connected with these, I don't want to say older, that sounds bad,
but as well-established companies that can provide you biocontrol agents and chemistries at
reasonable pricing. But I guess I shouldn't have said it that way. The spray products,
fertilizers, soils, and things like that. But again, the biocontrol agents I think are a bit
better coming direct from the insectary. It sounds like too, that a lot of these
companies don't have their price lists online. And so it's well worth adding the extra step
to email them and ask for a price list, even though all of us want convenience. Because by the
time, after the day in the greenhouse or outside, by the time you get around to shopping for this
stuff, it's probably in the evening after your dinner and folks really want a fast solution.
And it sounds like what you're saying is don't just buy from the cheapest e-commerce site that
you can find, because there's probably going to be more middlemen there. And really it's worth the
extra effort to write to the company, get their price list or catalog, add that extra step because
you'll be creating a relationship where you'll be paying less for a product over time.
Right. Yes. And so, I mean, it's one thing if, oh my gosh, we just need this product,
fine, pay whatever to get it. But especially with things like fertilizer, I mean, you're going to
need that over and over and over and over again. And you need to get some with somebody that
is going to provide, I would say, fair pricing. Again, I mean, I just can't believe some of the
markups I've seen, like on persimilis. I saw online, I think it was $85 for 2000 persimilis,
where you can get them from an insectary for 15. Yeah. There's a lot of hustling going on in our
scene right now. Your comment on when you need it fast, sometimes you just have to get it and you
pay a higher price and you go. And I was thinking about the same thing about banker and trap plants.
For example, people who are at this point in the season and they're hearing this episode and
they're all like, oh, I think I want to add some helpful companion plants to the garden before the
season's over. And so, you recommend, insightfully, that you should probably start with a seed.
So you are growing your own and you know that it's not bringing in any pesticides with it.
However, if people want to bring in, you know, pre, you know, starts or pre-established plants,
is there a way for that to be reasonably done? Or are you saying across the board,
do not do this because it's a total mess to try? I think it's a huge risk because I, you know, I,
I needed aphids. What did I do? I went down to my local garden center and bought some pepper
plants because you know what? They had aphids on them. You know, you could count on it.
Yeah, pretty much. The thing is, it's interesting though, you know, when the plants are grown in
densities like that, they have pest issues. You plant those peppers out and if you put them in
your yard, the aphids are going to be gone in a few days because ladybirds, surfers, everybody
comes in and cleans them out. You put them inside my guest bedroom window and those aphids thrive
to the point you couldn't even see, you couldn't even see the plant through all the aphids. It was
very interesting because again, I went down, bought a bunch of plants, put some in the garden,
put some in the guest room and the ones outside are, you know, three feet tall and dark green
leaves and the ones in the guest room are just encrusted in aphids. It just shows you the
difference between indoor and outdoor growing when just left to its own because outside mother
nature came in and took care of it. And as clean as you think those plants are, they're going to
have something and you know, alyssum, it can have thrips in it. There's no doubt about that, but
you know, generally outside it will bring in aureus which helps keep the thrips level below
what we call an economic threshold. If you were to just buy alyssum and bring in thrips with no
aureus, you bring them into your grow, you close the door, what's going to happen with those thrips?
The numbers are probably going to go up and depending on what species, they may move into
your cannabis. So that's why starting from seed so they're clean from the beginning. Again, it's
really high risk and again, oftentimes when people contact me, they already know they're in the dog
house because they brought plants in they shouldn't have done. And usually it's, you know, that, oh,
my neighbor, you know, just needed me or my friend need me to watch these couple plants for
him while he was out of town and boof. So this is why I really push with commercial growing facilities
to have a quarantine area. Let's say you absolutely had to bring either cannabis in or another plant,
at least hold it for a week or two separate so you can watch it and see if any pest problems do
develop. But you know, for alyssum and pepper, I would absolutely grow those from seed. And we
actually, again, you know, back to what we do in ornamentals, which is interesting because in
ornamentals, you know what we do? We look to the vegetable industry to see what they do to manage
pests and then adapt it to what we can do for ornamentals. And that's what cannabis is doing
now. We're looking to ornamentals to see how we can adapt it for that crop. So there's a lot of us
looking across the fence and developing these systems because the banker plant systems were
more looked at for vegetable production. And then the ornamental guys kind of shanghai it. And now
the cannabis guys are going to shanghai, which is fine. This is what we do.
Look to other cropping systems and adapt it for our growing situation. But for thrips, because,
you know, I did get a ton of people in the spring contacting me about thrips, especially on the West
Coast. And when I was out traveling in January and February on the West Coast, I saw a lot of
thrips out there. So for like the thrips banker plants, whether it well with the peppers, we
actually start our peppers in winter. That's when we start our seeds because we really want them
blooming and having pollen and nectar by February, March, again, depending kind of where you are in
the US. And then as soon as they're blooming, we start inoculating with the aureus, the minute
pirate bug. So the time, you know, I will say the Northern region, we'll just talk about that
right now, wakes up with insects and we start having thrips issues in early spring. You already
have the standing army of aureus all ready to go. You don't start your seeds in springtime
necessarily. We actually start the banker plants before we start our actual crops in spring.
So I know there's somebody out here curious about this. So I'm going to go one more step
down this path and say, we often will bring in clones from other people that have got a
questionably clean garden and we'll do some sort of dip. Can we simply dip these incoming banker
plants and the same way that we would a clone or does it not work the same way because there's
such a wide variety of pests that could be on them? Well, so the dips, again, there's different
dips for different target pests and for things like thrips, the eggs are inside of plant tissue.
So dips aren't going to do anything for that. So just to get that out there, you can,
you could dip them. I'd be very careful about doing it because like, I don't think there's
been any dipping research done on alyssum and alyssum's like grows so fast. I mean, you really,
there's no need to, I mean, you can just grow it. And also the dipping could kill the pest.
But again, you don't know if they've been treated with a pesticide, a systemic.
Now this is the really kind of weird, not weird thing, but most, if you had to go buy something,
I mean, you absolutely had no choice. Honestly, I would probably go to a big box store and buy
them over an independent garden center. And I know I can hear all the haters already. You ask why?
Well, because the growers that I work with that sell to big box stores like Lowe's, Home Depot,
Walmart, they are not allowed anymore to use neonic pesticides, the systemic pesticides,
which can cause a lot of problems with things like aureus where independent garden centers
have no restrictions on using that kind of stuff. So you are probably safer that using, again,
something from a big box retail place because they have more restrictions on pesticide use.
Now I'm sure I'm going to get some hater emails saying, well, we're independent and we don't use
neonic. Yes, there's going to be independents that don't, but they don't have any restrictions on
them where the guys that sell to the big box stores do. And I work close with a lot of them
and we can't use neonics. They're gone from their programs. And what they've done is they've really
stepped up their biocontrol program. Some of these larger greenhouses I work with,
Metrolina's one, it's 180 acre greenhouse. When they get their biocontrol agents,
they're coming on pallets because they're using so many of them these days.
I know that one of the things that I dare say annoys you is that when folks see challenges in
their garden, they immediately assume that it's pests. And I've heard you point out multiple times
that we need to know more about diseases too, because more often than not, it's actually a
disease vector instead of a pest vector. Would you speak to that? Yeah. And again, please don't
hate me. I'm doing this because I'm trying to help the industry, but the overall knowledge level of
cannabis growers really needs to be elevated higher on being more technical. Unfortunately,
what a lot of people do is they look at a problem and then they try to match pictures online. And
most, I will say that most of the diagnostic images online for cannabis are wrong.
And everybody's quick to blame things on insects because insects are more visible,
where pathogens can be a lot harder to diagnose. And so a lot of the time, I get images and they're
like, oh, what's making these dark spots on my leaves? What insect's doing this? What
miticide do I spray? Well, no, it's a disease problem. For me, I always say it's not my
department, it doesn't have six or eight legs. It needs to be dealt with by a plant pathologist.
And there aren't many actually educated, like when I say educated, I mean, like went to college for
this entomologist working in hemp and cannabis. There are definitely some of us around, but
there's not many. And there's even fewer plant pathologists. And so this is the problem. It's
hard to get good information, but there's a lot of guessing. And unfortunately, people will just
post pictures on Instagram, or there's lots of Facebook groups. And what's wrong with my plant?
And I'll scroll through and you'll see 40 different answers and none of them are right. Or
you may not be able to diagnose the problem from the image. Because oftentimes with nutrition,
you need to send in for leaf tissue analysis to get a report of what's actually going on
in your foliage or in your soil. And it kind of folds into nutrition too, because people think,
oh, we've got insect problems. No, that's a nutritional problem. And I talk to people about
soil. I mean, again, agronomy is not my wheelhouse at all. I mean, I took it in college
and everything, and I know enough to be dangerous. But I'm finding that people don't really understand
pH, cation exchange capacity. People don't know how to do pour through tests. People aren't
getting their water tested. They're not getting their soils tested. And granted, a home gardener
who's growing three or four plants, probably not going to go through those steps. But anything
larger than that, if you want to become a good grower, you really need to have good analysis
done to really know what the problem is. Then you know for the next time. And for me personally,
in my career, the stuff I work with, the insect identification is what I learned in college. I
learned basic insect biology and that kind of stuff. But the actual problems I deal with is
stuff I faced over the last 30 years. And when I didn't know what it was, an insect or mite,
I'd send it off for ID, and then I would know the next time. And so I've learned through getting
more educated by using diagnostic labs and help. And that's what's going to make you a better
grower, not guessing that you think you know what the problem is, but really finding out
really what the problem is. And now since hemp has opened up through the farm bill and blah, blah,
if you collect your insects, you can send them in and get them identified. Also, you don't always
have to, you know, with extension, you don't have to put what the host plant is, but a lot of
extension now is working with hemp. And you can say, okay, these are my past off my hemp crop,
you know, what are they and you can get the proper identification. And there's more testing labs
that are doing, you know, hemp, leaf tissue analysis stuff. So the these, these places
are out there to help you. It's just the industry needs to take advantage of them.
I think it's gonna be very interesting to see the new skill sets that the next generation of
cultivators are going to have, you know, the young whippersnappers who are like in their early 20s,
and they have hit their age of majority at the perfect time when cannabis is coming out of
prohibition. And so they're able to actually go to university for, you know, these types of,
you know, diagnostic and pests and agricultural aspects, and then come up and spend their entire
life of cultivating cannabis with the, you know, professional supports and education and
versus those of us like, you know, me at 50 and well, 49, whatever. And those of us who have been
doing this in the dark for so long, we have been trying to, you know, it's felt like Sisyphus,
right? Trying to, trying to push up doing this, you know, the rock up the mountain, and then it
just has it slide right back, trying to do this without the proper tools and in the dark.
So let's talk about where to find more information on these banker plants and trap plant
solutions, these protocols that you're talking about, right? So if they're really unique to
bioregion, and they're unique for, you know, particular species, is there, so for anybody
who's going to give a damn enough to do this extensive research, is there a good resource for
them where they can learn about these programs like the AFIN program you've been using as an
example, where they can learn what the other programs are for different pests, so they don't
have to reinvent the wheel? I'm sure I know these programs exist, but where do people learn about
them? Well, unfortunately, there's not much written. And the problem is too, it's a moving
target, because things change. If you Google like pepper banker plants, years ago, we were using
black pearl pepper. And then some great research came out of Europe, I think Gerben Messling did it,
where he found that, oh, no, wait a minute, if you use purple flash pepper, you can produce way
more aureus than black pearl. So then everybody's like, change. Okay, now we're recommending this.
So if you go back and read older stuff, it may not be exactly accurate. And so this is why it's a
moving target of us working out in the field. And honestly, the people like myself, Ron Valentin,
with BioWorks, Kelly Vance with Beneficial Insectary, who are working in this stuff every
day, honestly, we're so busy doing it. Unfortunately, we're not writing about it. And
none of us do blogs. I mean, occasionally, we'll spit out a magazine article here and there.
But that's what makes it difficult, because most people just want to go to the internet and do
research on it today, where if you want the most current information, you have to get to the
meetings where, again, people like myself or Ron, where we're teaching workshops, because those are
going to give you the most what we know today. Because again, recommendations I gave five,
60 years ago, I know more now and they're not, that may not be accurate today for a particular
situation. And so and that's one thing that frustrates me about the internet is you put an
article out there and it's there forever, it doesn't go away. And people then can get dated
information. So always, when you're looking at information, look at the date on it. And make sure
you know, is this still going to be relevant? I mean, basic biology? Yes, that pretty much doesn't
change. But you know, we're smarter today than we were five years ago on banker plants. But,
you know, for regionality on banker plants, you know, we're doing the same programs in greenhouses
in, you know, West Coast, Middle, the United States and East Coast, because there aren't that
many developed programs, what is more likely to change somewhat are the regionality of your pest
pressures, like this year, actually, it's been a pretty bad spider mite year, where we haven't had
big spider mite flare ups in greenhouses for several years, because the years before this,
it's been broad mites. So we have, you know, yearly pests, as well as seasonal pests that,
you know, make us alter our programs, but there's not one good source Nestle to go to. Now on the
aphid banker plant systems, which I know people are interested in, because aphid parasites can
get expensive. And again, this program only works for aphidius colmani, which again, works for
the green peach and cotton melon aphid, and will, we know it does parasitize the cannabis aphid.
Probably the best place is to get information from the producers of it. Not all insectaries
support banker plant systems, there's a pretty clean dividing line down the line on who does
and who doesn't. I'll tell you Beneficial Insectary is a huge supporter of banker plant systems.
They sell them, they work with their growers with them. You can also get them from Sierra,
you can get banker plants also from Sierra Biological in New York State. And you're able
to get information from them. You also, I mentioned Ron Valentin before, he's written
several articles on banker plants, but again, watch the dates because things have changed.
And I do believe he has some literature that he's done for bio works on banker plants. I'm pretty
sure they have that up. So those are places that you can get them. So you're almost better off
getting them from the actual companies that are out there doing and working with it than necessarily
Googling. And it's also kind of like baking a cake back in 1900, your grandma made the best
cake and she'll give you the recipe, but she's not going to give you that one special ingredient.
Why would any of us put all our information out on the internet and tell you exactly how to do
everything when I've got, being a consultant, I've got this problem with, in the cannabis industry,
everybody else thinks they're a consultant and people just want my information that they can
turn around, resell. It's amazing to me how many consultants contacting me, wanting me to solve
problems for their customers that they're getting paid to do, but they want to get free information
for me. So there's no way I would put all this information out for free on the internet because
somebody is going to snake it and sell it. Okay. So to wrap this up, this is going to be
interesting because I normally try to end my shows on a really nice up note, right?
But our conversation today has not gone at all as I planned. I really thought that we were going to
talk about the top five or six pests that cannabis folk are mostly coming into contact this year.
And we would talk about our best handful of trap and banker plants and people should mix and match
them in their garden or something like that. But actually it's a lot messier than I thought it was,
not only the identification, the development of the protocols, the pre-growing plants, my God,
the charging them in advance with non-pest food for the beneficials, I'd never consider that.
That sounds like a major pain in the ass. And so what I'm seeing here is that really
for folks who want to go down this path to help decrease their pest pressure, it's either A,
some graduate level research that hopefully you will do once significantly for your grow where
you are, and then you have to keep up on what comes out new every year. But it's, you've got
this big upfront research labor time and then to kind of like build out your program. And, or
you have to go really much more hardcore on prevention so that you don't really have to do
banker and trap plants. That's not where you're going to put your emphasis. You're going to put
your emphasis on prevention. But that is not an inspiring finish to a show, Suzanne. That is not
a positive spin on any of this. What do you got for me? How can we end this on a positive note?
Let me just give you this again. I guess because I try to be so detail-oriented, maybe sometimes,
because I want people to be successful and I just want people to be aware of what they're
getting into. And again, if you talked to some of my ornamental growers, it's kind of taken them
a few years to really get their stride with their banker plant programs. But once they got them,
they got them and it works. It is not for everybody. I will stress that. I mean, I think
I said before, I think maybe 5% of ornamental growers are using banker plants. It's a very
small amount. You've got to be the right kind of person to do this. But that said,
if you are dealing with aphids, whether it be, again, not all aphid species, but if you're
dealing with cotton melon or cannabis aphid and you're using aphidius colmani, the simplest,
not cheapest, the simplest thing you could do is every two weeks you can buy in the barley aphid
banker plant. And what you do is you get a clump of barley that's grown. I think it's grown in
Rockwell and it's covered in aphids. And you just go set that in your greenhouse. You know,
you got to put some water underneath it. Some people will plunk it into a pot and let it grow.
And then as you release your parasites and they're flying around, if they don't find
enough aphids in your crop, they'll go reproduce on that. Where it gets more complicated is when
people grow their own aphids, but people will do that for economic savings. They buy one aphid
plant and then they'll, you know, in another part of the facility, they'll just basically start a
mini aphid farm. So instead of buying a plant every two weeks, they just take a plant out of
their aphid farm and set it into their facility. So the easy way to start would be just to buy a
plant in every two weeks and just set it out. It can be as simple as that, but you have to make
sure that aphidius colmani is going to target the aphid you're dealing with. And then that will
help you build more parasitoids in your facility. So in the long run, you can actually buy fewer
parasitoids paying for the cost of buying in the plants. Does that make it a little more
unicorns and rainbows for you? Probably not, but it is a good place to get started
because the mountain of research is high. And for people who want to get started with something now,
that is a great low barrier to entry thing that they can start with. Right. And that's for indoors.
Now, if you're outside, and actually I do a whole presentation on this, on attracting native
beneficials without having to go through everything. The simplest thing, if you are outside,
biodiversity, that is what you need. Just plant biodiversity.
Well, that's nice. Now, there is unicorn and rainbows, right? Grow outside and grow a whole
bunch of variety of companion plants all around them so you attract all the natural beneficials.
There you go. Well, I would call them insectary plants.
Insectary plants. That's what I'd classify it as. And again,
depends on where you are because what you grow in South Florida is going to be
what's different than growing in Yakima, Washington. But what I've done for my
vegetable garden is I first planted all kinds of stuff out. Again, calendula, yarrow.
I tried gumfrina last year. And then I just look at the plant. I'll go spend time and I'll just sit,
I have a little plastic stool and sit there and watch who comes to visit it. If I see
things that I want coming around, you know, surfeit flies, decanted flies, things like that,
boom, I'm going to plant more of those. When I did gumfrina last year, nothing came out.
Nothing ever visited the gumfrina. Gumfrina is out. And that's how from my yard I've selected
what plants. If you're in the Northeast corridor growing outdoors, Penn State did an amazing
project in 2005 where they roped in all these master gardeners and they give them little
stools and they sat at plants. And then they measured the number of pollinators visiting,
the number of surfeit fly visiting, the number of butterflies visiting, and then they listed
them out. And so, you know, for me, I want, you know, all the pollinator and fly plants. And so
I've pulled from that list a plant in my yard. And, you know, generally these plants aren't
the plants you're going to go find down at your garden center because, again, the garden center
stuff has been bred for what humans want, not what the insects want. So I've been, you know,
digging deeps into the bowels of buying weirdo seeds and, you know, pygmanthiums, the mountain
mints are phenomenal for pollinators and decanted flies. And decanted flies, you go Google decanted
flies to learn about them, but decanted flies are amazing. You want them around. And so by doing
things like that is how you can select plants that do well in your area. And if you grow one plant
one year and it's like covered in aphids, it's like, yeah, maybe we shouldn't grow that one this
year. But if you grow like milkweed and it gets covered with milkweed aphids, those aren't going
to move into your cannabis. And those will provide food resources for ladybird beetles and surfeit
flies and lacewings. So that has now turned into a banker plant in itself.
Wow. I like that too, because it creates a sense of momentum, you know, in the cultivation area,
right? Instead of there necessarily being happening to be all this research up front,
these are some actions that you can do now while you're boning up on the rest of the science.
Yes. And this is what I'll do. I'll look at stuff and then I'll go to Universe and say,
hey, this is what I'm seeing. Can we work on something? But I'm not going to do that.
Can we work on something? But understand that these research projects take years for them to
happen and it takes money and time. And that's why we don't get a lot of this research, because
nobody's willing to pay for this kind of research. Well, hopefully that stuff will come along soon.
Suzanne, thank you so much for spending time with us. You know, whenever I get the opportunity to
hear you at a convention, you know, it's always a fast paced, wild ride. And I learn a lot really
fast. And I know I miss more than I even learned. And this has been the same kind of thing. High
energy, lots of information, the kind of episode that people listen to more than once. So thank
you very much for sharing your experience, both the good and the things we don't want to hear.
You know, you're invaluable to our scene. And thanks for, you know, not only doing the
ornamentals and the other plants that you, you know, have been bread and butter for you all these
years, but thanks for coming over to work with us in cannabis, too. Oh, well, I love working with you
guys. I have to say, through all of this, the cannabis got through all the COVID stuff, because
honestly, I've not been working for almost three months now, because I can't travel. But you know
what, the cannabis people have done a good job of taking care of me and contacting me and just
checking in on me. I mean, yes, everybody wants Bugs ID, but that's fine. I enjoy doing that.
But you know, I really do enjoy working with the cannabis industry, and I've made some really good
friends through it. And I love working with you guys. Well, fantastic. I consider you a good friend
as well. It's been nice to chat with you. And I very much look forward to all this quarantine
being over so that we can say hello in person at conventions again. So if you want to find out more
about Suzanne and her Bug Lady Consulting, you should make sure to go to bugladyconsulting.com.
And her Instagram is at Bug Lady Suzanne. And if you want to keep up on the reports and studies
and signs that Suzanne finds relevant, make sure to check out the Bug Lady Consulting page on
Facebook. Because even though Facebook is not super friendly with cannabis, it's very easy for
Suzanne to post the papers there, because links aren't so easy to use on Instagram. So make sure
to follow her at Bug Lady Consulting on Facebook as well. You can find more episodes of the Shaping
Fire podcast and subscribe to the show at shapingfire.com and on Apple iTunes, Stitcher,
and Google Play. If you enjoyed the show, we'd really appreciate it if you'd leave a positive
review of the podcast wherever you download. Your review will help others find the show so they can
enjoy it too. On the Shaping Fire website, you can also subscribe to the weekly newsletter for
insights into the latest cannabis news and product reviews. On the Shaping Fire website,
you will also find transcripts of today's podcast as well. For information on me and where I'll be
speaking, you can check out shangolose.com. Does your company want to reach our national audience
of cannabis enthusiasts? Email hotspot at shapingfire.com to find out how. Thanks for
listening to Shaping Fire. I've been your host, Shango Lose.
