It was only a few years ago that organic cannabis growers were rare.
Everybody was still on the bottle, giving their plants synthetic inputs instead of whole
foods.
Now though, there are a whole lot of people in the scene who are growing and thinking
more holistically about the plant, and realizing that our job as cultivators is more to promote
good soil and rhizosphere health than it is to force feed the plant nutrients, and that
it's better for us to work intimately in cooperation with nature than try to bend her
to our will to create flowers.
It's cool that growth store staff are educating themselves too, where once everyone was talking
hydro, more people are talking myco.
Natural farming is the oldest, and now again the newest and best way to grow beautiful,
aromatic, healthy and high-yielding food and cannabis.
If you want to learn about cannabis health, business and technique efficiently and with
good cheer, I encourage you to subscribe to our newsletter.
We'll send you a new podcast episode every time they come out, delivered right to your
inbox along with commentary on a couple of the most important news items for the week
and videos too.
Don't rely on social media to let you know when a new episode is published.
Sign up for the updates to make sure you don't miss an episode.
Also we're giving away very cool prizes to folks who are signed up to receive the
newsletter.
There's nothing else you need to do to win except receive that newsletter, so go to shapingfire.com
to sign up for the newsletter and be entered into this month's and all future newsletter
prize drawings.
We have an extra giveaway again this episode because we are moving into home gardening
season.
Our friends at Dinomyco asked me to help them give away several hundred retail sized bags
of their Endomycorrhizal Inoculant.
You'll hear more about their great product during the first commercial break, but for
now I just want to give you the URL of Dinomyco.com forward slash shapingfire.
That is a link to their page on their site where they are collecting addresses to mail
out these samples for absolutely free.
This is a very popular soil starter, so do not delay in filling out the form at Dinomyco.com
forward slash shapingfire.
If your company budgeted thousands of dollars for cannabis conventions in 2020, which are
now all canceled, I invite you to consider moving your marketing investment to Shapingfire.
For only a fraction of what it would cost you to attend just one convention, you can
advertise for nearly a year on Shapingfire.
It has been a busy week as other companies have reached out to Shapingfire because their
whole year of customer outreach events was just canceled, and they are scrambling for
new ways to reach their customers.
The audience for Shapingfire is made up of curious and enthusiastic cannabis enthusiasts,
entrepreneurs and home growers, and you can reach them for less than the price of a postcard
each.
Email hotspot at shapingfire.com to find out more.
You are listening to Shapingfire, and I'm your host, Shango Lose.
Today my guest is certified Korean natural farming instructor, Drake.
I asked Drake about his one name name, and he explained that Drake is actually his middle
name, Eric Drake Weinert.
I decided to include that because I can't be the only one wondering about his name.
Drake is the most certified instructor of KNF in the United States.
He's been studying Korean natural farming for over 10 years and is certified by Master
Cho.
He hosts a podcast called Microbial Secret Society that is established on KNF ideals,
but then goes in every direction covering really interesting topics.
Today on Shapingfire, we're going to talk about wildcrafting and fermentations in both
natural and urban environments, some ideas for collecting IMO under less than ideal circumstances,
and in the third set, we ask Drake a bunch of questions that Shapingfire audience sent
us in to ask him.
Welcome to the show, Drake.
Hey, aloha, Shango.
It's great to be with you.
Awesome, man.
Thank you for sharing some of your valuable time with us.
I know farm life is exceptionally busy, so I'm glad that you're able to join us for a
while.
Let's get started by setting some context.
A lot of folks focus on the Korean natural farming recipes only.
Many folks don't consider what I would say is a bigger picture of what natural farming,
and in this case, Korean natural farming really is.
Because of that, I see lots of people doggedly following recipes, but without a deeper understanding,
for example, of why we use the fresh new growth tips on plants when making fermented plant
juice.
Each aspect of KNF fits into this larger overall framework or philosophy of working with nature,
instead of against it.
Will you tell us a little bit about how you envision the holistic aspect of this sort
of farming thought?
Well, if you...
Yeah, I will.
If you look at the way I've been translating and bringing the aspects of Korean natural
farming into a Western language and also Western mindset, has been going at these solutions.
Largely, I've kind of helped out by isolating it down to nine core solutions, where there's
many more solutions than this, but by getting it down to nine, those are the essentials
you need to grow to get the basics of everything.
I've really been working on the language of how these things are translated.
When Korean natural farming came over from Korea into the Western world, and largely
the first place it entered was Hawaii, it came with a lot of jargon.
You have FPJ, FFJ, LAB, OHN.
If someone's brand new to this, they have to absorb not only the jargon, but understanding
the intricacies of each recipe.
What I've been doing is I've been translating the recipes, not changing them by any means,
but just translating them differently.
For instance, calling fermented plant juice, fermented plant juice, which is kind of the
way it's made, you ferment plant juice, but instead I've been renaming it to be like Korean
natural farming food.
Because then when you go to apply these things, if you go like, when should you use fermented
plant juice?
It's kind of a mystery.
But if I ask you, when should you use food?
It becomes pretty darn clear, like when your plant is hungry, right?
And so largely that's what I've been doing with these recipes is de-jargoning them and
translating them in a way that it helps to make it more intuitive so that people going
to jump in and they want to use these things and they want to find like, how do these components
fit together?
If it's just jargon and you don't understand, you kind of have to blindly follow recipes
or trust these other things.
But once the language is there where you can conceptually understand things, where you
say, okay, fermented plant juice is food, then you can understand, well, if my plant
looks really well fed, maybe I don't need as much food.
And you can start to understand like how the components, the individual recipes actually
build a full farming system.
I like that approach.
And honestly, it's a different approach than I thought you were going to give me.
When I asked the question, I thought you were going to give me actually more like high
falutin philosophy because so often philosophy is where vocabulary often gets its meaning,
right?
But you actually went the other way with it, which I find kind of juicy.
The fact that you're all like, well, listen, let's make the words we use to talk about
this process that we're doing.
Let's take it out of some of the jargon that may be traditional, but which kind of sterilizes
the process and kind of devoid some of it of direction or meaning.
And so let's rebrand it in more useful ways so that it gives a different kind of context.
And that sounds really attractive.
Do you find that either yourself or yourself to your students or your students after your
classes that they have challenges using your new vocabulary when, say, other people's on
other people on a on an Internet thread, maybe using the traditional Korean shorthand?
Well, I do both.
Right.
I try to I try to teach, you know, like like conceptually, like when you when you understand,
I mean, the way I call things, it's like food, medicine, cleanser, structure, reproduction,
all those words just it takes the mystery out of how do you use it?
But at the same time, you need backwards compatibility.
Right.
So you still need to know, like, OK, medicine is OHN, which stands for oriental herbal nutrient,
which when I go on the forums and things and I go on the Internet, I find people will say,
yeah, but what about my OHN?
And being like, um, there's no OHN, you know, but they're thinking oriental herbal medicine.
They're not thinking oriental herbal nutrient, how it was in the original text.
But but with my experience, what what I've seen is the first translations of Korean natural
farming were kind of arbitrary.
And it and they just, you know, decided to call something fermented plant juice in the
English translation.
But if you go to Master Cho and he's talking about it, what he's actually saying is he
calls it green juice from heaven.
OK, but but that's not in the books.
We don't we don't use our G, J, F, H.
But but then but but in the English translation, all of a sudden we got FPJ and then that
becomes our jargon.
And so I so I realized this through the translation that there there wasn't like a ton of
thought put into how they were naming things in across languages.
It's not even the same.
So when we in America, all of a sudden we pick up this jargon language because that's how
we first received it.
I believe that right now is the time to clarify this so that we have a language that's
intuitive for usage because because originally the the the names were made for intuitive
to make because it was so important to make the ingredients.
But now that people are making them and they're available, it's more important to me to
see prioritization on application and where it's intuitive application.
So I don't need to teach you as much like if you get food, you know when to use food and
when not to. I don't have to tell you, you know, this dose this or that.
You it's it becomes your knowledge, your thing that I give to you.
Right on. So so let's go back to my first question.
I'm going to ask it to you a slightly different way to try to tease out some different
meaning. And this is how I ask it this time, is that so often people who have been
growing cannabis and food crops, they are used to thinking about, you know, not only
NPK style nutrient mentality, but but more so I'm going to put nutrients on this plant
and I am going to make it grow.
And it is kind of in service to me.
And there's not a lot of thought given to byproduct like runoff and things like that.
Whereas when someone first starts studying natural farming, they realize that, oh, there's
there's actually a whole bunch of recycling taking place.
You know, I'm I'm using other plants that are at their highest growth potential to feed
my target plants that I want to use my preparations with.
And now because I'm not using, you know, intense chemicals or nutrients of any type, my
runoff is now not only not bad, but it is it is clean and beneficial to the folks
downstream. So when when you are first trying to get people over that hump of this is how
you may have been taught to farm, but now we're going to be thinking about it in this
new holistic way.
What are some of the examples or tricks that you have found really bring people along
with you on why natural farming is is holistically and mentally different than
traditional farming?
OK, so I like I like that question of of, you know, how to bring people along with that.
I I think I think initially if you know, I listen to a bunch of your shows and especially in
cannabis growing, you know, it's always I always see these questions about I have I have
this deficiency.
What do I add to my plant?
And it's this real relationship between grower and plant and tightly coupled, whereas the
different paradigm that you bring in with Korean natural farming is that I'm the grower,
but I'm not directly interfacing with the plant.
Between me and the plant are these microorganisms.
And so the micro or so if I'm going to, you know, my plant shows some deficiency, I would
then feed the microbes a certain thing that then they would exude it in a plant available
form to be available for the plant.
And I know your audience is pretty well familiar, familiar with Elaine Ingham and the soil
food web and this whole idea of biology and living soils.
So it's it's really in Korean natural farming.
We're taking that approach to that.
It's not just like like like for me when I go out to my plant, I'm not trying to juice my
plant and get the most out of my plant.
What I'm trying to do is build the richest, most dank, fungal, you know, balanced soil
that I can get, the most thriving living soil I can get.
And then I know when I sow a seed into there that almost every deficiency is going to be
taken care of because the microbes are are this interface between me and the plant.
So so I'm not trying to target exactly like juice my plant, but I'm more trying to create
balance in the ecosystem, which then the natural result is a thriving plant.
And so I think when people understand that there's an interface between you and the plant,
which is the microorganisms, then it leads to a bigger understanding of this, of where you
mentioned like runoff and going into the ocean.
You realize how the whole soil is alive and living and and can process toxins and create
fertility. And then that just brings you to a bigger.
How how you're more connected to to everything.
I like that explanation, and it reminds me a lot when I was very first getting into
understanding organic farming, you know, some 10, 15 years ago, 15 years ago, I got
turned on to the the the the farmer and speaker, Joel Saladin.
And, you know, he he raises meat products on his farm, their polyface farm.
But he always said, you know, I'm not a chicken farmer.
I'm not a cow farmer.
I'm not a pig farmer.
I'm a grass farmer.
And he's always like, so long as I've got healthy soil and I'm growing healthy grass,
then everything that lives on that grass is going to be healthier and more resistant to
disease and all that.
That's often how I think about working with the microbes in natural farming as well.
It's like, listen, my job is not to grow the plant.
My job is to grow really vibrant soil jam packed with microbes so that whatever the
plant desires is there in some sort of buffet.
And I like that idea that you that you propose that, you know, it's the microbes are
kind of like this this go between between the plant and and myself, because we don't
we don't really do a very good job when we try to interact with the plant directly by
feeding the plant.
But if we feed everything in the in the rhizosphere, well, then the plant is is by by
natural course going to be healthy.
And that's that's totally true.
And that's the biggest, you know, one of the biggest focuses in Korean natural farming
is building the soil foundation that the plant will thrive in.
But but I also want to make the distinction that Korean natural farming can also be
applied, you know, foliarly or into the root zone that you're in because you've already
used the microbes in fermentation.
Then this stuff is now plant available.
So I can I can take these a lot.
Most of the solutions, in fact, all of them and put them into liquid and then spray it
onto the plant. And because it's already been fermented by this microbial interface,
then it's directly absorbable into the plant.
So so I don't want people to just think, oh, well, you just have to take the soil and
make the soil good. And then your plant, you can actually also directly feed your plant
with Korean natural farming, which is why I believe it.
It makes it a really powerful and adaptable farm system because we're focused on the
soil and direct nutrition through, you know, through foliar spring.
So a lot of us who dabble in K&F, we know that the fermentation process makes the the
nutrition bioavailable to the plant.
But there might be folks like me who don't actually know why.
I just know that it does.
And so I trust in what I'm being taught and I move forward.
What does the fermentation process do to the nutrients that make it readily accessible to
the plant? Well, if you I mean, you can you can get into this scientifically and get some
some big terms that you'd need, you know, a Ph.D.
to understand. But but in its simplest, like analogous things that everyone can understand,
it's the microbes are essentially digesting it.
So so, for instance, if I'm making a fermented plant juice or a fish amino acid, I'm
putting, you know, material and sugar together.
The osmotic pressure of the sugar is drawing out the juices.
Then those juices are pretty much you can think of it as like an external stomach because,
you know, the microbes digest externally, whereas we digest internally and they're kind
of producing all kinds of enzymes and different things to to break down the whatever
material into the more elemental compounds and in and making them plant available.
It's it's like it's just like how when you eat something and you digest it and you get
energy, it's it's sort of magic.
But then you could you could really go into the science and try to, you know, really like
get a few PhDs describing how it happens.
Yeah, yeah, absolutely.
I like this idea of of an external stomach, I think, is what you said.
It actually I got this envisioning of of a of a parent bird pre-masticating food before
they give it to a baby chick that doesn't really have a fully developed digestive system
yet. It's kind of like we're we're partially pre-digesting it by fermenting it and then
giving it to our plant at its optimum usability.
So anyway.
Yeah. And I really like that.
That an analogy that you're you're the you know, the mama bird feeding your baby birds.
You're doing that pre-digestion to make sure that you're giving the best care to your
plants. I like that.
Good. So so, you know, wild crafting for use in K&F preparations is at the basis of why
all this works.
However, there are lots of cannabis growers who have never wild crafted like anything
at all. When they get turned on to K&F, it's the first time that they find themselves, you
know, going out into nature to sustainably take from their natural environment.
Folks who feel a bit awkward and not at home necessarily identifying plants, it can be
a little off putting for folks to go off and go off into the woods to to gather whatever
they want to gather at its most basic level.
Some folks like straight up don't pack gloves for harvesting nettles, for example, simply
because they've never done it.
When you prepare folks to go out and wild craft for their first time, what are some of
the things that you set them up mentally with so that they can have as much success as
possible the first time they go out?
Well, well, one time I mean, specifically wild crafting, you know, talking about fermented
plant juices and these these different things like so when I'm when I'm doing a class
with folks, usually what we do is on my farm, you know, around my farm, there's there's all
kinds of things growing.
So what what I'll do with the class is I'll have us make several different materials, all
at the same time. So, for instance, making one out of lemongrass, one from sweet potato,
one from comfrey, one from, you know, ripe fruits.
And when we do all of these together, you get to see this difference that comes out.
Like some plants are super juicy and they yield a bunch really fast.
Others are much slower.
And so when I'm working with folks to teach them, I like to have that diversity because I
say, well, when you go home, you know, the same same weeds that are growing around your
place, like on the on, you know, like just the the the weed weed plants, like not weed,
but like, you know, weeds, things we consider weeds are usually highly medicinal.
And so when I what I do during the class is I have them make it from multiple materials
because I say, when you go home, you can see the difference here of what happened.
You you may not get the same results at home.
Like if you used like a dryer material or something and it didn't in your and in class, it
juiced up really well.
And then you go home and you try to do it and it doesn't get the same result.
You may lose confidence and think, oh, it didn't turn out right.
But in actuality, that plant may have been a little less juicy.
So so really what I like to do in class is is with this, you know, get as much experience
and as much diversity so that we and students there can see and we can hold the jars up
and we can go through and we can smell the differences in from day one to day three to
day five or however long the pour off takes.
And you get to see these changes.
So so through my teaching and my preparation for people, I just try to get them as many
examples as possible.
And then I try to understand their bio region a bit.
Like, for instance, you're up in the Pacific Northwest and horsetail like equestrian,
whatever it is, it's everywhere, grows everywhere.
And me here in Hawaii, I'm just like sitting there just so jealous because that's all the
silica. Right.
And that's like and you know, there's certain things here, bamboo, other things I can get
silica out of. But but the equestrian is just pumped full of it.
And so really, really, you know, when people it's how to get people into it, it's like, you
know, that same bottle you were going to buy at the growth store of silica.
Yeah, that's in this weed right here.
And you just need a few pounds of sugar and you can get that, you know, and that's the
encouragement I give to people is try to, you know, many, many people, if you're not
familiar, you look at the ground and you just think it's green bushes.
You don't realize, oh, that's this medicinal herb.
Oh, this is this medicinal herb.
And your whole medicine closet is just right in your yard.
You know, it's funny that you would mention, you know, being jealous about our
horsetail because, you know, I follow your fabulous Instagram at Natural Farming
Hawaii, and I'm always feeling jealous of the fruits that you have got available on
your property. And, you know, I think that's kind of a fun thing that, you know,
natural farmers can are not only intimately aware of what they have locally, but also
the things that they see other people using and they'd love to use as well.
You know, traditionally, when I go on vacation, I really like going to grocery stores
in foreign countries.
That's one of my things.
But but I've realized now that now when I start to travel, I've started looking for
food that's going to be fun to snack for sure.
But now I'm also looking for exotic inputs to bring home.
And, you know, I think that's an interesting characteristic of the food that I'm
you know, of all of us, of the natural farming folk, which which kind of leads me to my
next question. You know, people often ask me, can they use grocery store purchased
fruits and perhaps vegetables?
But usually people are asking about fruits in their K&F preparations.
And they say, is the more important part the fact that it is ripe and ready and
not reached a necrotic state yet?
Or is it is the importance that I have taken it directly off the tree and it hasn't
gone through, you know, cleaning and transportation, which would wipe the microbes
off of the outside of the fruit?
So getting to the point of the question, how usable is store brought fruit for a for a
fruit fermentation?
Well, yeah.
So, I mean, I know a lot of people have differing opinions on this and really, you
know, that the the ultimate proof in anything, because we can we can, you know,
correct each other and say this is right or that's wrong.
But the ultimate proof is is in your produce at the end.
Like how how chronic are your buds?
Are they frosty? Are they just are they so chronic that your friends like, you know,
they're like, what have I been smoking previous to this?
You know, and that's that's the ultimate proof.
But but but to go into that a little bit, I look at the, you know, fermented fruit juice
recipe and and I know, you know, here in Hawaii, it's no big deal.
I go, you know, there's bananas, every papayas.
I'm just I'm drowning in fruit basically.
So but but in in, you know, winter places where you don't have that access, you can
take these fruits and ferment them and get the enzymes.
Primarily what you want to look at is is what what kind of biology is doing that
reaction in your ferment, though, you know, and if you know, because I've heard Chris
Chris Trump last time when you interviewed him, he talked a little bit about it and he
was talking about if the plant is washed and it's and it has these, you know, the
only biology you have is from the hands of the grocery store clerk, which is true to
a degree. But you can also, you know, re-inoculate to a degree of of adding in
lactic acid bacteria or or just even a little bit of fresh some sort of fresh fruit in
there. Like even if even if you had like, you know, one wild apple that you picked and
you threw that in with your other, you know, papayas that you bought, for instance,
and you know, there's there's ways to get around it.
So so I'm not super dogmatic on that.
And when I look at the fermented fruit juice specifically, I look at as a food more than
a microbial inoculum.
So so where the microbes are important is in that fermentation.
And are they are they making the enzymes available?
You know, how are they digesting this this fruit?
And and that that that's it's hard to say, but but a lot of the lactobacillus is in the
air. So by nature, you know, as long as you're not getting really funky molds on there,
you should be all right.
But but, you know, the ultimate proof is is at the end of the day, you know, and I if
personally, if I was on the mainland or where it was winter, what I would try to do is
during fall when when all these wild fruits are coming out, like like wild cherries or,
you know, anything that's that's I just harvest all that all the all the Himalayan
blackberry and stuff that makes amazing juice.
So, you know, a lot of the a lot of the folks who are following K&F practices are doing
it in their own way in the city, you know, whether it be in their yard or in a tent or
their basement or something.
And a lot of folks, you know, they just try to do their best wild crafting from where
they live. And for, you know, folks in the city, you might be harvesting, you know,
probably illegally from your local park.
But, you know, people take rose hips from the park or or or, you know, their neighbor
might have an overgrown shrub that is showing green tips in the spring.
And and a lot of folks don't have a good idea of where to draw that line.
And I like that you said on the store bought fruit that that you're not necessarily as
dogmatic as some and and and you're you're more interested is, you know, the proof's in
the pudding, you know.
So so what do you think about wild crafting in the city for people who, you know,
getting outside of the city to wild craft is is a challenge?
What kind of hints do you have for for wild crafting in Babylon?
Well, also, I was in Los Angeles, California, right, right down on Santa Monica Avenue.
My auntie lives right over there and and she she's a natural farmer.
And she was like, you know, she was complaining to me.
She's like, I don't I don't have any of this stuff.
And and I just took her dogs on a walk and I walked downtown and I saw all kinds of
stuff just growing out of the cracks in the in the in the in the budget rent a car
parking lot. There was enough dandelions growing through the cracks that I could make an
amazing ferment from those dandelions.
And you may you may think to yourself, oh, well, it's kind of it's contaminated because
it's in this city and, you know, car exhaust and all.
You know, the city's not necessarily the most cleanly natural place to gather.
But something like that, it's not going to you know, like it's not going to stop me.
I am still going to ferment that.
I'm still going to get an amazing product.
And I from there, once I got my first dandelion FPGA, then I can start to grow things in
my own yard, maybe maybe spray that on some other things and boost up my own things to
ferment, you know.
But but but literally when every every time I walked out in the city like L.A., it was
just loaded with things to ferment.
Do you think we need to be resistant to using that stuff because of, you know, say, for
example, car exhaust, you know, landing on those plants and be you know, being taken up
by those plants and then and then we're spraying those on our plants.
Or is that insignificant enough that it's really, you know, not worth being worried
about?
So they got to be quiet.
Yeah.
So I would say, you know, in my in my like I would I would say it's pretty insignificant.
I mean, I but I've never done like chemical testing loads.
But but I've always found that, you know, like like people think that the food in the
store is somehow clean or something.
But, you know, like like if it came from a foreign country, there's all kinds of
emissions and all kinds of stuff all over that.
So so when you're thinking of it and you think like food from the store is clean, but
this stuff from the budget parking lot is not.
It's like in my in my opinion, you know, it's not there's not that much difference
between it, you know.
And if you're worried about contamination, L.A.
B is your friend.
Yeah. Yeah.
L.A. B does kind of clean up everything.
That's really true.
It's funny, you know, luckily I live on an island that is quite natural.
And so there's a lot of things that I can wildcraft locally.
But but it's always it always cracks me up when, you know, somebody is pushing me on
this or that organic use.
And then, you know, we break for lunch and they go and they get, you know, chicken
teriyaki, you know, on rice and and, you know, no part of that is organic or clean.
And I'm like, well, you know, we're all we're all making our choices on which things
we're going to hold to a high standard and which things we are not.
We just want to. But but when it comes to, you know, if you're going to be growing in
the city in the first place, adding can F inputs that are local as well, they're
probably not going to be too far distant.
Yeah, well, I mean, but but don't but don't like, you know, the listeners don't take
that to mean like go to some like nuclear radiation dump and from there, you know, like
garbage in its garbage out, right?
You know, like within your reason.
Right. Yeah. Yeah, totally.
The same reason we don't want to use, you know, straw that's been sprayed or wood chips
that, you know, the city has sprayed or something.
It's like, you know, get get the best you have available.
But but also one of one of my things I usually call it rule zero is don't let it stop
you from growing. If the only thing you have available to you is is some
stuff, you know, like start fermenting it, get LAP in there and start growing.
You know, like don't let it stop you from growing and say, well, I can't do this
because everything I get is contaminated.
I mean, just just are you know, the other the other day I was posting about gathering
seawater and people were like, isn't Fukushima leaking in there?
Aren't you going to get poisoned?
And I'm like, well, yeah, but I mean, aren't we all, you know, like don't don't let
that don't let that stop me.
I'm not going to gather seawater just because Fukushima is leaking into the sea.
You know, but I'm here in Hawaii.
I'm not going to gather it right at Fukushima to use it.
Right. You know, so so there's these degrees of like, you know, we live in a
contaminated world is the truth.
I think that's a great example.
It's amazing how often I hear people about resist seawater fermentation because of
that or or also FFA.
Right. And they're like, oh, I wouldn't use anything out of the ocean.
I'm like, well, then, you know, it's kind of the best we've got at this point with
what we've done to the world. And being well, to use that word again, being
dogmatic may not serve us in the bigger picture all the time.
And and don't don't discount the the microbes ability to neutralize
contaminants, like if I gather something and it's in and it has emissions on it,
like if I gather dandelions from a parking lot and they have emissions on it through
the fermentation process, it may be a little bit slower because it's contaminated.
But those microbes will to a degree and I'm not sure scientifically, but they will
neutralize those toxins a bit.
And so your actual end result after fermentation is actually less toxic than your
starting product.
Yeah, I got I get that.
That makes a lot of sense to me.
I, you know, some of the places that I help patients garden, they're on the they're
on the city water on the island, you know, the downtown water.
And it's got chloramine in it.
Right. And and regular chlorine, you can let it sit out overnight or mix it a little
bit and the chlorine will off gas.
But chloramine does not off gas.
And so I recommend folks really just, you know, fill up a big bucket and then and
then put some quality compost into it and let the the natural the humates in the
compost will grab that chloramine and neutralize it.
And I think that there's probably a lot of that activity going on when we're making
these fermentations as well.
There are natural protectants in it that are part of their job is going to be to to
render these these what we'll call contaminants in earth.
Exactly. And what you mentioned where you have the humates in the humic and fulvic
acids like absorb these things.
It's the same for folks growing in salty soil and these humics and they'll they'll
grab things. And this this is the same reason why in natural farming we build soil
foundation, because what the microbes are creating in your soil are these humates.
And that's what you know, if so, say, say you have great soil foundation and now
you're watering this chloramine water on it, that the humates in your rich, good
soil foundation are actually processing those toxins before it gets to your plant.
So that's another reason, you know, that you brought brought that up, that that's a
bit of Korean natural farming is the soil and the humates.
Humates. Right on.
Right on. So let's go ahead and take our first short break and be right back.
You're listening to Shaping Fire.
And my guest today is natural farming educator Eric Drake Weinert.
If you listen to Shaping Fire and you grow your own cannabis, chances are high that
you are very particular about the inputs you use for growing.
People like us painstakingly self-educate on cannabis nutrients and techniques so we
can cultivate the best tasting and cleanest flowers possible.
And when we go to purchase those nutrients, we want to be sure that our supplier
shares our values and is providing exceptional quality.
This is why I recommend buildasoil.com to my friends who care about quality.
Build A Soil empowers organic growers to do their best work by sourcing and shipping
only the finest cannabis growing supplies.
From organic inputs, soils, soil testing and pots, to lights, growing tents, sprayers
and cover crops, Build A Soil founder Jeremy Silva doesn't just stock his store with
what's available.
He goes deep to personally vet each product for quality and determine that there isn't
a better version of the product that he could be selling.
Because of this arduous process, you know that your options on buildasoil.com have been
carefully curated to create the results you are looking for.
Not only that, but the Build A Soil way is a philosophy that will permeate your
interaction with the company.
From website design to pricing and shipping to after purchase support, Jeremy and his
team always strive to do their best and give you the best customer service in the
business.
Check out buildasoil.com today for top tier quality cultivation supplies and a friends
and family buying experience.
And check out their educational videos and extraordinary social media while you're
there too.
Quality organic growing supplies at buildasoil.com.
For 20 years, Humboldt Seed Company has been family owned and providing reliable,
high yielding seeds originating in Northern California.
While the current trend is to slap one super male into a line of hype strains, Humboldt
Seed Company continues to breed with precision and care by doing large sifts and
back crosses to emphasize the absolute best traits that a line has to offer.
This kind of breeding takes time, talent, and space to work.
No matter what kind of aroma you are particularly into, Humboldt Seed will likely
have something you'll love.
If you love fruit, you can choose from banana, mango, apricot, papaya, blueberry,
blood orange, melon, and lemons across their various strains.
They have all gas, glue, and classic sour diesel lines as well.
Of course, there are the heritage California strains like OG Kush, Jack Herr and
Headband, and their award winning blueberry muffin is one that delights just about
everybody's palate, especially when concentrated.
Humboldt Seed Company is proud to bring to market the infamous freak show cultivar
2, which has a great THC high, but looks so much like a fern that some folks can't
even identify it as cannabis.
It's a plant that really needs to be seen to be believed.
If you're looking for well balanced CBD seeds, Humboldt Seed Company can turn you
on to CBD strains that actually have flavor like the dill and pepper terpenes of
Willie G's Lebanese landrace.
Whether you are looking for regular, feminized, or auto flowers, Humboldt Seed
Company has the gear to make this your best growing cycle ever.
Visit humboldtseedcompany.com today to check out their line of vigorous genetics,
download their catalog, and find out where you can pick them up.
You can also check out their Instagram at the humboldtseedcompany to check out their
gorgeous flowers and the extraordinary freak show plant.
Humboldt Seed Company, let them know Shango sent ya.
One of the reasons why no-till cannabis growing is so valued by farmers is because
the mycelium networks in the soil remain established from year to year.
And we know these fungal networks are essential because they are the nutrient
superhighways that extend far and wide in the substrate to feed your plants.
The trouble with growing in new soils or blended cocoa substrates is that it takes
most of the plant's life just to create these mycelium highways.
Dynomyco-endomycorrhizal fungi inoculant reduces that time and gets your plant
eating a wider array of nutrients faster.
And it's three times the concentration of the current leading brand in the US at
900 propagules per gram of two fungal species selected specifically for cannabis
cultivation.
This new product called Dynomyco is the result of 30 years of research and trials at
the Volcani Agriculture Research Institute in Israel.
It has also been vigorously trialed by cannabis and food growers across the US since
the product first arrived here last year.
You may have already even heard about Dynomyco by its original name, Dynamike.
Now, Dynomyco is available at grow shops and online in the United States for the first
time. I love using Dynomyco to both speed up the growth of mycelium networks in the
soil, but also as a biostimulant to make clone cuttings more virile.
You can see side by sides showing the comparative growth on their Instagram at
Dynomyco. If you demand reliable growing results and appreciate the importance of an
active root zone in creating a thriving plant, I encourage you to check out Dynomyco
at Dynomyco.com and find out where you can get yours.
That's D-Y-N-O-M-Y-C-O dot com.
Whether you are starting with new beds or pots, or if you want to add some zing to
tired soil, choose Dynomyco to maximize your plant's potential.
Dynomyco Endomycorrhizal Inoculant.
Welcome back. You are listening to Shaping Fire.
I'm your host, Shango Lose.
And our guest this week is natural farming educator, Eric Drake-Weinert.
So, Drake, let's talk about collecting indigenous microorganisms for a moment for
indoor growers.
You know, the information on why to use IMO and how to do it outdoors, that
information's pretty well available.
But one of the questions I always get from basement or tent growers is, should they be
collecting the microbes literally in their basement in the rice box?
Or should they still go out into nature and collect the outdoor microbes and bring
them back to their tent in the hopes of kind of infusing the tent with more life?
I mean, that's a good question on this.
And the whole key for the IMO process is diversity.
So one of the reasons you're going out to a forest to go grab it is that in a forest
there's a lot of diversity.
It's usually a polyculture.
There's a lot of detritus kind of decaying on the ground, which is a great rich food
source, which encourages a lot of fungal diversity.
And some old growth forests have microbes that are just ages and ages old.
Like one interesting fact is that, or not fact, but idea is that as one week of my
time, like for me, one week occurred.
And if you scale that down to the microbes and their size, it's one week for them is
about 10,000 years.
And so, so if you think of one week elapsed and it's like, oh, well, a few things
changed for the microbes.
10,000 years have changed.
Multi-generations, all these things.
And so when you go grab the microbes from the forest, they've been going through this
for thousands and thousands of years, like, like, you know, equivalent.
And so going out to a forest and getting these microbes brings in these strong fungal
microbes.
So I believe if you're in a, if you're in an indoor situation or you're indoors, I
think that going out to a, to an intact growing forest is very beneficial to bring
this diversity that if you think of your indoor area, you know, usually you're
cleaning it each time.
And so you're, you're resetting your microbes back to like brand new, right?
Each time you're cleaning things and you're not getting this generational
knowledge that's out in the forest.
But I also bring that to that.
You should probably do multiple collections.
Some, one of those being a really nice, fungally rich forest area around you.
One being right, right in your very localized area, like within a hundred feet of
where you're growing, that's the richest area you can find.
And then if you're indoors, one right indoors, or if you're outdoors, it'd be
right in the field where you're growing.
So, so by taking these, these three collections, which, which don't limit
yourself to just three, you could, you could do more than this, but with these
three collections, you're getting the, the granddaddy educators from the forest.
You're then getting the best guys from your nearby vicinity.
And then you're getting the third collection, which is your, right in your
growing area.
So whatever's adapted there, that's, that's the best.
And then by taking those, those collections from those three areas, you can then
combine them later into like when you're activating IMO, like an IMO three process
where you're making a Bokashi out of it.
You can combine those in there and the best of all those worlds will harmonize
and reproduce with each other and come out with even more diversity that's tuned
even more to your region.
So you can also take those and make them into a compost tease if you're
going to go liquid route.
So, so, so by having multiple IMO collections of, of those areas, you're
going to get the best of all worlds happening.
I love that idea.
And, and I also love that it did not occur to me to do multiples and then, and
then mix them up.
I think that I would really enjoy doing those three collections and then putting
those three collections together at the same time on a, on a, um, Microscope
slide and watching them to see who outcompetes whom, um, certainly it would
happen differently in the soil, but gosh, it would be really interesting to take
these, you know, these, these, you know, old growth forest, Yoda microbes and
introduce them to some like, you know, city, tough microbes, and then with
whatever the hell is in the basement, you know, just to see, see how they interact.
Anyway, that'd be cool.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And I think you're going to get the best of all worlds.
And so you're going to get like those, when those microbes breed with each
other, you're going to get things that you couldn't otherwise have.
So when, when collecting IMO properly outside, you know, sometimes I'll see
these like gorgeous white uniform, you know, fuzzy collections and I'm like,
oh, they really did it right.
That's, that's, that's a beautiful thing.
And then, and then sometimes I see some color splotches and, and then sometimes
I see different color splotches and those are bad, but the first color splotches
they're like, oh, that's just microbe variety.
So, so what is the benchmark or is there a benchmark or a, um, um, a, a thumb
approach, thumbnail approach to knowing like, like when it's, when it's solid
white and it looks fluffy and beautiful, we generally know that we did it right.
But how do we know if our colored splotches on it are probiotic splotches
or actually contaminant splotches?
Well, that's, that's a good question on the, on the, in terms of like what,
what, what makes a good collection.
Um, the, the interesting thing of this is that when you're, when you know, when
you get that great collection, you're saying, and you see all the, the white,
like spider web, it looks like almost cotton balls kind of like it's that it's
that thick and like, um, what you're seeing there, those microbes that you're
actually visually seeing are not actually the microbes you want per se.
Like, like they're just, they're, they're mostly, I don't know the exact genus,
but there's about three different varieties like Bacillus subtilis and
something else.
There's these three microbes that are the predominant ones, but those, even
though you see them, those aren't really what you want, but it indicates that you
have a good collection because when those are thriving and they're growing, it
means their partners, the ones that are smaller, the diverse soil microbes that
you've collected into your starch source are the ones that you want.
So, so it's like, if you see the white, the white fuzz growing, it means that
the other microbes that are in tandem with it or in, in this symbiosis, in this
same collection are the ones you want.
So, so it's, it, the thing about IMO collection is you're collecting these
very subtle things that microbes that we don't know that much about them.
We know a lot about those three or four genuses, but we don't know about these,
these soil microbes.
They're, it's largely a mystery to all known science.
Wow.
And so, so, so, so what, so when you see that white stuff, you know, like, and
it's, and it's, you can't even like DNA sequence it really to say, well, we found
this and that because the, the, the three, the, the big three will be there, but the
subtlety and the diversity in those smaller ones in those, those, the lesser
ones are, are unknown to us.
So the white fuzz is kind of an indicator species.
It's like, Hey, if you've got the white fuzz, what you're actually
trying to collect is probably here.
And if you're not getting any white fuzz, since they are partners with our actual
target microbes, if you're not collecting white fuzz, you're probably not
getting the target stuff as well.
I like that.
And I actually, I didn't understand that.
So, so how, so what would you deem a, a, a negative splotch?
Like if you, if, if you were talking to a new student and they said, oh, I've got
these splotches, how would you help them think through whether or not the, the
contaminants or the splotches are, are good.
And it's, it's yet another indicator that there's an active microbe life or you're
like, oh no, that's gone bad.
You got to throw that away.
Well, well, so, so really the, the other splotches and other things tend to be
like the, the other color things, like if you get in greens and yellows and these,
and even reds, red, red, you don't want red, red is the one color.
Like if it's red, you don't want it that like throw it away.
Like, like don't, you know, even compost, put it in your neighbor's compost.
Okay.
Like, like, um, um, but, uh, but those other, the other splotches, they're
largely to do with moisture content.
And this is the, this is where it becomes super tricky.
You got to kind of know your area, know the climate and just do, do a few
collections to really get a good one.
But it's, it's, it's whether your substrate is too wet or too dry.
One of the main major problems I find is that people will cook their rice and
they'll put it in the box and it's still hot and then they'll cover it.
And what happens is the, the, the rice still steam comes off.
It goes to the lid, whatever kind of lid you put on there, paper towel, whatever.
It forms droplets and it drips down and everywhere a water drip hits your rice.
That's where you'll get a green splotch or like a yellow splotch.
And what that is is too much water in that area.
And it became anaerobic.
And, um, and so, so, but what I, what I tell people with that is, is that really
what it comes down to is it's an 80, 20 rule, meaning that, that if you go and
you get a hundred percent like white, awesome collection, I've done that maybe
like four or five, six times in my life.
And I've probably collected, you know, a hundred, 200 of these things.
So it's not like even, even I'm not getting the white every time.
Really what I'm getting is what I call the 80, 20 rule, where if I look at it,
80% of the rice looks nice and white and kind of, um, my, you know, that the
cotton candy coming and then there's 20% of it is, is different color.
That's a good collection because I'm actually, those anaerobes are to a degree
part of this, you know, the, the whole.
Picture.
And, and it's, it's about keeping them in balance.
And when I go to propagate them further, it's not like if I got an 80, like an 80%
good collection, then when I grow it out, I'm going to grow that 20%, you know,
that, that contamination is going to take over my pile.
It's not the case.
Usually the good ones, the beneficial ones under ideal conditions will
dominate in, in later propagation stages of IMO, they'll eliminate those, those
green guys are the ones that I don't need, you know, as conditions permit.
Yeah.
That makes sense.
Yeah.
Go ahead.
Yeah.
So, so even without the world's best collection, it's not, it's, it's not the
end of the world.
It's, it's, it's really, really the, the, the collections I would say are no good
are ones that when you like pick it up and it's soggy, like, like really, like
when I have really good collections, I can take the rice out of the box and hold it
from one corner and like shake it.
And it stays together because it's completely my ciliated out and the fungal
things are just holding it together so tightly that it's, it's like a, like,
um, what, what do they call it?
Not toe.
Like it's a Japanese, you know, when you cut that open, it's like a paste.
It's like a brick, right?
Yeah, totally.
It's that type of activity that you want.
You want that brick kind of stuff.
If you ever get mush, mushy, soggy, that's not the, those are
the collections that you don't want.
So, so let's shift a little bit from IMO back over to, um, liquid preparations
because I want to talk a little bit about, um, about storing because I can't
believe I'm the only one who's made a can F fermented preparation and then have
it go bad, what I feel is prematurely.
Um, and I, and, you know, sometimes we want a permeable lid and sometimes
we want a sealed lid and sometimes we want it in the fridge.
Um, but sometimes we really just want it in a cool dark place.
Walk us through how to think about storage of these
essentially living preparations.
Um, what, okay.
Yeah.
Storage storage is a great consideration.
I know, I know you talked about it last time with Chris a bit, but when, when
you're done making a, a ferment, like a fermented plant juice, um, I, what I,
and, and so similar with the IMO, it's, there's a concept called super
saturation and, and, and what, what, what I mean in this context is that what
happens is every, um, water molecule is bound with a sugar molecule, um, in,
in, in this, in this form and actually sugar holds up whole bunch of water
around it, it's, it's really thirsty in the way that chemically holds water.
Um, and so what, what happens in, into, in preservation and natural farming,
if you're having stuff go bad, it's usually that you didn't add enough
sugar to, to balance out all the water.
So, so like the classic adage that water is life.
If there is available water in my solution, that's not bound with a
sugar, life will find that and it will eat the water and as it eats that water,
it'll degrade my product further, which will eventually cause, cause spoilage.
But if I'm able to add enough sugar in there, just similar to making a, um,
a jelly or a jam preserve where they add so much sugar that then it preserve,
this is the same concept.
And, and what I, the analogy I like to draw for folks is it's
like Han Solo in carbonite.
So, so literally like he Han Solo is, is frozen in carbonite and he's just frozen
there.
Right.
And, but, but when, then when Luke comes and defrost them, you know, that the
force reawakens, you know, he comes back, right.
Right.
And, and it's this similar concept that by adding sugar into your solution and
sugar is carbon, you're essentially putting carbonite in freezing all the
microbes in these things that later when you dilute them with water, that, that,
that carbon, the sugar becomes a food source.
The carbon's dissolved enough that you're freed from this prison and now they can,
they're, the nutrients haven't been degraded in this process.
So, so it's really about super saturating with enough sugar and, and you gotta just
add sugar until you see it settle out.
And I, I have, I have some good videos on that, um, about how, you know, it's, it's
a visually see because once you see it and you know, super saturation, it's like,
okay, I know how to preserve anything now.
Yeah.
Once, once you've seen it done, you're like, Oh, I understand.
This is like a whole plugin for my brain.
Um, I'm sorry.
So, so, you know, a lot of folks like to show off their confidence in their
ferments by drinking them.
And, and some people just do it straight up with nutrients generally, but, but many
folks don't seem ready to really use their preparations internally.
Um, well, especially in these days of the coronavirus pandemic, will OHN help
strengthen the human immune systems?
Is it, is it beneficial to drink, for example, like labs and how, what standard
would you use for newbies trying to figure out if their stuff is successful
enough to go ahead and drink internally?
Well, well, well, first I just preface by saying I'm not a doctor, it's not
medical advice or anything, but, but just based on my, my practice and my, my
things that I've experimented and, and things I've heard from other people that
have tried, um, number one is smell it.
It don't, don't, don't just put it in your mouth, smell it.
If, if it smells okay, like, like it shouldn't smell like rotting eggs,
vomit, death, or poop.
If it smells those four smells, don't put it in your mouth.
Um, and just say it's, I don't know.
It's, you know, just don't, don't, don't use that one internally.
But if it doesn't have those smells, then you, then tasting, you know, I, I, I drink
fermented plant juice, the, the, the food, can of food all the time.
I, I, I make it from all kinds of different things.
And that's, and what I do is I add it to my water to flavor it.
So I'll just, you know, and it's essentially, it's like an old, old soda
recipe, that's what soda used to be was these extracts and sugar.
And, and that's, you know, people used to make all these different
syrups from these things.
And, um, so, so I'll, I'll use it to drink.
It's great and energizing.
Um, and then when I get into LAB, um, usually I, I find that it's as, so I got
a, I got a story that I made it a leader, like a court jar.
I think that a leader, whatever, a leader jar of this stuff.
And I gave it to my friend to, for a month supply to try.
And he drank the entire jar in one day.
Oh, wow.
So he drank a month supply plus all that sugar.
And I was like, how do you feel?
And he's like, uh, you know, um, but, but he drank this and he was fine.
So, so I don't believe that you can overdose on LAB.
The, the problem is if you take too much LAB is that LAB will eat the food of
your indigenous microorganisms and they're really powerful, so let's just wrestle
away the food from your indigenous microbes.
So if you're looking to build a lot of indigenous gut biota or indigenous
microbes everywhere, you got to use LAB and balance, but for human consumption,
my own consumption, I've, I've seen you, I, my friend didn't overdose and I've,
and I just add it a little bit, you know, and it's, and in a healthy person,
LAB should be about 30% of your microbes.
So if you're always adding this LAB in, you're going to boost your immune
system just based on that, that LAB helps all the other indigenous microbes in a way.
And then, and then, yeah, go ahead.
No, I didn't.
I thought you were done.
Go ahead, please.
Finish.
Oh, oh.
And then, and then to go in to go into the last, the last bit about the OHN is that
the, the cool thing about that is that it's all these different herbs and they've
just been fermented and then tinctured.
And so the nice thing is that unlike other medicines, like, like, um, you, you
can't, um, you can take it regularly and it basically just boosts your immune system
So imagine your immune system just going up a level and then it does it, but it's
not like a peak that it's going to fall from.
It just raises it up that it will stay there.
And with regular use, it's just all those things help you digest better.
And, um, um, you know, they're, they're, they're proven antipathogens, you know,
garlic, supercharged pathogens.
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah.
So when you were explaining that, I actually got this, um, corny idea in my
head that, you know, if, if we spray beneficial microbes on the outside of the
plant, so that beneficial microbes take up residence on the tops and the bottom of
our leaves, which makes it a less hospitable environment for say, for example,
powdery mildew to come in, land on a leaf.
They can't really do it as much because it's already populated heavily by
beneficial microbes.
Um, it makes it occur to me that maybe I should be doing lab foliar on myself in
these days of Corona virus so that, um, you know, that that's less possible that I,
I touch anything or anything gets on me that, that eventually finds its way into,
you know, my eyes or my mouth.
Now, now seriously, you know, again, we are not doctors, but you know, if we're
talking about natural systems and if my body is already covered in microorganisms,
I would think that the more supercharged my skin is with lactobacillus acid and
other potential beneficial microbes that I become less of an environment for, for
pests, if you will.
Oh, this is absolutely true.
I, um, so, so I actually use lactic acid bacteria in my laundry.
So, so not only, so, you know, each time I do laundry, I just pour in about an
ounce or so, I don't know.
I just pre pour it in there just to, just to inoculate it.
So it helps to clean your, your clothes.
And then, and then when I'm putting that on, um, I'm getting this microbial armor
in my clothes and you know, if I ever sweat or anything, those microbes will eat
it up.
So I don't, I don't stink at all.
And, and I think of it as, um, you know, yeah, it's, it's, it's, so my clothes are
washed in it.
And then yesterday, since, you know, since Corona virus is hot right now, I don't
really want to like play too much into that.
But, but yesterday when I went out to the hardware store, I, I, and I actually went
Costco as well, which is like a, you know, this is one place you're going to get
infection.
It's probably, there's a Petri dish.
Yeah.
Right.
So, so when I got home, I immediately took, um, you know, a bowl, filled it with
water, poured in a, uh, you know, a little bit of lacto, got it and it started up
and just, just rubbed it all over my body.
Every like, like my whole face, my arms, everywhere that it was exposed, I just
rubbed it on just so any, any pathogen I picked up on that expedition, I come home
the LAB is what I translated LAB into is can F police.
So any pathogen that's like a thug or a gangster that's going to cause trouble to
me, it's like, I'm just putting the police all over myself.
And so they're just going to go and think, think of like non-corrupt police
because they're well fed.
Okay.
You know, I mean, sometimes we think police, we think, Oh God,
police allies.
Got it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But I bet imagine beneficial police.
Okay.
Like, like just imagine this ideal world out there.
Right.
And, and I put, so I put all these microbes, which act as police officers
all over me, so any, any thug was, was, was processed.
So I, so I felt like that, that was my kind of biosecurity to come like, how, how
am I going to come back into my home and not bring this pathogen with me if I was
exposed?
Well, I just treat it with a beneficial microbe that will eat the food of that
one and or eliminate that one from the system.
Wow.
I love that idea.
And it totally makes me want to take some of my labs and put them in a spray bottle
and, you know, spray them on myself to finish a shower or something or, you know,
cause, um, you know, I, I live in Washington, right.
And, and we are the epicenter of coronavirus and, and, you know, my whole
Island is locked down.
The churches are closed.
The schools are closed.
It's pretty much, even though I don't want to like play into the fear aspect, it's a
constant daily reminder, you know, I mean, I'm, I'm, I'm essentially on voluntary
isolation at home just because I don't want to be a vector or get sick myself.
And, uh, and it'd be interesting to, to add to that with giving myself foliar and
adding this layer of, of, you know, body protectants to my, to my outside.
And, you know, even though it's new to me, um, I bet you, you know, back to the land
folks have been doing this for a long ass time.
Yeah.
I mean, lack lactobacillus is actually proven in meat processing facilities to be a
better cleanser to get rid of pathogens than bleach in, in, in longterm.
So, so, so you mentioned that in, in, you know, um, so we, my, my family, we, we had
a meeting last night, we discussed biosecurity and, and part of that is, you
know, every, every day or at least once a week, I'm going around the property and
spraying lactobacillus just for my plants, but that's creating a, a, a safe zone around
here where, where even if, if neighbors were contaminated, that stuff, you know,
if that micro floats to there and lands, it's, it's going to be processed by this
LAB.
Dude, that's totally cool.
I'm really glad that that came up, even though I wasn't looking for it too.
So, um, let's go ahead and have our second break.
I'm really excited about this last set.
Um, I posted out, uh, to a bunch of listeners, letting them know that I was
going to talk to you and, and asked for their questions.
And so I've got a handful of those that we're going to go through after this
break.
Um, you are listening to Shaping Fire and my guest today is natural
farming educator, Eric Drake Weiner.
This message is for folks who grow cannabis.
I'm talking to home growers, patients and commercial growers too.
I'm probably talking to you.
When you plan out your next growing cycle, be sure to check out Humboldt CSI
seeds at Humboldt CSI.com.
Caleb Inspecta and his family have lived in Humboldt County for over a hundred
years.
For the last 40 years, three generations of his family have cultivated
extraordinary sensamea cannabis in Humboldt, Mendocino and Trinity counties.
Because of his lineage and the hard earned experience that comes from growing
up, smoking and sifting large populations of cannabis plants in Northern
California, the seeds you'll cop from CSI will be winning genetics based on
long time, heavy hitters and updated and re-sifted to bring out new and exotic
traits and better yields.
Go ahead and ask around.
Caleb, also known as Inspecta and Pirates of the Emerald Triangle is a breeders
breeder.
He reaches way back and works with significant strains, recreating them in
new and interesting ways that you'll love as a toker and a grower, as well as
offering you some surprises that will delight serious seed traders and
cultivators.
Humboldt CSI goes a further step and selfs all these chemovars so you know all
the seeds will be female.
These are not experimental feminized seeds.
Humboldt CSI releases some of the best female seeds available anywhere and it
will show in your garden.
Folks grew quite a bit of CSI Humboldt GenX last year here on Vashon Island and
everyone was pleased.
The patients had beautiful female plants and didn't have to call half of their
garden as males.
The folks growing for the fun of getting high grew colorful flowers with
exceptional bag appeal and great highs and breeders had seven out of seven
females in a pack, which gave them a lot of phenotypic choices.
Take a moment right now and visit humboldtcsi.com.
You'll find an up to date menu of both feminized and regular lines along with
photos and descriptions.
That's humboldtcsi.com.
Growing cannabis in greenhouses is taking over the cannabis industry.
An efficient and effective blend of sunshine grown terpene profiles and the
controlled environment of indoor greenhouses can be the best of both
worlds.
For many greenhouse operators though, building their greenhouse before gaining
insight into how cannabis greenhouses differ from ornamental crops can be the
start of a world of hurt.
Eric Brandstad and his team at Greenhouse Advisory Group have the experience and
technical know-how to help you avoid these pitfalls.
Eric Brandstad has been helping cannabis growers find locations, design, build,
and equip their greenhouses for over a decade.
First starting in Northern California, but expanding over the last five years to
helping clients throughout the world.
He has an impeccable reputation for both depth of knowledge and kindness in
communication.
You can hear Eric explain some of the challenges facing cannabis greenhouses
and how to overcome them in episode number 41 of the Shaping Fire podcast.
No matter where I go in the country, good people with smart backgrounds still are
making the mistake of building without knowing cannabis and it causes them to
burn through capital and time fast.
Everyone has their own failure point.
For some it is improper ventilation planning.
For others it is surface temperatures of the building or the plant's leaves or
both.
Some folks that build their greenhouse from scratch make really basic errors
like placement of the greenhouse on the property or not understanding the
natural environment where the greenhouse sits.
Some have even built a decent greenhouse but are inefficient in their deployment
of light deprivation techniques and never really hit their target yields.
It's great when you learn from your mistakes, but it's even better when you
learn from the mistakes of others.
When you bring on Greenhouse Advisory Group, you will learn from the mistakes of
their many clients and you'll take advantage of the best practices developed
by Eric Brandstad over his years of working with clients just like you.
From location development to choosing a builder and tricking out your new
greenhouse or retrofitting or rescuing your failing greenhouse, Eric will help
you through it.
Visit GreenhouseAdvisoryGroup.com to learn more and connect with Eric and his
team.
That's Greenhouse Advisory Group.
Did you know that Shaping Fire has a fabulous YouTube channel with content not
found on the podcast?
When I attend conventions or speak or moderate panels, I always record them and
bring the content home for you to watch.
The Shango Los YouTube channel has world-class speakers, including Kevin
Jodry of Wonderland Nursery talking about breeding cannabis for the best terpene
profile, Nicholas Mahmood on regenerative and polyculture cannabis growing, Dr.
Sunil Agarwal on the history of cannabis medicine around the world.
Ben Cassidy of True Terpenes on using terpenes for health in your everyday
life, Reggie Godino of Steep Hill on the cannabis genome, and Jeff Lowenfels on
the soil food web.
There are several presentations from Dr.
Ethan Russo on terpenes and the endocannabinoid system, and even my own
presentation on how to approach finding your dream job in cannabis and why we
choose cannabis business even though the risks are so high.
As of today, there are over 100 videos that you can check out for absolutely
free.
Go to youtube.com forward slash shango los or click on the link in this week's
newsletter.
Welcome back.
You are listening to shaping fire.
I'm your host shango los and our guest this week is natural farming educator,
Eric Drake Weinert.
So I'm looking forward to this last set, Eric.
We're going to get you all over the place.
Um, because I asked, uh, listeners of the show, uh, to comment on some of the
specific things in can F that they have a question about that they have never
found online or heard mentioned in another interview.
So we're going to kind of bounce around from topic to topic, but these are really,
these are really specific questions.
So, uh, you might find these entertaining.
All right.
So let's start, um, with this one.
So most of the can F literature seems to be written for forested areas with the
spread of cannabis cultivation to every part of the country.
People are making can F preparations to use on their crops everywhere.
How should wild crafting and can F preparations adapt for dry and high desert
environments where nearly none of the typical can F plants are indigenous.
Um, especially when trying to collect, um, um, IMO in the dryness of the desert.
So essentially the question is how should we adapt any of these ideas we've talked
today in hot, dry environments?
Oh, that's, well, that's, that's a great question.
Cause I've been working with folks up in, um, Bend, Oregon, and, uh, it's, it's
pretty deserty up there.
And so they have these, these similar challenges also been working
with a few folks in Israel.
Um, so if you actually on my microbial secret, uh, society podcast, um, I did
two episodes with Sam Bevans and we talked about can F in the desert specifically
of how to do it, you know, how to do these collections, but ideally, you know,
if, if you're in the desert and you're trying to collect IMO, there are tons
of IMOs in the desert, if you look at the desert, um, sand, it's, it's, it
actually creates this crust that you'll see living on the top.
And those are, those are microbes that form this micro crust to be there.
The difference, like I was saying earlier about microbial collection is that it's
about moisture content, whether you're successful or not.
And so, because you're in a desert, you may need to, um, have your rice be a
little bit more moist and, or what, what I learned directly from master Cho for
collecting the desert is to go to that area before you're going to collect.
And for a week before every day, use what we call the maintenance solution.
So that's fermented plant juice with, um, OHN, uh, brown rice
vinegar and a structure in it.
Or, or, um, W's.
Yeah.
Anyway, I don't want to get into the acronyms, but, but it's the, it's the
maintenance solution that you would use.
And what that is, is it's a bunch of bio stimulants that with that moisture for,
for a week before you're watering that area, it's increasing a lot
of the biological activity.
But then when you go to set your collection box in that area, um,
then you don't water it because you want to bio stimulate this area, but then you
want the toughest guys that have been encouraged to be strengthened to then
go into your collection box.
So, so there's ways of like kind of watering and pre stimulating the area,
but you don't want to like get the weak guys by, by watering it at
the same time you're collecting.
Um, so, so there's lots of, lots of tips like that, but we, we went really,
really into the desert because more and more of the earth's becoming a desert
every day, so, um, very, very vital.
Right on.
So anybody who's like, especially into that, make sure that you double back to,
uh, to Drake's, um, microbial secret society podcast and listen to that in full.
So, um, so let's take another one.
So the question is when we are working our way from IMO one, the collection to
IMO four, um, bringing it up to scale, how best do we grade the result of each
stage so that we know we have a good product before moving on to the next level?
Well, so yeah, that's, that's a great question.
And, and going, going from your, your initial collection of IMO one, which,
which I call a seed IMO collection.
So that, that we kind of covered in the show of, of looking, you know, you're
looking for that, that white cotton candy kind of stuff, and at least 80% good of,
of where it's 80% kind of whitish 20% colors mixed in.
And then when you pick it up, you want it to be very firm, not mushy.
So that's, that's number one.
Number two, as you're moving that, what I call that is just preserve seed IMO,
where you're putting it into sugar and there's really no gradient there.
The only thing, you know, you know, you can't really evaluate it
because it's sleeping, it's hibernating.
The only thing you want to watch for is if it's not sleeping.
So if I store my IMO and all this, and after a day or two, after I've added the
equal parts of sugar to the, to, to storing it, um, if it starts bubbling,
that means it's still active and it's not sleeping.
So if I store that for a prolonged amount of time and it's still active, it will
degrade and I, and I won't have it happening.
So as long as your IMO two, your, your, your preserve seed IMO is not bubbling,
you can just take that as like, it's, it's good because you saw it at the one stage.
There's, there's really not a way to evaluate it other than waking it up
and putting it under a microscope.
So then when you're taking it up to the third stage and what we call this is
prop but getting IMOs or propagated IMO, you are, um, really at this stage,
this is when your nose knows.
So there are some visual indicators, but really it's about the smell.
And typically lately I've been using dog food and wood shavings, um, to,
to be a bulk substrate.
And when I first started, it smells kind of oily.
Like, you know, I'm just using pedigree dog food.
So, you know, it has that pedigree oily smell to it.
And in the wood shavings, you know, whatever wood shaving smell they had,
but within the first 24 to 48 hours, that smell goes away.
It's neutralized.
And what I end up with is a smell of a bakery, like fresh, fresh baked bread.
And, and as I'm turning the pile and keeping it below 120 degrees and
propagating it through this process, every time I go up to turn the pile,
I'm smelling it and I'm also feeling the temperature.
And so if the smell ever smells like wet asphalt, that's the, that's, um,
actinomyces.
And those are, those are an indication that your pile is getting too hot and
you're starting to grow the wrong microorganisms.
So what you want to do is turn the pile so that you don't have that smell and
the temperature is, is below 120 degrees.
And, um, and then out over the complexity, it usually here, here in Hawaii,
it's about a week process.
It'll go from that smell of the oily stuff to the fresh baked bread, then to a
smell of kind of like a really dank forest.
Like when you, when you go into, you know, like if you went into the Redwood
forest and you pick up a thing of soil and you smell that and that, that, that
forest, the smell that we have.
And that's an indication that the microbes you've propagated out are actually those
soil forest microbes that we wanted.
Not these high temperature.
I get, I call them like rave kids that are, you know, kind of strung out and
you produce the, the, the dirt, the soil kits, the 4-H kids is what I call those
guys.
Right on.
Well, that's a, that's a good, go ahead.
And then, and then, and then, well, and then, and then the same, the same thing,
that same smell, that same kind of patterning is the same for your four stage
where you're mixing an equal parts of soil to it.
You should, you should go through that same.
It should be kind of, um, you know, that, that forest floor smell and never that
actinomycene smell.
And again, that the temperature staying below 120 degrees.
So, so those are basically the, the, you know, smells, uh, temperature seeing
indicators.
And then other than that, you know, like if you really want to evaluate it, you got
to do like, you know, DNA testing and or the, the microscope microscopic tests.
But sometimes testing with a microscope, you're not going to see all these
beautiful fungal hyphy and all these things because they're in spore form.
You know, you know, like when they're in sugar, they, they go into these spores.
So, so you're not necessarily going to, you know, put it under a microscope and
just see all this great hyphy.
It may look like, oh, there's not that much happening here, but it's because
they're all spored out and they're, they're in their preserved form.
Um, it's not lost on me that, that everything that we're talking about that
we're making part of the test for it being good and a success is that it's got
smells that we like, you know, it seems like, um, you know, nature is no
fool in that, you know, the things that we are going to want to engage with
smells like, you know, bread and forest floor and sweet and things like that.
And things that, that smell like, you know, feces and rotting
are generally not what we want.
Um, it just brings me back to the same way that we generally like to buy cannabis,
which is the nose, nose, let your, let your body lead the way.
Yep.
Yep.
Yep.
And, and, and when you bring those similarities, it's, it's the same as,
so think of, think of us and our temperature.
If, if we're in temperatures above 120 degrees, we perish relatively quickly.
You know, and I'm talking Fahrenheit, you know, but, but, um, yeah, so, so same,
like, like if you put your hand into your micro pile and you can't leave it in
there for like a minute comfortably, you know, I mean, it's going to be warm,
right, but it's like a hot tub.
But if you, if you have to pull your hand out because it's, ah, it's burning hot.
If it's burning you, the microbes similar, they're, they're being burned as well.
So, so this analogy you bring of like us to them, it's, it's very, it's very similar.
Yeah.
I know.
So the, the next contributed question is, um, why is brown rice vinegar so special
compared to using other vinegars?
Oh, brown rice vinegar.
So, so largely in my practice right now, I am not using brown rice vinegar.
What I am using is a fruit vinegar.
So I, I, I get a lot of bananas and I'll ferment those into a vinegar.
And as long as the peach is below 2.4, I, you know, I got a vinegar and
there's a simple process to follow.
But that, that, that the reason for brown rice vinegar is that the brown rice and
also the fruits upon metabolization, when your body, when a, when a plant or a body
absorbs it, it tends to flip it from being an acidic condition into being an
alkalizing condition.
And I don't think that property is true for like Heinz white vinegar.
I think just because it's largely like acetic acid and I'm not sure, I'm not sure
on the scientific subtleties of what's happening.
But, but I've been told that the, the fruit vinegars or the grain vinegars are the ones
you want to use.
But in my, in my personal understanding of it, I really just recommend people make a
living vinegar.
So, so up in the Pacific Northwest, you know, making vinegar out of pears or apples
or, or plums or, you know, whatever fruits, strawberries, you know, blueberries, all
these, all these fruits would give you a really good vinegar.
But having your own living vinegar brings in so many more enzymes and amino acids and
all kinds of stuff that, that we don't even know about.
Vinegar is one of the most powerful tools.
Like when you put vinegar on a leaf surface, it actually creates more wax on the plant
surface, which makes it more resistant to things like powdery mildew or, you know,
bacterial leaf conditions.
And so vinegar, vinegar, having a living vinegar is I would say really vital.
And then making it from fruits or grains is the way to have this, this alkalizing
effect.
Right on.
That's more about vinegars than I've ever known.
And now, and now it actually sounds, and you're right, we do have a lot of late
season fruit on our trees that just goes bad.
And it would be really great to use those pears and apples to make, you know, custom
local vinegars that'll be, you know, packed with beneficial local microbes.
So, so this next question I almost didn't include.
And the question is, can we collect IMO in plastic if we only have access to treated
wood? And in my head, it's like, you know, look a little harder for untreated wood.
But the idea behind the question is, is pretty engaging.
So, so what, what if any impact would, would collecting in plastic have for our IMO?
Well, I often, I often see people try to use a plastic tub to, to collect IMO.
But, but one, one thing, one thing's for sure is that the plastic is non-breathable,
even, even on like on the micro level.
You know, it's like it doesn't let air through the same way as wood does.
And also the micro space is tighter, right?
In wood, even though it looks solid to us, if you really zoom in, there's a lot of
holes in it. And so microbes are able to pass through these natural materials.
So I would, I would say to, you know, what often actually what, what I find to be a
really good thing to use is go to your local thrift store and look for like a wicker
basket, like a, like an Easter basket or something, you know, you know, like how
woven out of grass basket type of thing.
Yeah.
And those are great choices that the, the idea of a cedar box, I, I, there are certain
reasons for it that it selects for certain microbes, but largely what we've been
using here in Hawaii, we even take a, like a, a piece of bamboo and cut it in half and
just put the rice in there.
Or I often use lauhala baskets or these other, you know, woven natural materials.
And of course, like, like what I recommend is, you know, if you're up there and you
like, like if you're in the Pacific Northwest and you got blackberries, the weave a
basket out of the blackberry vine and then collect in that, and you're getting even
more of this indigenous stuff in there.
So, so, so what I'm trying to get at with this and the plastic question is, is just
avoid the plastic.
The plastic is not your friend.
It's not breathable.
It's not, you know, like imagine you're pressed up against the plastic.
And furthermore, you're trying to get the microbes to move through your container,
like up into your rice.
Because I actually bury the thing significantly down in the, like in the
ground, especially if I'm in colder regions.
But, but plastic will not allow those microbes to move from the soil through the
container into the rice.
So largely, if you're collecting in a plastic container, majority of the microbes
you're seeing are actually from the air, which are not the soil microbes you're
looking for.
Wow.
That's really interesting.
I like, I like the elegance of your answer too, that it's not really about wood or
plastic.
It's definitely not plastic, but there's all these other solutions other than wood.
I like that.
Yeah, there's tons.
I mean, like, like, like I used to use cardboard boxes.
I don't, I don't really recommend that at all because like there's, there's better
things like these natural woven materials.
But, but like, like I said, don't let anything stop you.
So our next question is a listener asked what your thoughts are on non-dairy
alternatives for making LAB such as oat milk or bean milk?
Well, um, so LAB, LAB is the most prevalent microbe on, on earth in, in, in
the Milky Way, I would say it's the most powerful microbe in the Milky Way.
So it's kind of omnipresent everywhere.
And the recipe that we follow in, in Korean natural farming is a process of
putting out starch water to collect diverse LAB.
Then it goes through a process where we pour that into milk.
And what that does is my first starch water, I collected all kinds of everything,
but LAB grew the fastest.
So it's the highest population.
When I pour that into the milk, the milk eliminates all the other bacteria because
they can no longer digest the lactose sugar and only that really the LAB thrives at
that.
So what the second step of adding the culture, like the starch water into the
rice is a purification step.
So when, then when I pour that serum off and after it separates into the curds and
the whey, the whey is largely purely lactobacillus and there's not many other
bacteria in there.
So that, so that's the process we go through in natural farming with the milk.
It acts as a purification step.
So the question is, do you need that purification step?
Can you just leave the rice wash out and just catch the LAB in there and use that
as LAB?
The answer is yes, you can.
Like in, in, in Korea for animal farming, they're just taking rice bran and mixing
it into water and letting the LAB naturally come from the air and ferment and
it'll start bubbling after a day or two.
And they call that LAB.
But even though it's other contaminants, the difference is with that, you have a
shorter shelf life that if you don't do the purification through the milk, then you
can't really preserve it because you, the microbes don't settle down the same way
and there's too much water and all these other, other considerations.
So with that alone, by just mixing rice bran into water and stirring it up and
letting it sit out, you get an LAB.
So you could just every day on demand say, Oh, I'm going to make LAB next week, two
days before, mix it up, make it and use it.
And you don't have to go through this rice process.
So, so, so, excuse me, the milk process.
I follow you.
So, um, put differently, um, oat milk and bean milk are not recommended because they
are not lactose based milks.
Therefore they will not do the, the cleansing process that we intentionally use
animal milk for.
And if somebody for some reason wanted to make their LAB without dairy, causing them
to consider oat milk or bean milk, their real solution is just not to skip the milk
step and, and keep it with all of these other wild microbes in it.
Just use it more, just use it faster.
Well, yeah, well, to, to a degree, to agree to a degree.
Let me, let me clarify that a little bit because, um, um, saying that, you know, like,
like, so, so to, to go back a little bit, there is a way like Master Cho actually has
a recipe in his, his older book that I don't think's in publication anymore, but it
talks about, um, a preparation where you cook beans and, and then you put the beans
plus water in a jar and then you put that jar in your refrigerator and after about a
month, that is LAB.
So he's doing it with just straight up beans and, and through this process where
when you put it in a jar and you seal it that way, you create this anaerobic condition
where lactobacillus is facultatively anaerobic, meaning it can live with or
without oxygen.
And so the cooked beans sitting in the water in this anaerobic environment in your
fridge, the LAB will also predominate.
And by that you can also get a really pure LAB serum from bean milk type of thing.
And this, this is similar for other nut milks, although I'm not like someone was
asking me about almond milk the other day and I'm not like, I just, I just don't buy
almond milk.
So I haven't done the research myself to know.
Right on.
Fair enough.
Fair enough.
So the next listener question is how about fermenting mushrooms?
Is there something like an FMJ or something like a firm fermented mushroom
juice?
Yeah.
You, you, if, if your mushrooms are fresh, you could treat them just like a plant,
you know, plant material.
And, um, because mushrooms aren't very sweet, you don't need very much sugar.
So probably like about a third of the weight of your mushrooms could be sugar
because they just, they're not sweet.
Um, and then that will extract them out and you can make a fermented plant juice
that way out of the mushrooms for sure.
Um, and if your mushrooms are dried, you could follow us a similar process to how
we do it in the medicine or the OHN recipe where we mix in beer to reconstitute
them.
And then we act as if it was wet ingredients by fermenting after that.
Right on.
Um, so I like this question.
Lots of folks fail making their KNF concoction the first time they make it.
Sometimes we fail several times, even experienced folks.
What can you do with your KNF failures?
Let's say you make some FPJ and it gets moldy.
Does it go in the compost pile?
Same with the labs.
If it goes wrong, can any of the stuff be repurposed or is it just tossed?
Well, to answer that specifically, where you're saying you have an FPJ
and then it goes moldy.
If you're just talking about surface mold, that's growing on the very, very top of
the jar.
And sometimes you get white wispy things.
Sometimes like when I do ginger, sometimes I get, um, like green little films growing.
Those things, usually they're pretty, um, inert.
And if you see that type of mold growing on top, you can assume that your
fermentation underneath is done.
And usually what I do in that instance is I just pour it off and then super
saturate to preserve it.
So I, I'm not tossing those if there's a little mold or, or those things.
And if it is molding it, you know, maybe pull it earlier.
It's, is what it, you know, it's what it's indicating to you because
fermentation is complete.
Um, but largely all, all my things that I fail with, um, that's what I go over
to like the JADAM methods.
So it's, it's master chose son, um, young song Cho who basically developed a really
ultra low cost way of doing things.
And he'll take any of anything like plant material and just mix it with water in a
bucket and let it get nasty and then diluted enough that it, it doesn't cause
too many problems.
Although, although this, this is where, you know, if you're into food safety or
into medical grade cannabis and these things, you gotta watch out.
Like, I'm not, I'm not saying like, this is your solution for that, but, but it's a
way where, for instance, if you mess something up, you, you ferment it using
these techniques that, that young song Cho promotes and then use it to bioremediate
your local park, you know, like, like do, do some good for the community kind of
thing with your mistakes, you know,
totally.
My, my mistakes go to, uh, the base of my trees and such in the yard, because, you
know, there's a lot of this stuff I don't want to put on a cannabis plant that'll,
you know, we'll eventually get smoked or, you know, turned into a tincture or
something.
Um, but, but it's also not worthwhile to like dispose of as if it's hazmat and,
you know, you can put out something mediocre into the environment and the
environment will be stoked.
Yeah.
And really, really, really, it comes down to what, when it's a contaminant, it's, it
really has to do with concentration in this case.
And so, so if you're worried about, you know, it being a contaminant, spray some
LAB on it and, and dilute it enough.
And, and you know, that, that should take care of most, most problems.
I love how we use adding, you know, spray LAB on it as a solution for like
everything.
It reminds me of how everybody talks about CBD now, right?
It's like, Oh, it doesn't matter.
Just throw some lab on it.
You'll be all good.
Oh, pretty soon we're going to have gas station LAB.
Yeah.
So next question is, a listener says we have some areas where we can get fish
from for our FAA locally.
But those, those waterways are runoffs from Syngenta and Monsanto farms.
Are the fish safe to use or will there be residuals in the FAA to worry about?
Have you done any testing to confirm whether or not there are any residuals in,
in fish and how that may come out in the FAA?
That, that is, that's an interesting question that definitely be studied more
scientifically.
I, I wanna, I wanna bring up a different instance of this where I just, I had some
folks from Washington DC visiting me the other day and I opened up the fish and
they were like, you know, I had, I had a three month old batch and I had a year
old batch and you could smell the difference between them.
The three, three year old batch kind of, or excuse me, the three month old batch
kind of smelled still a little fishy, but the year old batch smelled really smooth
and sweet.
Like, like, you know, you, like it's hard, it's hard to describe smells through,
through, you know, but, but there was a difference in it.
And so what I was talking to them about is that one of my friends took his FAA
that he had done this process, he sent it to a lab to do path, pathogen testing.
And they said that his LAB, the raw fish and sugar that was put in a bucket at
room temperature had less pathogens than most people's kitchens.
So, so if you're thinking about it biologically, the answer of why that is
the case is the fish amino acid itself has tons of lactic acid bacteria in it.
And so these microbes, again, as we're talking throughout this show, they're,
as you get these microbes, they're not only processing out like the pathogens,
but in your FAA, they can almost digest by the time you have a year old batch.
And it's this smooth, fine tasting, fine, like cooking level of fish sauce.
You end up where if the pathogens were processed through fermentation, I would
also believe any runoff that's coming, that's maybe like atrazine or glyphosate
or any, any of those types of things, they would also be disassembled by this
same microbial set, otherwise the microbes would be inhibited and you wouldn't have
them, you know, so, so by the time you're a year into it, it's like so much
fermentation, so much smoothness has come that, that your real, your real
contaminants should be very low, but I would love to take that claim I just
made and then, you know, run it through a mass spectrometer.
Yeah.
Right.
And, and, and get to know that the science is in support of, of your, your gut intuition.
Yeah.
And I just, I mean, I just don't have the, you know, if someone wants
to go fund me for that, awesome.
So the last one of these, uh, audience questions is from somebody who, um,
follows your YouTube channel that will plug in a bit and listens to your podcast.
And they're curious to know from you, they say that they like your quality of
information and they know that they can rely on it.
They want to know if there are any other sources of information that, um, you
think are quite accurate as well that they should, um, look into.
Definitely.
There's, there's, there's a lot of good resources in Korean natural farming.
Um, I, you know, one thing, one thing I want, I want to shout out Chris.
I just, I just want to make sure, you know, that, you know, he, he and I have
been allies for a, for a long time and, and we, we both, both been to Korea to
learn from Master Cho and he's now in Boise and he's offering classes that I,
that I think his, his, um, his depth of understanding and his things, his
understanding and his thing, it's just the proof is in his putting, so to say,
like he's proved it out and done it.
So, so, um, so he has classes, he's been doing that stuff.
He's putting out information.
I think he's a reputable source.
Um, in the big Island, it used to be, um, Kim Chang was, was, you know, was
my instructor and also, you know, now, now a peer of mine, but, but she
recently had some medical issues.
So she's harder to get access to.
Um, and then I would, I would reach out to, to folks that have studied with
Master Cho specifically.
Um, just, just because if, if you're following, like, there, there's, there's
a lot of different sources out there that have differing degrees of quality,
which is, which is a lot of the reason why I decided to call this stuff.
I'm doing pure KNF because I'm really following the, the, the recipes Master
Cho gave the philosophy, my, my years of study, I'm, I'm incorporating this.
And, and then there's other aspects of it where you can bring in these
JADAM techniques and these, these other, maybe lower cost techniques and blends.
And you gotta find what works for you, but in terms of, you know, researching
material, learning from folks, um, you know, I think any of the students that,
that, that we've put out between Kim, Chris, myself, Master Cho, um, those,
those folks are great.
Um, here, here on the big Island in Hawaii, um, Logan is starting up the
Holly Selassie, um, natural farming Institute.
And he, he has been of, of all the people that I, that I know personally, he's been
going into the cannabis realm of just like beyond belief, you know, um, that,
that's his, that's his jam.
And he, um, so he is natural farming Institute.
He's starting here.
He's coming from more of the esoteric spiritual, you know, that the higher
parts of the cannabis that it brings in, but he's, he's a great resource.
Um, yeah.
So does that, yeah, that's great.
And I'm, I'm, I'm assuming that anybody who's, who's listening to, with us,
especially this far in the show knows that when you refer to Chris, we're
talking about Chris Trump and, uh, his, his, uh, website is natural farming dot
C O.
Um, but you know, if they're very likely some, you know, very possible, somebody
is listening to this episode and they just got turned on to Korean natural
farming and my God, if we just turned you on to Chris Trump, well, um, lucky you.
So, um, yeah, so, um, so Drake, thank you so much for spending all this time with
us and, and sharing your, your experience in such a, you know, a warm, calm and
storytelling way.
You know, it's, uh, I really enjoyed doing this show with you and, um, uh, it
was nice to kind of poke at some of the parts of K of K and F that, um, you know,
that don't necessarily get, get covered in a, in a general, um, can of, uh,
recipes show.
Right.
So, so I appreciate your willingness to go down some of these unexpected paths.
Well, thanks.
Django.
Well, thanks again, Drake.
I look forward to chatting with you again and, and crossing paths in a, in
person.
Take care of brother.
Cool.
So if you want to learn more about, um, Eric Drake, Wynert's, um, educational
opportunities, uh, the best place to start is at pure K and F.com.
Um, that will tell you all about his available classes when they start, where
they are in his speaking schedule.
Um, he's also got a really great YouTube and the easiest way to get to that is
just to search K and F video.
And, uh, you'll come across all sorts of things.
And then one of the things that I like about his YouTube channel is that not
only are you getting the calf K and F education, but, um, dude lives on Hawaii.
And, um, it's just beautiful to see what's going on in the background and some
of the exotic fruits that, uh, that I would love to be using that, that he uses
on the YouTube channel as well.
And we also want to make sure that we plug, um, uh, uh, Drake's own podcast.
That's the microbial secret society.
And that's available at microbial secret.org.
And then last, but definitely not least his absolutely gorgeous Instagram feed
at a natural farming Hawaii.
You get some idea of some of the techniques that they're teaching, you
know, some of what's beautiful about Hawaii, some folks in his family is just,
it's just a fantastic feed and I don't know, I feel better about the world.
Just following it.
So for all of that stuff, uh, make sure you check it out at pure can F.com.
You can find more episodes of the shaping fire podcast and subscribe to the show
at shaping fire.com and on Apple iTunes, Stitcher and Google play.
If you enjoyed the show, we'd really appreciate it.
If you'd leave a positive review of the podcast, wherever you download, your
review will help others find the show so they can enjoy it too on the shaping fire
website.
You can also subscribe to the weekly newsletter for insights into the latest
cannabis news and product reviews on the shaping fire website.
You will also find transcripts of today's podcast as well.
For information on me and where I will be speaking, you can check out shango
Lowe's.com.
Does your company want to reach our national audience of cannabis enthusiasts?
Email hotspot at shaping fire.com to find out how.
Thanks for listening to shaping fire.
I've been your host shango Lowe's.
