One thing that the internet has not been very good at yet is providing quality information.
There's a lot of information, and if you dig through it, read it all, and educate
yourself, you can eventually become a good judge of information's quality too.
But if any topic is new to you, good luck getting good, clean information without reading
all of the information available and becoming an expert yourself.
This applies especially to cannabis, and that aspect of cannabis legalization is such
a drag.
Patients are literally dying while trying to learn about accurate cannabis dosing and
watching videos on how to make FICO.
Other patients are trying to figure out how to make full plant tinctures, and every tincture
recipe is different, and most of them are poorly written, and some are straight up ineffective.
Fake news sites and other media sources that are not really fake, but rather just repeat
dumb analysis are everywhere.
People with no expertise write about cannabis policy without any real context, and certainly
there is enough snark and ridicule in the comments everywhere to be disheartening.
Today we're going to talk to one source of cannabis information online that is well-researched,
peer-rated, and technologically advanced.
You are listening to Shaping Fire, and I am your host, Shango Lose.
Today's guest is Mac Simon, founder and CEO of Greenflower Media.
Greenflower works with the top cannabis experts in the world to create reliable programming
to educate patients, cannabis enthusiasts, business owners, and policy makers.
Greenflower's Cannabis Health Summit and Cannabis Entrepreneur Summit are the most
highly attended cannabis education events ever to take place online.
Prior to launching Greenflower, Mac's produced programming and outreach for Deepak Chopra,
rebranded the company, and led technological innovations.
He's a down-to-earth communicator who has a profound understanding of technology and
how we learn as humans.
I've spoken at the Greenflower Cannabis Entrepreneur Summit, as well as recorded a
show with them on how best to set up cannabis clubs in your local area.
My new program, 7 Mistakes Made by New Cannabis Entrepreneurs, debuts next week on January
3rd at 5pm Pacific.
The showing is free, and then will be added to the Greenflower library.
You can find out more about that event at shapingfire.com forward slash greenflower.
Some call Greenflower the Netflix of cannabis.
We will discuss that with Mac today.
Welcome to the show, Mac.
Thanks, Shango.
I'm glad to be here with you, my friend.
I'm glad you could make the time.
So let's start by giving folks a little context about where you're coming from.
Because I understand that you helped Deepak Chopra develop his video outreach program,
but tell us a little bit about that and how it informed your vision for what Greenflower
Media was to become.
It's hard to even embrace this now, but over a decade ago, I was the director of consumer
products for the Chopra Center, which is Deepak Chopra's wellness center.
Just to paint a picture, if you will, at that time, this was way before meditation, yoga,
Ayurveda, mind-body medicine was deemed acceptable and popular.
In fact, it has an eerie coincidence or an eerie similarity to the cannabis space because
in that world, people saw meditation and yoga as something that people only on the fringe
did, that there was no science to it, that it was going to kind of disrupt your life.
There was all these stigmas attached to it.
Over the course of the seven years that I was there and the team that we built, we really
did some unbelievable things to destigmatize meditation and mind-body medicine and yoga
and to really get the message out to tens of millions of people through online campaigns
and the meditation challenge that now, I just heard, has been taken by half a million people
this year at the Chopra Center.
It was a really fascinating experience to take something that was so fringe and really
integrated into mainstream.
In cannabis, it feels just like this unusual path that I've already walked before, but
this time, it's with something I have an even deeper relationship with because I've been
a cannabis user for decades.
I also, in a funny way, think that cannabis is even bigger than mind-body medicine because
I always say, I taught some of the biggest stars and celebrities in the world how to
meditate.
When you would teach these people, you would always say to them, look, you have to do this
every day for 21 days for you to really start to notice some benefit because if anybody
has ever meditated before, the first time you sit down to meditate, you feel like, oh,
so I'm just going to sit here for 20 minutes and let my mind drive me freaking nuts.
It takes a little bit to get the hang of it and use the tools and work through it.
With cannabis, it's like I put an arthritis cream on my grandfather's hands and in 30
minutes, all of a sudden, he could move his fingers again.
I gave my mother who hadn't slept in three decades a little bit of a chew and she slept
through the night that same night.
When you combine the fact that I think this plant has the capacity to impact hundreds
of millions of people in so many different ways and that it's so quickly effective, I
just feel really excited about the path that we're on.
I have this kind of funny background of taking things that have been highly stigmatized and
yet also highly effective and helping them come into the mainstream.
It's kind of funny how all the puzzle pieces fit together so elegantly when you look backwards,
isn't it?
Looking back, we can see the kind of programs you put together at Chopra.
Also then, with the marriage of the technology that you were learning and managing there,
it pretty much gave you a full skill set to do exactly what you're doing now in the cannabis
space.
I think on some level, the universe is always conspiring in our favor if we're paying attention.
It just takes people being willing to take some risks.
For me, I see cannabis as a health and wellness movement.
I have that background.
I also see cannabis as something that needs really good education to change the stigma.
For what we've really done at Greenflower, changing stigma to me is about two core things.
One, it's about knowledge because people are just misinformed.
Once you start to learn about anything, you quickly realize the truth, right?
That happened with meditation and I think that's happening with cannabis now.
In cannabis, it's just such a diverse, rich topic full of so much fascinating knowledge.
That's one part to changing stigma is just doing a better and better job of education.
The second part of that is people, is the more credible, the more high level, the more
authoritative, the more celebrity you bring into something, the more it starts to change
public persona and change the perception of what this thing is.
When I was at Chopra, I had this just unusually long list of people that I dealt with of celebrities
that were sick, celebrities, business moguls, high level people.
You realize that people are just people.
No matter how big of a star they are, no matter where they come from, they're just people.
When you treat people like regular people, then it gets better and better and you can
allow that relationship to become more and more comfortable.
I think with cannabis, it's again, it's the same darn thing where people might be highly
stigmatized but I'm getting into bigger and bigger circles right now of more and more
celebrity driven, affluent driven people that are using cannabis because they're not sleeping
or because they got cancer or because they have pain or whatever else it is.
I'm very proud to have people like Eugene Monroe who's become such an industry advocate
who is a major part of Green Flower and people like Steve D'Angelo who's been an activist
for so long to be a part of Green Flower.
I feel like if we can just keep doing those two things, education and people, education
and people, then I'm convinced that within 10 years, it'll be the same thing that happened
to Chopra.
We'll have cannabis shops on every corner and tens of millions of people will be benefiting
from the plant in a more public way.
I think it's a really interesting thing to be doing now with the background that I have.
It really is amazing the reach that Green Flower Media has put together in such a, well,
feels like to me a short period of time.
The first time I heard about your company was going into the Cannabis Health Summit
that you had, I don't know, maybe it was a year and a half, two years ago now.
The funny thing was I'm knee deep in the cannabis industry, but I didn't get contacted directly.
I actually heard about it from a non-cannabis aunt who sent me a newsletter that you all
put out and said, oh, look at this great Cannabis Health Summit.
It might be something that you would be interested in, Shango.
She was totally right.
I was stoked that you had all of these amazing cannabis health experts that were all going
to be streaming for free.
I'm like, oh man, I'm going to sign up for this.
I signed up for it and over the course of the weekend, I probably caught eight speakers
or so.
Then after that, you did the Cannabis Entrepreneur Summit, which I was very grateful to have
been invited to.
My question for you is that when you put together one of these summits, it's like two days.
It's all the top minds in cannabis and these are really busy people.
I can imagine getting all these folks together over one weekend was like herding cats.
Did you find it challenging to pull everybody together at the same place?
Well, here's the thing about experts.
This is something I've learned after being in the kind of experts business for a decade.
Because after I left Chopra, I started a company that trained over 8,000 thought leaders on
how to build digital marketing systems to get their knowledge and their wisdom out into
the world.
I have this kind of deep, vast experience with experts.
What I've learned is that when somebody acquires enough knowledge to feel like they have something
of value to share, what people are really looking for most is two things.
They're looking for a platform.
We want to be able to reach more people.
Secondly, we're looking for ways to enhance our visibility and credibility in greater
ways.
It actually wasn't terribly difficult to get people together because we knew that with
our marketing channels and the strategies that we put in place and the background that
my team has, I have a remarkable team of 13 people deep now of true experts in kind of
digital publishing, that our reach was going to be huge.
Then with the other part of my team that works with people on content, we knew that we could
help people become better speakers, better presenters, and that the production quality
of what we were going to do because my, for example, my executive producer was 30 years
at Marvel and Disney and Fox and Spotlight Entertainment.
Using our production and our marketing, we could invite people into something that was
of true value and true benefit to them and do it in a way that really lifted up their
credibility and helped them get their message out.
Actually, the hardest thing was not getting people together.
The hardest thing was deciding who we wanted because we are perpetually being contacted
by so many people around the world that think they're experts or maybe are experts but not
at the level we necessarily want them to be at.
The hardest part is actually the filtering.
Right, because everybody wants to participate because they can smell a good thing.
Especially with how big your reach was, I didn't actually hear the follow-up.
What was the public response to this sort of large free online event because I had never
heard of anything like this happening in Canada before.
Did people respond to it other than my aunt and I?
We had 28,000 people tune in to the first Cannabis Health Summit, which by the way was
just in January of 2016.
So not too long ago.
Oh my gosh.
I said it was two years ago.
How time flies, right?
Right, right.
We had 28,000, you know, 28,300 people from, I don't remember exactly, but I think it was
from like 55 countries or some unbelievable diversity of people.
And then the Cannabis Entrepreneur Summit had 10,800 people attend that particular event.
And it really did help put us on the map, if you will, in terms of people seeing what
we could do.
And it was cool.
Again, I don't know the exact numbers, but I want to say that between those two events,
people watched something like 2.5 million minutes of content over those two days or
over those two events, I mean.
It's been very exciting.
You know, speaking of reach, we also have started live streaming just individual classes
every week on Greenflower.
People can go and they can sign up to watch any live class.
Basically, we're doing multiple live streams a week.
And we also just recently pulled those stats and have had 3.9 million minutes of live stream
class content watched this year as well.
So it's been phenomenal to see the level of engagement and reach.
And I think it comes back to the fact that there's very few places where people can go
to learn about the plant right now and especially learn from the most credible experts.
And so we've just built a really nice ecosystem.
We also built our own technology platform to run the whole thing so that it's got a
nice user experience.
So it's a cool thing we're doing.
And I think it's really providing a service that people are really grateful for, you know,
especially as we get bigger and bigger.
Yeah, that's a lot of minutes.
I can imagine that it's probably the most dense cannabis education event that there's
ever been.
I mean, that many people learning about cannabis, cannabis medicine and cannabis business all
at the same time.
It's actually pretty astonishing.
So thanks, Max.
We're going to take our first short break and be right back.
Today's guest is Max Simon of Greenflower Media.
And you are listening to Shaping Fire.
If you like podcasts like Shaping Fire, chances are that you will like audio books too.
Pretty much audio books are like podcasts except with less stuttering, better production
quality and more targeted topics.
Yeah, I know.
I make audio books sound better than a podcast and you know, maybe they are.
But I get you.
I like podcasts too.
I like to learn from people talking to me while I'm doing something else like driving
or cleaning my house or making dinner or even being at work, whatever.
Here's the thing.
Audible.com has an offer I want to tell you about.
Right now they are offering a trial of their audio book service for absolutely free.
You can go to shapingfire.com forward slash audible and you will get a free audio book
straight up.
You can listen to it on your mobile device, on your computer or you can download it and
listen to it pretty much anywhere.
It's really simple.
You know, of course they really want you to subscribe to their service forever and enjoy
more and more audio books.
But as cannabis users, you also know how this goes.
The first one is free.
They are going to hate it when I say that.
But it's pretty great.
You know, I listened recently to Smoke Signals by Martin Lee from ProjectCBD.org.
Martin's book is a classic of cannabis advocacy.
He explains the history of cannabis in America, THC and CBD cannabis science and why cannabis
policy in America has gotten so jacked.
You know, if you consider yourself a cannabis person, this book really is a must.
Talking cannabis, we all sound radical just because we're talking about weed.
But if you learn the history and science of cannabis, suddenly you become smart and trustworthy
to people.
The book was really incredible and there's no doubt that Martin Lee is the real deal.
You can get the book for free just for doing the trial.
You know, if you don't want to listen to a cannabis book, that's cool too.
There's everything else.
There's sci-fi and history, biography.
Hell, you can even listen to a book about card counting in blackjack.
Whatever, it's all pretty rad.
So here's the deal.
Your first book is free.
It's easy to sign up.
It's easy to quit.
But they do do a pretty good job making you want to stay every month.
Just check it out.
Go to shapingfire.com forward slash audible to find out more.
Welcome back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire.
I'm your host, Shango Lose.
And our guest this week is Max Simon, founder and CEO of Greenflower Media.
So before the break, we were talking about, you know, just how many people that you're
reaching now with Greenflower and how behind it is this structure of technology and experienced
people.
And, you know, one of the things that occurs to me is that, you know, over the time that
I've been following Greenflower, it does feel like you have changed the direction or the
business model at least once.
And, you know, so many entrepreneurs, they're either, you know, poo-pooed by their friends
for changing or they themselves feel shame for changing the direction of their company.
But I've always thought that, you know, it's important to be sensitive to what your audience
wants.
Can you share for a little bit, you know, what your experience has been over the arc
of Greenflower so far and how the business model has evolved?
Yeah, absolutely.
So I should start by saying that I'm a huge subscriber and student of what's called the
Lean Startup Model by a guy named Eric Ries.
And the Lean Startup Model basically has a philosophy which says that when you're building
a new business, you should be testing everything.
And you know, instead of being concerned about, quite frankly, even what your customers think
or what your team thinks or what your investors think or whatever it is, that everything is
an experiment.
And that in the beginning, you should experiment as much as possible.
And so I say that because our first experiment was more of what I would call a traditional
media company.
And the reason I even entered the cannabis space as an entrepreneur, if you will, is
because I saw a huge, massive void.
And that void was no high-quality cannabis content that demonstrated the other side of
the stigma, right?
And that basically the way I looked at it is the vast majority of material that was
out there wasn't portraying cannabis properly.
And so when you start thinking about businesses, we thought, well, we could reach zillions
of people and the business model would be based upon a media company that reaches a
lot of people, which is i.e. an advertising model, right?
There's different business models for media companies.
And so we started going down that path.
And the premise behind a media company like that is you produce as much content as you
can, you get as many eyeballs as you can, and then you sell advertisements.
Well, while we were getting a lot of eyeballs and we were getting a lot of traction with
the tribe, if you will, we were barely selling any advertisements.
And it was starting to get pretty scary because we just were not – couldn't see a path
in sight to be able to sustain the kind of impact that I am here on this planet to make,
for better or worse, in the kind of person that is 100% driven by global impact and by
big massive global impact.
And so when I looked at Greenflower originally, I was thinking, well, for that to get to that
level basically would take a lot of money.
And so when the business model was quite frankly failing, I mean that's all I could say.
We were generating a little bit of income but nowhere near the kind of numbers that
I knew was necessary to create a business that would sustain itself.
We had to really look deep and hard and this is where the funny thing about my past reconverges
because in media, there's really only two models when it comes down to it.
There's an ad model which is based upon publishing free content and then there's a premium model
which is based upon producing content that people are willing to buy.
I actually have had a much deeper background in premium but I just didn't start there.
And so we just pivoted.
We pivoted to being a premium content business if you will that was based upon creating content
people were willing to pay for.
And that's a different kind of content.
It's more educational.
It's more how-to.
It's much deeper.
It's content that's designed to provide specific value to somebody based upon a problem or
a desire that they have.
And it was the greatest decision we could have made because one, there was very few
people doing this and if they were, they weren't doing it well.
But also it was quite frankly just much more in our sweet spot as well from our experience
and our depth and really we're able to carve out this kind of beautiful niche that is working
very well both in the financial side but also in terms of where we feel most comfortable
playing.
Yeah, I believe that about the place where you feel most comfortable playing too because
one of the challenges with advertising as a model for media companies is you're always
aware of what your advertisers want and yet I know you to be somebody who's very service
oriented to humans.
I can imagine that a premium model where the audience is helping pay for the content
is way more emotionally effective for you because that way your loyalties are not split
between advertisers and the audience.
Everything that you can do for the audience to create value for them is what you're supposed
to be doing.
I can see that fitting a lot better.
The nice thing about it for us as well is that it really does allow us to use our tribe
as I call it or our audience if you will to guide the direction of where we go because
a premium content model, if I was to get really granular for a moment, it's really actually
just about solving problems for people that they believe are valuable enough to pay for.
When you start moving into premium content, it's just saying how do we create increasingly
more valuable content and we do that by asking people.
At this point, we've got tens of thousands of data points because of our technology about
what are the issues people are struggling with.
For example, one of our most popular classes was about cannabis and creativity and that
was because people were really struggling to find a way to use cannabis to enhance their
creativity without making them anxious.
I wouldn't have thought that.
That was something that I wouldn't have known unless our audience told us like, hey, here's
a problem I'm having.
A lot of people that are creative were either getting really anxious or they weren't finding
the right way of doing it to enhance the way they think about stuff.
It just kind of was a surprising data point for us.
Because our model is based upon creating more and more valuable content for the people that
are paying for it, it's become a nice kind of self-perpetuating loop to design stuff
that's really valuable to them.
I think that makes a really good case too for listening to your customer base, for everybody
who's listening who's an entrepreneur, that you can get really great insight if you're
making sure you read the emails that are coming in your email box from your customers.
They can show you roads that you had not considered yourself.
You have to ask.
I mean, it's really uncomfortable to ask people for what to do, not even what to do, but what
to do better.
I mean, really, that's at the end of the day, that's what it is.
It's like, how do we serve you better?
What are we not doing that you'd like us to do?
What are we doing wrong?
It's a very uncomfortable experience because everybody wants to have all the answers.
But again, that's also very much a lean startup principle is you want to be constantly trying
stuff and then reviewing how people responded to it.
So yeah, it's necessary, I think, quite frankly.
Well, while we're talking about uncomfortable things about being an entrepreneur and running
a startup, let's talk about raising money real quick.
Entrepreneurs are often really shy to the fact that they have to raise money.
I know that you've raised money successfully for a few businesses.
What advice do you have for cannabis entrepreneurs who are raising their own capital?
So actually, just to clarify, this is the first business that I've had to raise real
money for.
I've raised a few hundred thousand dollars here and there for other stuff, but friends
and family and my network wasn't that difficult.
This was the first business where I had to fully go out and hit the road and go pitch
and do that whole thing.
Holy smokes, I tell everybody I know these days that it was the deepest and still continues
to be the deepest and most profound learning curve I've ever gone on in my professional
career.
So I'll start by saying raising money is definitely not for the faint at heart.
And I've failed more times than I've ever failed at anything in my entire career so
far at raising money.
And that's been really humbling.
So that's the first thing I would say is you have to be really prepared to deal with
rejection in a way that I just wasn't.
I mean I wasn't thinking it was going to be this hard.
So that's the first thing I would say.
The second thing I would say is that I've learned some really fascinating things about
investors in this last period.
We've now raised a few million dollars.
One of the things that I've learned is that people always think that you need to go and
pitch an investor and that basically they're the prize.
In some level psychologically what's happening for people is I need your money.
I need to impress you.
You're the person that's the prize here.
And you know the greatest thing I've learned in this process is that if you have that attitude,
you're done.
It's just not going to work.
You have to come up with the ways of thinking about yourself and your business and what
you're doing and the energy that you cultivate and the story you tell and the way you approach
people so that you're the prize and that you're giving them an opportunity to get into playing
with you.
Because if they feel like you're chasing them, you're never going to close a deal.
But if they feel like they're going to miss something by not chasing you, that's when
people start to actually write checks.
And so I mean I could talk to you for literally days on the investment thing but that's the
single most important lesson that I've learned is you have to psychologically turn the tables
to making you the prize even if you're just starting out.
That makes a lot of sense because you're removing that duality that I'm negotiating with you
and you're the other.
You're stepping across the line and embracing what it is they want for themselves.
So now you're on the same side and I'm sure that the capital conversation becomes way,
way easier at that point.
I'd like to say any part of it's easy.
I think that raising money is arguably the most difficult business task on the planet.
But speaking to the startup side of things, the reason why I love business actually has
nothing to do with money.
I'm not a very money driven person even though I think it's very important to focus on money.
I'm driven in business by two things primarily.
One is impact as I've said many times before.
I think that's my number one motivation as I feel like if we're here on this earth, we're
here to do something that contributes.
So that's my number one drive.
The second is the leadership opportunity or you could say it is a leadership challenge.
Raising money is so far been the single greatest leadership challenge I've had to take on in
business thus far.
If you can frame it that way, I hear most people, I hate raising money.
It's the worst and it could be really hard.
But it's an amazing leadership challenge to step into and I have learned more about the
psychology of desire and persuasion and urgency by becoming better and better at raising money
than any single activity I've done in the history of my career.
Thank you for that, Max.
We're going to take another short break and be right back.
Today's guest is Max Simon of Greenflower Media and you are listening to Shaping Fire.
Businesses everywhere are constantly striving to reach out to people through advertising.
We all know though that trying to reach a cannabis audience with a quality message is
actually pretty difficult.
That's why many people choose to advertise on the Shaping Fire podcast.
Advertising on this show allows us time to talk about your product, service or brand
in a way that really lets people know what sets your company apart from the others.
Bold people who own companies know that getting in a relationship with their customers is
essential and that is what we offer.
We will explain your service or product and what sets it apart as desirable and will help
our audience get in contact with you.
It's really pretty simple.
Advertising does not have to be all whiz-bang, smoke and mirrors.
Nowadays, I find that people prefer just to be spoken to calmly, accurately and with good
intentions.
If you want to make your own commercial spot, you can totally do that too.
Because our podcast is young but growing at an exceptionally fast rate, if you become
an advertiser on the Shaping Fire podcast now, you're going to pay a fraction of the
cost we will be asking for in just a few months.
And yet, everyone listening both now and to the back catalog of interviews in the future
will hear about your company again and again for years.
It's a great deal for you.
Pay a small amount now because the show is new but take advantage of the huge listening
audience we will have forever.
Do yourself a solid and contact us today for rates on podcast and newsletter advertising.
Email hotspot at shapingfire.com to find out more.
Welcome back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire.
I'm your host, Shango Lose.
And our guest this week is Max Simon, founder and CEO of Greenflower Media.
So far, we've been talking a whole lot about the nature of a cannabis startup and running
a business with integrity and just trying to build a company in this very unusual cannabis
industry.
But I want to talk more specifically now about the content because at the heart of it, you
are a publishing company and you are trying to find content that people want to hear.
As you mentioned in the last set, your goal is to find out problems that people have and
try to solve it for them.
So let's talk about some of your free events that are coming up in the new year so that
folks can get an idea of the kind of content you are producing.
What's coming up for Greenflower Media?
So we have learned that there's basically four areas in this cannabis movement where
people have a strong desire to learn.
So one area is the health vertical and that encapsulates everything from how do I use
this for my specific ailment, how do I treat other people or recommend this to other people,
what's the difference between cannabinoids and terpenes or how do I use them to my benefit.
There's about a zillion things that people want and need to know about cannabis and health.
So we have a tremendous diversity of classes in those places.
I would say so far, that's probably been our strongest place because of a lot of our health
background.
A lot of people on the team have a very strong health background including myself.
So classes like cannabis and pregnancy coming up about whether it's safe or not and we have
cannabis and Alzheimer's and cannabis and opiate pain and just some really interesting
classes there with famous doctors and mind body medicine practitioners and all sorts
of interesting people.
The second vertical is the industry vertical and that's all about starting or building
or succeeding in this cannabis industry.
We have classes with you coming out, Shango, and we have classes around investing, we have
classes around compliance and classes around protecting your cannabis brand and classes
around building a cannabis brand.
There's a pretty diverse range of really fascinating topics coming out there.
Steve D'Angelo is doing a whole thing about what he's learned from building the world's
largest cannabis brand essentially and we have that whole sector vertical.
Then we have the science vertical which is all about the biology and chemistry and ways
to work with the plant.
So I'm really thrilled that we've developed some amazing partnerships in that area like
the Cannabis Science Conference where that entire conference will actually be made available
to our insiders which is our membership program and the Emerald Scientific Conference as well
is another one that we've partnered with where their entire three-day conference will be
included to our insider portal and that includes everything from extraction to the ways of
working with the plant and growing the plant and genetics and that whole kind of amazingly
rich category of content.
Then finally we have what we call our DIY vertical which is all about basically cooking,
growing, making your own products and tinctures and that kind of thing.
It's working with the plant and we have a whole slew of really interesting classes in
that one as well, growing indoor and outdoor and working with some of the real legends
in the cultivation space.
We won't name them for now until it comes out but really the legends in this space that
have been doing this for decades.
All of that content is really – we have a really interesting model where because our
number one desire is impact, we always live stream these classes first for free.
Every week, multiple times a week, people can tune in to the website and they can register
for these classes for free and they can watch in real time.
If that's all that happens, then that's amazing and we have right now thousands and
thousands of people every week that are tuning in.
But then we also have this ability for people to basically unlock the entire library for
– it's just $18 a month.
We have a lot of cool stuff coming up.
Since we're tantalizing folks, I want to give you the URL right now and we'll say
this again at the end of the show.
If you want to attend some of these free online events, you can go to shapingfire.com
forward slash greenflower to sign up for those.
Because of the nature of podcasts that they're online forever, if you are listening to this
show in the future, you can still go to shapingfire.com greenflower and it will be a constantly refreshed
list.
It's always going to be evergreen.
So Max, as far as finding these topics, you professed earlier that you paid a lot of attention
to your audience so that you knew what the kind of problems you could solve for them.
What do you find is your best way to get feedback from your audience which is tens and tens
of thousands of people deep now?
Yeah, we're over 75,000 now actually.
I think it goes back to just the idea of making it a muscle.
So for us at least, you'll find once you register for any of these classes, the moment you register,
we say, hey, tell us what you want to know.
And so in our technology, it's now built in that every class we're gathering people's
questions and in many cases, we're actually answering them live like right on the spot
during the class.
And so that's one way that we do it.
We have a certain set of values of how we operate here at Greenflower and one of those
values is to be open and curious.
And for us, what that means is that we're human and people oftentimes forget companies
are made up of actual just real people.
And as a team of people, we make mistakes sometimes or we do something wrong or we find
ourselves having made a decision that wasn't the right thing and we're just always trying
to communicate that we're very open and curious with everybody to tell us if they have feedback
or if they have some kind of guidance that will help us.
So I think one of it's just kind of tactical, ask more, ask more frequently, ask in every
way that you can.
But then the other way is a value set that's really served us and certainly served me in
my life many times is just being kind of humble enough to say, tell us if there's something
else we can do to make this better for you.
How did that play into the development of the Cannabis Health Challenge?
I've been seeing new advertising for that all over the place right now.
So that's a funny thing.
I'll just say first, we're really excited about this Cannabis Health Challenge, which
basically what we're doing is it's an online challenge that for 10 days, we're going to
release a daily video that will teach and educate people about how to use cannabis responsibly
and perform three health enhancing activities.
So there's cannabis and fitness, cannabis and food, and cannabis and reflection.
And we're going to be kind of guiding people through it as a community.
And it's going to be so cool.
There's a lot of really amazing people taking part in it.
You was one of them.
But that's one of those things while speaking of our values.
So we have other value that says break new ground.
For us, this was actually just a very strong gut decision of mine particularly, because
I'm a very, very active healthy person and cannabis has become a substantial part of
that.
And so I live out here in Ojai, California, this beautiful mountain town and we have these
gorgeous outdoor trails.
And about three days a week, I'll go for a pretty long trail run with cannabis.
I go on these trail runs and I just kept getting this message over and over again.
I'm running on this trail, I'm puffing away.
You got to do a health challenge.
You got to do it.
Because I used to do stuff like this with Chopra and I did stuff like some other companies,
these online challenges.
And so it was just a gut instinct to say, let's do this as a community and see if we
can really inspire our cannabis community to come together and really prove to ourselves
and others that cannabis can be a true life enhancing activity.
So it's been really exciting to see the response so far and I'm excited for everybody to take
part of that.
And again, they can find that through that URL that you mentioned before in terms of
how they can register for that.
So Max, before we go, I wanted to talk about this tagline that I'm hearing about Greenflower
Media in the press.
I'm reading folks refer to your new subscription service as the Netflix of cannabis.
And those are some pretty big boots to fill.
Do you think the tagline fits for what Greenflower Media has become?
Well, so yes and no.
I mean, the thing that the reason why they're calling us that is because we have this program
called Greenflower Insider.
And as an insider, what it means is that every single live class that we do, which is multiple
times a week, gets added to this ever growing library.
And for, you know, it's 18 bucks a month.
People can watch unlimited cannabis classes, including every new one that comes in.
And so in that way, we're just like Netflix because we have this, you know, ever growing
library of really credible cannabis education and cannabis classes and cannabis material
that people can enjoy anytime they want and can binge watch as much as they want.
Where we differ is that our content is really more like classes, you know, and in that regard,
we have a different model, which is more like a lynda.com or a Udemy or a Creative Live
because we're actually teaching people.
And so for most of the cases, you know, if you were to go to a cannabis seminar or a
cannabis event, you know, you'd have to spend hundreds and hundreds of dollars or sometimes
thousands of dollars to go and listen to these people speak to learn.
And we have those same thousands and thousands of dollars of education, but it's just 18
bucks a month.
And so we love that people are seeing how big what it is that we're doing.
But because we're so education focused and value driven and Netflix is more of an entertainment
platform, it kind of works, but it also doesn't.
We kind of see ourselves more as we would compare ourselves more to like a lynda.com
of cannabis more than a Netflix.
But certainly the fact that we unlock every class in our library, people for less than
the price of a pizza is something that people have been really excited about.
Yeah, well, I certainly get the excitement.
I feel it too.
It's, you know, even though I spend most of my time interviewing folks and getting to
learn about exactly what I want to learn in cannabis, it's always nice to see what the
new addition is to the library so that, you know, in the evening when I'm eating dinner
or something, I can watch and learn something that I didn't already know.
Well, Max, thank you so much for all the work that you're doing to educate folks on cannabis
and kind of like raising the torch.
And I really appreciate you taking some time out of your busy schedule to be on the show
today.
It's an honor to be here with you.
And I'm really glad to participate in this kind of amazing thing that you're building
as well.
Max Simon is founder and CEO of Greenflower Media.
To find out more about Greenflower Media's free online events as well as their cannabis
video subscription service, you can go to shapingfire.com forward slash greenflower.
You can find more episodes of the Shaping Fire podcast and subscribe to the show at
shapingfire.com and on Apple iTunes, Stitcher, and Google Play.
If you enjoyed the show, we'd really appreciate it if you'd leave a positive review of the
podcast wherever you download.
Your review will help others find the show so they can enjoy it too.
On the Shaping Fire website, you can also subscribe to the weekly newsletter for insights
into the latest cannabis news and product reviews.
On the Shaping Fire website, you will also find transcripts of today's podcast as well.
For information on me and where I'll be speaking, you can check out shangolose.com.
Does your company want to reach our national audience of cannabis enthusiasts?
Email hotspot at shapingfire.com to find out how.
Thanks for listening to Shaping Fire.
I've been your host, Shango Lose.
