As more and more people begin to grow their own cannabis, the popularity of feminized
seeds has risen remarkably.
As new growers come to understand the inconveniences associated with using regular male-female
seeds, feminized seeds have become an increasingly attractive option.
If you are a listener unfamiliar with feminized seeds, these are the three most common reasons
people choose feminized seeds.
1.
In most cases a patient is legally limited to how many plants they can grow, so each
plant is exceptionally valuable.
Generally speaking, cannabis seeds will germinate and become plants that are 50% male and 50%
female.
So when you pop your regular seeds you should expect about half to be female.
However, that 50-50 only plays out statistically over thousands of seeds.
So it is entirely possible for you to pop 6 seeds and have 4 or 5 of them be male.
It is exceptionally disheartening for a patient to discover that so many of their plants are
male when they need female plants to make their medicine and get relief.
After all of the soil and nutrients and care and love the patient has given the plant,
it is a significant disappointment to have to destroy it.
Because of this, many patients love feminized seeds because it removes the risk of cultivating
plants that end in wasted effort.
2.
Cultivators who are growing more plants than a patient but less than a commercial cultivator
often need to make clones to extend what they can do with a small number of seeds.
This often means going through the arduous process of popping the seed, letting it grow,
taking clones, flowering a clone to determine the sex of the plant, and then planting the
clones that prove female while calling the males.
That process takes some time.
It is far more convenient to pop a female seed and just start cloning, confident that
the new clones are all female.
3.
Commercial scale growers are now embracing feminized seeds too.
Commercial cultivators have a choice of either to use clones or feminized seeds.
Fem seeds are easier to store and have that vigor that comes with a seed instead of a
clone.
For now though, feminized seeds are a bit more variable than clones so many still use
clones.
4.
No doubt there are plenty of great reasons to grow male-female regular seeds.
This episode is focusing on the benefits and challenges of feminized seeds and female only
breeding though, so we won't be talking about the reasons we like regs.
This is an episode exalting the female.
If you want to learn about cannabis health, business, and technique efficiently and with
good cheer, I encourage you to subscribe to our newsletter.
We'll send you new podcast episodes as they come out delivered right to your inbox along
with commentary on a couple of the most important news items from the week and videos too.
Don't rely on social media to let you know when a new episode is published.
Sign up for the updates to make sure you don't miss an episode.
Also we're giving away very cool prizes to folks who are signed up to receive the newsletter.
There's nothing else you need to do to win except receive the newsletter.
This month, regenerative farming nutrient company EverFlux is giving away their full
line of products to one lucky subscriber to the newsletter.
You'll receive a full sized bottle of their BioFlux fermented plant booster, their bamboo
wood vinegar bio-stimulant, and a big bucket of TeraFlux, their infused biochar blend.
You'll get all three.
Make sure to listen to their commercial during the first break today and go to shapingfire.com
to sign up for the newsletter and be entered into this month's and all future newsletter
prize drawings.
You are listening to Shaping Fire and I'm your host, Shango Lose.
Today my guest is Ryan Lee.
Ryan is a professional cannabis researcher and plant breeder specializing in cultivar
design and the inheritance of therapeutic compounds in cannabis including cannabinoids
and terpenes.
His background training is in neuroscience and studying the endocannabinoid system with
a strong focus on genetics.
His post-grad work at the University of British Columbia is all about plant breeding and biotechnology.
Ryan Lee is founder of Chimera Genetic Resource Management and the Chimivar Corporation.
Chimera is essentially a seed bank and a cannabis germplasm firm operating in Europe for over
20 years.
Chimivar Corp. is based in Canada and focuses on breeding specialty cannabis varieties,
laboratory analytics, cultivation consulting, cultivar selection and germplasm sourcing,
licensing and importation for Canadian LPs.
Chimivar has guided clients worldwide to navigate international regulations surrounding the
movement of cannabis genetic material in addition to sourcing and importing cannabis starting
materials as the foundation for corporate cannabis production, academic research, and
large-scale breeding programs focused on next-generation cannabis cultivars.
Today we're going to talk about the creation and genetic makeup of feminized seeds and
we're going to do a dive into female-only breeding too, which is super interesting.
Stick around.
Welcome to the show, Ryan.
Thanks, Chang.
I really appreciate you having me on.
Excellent.
Glad to have you here.
So, let's start with some vocabulary, right?
Because we're going to go through a lot of the various myths around feminized seeds today,
but one of the first myths is that the female-only breeding is a male-only breeding.
So, let's start with some vocabulary, right?
Because we're going to go through a lot of the various myths around feminized seeds today,
but one of the first things is pretty much a comprehensive confusion between the vocabulary
of feminized seeds and selfed seeds.
So, will you clarify and tease those apart for us?
Yeah.
Okay.
So, feminized seeds is a word that really I think was kind of coined or made up in the
cannabis industry.
It's not a word that we use in botany, but what it really means is seeds that you plant
and they grow out to be all females.
And this discussion is really going to come into some words that people might have heard
when talking about buying seeds, different cannabis seed types.
So, we have monoecious seeds or dioecious seeds, and hemp tends to be monoecious, which
means that we have both male and female flowers on the same plant.
And drug cannabis is kind of at the other end of the spectrum where we have male and
female plants occurring on separate individual plants.
And that comes from the root word, the Greek word oikos, which means home.
And so, monoecious means both of the sexes reside in one home, whereas dioecious means
the sexes reside in two separate homes.
The word feminized really is kind of a more user-friendly term for what botanists call
gynoecious, which means the female house or all the seeds in the population being from
the female gender.
Wow, that's actually really cool.
So, if feminized seeds are gynoecious, where in that model does a selfed seed live?
Yeah, so a self seed is a specific type of feminized seed where the pollen donor and
the plant that actually holds the seed, which we call the seed mother, are genetically the
same plant.
And so, it's the most severe form of inbreeding one can do on any given species.
And it's something that's quite unnatural for cannabis.
Cannabis in its natural state of dioecean, where we have, you know, if you were to come
across a wild stand of cannabis somewhere walking through the valley, you know, a valley
in Tibet or somewhere, approximately half of the plants would be female and half of
the plants would be males.
So it's a natural condition for any plant to leave its offspring that it has to mate
with another individual of the same species.
Kind of like humans.
And that's really quite rare in the plant world.
And it has a whole bunch of consequences for genetic diversity and a whole bunch of other
things that we're going to talk about over the next hour.
But for example, tomatoes, they naturally self pollinate.
So it's a natural state for tomato to, you know, for a bumblebee to come along and play
with the flower on the tomato plant.
And that causes a self fertilization where the male parts of that individual flower interact
with the female parts or the bumblebee transfers the pollen from one part to the other.
And that creates a fruit in which there are seeds growing.
And so if you, you know, if you buy heirloom tomato seeds off the Internet and the company
sends you a package of seeds and you take those seeds and grow them into a full plant
and you harvest the tomatoes and you take the seeds and you plant them again the next
year, the plants from the next year and the fruit from those plants from the next year
will be near identical, if not identical to the seeds that you grew out on the first year.
And if you were to take those seeds and continually save them and plant them in your garden over
the next 10 to 15 years, you could expect that those tomatoes are going to be the same
every time.
Whereas, you know, we've come to see that's not the case in cannabis and that really has
to do with this natural state of breeding where every individual must interact with
another individual to create progeny, kind of like humans.
So, are self seeds all female?
Yes.
Well, not necessarily because you can actually self, we have a little trick for making female.
So maybe I should talk about first how a feminized seed is made.
We have a, there's a couple of different chemicals, but the one that's most commonly used is a
chemical called silver thiosulfate.
And silver thiosulfate blocks one of the five major plant hormones.
And when that happens on cannabis, when you take a female cannabis plant and you induce
it to flower and immediately spray it with silver thiosulfate, the silver ion blocks
the ethylene in that biological pathway that leads to female flowers.
And the consequence is that this female, genetically female plant will produce male flowers and
thus they will produce pollen.
So that's a trait of a male plant to be able to produce pollen.
And it's very atypical for a female plant to be able to produce pollen.
The difference being between male pollen and female derived pollen is that the female pollen
has no Y chromosomes.
It has no uniquely genetically male contributions that are being passed on to the next offspring.
And so what it allows us to do is mate one female with another.
Or in the case of self seeds, we can mate one female plant with itself.
And so self seeds are really, we do see a little bit of them appearing on the commercial
market, but it's really a breeders tool for doing what we would call severe inbreeding.
Right on.
So the only time that I have come across, you know, in my own hands, S1s, self seeds
are, I'm a big fan of Caleb over at CSI humbled and he was on the show and he said that one
of the reasons that he likes self seeds is because it kind of gives you a decent snapshot
of many of the different phenos that are in the parent plants.
So whereas with regular seeds, when you get them, you'll have a differentiation of phenos,
but you may not get everything that's to be kind of sloppy with my vocabulary in the
line of that parent.
Whereas when you have an S1, it kind of creates, normally we go for seeds that are all the
same, right?
So that all the seeds you get out of a pack are kind of similar and similar to the breeders
cut, right?
Which for many people would consider like the gold standard.
So you've got your breeders cut and then you try to make seeds that, that exemplify
the breeders cut.
But S1 self seeds, people seem to kind of go at it in a different direction.
Whereas like, like I've got, I've got the Skittles S1 that Caleb made and I know that,
that if I had enough packs of that S1, I only have one, but let's say I had four or five,
I would have kind of a snapshot of all the variety that's in the Skittles line.
Do I have a general, accurate understanding of that, that snapshot of the genetic line?
And if not, where am I off?
Yeah, well, I'm going to say yes and no.
Okay.
Fair enough.
And so an S1 is what we call a recombinant generation.
And what that, what that means is, you know, I have to, again, I have to back up a little
bit and to try to explain this and we'll use humans as a way to do that because I think
it's easier for people to under, to think about sex in terms of humans.
You know, everybody has a mother and a father and a lot of people have a brother or a sister.
So if we imagine that the mother is the ideal type, or as you called the breeders cut, our,
our idea is that we want to make, we want to mate her and have the progeny end up being
like her.
Right.
And so in plant breeding and really in all breeding, we have this basic tenant, which
is like begets like, and all that that means is if you take a plant that has blue petals,
it's more likely that the offspring of that plant will also have blue petals.
Okay.
But as we know from our experience with humans, you don't look like your mother or father.
You might have some of their traits, but you're not an identical replication of, of the mother.
Right.
And so typically when people have made cannabis seeds, what they do is they look through a
population of any type.
Maybe it's a land race, maybe it's a seed pack they bought from Holland or California
and they grow these seeds out and you select an ideal plant that is, you know, excellent
or good on a whole series of, of combinations.
And if a breeder wants to then make seeds from that plant, you have to go looking for
a pollen source or traditionally you've had to go looking for a pollen source.
And so what people do is they take their own favorite line and they use that plant to pollinate
their new selected mother plant.
Well, the problem is, is that, you know, following the like begets like tenant that I mentioned
earlier, we're now introducing traits from a father type that might not be identical
to the mother type.
And there's one, you know, the easiest plant, the most, the plant that would be most like
the mother plant would be the mother plant itself.
If we could find a way to produce it or to make that plant produce pollen.
And so we use this chemical trick where we spray this ethylene blocker on the female
plant when it's entering flowering and that allows the plant to produce male flowers from
which we can harvest the pollen and then self pollinate the plant.
But still we have to remember that that mother plant came herself as a hybrid from two different
plants.
Maybe those plants were, were almost identical and if they were almost identical, if we self
the plant, that's those self seeds would be very similar, right?
They might, they might even all be identical to the mother plant.
But if the, if the mother plant that we're using is herself a hybrid, meaning she has,
you know, genetics from two different types, when we, when we self that plant, it's going
to expose all of the genetic combinations that exist within her genome.
And that's exciting, right?
If you, if you're a pheno hunter, you know, if you're looking for unique traits, that
sounds exciting.
Now, if you're looking for consistency in seeds, well then you'd want the first version.
But the idea of being able to see all of the wonderful varieties also sounds fun, depending
on what your goal is.
It really is.
And typically, traditionally in the plant breeding world that, you know, that pheno
hunt is that you're talking about, it really has been the goal of the breeder.
The breeders goal is to put out, you know, as a commercial seed buyer, you want all the
plants to look the same, or I would think that you want all plants to look the same.
You know, you might be interested in looking at the variation, but I think for most people
that are buying commercial seeds, they expect, like you said, a representation of a, of a
described plant, aka the breeder's pack.
Yeah.
If most people want consistency or, or what a lot of people call a stable line, right?
Whereas, whereas people will say, oh no, this is a breeder's pack because there's a lot
of variety for you to pheno hunt in.
Yeah.
And that's kind of, I think that honestly breeders have been able to hide behind that
fact, that type of marketing for, you know, the last 30 years and breeders have typically
sold the variation as a positive.
When I think that really it's more.
Yeah.
A feature, not a flaw.
Yeah, exactly.
Exactly.
And that's, I think, you know, that's partly the, part of the reason is that a lot of the
people working with cannabis are unlike Caleb are not real plant breeders.
They're just people making seeds to sell for money.
And those, and that, you know, plant breeding is a skill and it's, there's an education
to it and you have to learn the laws of how plant breeding and biology and meiosis work
in order to be able to use them as tools to your advantage in creating a true breeding
line.
And so self seeds are a way to get to that true breeding line, but they, in the, they
in and of themselves may not be a good, a good way to produce stable seeds.
That doesn't mean that they don't have their use, but I, you know, to me, selfing is a
tool in a breeder's toolbox.
It's not.
The end result.
It's not the end result.
Fair enough.
Fair enough.
So let's talk about the mechanics of using silver thiosulfate.
One of the things I like about our conversations before today is that you know, you've got
the education and you are a scientist and it, you know, in my experience you describe
things pretty well.
So would you take us through the process of, of using silver thiosulfate to actually make
a feminized seed?
I know this may seem awfully basic for, for you, but, but most of us can't get a good
description anywhere because people describe things kind of, kind of a sloppily, you know,
even, even Caleb, right.
And who you and I both agree is a great breeder.
When he was on the show, he's all like, he's like, man, I, I kind of just do it, you know,
and fair enough.
Right.
So his, his expertise is making seeds, not necessarily, you know, teaching it, but, but
I'm going to put that on you.
So, so, so like, like once we've scored some silver thiosulfate you know, also what
you know, people call it feminization spray sometimes.
Like, what do you actually do with it?
Okay.
Well, I think it's under, and it's important to understand how it works.
So the, the, you don't need to use the silver thiosulfate.
The thiosulfate component is kind of like a buffer or a transporter to, to help bring
the silver into the plant.
When the first researchers were, were looking at these things, I guess it's important to
say too, there's five major plant hormones in humans.
You know, obviously we have many, many more, but in plants there's about five hormones
that regulate most of the, the, the dance of life of the plant.
And one of those hormones is ethylene.
I think most people know the consequences of ethylene by taking a green banana and putting
it in a paper bag and kind of cinching it closed and the banana will go yellow.
The reason is, is the paper bag is trapping that ethylene gas, which in the case of bananas
and many types of fruit, it causes ripening.
In flowers, it causes flowers to stay open.
So in the cut flower industry, you'll actually see flower producers typically, you know,
all over the world, but they, you know, if they're shipping flowers from say Costa Rica
to California for the market, one of the tricks to slow down the ripening process is to spray
the silver thiosulfate on the freshly harvested flower buds.
And that blocks the action of ethylene and stops the ripening or slows the ripening process,
allowing for a longer harvest window, you might say, or a longer transportation window.
It just provides shelf life stability.
So plant people spray these types of chemicals on plants.
And I guess a researcher was trying to look at the effect of silver nitrate, which is
very much like silver thiosulfate.
They sprayed it on the cannabis plants and they realized that this action would turn
female plants phenotypically male.
The female plants would produce male flowers.
And it does that by blocking the action of ethylene at this ethylene receptor, much like,
you know, much like Narcan does with the opioid or the opioid rescue drug.
It blocks the receptor and stops the action of the fentanyl of the heroin and essentially
revives the person.
So silver thiosulfate does much of the same thing, except the end result is that the plant
about two to three weeks later will start producing male flowers rather than female
flowers.
And we then harvest that pollen or we put that plant in the same room or a pollination
chamber with, you know, either another clone of the same genetically, the same plant for
making self seeds, or we could put another plant of a different genotype in the same
chamber as well to make hybrid feminized seeds.
So you'd put another female in with your female that you are applying the silver thiosulfate
to.
We call that plant the donor plant.
And so the donor plant essentially becomes your, you know, air quote males, your air
quote male plant or your pollen donor plant and any other plants that you want to receive
that pollen, you essentially put them in the same chamber, the same grow chamber, and they
will also be pollinated from that one pollen donor plant.
And so you can make self seeds and you can make hybrid seeds at the same time.
For home growers who may not, who want to give this a whirl, but they may not have,
you know, dedicated seed chambers and enough room for multiple plants, would it be legit
to spray the silver thiosulfate on, say, for example, lower branches and then just let
the, you know, have a fan in there so that the pollen goes around the tent and then self
pollinates the female flowers that are up higher in the plant?
Yeah, you can do it that way.
I think most people that are playing with around with breeding at home, they don't really
need, I mean, that could potentially produce many hundreds or even thousands of seeds.
I think for most home growers, you know, 20 or 30 or 40 seeds is probably sufficient to
play with.
So yeah, you could do it.
You could spray one branch if you wanted to, but then you risk pollinating the whole plant.
It's probably wiser to spray a small clone that you can isolate from the rest of the
plants, and then you can collect the pollen from that newly male plant or the pollen donor
plant, and then you can just take that pollen and either apply it by hand or with a paint
brush to the lower branches of your choice.
Is the only downside to pollinating the entire plant just that it's going to decrease the
potency of the smoke wool flower?
As far as I'm concerned, if I was going to go to all this freaking trouble, I would want
to pollinate that whole donor plant so that it makes the most seeds possible for the labor
that I'm putting in.
Yeah, you can, but it's again, it's not a very, you might want to, you know, in a small
plant with say four or five large main colas, you could really produce a few hundred seeds
of four different types, right?
If you put a different pollen donor on every branch.
So again, I think for most home growers, it would be more efficient to just pollinate
single branches rather than the full plant, because even if you just wanted to, you know,
if you say you're growing a couple of plants outside, you could just pollinate one branch
by creating a small pollen, we call them pollen bags, and they're essentially just little
parchment paper satchels, but you can put pollen in that and then tape over, you know,
the end, the open end over a bag and it's white.
So light still gets through it because it's parchment paper, it still breathes.
And that way you can actually create seeds on one plant, or sorry, on one branch of one
pollen type without pollinating the rest of your plant.
Let's talk about that.
Let's talk about that pollen bag for a second.
I'm familiar with taking the pollen and painting it on with a small paintbrush, right?
And that's fun and easy to do.
These pollen bags, so if the pollen is in the bag, the pollen can't go through the parchment,
that's good, and you're going to put it over the branch and you're probably going to tape
it off to close the seal on the far end.
What do you do?
Like shake the bag once a day?
Because I'm just imagining the pollen sitting in the lower part of the bag.
Well, the lower, yeah, when you make the bag, it's in the lower part of the bag, but you
turn the bag upside down as you put it on the plant, right?
So it kind of comes, you know, I was thinking of it like a sock being put over a branch.
Sure.
Right?
The pollen's down at the toes when you're creating the bag, you're making it.
But when you put the sock on the branch, so to speak, the bottom becomes the top and you
just cinch it with a zap strap or an elastic bag or a tie or whatever you want to do.
But you'd still want to jostle the bag occasionally to kind of remove the pollen around, right?
So you get more chances to pollinate after the very first attempt, right?
You can.
It's probably not necessary.
I mean, you'd be surprised how many pollen grains fit into, for example, a teaspoon of
pollen.
So if you were to create one of these bags and put a teaspoon of pollen in it, there's
more than enough pollen to saturate the entire branch.
There's a great picture of these actually on Rob Clark's book, Marijuana Botany.
Anybody can find that picture online from the front cover.
In one of the four corners, there's a picture of a cannabis plant with four or five different
branches on it with the pollen bags.
Okay.
So if we follow this strategy of using STS, this silver thiosulfate, what are our percentages
of success?
What's the likelihood of there being a male seed produced in this?
I mean, it's less than 100%, right?
Yeah.
I think the true answer to that, Shango, is that we don't really know.
I would argue that 99.99% of the seeds that are produced from these combinations are going
to be genetic and phenotypically female.
Now, we all know that there's anomalies in gender expression.
That's a big topic about today, whether men are men and women are men or whatever.
But there's definitely a small subset of the population where the genetics just don't match
the phenotype for whatever reason.
And those things can, yeah, they probably can happen.
But I think that it's much more likely when you find a male seed in an all-female seed
lot or a gynoecious or feminized seed seed lot, it's more likely that that male is derived
from a pollen contamination event back when the seed was making seeds or the plant was
making seeds rather than a female breeding resulting in a male seed.
That right there is some good insight.
You're in the scene.
You know how often ... I mean, it's not like it's incredibly often, but it happens often
enough that somebody plants a feminized seed and they get a male and they totally lose
their shit and it ends up being blamed on the feminized seeds as a whole when really
it's probably an accidental pollen particle that contaminated in the breeding room.
It's much more likely.
And like I said, there are anomalies everywhere in nature.
I was in Morocco with Rob Clark a few years ago and we were walking through these fields
with thousands of plants in them and we found a plant that had male-female ... it had male
flowers, but for every other discernible characteristic, this plant could have been a female.
It was what we called a very female-male or it was a heavily female trait male plant.
There are some subtle differences between males and females.
For example, often, and this doesn't always hold true, but often when plants go into ... if
you grow regular seeds, diaceous seeds, and you put them into flowering, often the males
will ... they become taller right before you go into flowering.
You can think of that like an evolutionary trait, kind of like corn.
Corn, the tassel that drops the pollen, is at the top of the plant.
When that pollen falls, it's falling towards the female reproductive organs below.
What cannabis does is it shoots up maybe an extra foot and so that the male flowers are
physically above their female counterparts.
When they open the male flowers and the pollen falls down, and yeah, it's caught by the wind,
but it's still blowing slightly downward.
It's an evolutionary advantage for the males to be slightly taller.
Also, that stretchiness that allows the male to stretch out and become taller, also the
same aspect happens to the flowers.
A tight floral cluster really becomes much more loose and open with male plants than
the female counterparts.
That allows the male ... they kind of look like little grapes when they come out of their
pre-flower state.
They drop and open.
That loose ... it's called a panicle.
That loose floral structure, it kind of gives freedom for the male plants to swing around
and be captured by the wind, which jostles them and releases the pollen.
When you spray STS on a female plant, you'll notice that the plants don't look like ... even
though they're male flowers rather than female flowers on the plant, the rest of the stature
is quite stocky and short and unlike a natural male.
You might have to break up the female or the male flowers by hand, for example, to release
the pollen.
Wow.
All right.
I've got a much better understanding of how to use silver thiosulfate to actually make
the feminize seeds and what my strategy would look like.
Before we start talking about accidental stress causing a female plant to produce male flowers
that have pollen in them, people have told me that, oh, there's lots of different ways
to make feminized seeds.
In my research, I pretty much find there is silver thiosulfate and then a bunch of
rumor.
Is there another scientifically reliable method to create feminized seeds other than using
STS?
Yes.
There are other hormone blockers.
STS works the best.
I think what you're really referencing is there's a couple of techniques.
One of them was called rotalization, which is really not a good technique.
Dutch Passion, who first commercialized the feminized seeds, also used a pretty suspect
technique when creating the first feminized seeds that really led to feminized seeds having
a bad reputation.
If you remember before I said like begets like, and all that means is that if you take
a plant and it has any given set of traits, those traits are going to be likely to be
represented in the offspring or more likely to be represented in the offspring.
The way that the initial companies made these feminized seeds is they took plants that would
say normally flower in eight to 10 weeks and they flowered them for 12 to 14 weeks.
When plants get way past sexual maturity, some of them will start producing male flowers.
Those male flowers, obviously you can harvest that pollen and then also use that pollen
to create new female seeds.
The problem is that those plants were, some people would call them unstable, I call them
intersex.
Remember at the beginning of the episode we talked about diatiousness versus monetiousness
where you either have plants that have separate sexes on separate plants or we have the other
end of the spectrum as both sexes on one plant.
I would think of that like a spectrum or a continuum where that one end we have complete
intersexuality or monetious plants like hemp that produce many, many male and many, many
female flowers.
That doesn't matter because with hemp we want it to be seeded usually, they're harvesting
the seeds to be sold.
But that trait in a drug cannabis plant is really not a good characteristic because you
can have a plant spontaneously produce male flowers and pollinate the entire crop or at
least that region of your greenhouse or grow room and that really obviously devalues the
selling price of the cannabis if it's full of seed.
So what these Dutch companies or predominantly Dutch companies did is they used plants that
would naturally produce, keep in mind this is before people realized that you could use
silver thiosulfate.
And so these plant breeders would harvest the pollen from these intersex plants and
use that to fertilize their females or to pollinate their females and those plants would
then inherit that intersex or hermaphrodite characteristic.
And so the first feminized seeds that were available on the market, we had a lot of reports
of hermes or more appropriately intersex plants in the seed lots.
And I think that's one of the real reasons that feminized seeds kind of have a bad reputation
on the market is because those early lessons, they left a deep impression in the culture.
And the truth is when you're taking a plant and you're selfing it, you're reinforcing
any characteristic that is within the plant.
So if your chosen mother plant has a slight tendency to be intersex or to go intersex
on a given set of stresses, pH, light cycle, whatever it is, those stresses are likely
to create a trigger to induce those male flowers to appear.
And you really don't want to use, when you're selfing a plant, you don't want to reinforce
that type of trait.
Wow.
Yeah, totally.
And so this is so interesting because this actually answers my next question I was going
to go to because as we know, some cultivars, when you put them under stress, they will
throw male flowers and for most of us, that's a negative happenstance.
We don't want our female plants to throw male flowers.
But then some people are like, oh sweet, I was hoping to get these flowers to smoke,
but now they're feminized seeds.
So now they've got this different value.
And I was going to ask you, are those feminized seeds equally as valuable as the kind that
we make using STS?
And I think the answer would be no.
No, they're much less valuable.
Much less stable and they're going to include that likelihood that they will hermey or go
intersex on you if it gets any kind of stress, maybe not even a lot of stress.
Yeah.
And again, I think the argument could be made that for a plant breeder, maybe using an STS
technique or that type of pollination technique is actually a good way to remove the intersex
plants because if you took a plant that had slight intersex tendencies and you selfed
it and you grew it the next generation, any of the plants in the next generation that
don't have that tendency, it's possible that those plants have removed that given
trait from the mother plant.
So again, in plant breeding, there's no hard and set rules, but you definitely don't
want to be releasing seeds like that onto the marketplace where a grower is then going
to grow them expecting that they're all going to be 100% female.
And that's one of the challenges too, right?
With the seed market as it is right now, it's so easy for people to make money selling seeds
that you get folks that they take their favorite strain and they hit it to a bunch of hype
strains and then they put the seeds out.
Whereas more of the breeders that I respect, they're actually going to work that seed group
to stress them and pull those out.
So those traits are less likely to exist.
I think that's probably the real big difference between pollen chuckers and people who I give
the capital B breeder to is whether or not they put that extra effort in to really stabilize
and pull out a lot of those unwanted traits.
Yeah.
Well, that's just something that again, because plant breeding is typically done by nerds
and greenhouses, it's not really a celebrity seeking kind of job, but it's for some reason
in cannabis it is, right?
And that's kind of a weird little commentary on the cannabis industry.
But in the real plant breeding world, as much as 75% or maybe even 90% of the crosses that
you make, they're not successes, right?
The ideal with plant breeding really in my mind should be, well, I guess there's different
goals in plant breeding.
Like you said, one goal might be to replicate the breeder's idiotype or the ideal expression
or the breeder's opinion of what that ideal expression is.
And you want to capture that in the seed, right?
But there's different, you might have an ideal plant, like, I don't know, let's just choose
one, Girl Scout Cookies, for example.
I mean, it's a great plant, it's super, it's a variety, it's really high THC content, it's
got a lovely flavor profile, but it's not very big.
So you might want to breed that plant to produce about twice as much as it does.
And that takes time and effort and a lot of crosses and experimentation.
And realistically, 90% of those breeding experiments are going to be dead ends.
They're not going to lead to that next generation or what we would call an elite plant where
you're raising the quality to the producer, not only the consumer, right?
It produces more, it's more mold resistant, whatever, whatever the fix is for that particular
line.
So before we go to our first commercial break, I want to go on a quick little fishing expedition
with you.
So at last Emerald Cup, I was hanging out in the Dragonfly Earth Medicine tent, and
they were talking about how on their farm up in Canada, they have some plants that produce
female only seeds without STS, because they were saying at the time that they're not fans
of using that chemical for whatever reason.
And I'm all like, so how do you have female seeds naturally coming off a plant?
And they said that their best guess is that they heavily green mulch with nettle, which
is high in hormones.
And that when this plant breaks down and it gets watered in, that at the very least, the
lower branches self pollinate, I guess is the idea.
And then the plant produces only female seeds.
So I'm curious to know, does this hit any triggers?
And I want to apologize in advance to Dragonfly if I screwed up their story, because maybe
they don't produce male flowers, maybe the seeds just come out as female.
But I guess the point I'm trying to ask about is, is there a way that adding hormones to
the root structure should change the gender of the seeds?
I love Josh and Kelly.
They're really super nice people.
But as a scientist, that does trigger me a little bit.
Yeah, I don't think that's likely.
I mean, listen, in the cannabis industry, we have this long history of speculating and
coming up with really lavish ideas.
I mean, people were driving stakes through the stems of plants and stuff 30 years ago
to try and increase the resin content.
Humans have done all sorts of crazy things.
But I think that scientifically, there's a pretty big gap between saying if we put these
hormones on the root system, they get absorbed by the plant and they only have an effect
within however far of the root zone.
Well, that's too bad, Ryan, because I really like the idea of us being able to make
feminized seeds in a more natural way than using the chemical.
I really liked that idea and I'm disappointed.
We can do that.
And the way that we do that is, like I said, the way those early Dutch seed producers do
it.
The rotalization style.
Yeah.
And you know what?
There's hemp lines that also produce that.
There's a hemp breeder who's now passed, but it was a Hungarian hemp breeder named
Ivan Boska.
And he came up with what he called a unisex line that produced nearly all female plants.
We're talking 990 out of a thousand kind of thing.
And he had this method for going and selecting intersex plants, but only the very right intersex
plants.
Like he had a subset of plants that he chose.
And when you use those plants to breed with regular female plants, they were, you know,
air quote, gynoecious seeds, they're all female seeds.
They weren't all female seeds.
They were feminized seeds with a small percentage of intersex plants.
So you can do that stuff naturally.
You know, I don't think that we need to be scared of chemicals like silver nitrate.
I mean, we feed all sorts of nitrates to our plants as food.
It's just silver and nitrogen and oxygen.
And I think if you're careful with it and you don't spray it on yourself, there's really
very, very, very minimal risk associated with doing that.
And I think it's more of a lifestyle choice to say, hey, we're not going to use chemicals
like that.
But I think that the trade off, if we're truly looking for plants that are sexually stable
and aren't going to throw intersex plants, we're better to rely on the chemicals rather
than going and selecting for plants that are likely to produce pollen under any given number
of triggers, be it low light conditions or like we said before, pH or certain feeding
regimens.
Right.
So I would not I would not do it that way.
Right.
Let me I want to push one more on the on the silver thiosulfate.
Is this is this does this occur in nature?
Like is it a is it an a man made chemical or are we just taking something in nature
and applying it to the plant?
What I'm getting at is I'm trying to understand for myself, you know, I mean, certainly it's
not something as far out as like genetically modified organisms.
We're not we're not doing, you know, like, you know, genetic line changes or anything.
We're at we're we're pushing the plant to do something with a chemical and many chemicals
are natural.
I'm trying to decide how unnatural, if you will, using STS is.
I mean, is this is this a bastardization of nature or is this just a cool natural trick?
I don't think it's a bastardization of nature, but also keep in mind that I'm you know, I
am pro responsible use of genetic modifications because, you know, technology's hurt.
You've heard me say this before at the Emerald Cup, but, you know, technologies like Talon
and CRISPR are going to change.
They are changing the face of plant breeding and allowing us to do things that we could
never have done in the past.
You know, in terms of our guy, no issues, seeds natural.
Absolutely not.
You know, there's no all female seeds in nature.
There's there's money.
We should seeds, which are I think it's important to say again here, money, we should seeds.
They're really all female seeds, but that have an intersex trait.
So if you look at them genetically, they don't have Y chromosomes, but they're heavily intersex
plants.
Right.
So technically, you know, on a genetic level, they're they are female plants are all female
plants, but they're all female and intersex, which makes them phenotypically monies.
Right.
So, yeah, if you want to be hippie minded and only doing things that are found without
the help of man, feminized seeds are not for you.
Right on.
That is very interesting.
And I'm super grateful to Kelly for, you know, suggesting this possibility in the tent so
that I could go down this path.
I mean, here we are.
We're like a year later and I'm still I'm still talking about it because it's such an
interesting idea.
All right.
Well, we've had a super long first set.
Let's go ahead and and take our first short break and be right back.
You're listening to Shaping Fire.
And my guest today is cannabis biologist Ryan Lee.
While I love growing under the sun, there's a lot of good reasons to grow indoors.
And if you're like most folks, you want a lighting source that grows high yielding,
healthy plants without using excessive amounts of electricity.
BioSlighting creates biological lighting solutions that brings the natural brilliance of the
outdoors into your grow room.
BioSlighting has the attributes that I look for in a horticultural lighting solution.
I've bought those cheap lights online and they're difficult to work with and fail in no time.
In contrast, my BioSLED light is industrial grade to last a long time.
It is IP66 wet rated, so little foliar overspray won't harm it.
It is easy to clean without taking it down.
And of course, the most important aspect, it is built for the exact light spectrum I
want for great yielding, healthy cannabis plants.
And it doesn't hurt that their lighting rigs look bad ass too.
Many horticultural LED lighting systems are based on irrelevant performance metrics and
people love to argue online about these numbers.
I prefer to judge on par photon efficiency and how happy my plants are.
And the BioSlights exceed my expectations in these categories.
BioSlights have an optimized broad spectrum that maximizes photosynthesis and plant growth
while also providing the ideal conditions for superior power efficacy and a comfortable
visual experience.
I also love their attentive and over-educated customer service folks.
BioS starts with a team of biologists before getting the electrical engineers involved.
They have studied how light impacts cannabis plants and devised an overall strategy that
works.
I encourage you to check out their website at bioslighting.com to learn more about how
this strategy can work for you.
And Shaping Fire listeners can get a special deal.
Use the discount code SHAPINGFIRE, all one word, no caps, for 10% off your entire purchase.
That's bioslighting.com.
If you listen to Shaping Fire and you grow your own cannabis, chances are high that you
are very particular about the inputs you use for growing.
People like us painstakingly self-educate on cannabis nutrients and techniques so we
can cultivate the best tasting and cleanest flowers possible.
And when we go to purchase those nutrients, we want to be sure that our supplier shares
our values and is providing exceptional quality.
This is why I recommend buildasoil.com to my friends who care about quality.
Build A Soil empowers organic growers to do their best work by sourcing and shipping only
the finest cannabis growing supplies.
From organic inputs, soils, soil testing and pots, to lights, growing tents, sprayers and
cover crops, Build A Soil founder Jeremy Silva doesn't just stock his store with what's
available.
He goes deep to personally vet each product for quality and determine that there isn't
a better version of the product that he could be selling.
Because of this arduous process, you know that your options on buildasoil.com have been
carefully curated to create the results you are looking for.
Not only that, but the Build A Soil way is a philosophy that will permeate your interaction
with the company.
From website design to pricing and shipping to after purchase support, Jeremy and his
team always strive to do their best and give you the best customer service in the business.
Check out buildasoil.com today for top tier quality cultivation supplies and a friends
and family buying experience.
And check out their educational videos and extraordinary social media while you're there
too.
Quality organic growing supplies at buildasoil.com
For years, organic cultivators have been looking for a replacement for using peat moss.
Peat moss has long been the go-to soil amendment for water retention and container growing,
but organic growers know that peat moss is an unsustainable resource and the mining of
peat bogs destroys habitat and releases sequestered carbon.
But peat moss works so well that many have continued to use it.
But now there's finally a revolutionary replacement for peat moss that shares the same benefits
while also being sustainable.
Pit moss sounds and acts like peat moss, but instead of being mined from fragile ecosystems,
it actually is made from upcycled organic paper and tree bark.
Pit moss is excellent at retaining water in your substrate and creating air pockets
and tiny living environments for microbes.
Pit moss instantly increases aeration, nutrient absorption, and water conservation too.
Carefully and locally sourced, pit moss is the result of decades-long research into the
use of recycled paper fibers.
Pit moss has the fluffy nature of peat moss and handles exactly the same.
And like peat moss, pit moss is inert, so it won't change your pH.
Pit moss is available in a range of preparations including a nutrient enhanced blend, a coco-coir
blend, and also as an organic soil conditioner with no added nutrients.
Pit moss is also available as an animal bedding.
So go to pitmoss.com now to learn more.
That's P-I-T-T-M-O-S-S dot com.
Growing healthier, more sustainable plants.
Pit moss.
Welcome back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire.
I'm your host, Shangolos, and our guest this week is cannabis biologist, Ryan Lee.
So in the second set, we're going to talk a lot more about feminized seed myths and
figure out which ones might hold some water and which ones are just, you know, holdovers
from the early days of feminized seeds when they were made with rotalization.
So Ryan, we talked a little bit already about how poorly tested seeds, poorly tested feminized
seeds can, you know, go intersex when put under stresses.
And you know, really high end, I'm not even really high end, like properly made feminized
seeds don't do that.
So I guess my question for you is, is if the goal when making feminized seeds is that there
are not going to be males and that they will not be throwing male botanical parts, what
can we do when producing feminized seeds so that doesn't happen?
Because, you know, we have to cop to the fact that sometimes that does happen.
I mean, we see the pictures on Instagram, but the idea to say, yeah, that was it.
That's an untested plant.
That's a good position to take.
But then what's that testing look like so that you're not making feminized seeds that
crack under stress?
Yeah.
So, I mean, there's all these conditions that under which even regular cannabis females
that are created through regular matings with males and females, they also throw intersex,
what we call intersex characteristics or, you know, as they're colloquially known as
as hermes, which is really not a very good description for them.
But these intersex plants, they pop up occasionally.
It's just a factor of cannabis.
It's part of the cannabis genome.
And it's present to a degree or less in different cultivars and different varieties.
So typically what you do is, if you take, if you expect a plant is going to go and undergo
this stress phenotype of intersexuality, you expose it to those conditions that might under
that that might trigger that intersexuality to come about.
So, you know, if you flick the lights in the middle of the night and give them periods
of interrupt or you essentially interrupt their dark period, that can sometimes cause
stress.
And in some plants will become intersex and some plants won't.
Well, the ones that become intersex, they're probably not good breeding candidates because
they're going to be triggered by, you know, light interruption.
The plants that are resistant to becoming intersex in those in that condition, they
might be a better candidate to be part of a female female female breeding program.
And so same goes for, you know, temperature fluctuations or pH fluctuations in the root
zone.
And a lot of these stresses that might trigger again, we look for the plants that are triggered
and we select against those plants using the principle of like begets like, you know, anything
that that has that trigger.
We want to remove those plants from our breeding population so that those traits are passed
on.
And I think that any really any plant that is made to be part of a female breeding program
or a self that that those seeds should be examined before they're sold.
You know, they should be grown out by the breeder and and and confirm that they don't
have intersexuality.
That's one of the things that we do when we especially when we use self seeds is you're
not just giving, you know, when you use a regular breeding program and you take a plant
that might have a an iffy characteristic, it's 50 50 whether that characteristic is
going to get passed on because it's you know, there's there's pollen, there's genetic
country contributions coming from another individual, which is also going to influence
the progeny.
But when you're selfing seeds or you're selfing plants, those resulting seed lines, they kind
of get a double dose of whatever good or whatever bad traits the plant might hold.
And so we really have to go through and do a subsequent screen and make sure that that
plant isn't passing on bad characteristics.
When you're doing your breeding programs, what do you choose to do to the plants to
stress them out?
Like, you know, it's it's it's it's funny to hear people joke on Instagram about the
the crazy obstacles and torture they put their plants under to try to weed out the strongest
plants.
But so far you've mentioned interruption of light cycle and temperature swings in the
root zone.
So other than that, what other, you know, trials would you put plants through to make
sure that when they're under stress, they're not going to go intersex?
Well, I mean, just normal grow room stresses.
The problem is, is that, you know, I try to I try to create an environment that the plants
are going to grow in for the breeding.
You really want to select the plants under the same environments that they're going to
be growing in.
And so, yeah, you can torture plants.
And I expect that there's a certain degree of torture that plants do go through being
grown in home gardens by inexperienced growers and growers in little tents and stuff.
You can't you I mean, I guess you can try to build a bulletproof plant, but really,
I just do selections in greenhouses and expose them to the normal everyday stresses that
they might get.
So it's kind of a it's kind of a I don't really don't torture test too much.
I mean, our torture test is using the plants in production.
Typically, I don't use plants unless it's for a very small breeding program that doesn't
become a commercial release.
You know, something to do with like an obscure chemistry like THCB, for example.
Really a lot of the breeding becomes focused on plants that are accepted in the market
accepted by the marketplace.
Right.
So I don't take the blue dreams and the cookies of the world and the OGs and make them better.
Right.
Because I think that all those plants, you know, we go through this kind of fashion thing
with with cannabis.
You know, one one plant that's fashionable one day, seven years down the road, nobody
wants to smoke it.
But you know, if you wait another seven years, it's like bell bottoms.
They'll come back.
Well, in addition to the, you know, the belief that feminized seeds are more likely to go
intersex, another belief of folks is that that feminized seeds are less vigorous or
produce plants that are smaller in size.
And you know, I have produced smaller plants from feminized seeds.
I've also produced monster plants from feminized seeds.
And I've kind of put that more on me and my inconsistent growing.
So from the scientific background, are feminized seeds less vigorous or smaller in size than
a true reg seed?
Well, no, they don't have to be, because, again, you could make an F1 hybrid feminized
seed line by taking two stable, true breeding females and crossing them together.
Right.
And so the plant would be that that plant would be an F1 hybrid.
So that's you know, those are typically very high, very high in vigor.
But in breeding, though, again, it we get a double dose of any trace, any you have an
opportunity to get a double dose of any traits that are in the parent plant.
And so any plants that are for diminutive stature, they kind of yeah, we do see in cell
seeds that you have this wide range of of plants that, you know, some that are very
vigorous, some that might not be so vigorous, some that are very small with tiny leaves
and some that are normal looking.
And that's part of the breeders goal is to select for or against those traits, depending
on what the end goal is.
But that has nothing to do with the actual fact that they're female seeds.
That's just like straight up breeding.
Yeah.
And I think that that's really maybe one of the most important take homes that we can
that that people can have coming out of this conversation is that, you know, what happens
when people started selfing seeds, they would take these plants and they'd spray them with
STS and then they would grow the resulting as one seeds.
And maybe 50 percent of the plants were smaller.
Fifty percent of the plants were intersex, like we were saying before, you know.
And the assumption is, oh, well, I use this new breeding technique.
That's probably what caused the problem.
Whereas the truth is, is that the breeding technique exposed a genetic weakness that
was unseen in the plant.
Right.
And so we have to be able to tease apart the cause of the the cause and effect of the consequences
that we're seeing.
Right.
Like, was it really the STS that we sprayed on the plant that made the plants in the next
generation subpar?
Or maybe it was that those plants that were generated, they just inherited some subpar
genetics that were buried in the plant, which is not only possible.
That's in fact what we expect from selfing outcrossing species like cannabis.
And in some ways it's it can be seen as an attractive attribute, because if you are a
serious breeder and you really want to pull all of these less than attractive attributes
out, well, you know, creating feminize seeds and being able to see all of the stuff, that's
actually a win if you don't want to put out stuff with this, these attributes hidden.
Yeah.
And it might be a condition that, you know, for example, you know, there's some plants
that if you cross a white flower with a with a red flower, you get a pink flower.
But when you try to breed that pink flower, the next generation produces 25 percent white
flowers, 25 percent red flowers and 50 percent pink flowers.
Right.
So it's like the if you want to have all of the flowers come out pink, you have to cross
the the red and the white types together to get pink.
Well, you might not like the red or the white types.
Right.
But they become an E a means to an end, for example.
And a lot of these traits that we see as favorable in elite cannabis plants are as a result of
what we call heterosis, which is a condition where the plant has two separate chromosomes
from from diverse and disparate parents that are very genetically unrelated.
And so you kind of have to go to the ugly before you can breed the beautiful.
Right.
It's like one is one is a means to the other.
And they kind of exist in a balance.
You can't have one without the other.
That's like dying to be a meme, dude.
You have to go with the ugly before you can breed the beautiful.
In a way, it's true.
Right.
And we don't I don't know.
It's I don't know.
There's all these crafts analogies that we could use.
But when you start talking about breeding humans, people get upset about it.
So, yeah.
Well, let's just let's move right on from there.
But I do want to hit on something before we go to the next potential myth to bust.
You know, you came up to the point where you're talking about like, you know, you take
the pink flowered plant and then when you breed that, you know, only 25 percent of them
or some percentage are going to be the pink and then maybe the rest are going to be white.
You know, I don't know a lot about breeding myself at the at a fine level, but I you know,
I have studied a little bit of genetic trait charts and how they're passed on.
And do you have a book that you would recommend to people who have not studied this at the
university level, who are just like regular cannabis folk like I am?
That would be a good read that would would explain like the next level of cannabis breeding,
but without burying me in scientific, you know, jargon that I may not have the education
to follow.
Yeah, I mean, it's an old one and it's not very advanced techniques.
It doesn't really discuss suffering or anything like that.
But Rob Clark's book on marijuana botany, I think it's a propagation of distinctive
cannabis.
Marijuana botany is just an incredible.
It's a classic.
You know, you can't even even though some parts of it are a little dated, it's still
like worth every for everybody to read.
Yeah, that one.
The only other one from the cannabis industry that I would really recommend is as Jorge
Cervantes, Marijuana Horticulture.
It was a green book and I think they called it the the medical growers Bible or something
like that.
I actually wrote the breeding chapter for that back in 2004 or 2005.
And I tried to lay it out in a very simple goal oriented way of breeding that, you know,
it was I had hoped that it was easy for the consumer to understand.
And it was a little different than most most breeding segments in these cannabis books
had been presented in the past.
So that would be one worth checking out.
And then as far as anything else and really trying to understand the the meiosis and the
genetic dance that goes on behind that's really the foundation of all plant breeding,
you know, plant breeding for dummies or genetics for dummies, something like that is would
be really great.
And there are, you know, 10, 15 bucks online.
I'm sure people could find it.
Yeah, they give you a nice broad base.
It's not gonna be cannabis specific, but you're gonna learn a lot from it.
Yeah, that makes sense.
I think that you'd learn more than you would from learning, learning from a cannabis book,
to be perfectly honest, more principles that really lay the foundation of the science of
like you were talking about Punnett squares and, you know, all that kind of stuff.
It really gives you a visualization.
Yeah, actually, maybe maybe read the the breeding for dummies version of the book and then go
read Rob's book.
So you've got you already have a basket of knowledge with which to read Rob's book when
I I was very early in, you know, in my cannabis life when I read Rob's book and it was like
over my head.
I would probably actually do way better if I read it now.
Yeah, if you went back and you read it now, you'd get a lot of that out of it.
Everybody has to remember to that was that book was written almost 40 years ago.
Now it's 1981.
It was published.
So it's not it's not going to be all full of stories of OG and Blue Dream or cookies,
but it does really a beautiful job of talking about all the different land race varieties
and it gets into some basic trait breeding.
It just crossed my mind.
I'm like 81.
I mean, wow, that knowledge is as old as when I was listening to Van Halen.
That's a long ass time ago.
So so the next belief about fem seeds I want to hit is, you know, a lot of people will
say that feminized seeds may be great to grow for your own pleasure, for your smoke or for
your medicine.
And it's certainly great for patients because they don't have to deal with, you know, male
plants because there's nothing quite as sad as a patient that's growing, you know, six
plants for, you know, themselves medical and then they end up with four males.
Oh, that's so sad because not only are patients usually really emotionally attached to each
plant, but that really decreases the amount of medicine you've got for your year.
So that's a drag. But but a lot of people say that using feminized seeds to breed is
a bad idea or so.
So since we've been talking a lot about cookies, let's say like, OK, you know, you get some
Girl Scout cookies, feminized seeds.
Somebody would say, yeah, if you want to breed with cookies, you need to go and Fino
hunt, you know, some cookie seeds that are regular or get yourself a regular clone and
breed with that.
You don't want to breed with the feminized seed because there is something at its very
basis that is, you know, more easily corruptible than using regular seeds.
What are your thoughts?
Yeah, I think that's nonsense.
I think that, you know, we try to look at it scientifically again.
If you look back.
There's that for me, if a plant is good enough to use as a female breeder, like if a plant
is good enough for me as a breeder to say, OK, this plant is is uniform, it's stable,
it's it doesn't have intersex offspring.
It doesn't have go intersex when the lights get flicked on at night or the pH of the soil
is too low.
I'm confident that this plant is a reliable, solid breeding candidate for me.
That plant is good enough to either be a pollen donor or a pollen recipient.
There's no difference.
But I think that a lot of people in the scene believe that the STS creates some kind of
chromosomal instability.
In fact, I heard a plant breeder say that at the Emerald Cup last year.
And there's just no evidence that that happens.
I mean, theoretically, I guess it's possible that somehow the silver damages the DNA.
But there's never been any kind of scientific confirmation that that happens.
And we got to remember that these techniques are used widely in other crops.
Right. That's like all your cucumbers are pretty much feminized or got guy, no issues
lots as well, because it's not efficient for farmers to be growing acres and acres of
plants when 25 percent of the plants are male and they're not going to produce cucumbers.
Right. Like that's a huge waste of time and space.
So if you're if you're a grower, if you're a grower, you want them to be you want to
fill your plot with everything that you need.
I don't think that we've you know, I don't think that people haven't been able to tease
apart again.
It's like we said before, how much of the damage, how much of the problem are we seeing
is a result of a bad selection of a parental plant versus the breeding technique that was
used to create that the the generation.
Right. Yeah. And for me, I just don't believe I haven't seen
enough detriment across the board to say, yes, I think that this is a result of the
technique and not the plants that were chosen.
I think that you can attribute all the negative consequences of selfing from genetic
weaknesses that are contained within the plants themselves that were selfed.
Right on. All right. So last question before we go to our second break, you know, I
know this is going to be kind of a vague question, so I'm going to need you to work with
me here. But I want to ask you it because I see it so commonly just kind of thrown out
there on cannabis forums by people who are hating on feminized seeds.
And they will say some version of you shouldn't use to feminized seeds because growing
or breeding with feminized seeds limits the size of the overall cannabis gene pool.
And it's bad for the future of cannabis as a whole.
Yeah, it's a funny statement.
And there is a there is a bit of a truth to it.
I wouldn't say that there's truth with it pertaining to feminized seeds.
Everybody has to remember any seed or any child can only have two parents.
Right. So the the the act of taking two plants and putting them together or taking a
thousand males or a thousand females and putting them together, they both result in the
same consequence that every seed came from two parents.
Right. So if you're taking two female plants and mating them together or you're taking
one female plant and one male plant and mating them together, you're still doing what I
call a one to one mating.
Right. And so, yes, one to one matings create a genetic bottleneck.
You're narrowing the genetic possibilities that are being passed on.
Sometimes as a plant breeder, you need to do that, right, because you do need to purge
it when you're when you're trying to create something new.
You have to remove all the traits that you don't want.
And sometimes the way you do that is by creating a tight bottleneck.
You can always take that bottleneck population and back cross it to the more diverse
family. But I think trying to assign the blame of genetic bottlenecking to feminized
seeds really isn't accurate because that's what plant breeders, cannabis plant breeders
have been doing since dawn immoral.
I mean, essentially, that's that's the goal, right?
If we're trying to create consistency in our seeds so that when you plant the seed, you
get the plant you're ideally looking for.
That's actually what happens with then regular seeds as well.
It's a honing process.
It's like it's like sculpture.
It's removing the parts you don't want.
Now. Now, if everybody did that with all of cannabis at the same time, well, all right,
that may limit the gene pool theoretically.
But since that's not actually what happens and we can always outcross the realistic
experience we have is not actually a decrease in the gene pool.
Yeah, I just I don't think I mean, I do think that we do need to be careful with genetic
preservation. All crops are going through this massive narrowing.
But I think attributing it, attributing that problem solely to something with feminized
seeds is a bit of a false dichotomy.
Right on. Fair enough.
All right. So let's go ahead and take our last short break and be right back.
You are listening to Shaping Fire.
My guest today is cannabis biologist Ryan Lee.
In times like these, when so many cannabis companies are growing their flower in gigantic
warehouses and fields using synthetic nutrients, it is good to know that there are
authentic California heritage growers using natural farming techniques and sunshine to
cultivate cannabis flowers for you.
California has produced the best cannabis in the world for generations.
And the idea that massively scaled industrial cannabis production could produce the same
quality as small batch lovingly cultivated flowers is just silly.
Moon Time Medicinals is located in Humboldt County on the lush South Fork of the Eel
River watershed in the epicenter of the American cannabis heartland.
Moon Time Medicinals grows under bright California sun in greenhouses using only natural
farming techniques like hugelkultur, compost teas, whole food fertilizers and fermented
plant juices.
Every part of their growing process plays its own part in nature and nothing synthetic is
injected into the process.
The result is big, beautiful cannabis flowers with wide ranging terpene profiles that
tastes like great cannabis should.
If you live in California, ask your bud tender for Moon Time Medicinals and visit Moon
Time Medicinals on the web and Instagram.
Moon Time Medicinals is also available as part of the Redwood Roots family.
Moon Time's whole flowers appear in Redwood Roots curated joint packs alongside other
heritage cannabis cultivators like Lady Sativa Farm, Ridgeline Farms, Humboldt Redwood
Healing and others.
Moon Time Medicinals, top shelf cannabis grown in harmony with nature.
Pre-rolls have come a long way since the early days of normalization.
When you choose Saints Joints, you are smoking all flower top shelf pre-rolls with
terpenes that will sculpt your high in a way that dry old pre-rolls just can't.
Whereas most brands release pre-rolls as an afterthought, for the last five years, Saints
Joints has focused on their line of exotic curated joints.
And while some companies just chase the hype strains, Saints Joints goes deeper, searching
out hard to find strains, unexpected crosses and nearly forgotten land races and classics
and some hype ones too.
Not only does a joint from Saints smoke incredibly well, they have fine tuned every step
of the process so you don't get runs in the paper.
The joint is just the right density to have a nice pull and the joint stays lit, even if
you get a bit chatty.
Saints Joints boxes are works of art and will spark conversation when you pull them out
at a party. Saints award winning boxes change with every release, feature edgy outsider
art and often raise awareness of important issues like equal rights.
Saints boxes are so desired that many collect them and display them in their homes.
Ask your bud tender for Saints Joints and have a premium joint experience.
Now, if you are a licensed cannabis cultivator, I have an extra message for you.
Saints is looking for partners in legal cannabis states to expand the availability of the
Saints Joints brand.
Do you grow exceptional cannabis flower but are less excited about all the effort, cost
and risk of launching your own brand?
Saints Joints may be just the partner you are looking for.
Already established in California, Washington and Oklahoma and recognized by
Entrepreneur Magazine and Green Entrepreneur as a cannabis industry leader, the Saints
Joints brand will set you apart in your home market.
The best thing I can recommend is for you to visit their Instagram at Saints Joints and
look at their patented drawer design boxes.
Become that brand everyone is talking about without having to build it from scratch.
Check out the Instagram at Saints Joints and then visit Saints Joints dot com to find out
more. For many, transitioning to organic gardening can be overwhelming.
There's so much to learn about soil biology and fermentation.
BioFlux, fermented plant boost from EverFlux, simplifies organic farming so you can start
growing organically today.
Invented by a California farmer growing organic for 40 years, BioFlux is a fermented
natural farming preparation for those who want a natural micro booster without having to
brew their own. This extraordinary chemical free growth and terpene enhancer improves
root development, accelerates the conversion of organic matter into humus, increases
nutrient use efficiency and uptake and increases beneficial microbe activity.
In addition to the BioFlux fermented plant booster, EverFlux also makes an activated
biochar called TeroFlux that is infused with the BioFlux plant booster.
Imagine combining the buffering and rhizosphere enhancing qualities of biochar infused with a
range of earthworm castings, insect frass, kelp and crab meal, oyster shell and other
ingredients. I'm using TeroFlux infused biochar this summer myself and it smells alive,
rich and potent.
These products have been scientifically proven to match yields and increase flower quality
and pest resistance when compared to traditional NPK inputs.
If you are looking for reliable organic fertilizers that will free you up to focus on
other aspects of your garden, consider using the range of all natural regenerative
fertilizers and natural bio stimulants from EverFlux.
Find out more at everfluxtechnologies.com or by following their Instagram at
everflux.
Welcome back. You are listening to Shaping Fire.
I'm your host, Shango Lose.
And our guest this week is cannabis biologist Ryan Lee.
So Ryan, in this third set, I am hoping that you can take us all down this path of female
only breeding.
And honestly, I do not know a lot about this.
I only have two friends that practice female only breeding.
But my God, are they like excited about it?
And they really find it as like kind of like being way more immediate and successful more
quickly. And I don't really understand why.
So I figure since we're doing a show all about female seeds and the producing of them, the
breeding with them, let's go ahead and talk about female breeding and kind of bring
everybody up to the state of the art.
So so why don't you start generally with just what is female only breeding?
So really, it's exactly what it sounds like.
It's it's breeding without using any male plants.
And it's a it's a breeding tool or technique that is really incredibly well suited to
breeding specifically for drug cannabis.
When you're breeding because drug cannabis is the experience is so based on the chemistry of
the plant. Really, what we're doing is trying to create a special chemistry, both in the
cannabinoids and the terpenes and terpenoids and all these other chemical chemicals of the
plant produces to create a user experience or a plant with a user experience that we find
enjoyable. And when we use traditional breeding techniques where we use a male cannabis
plant and a female cannabis plant, it's really easy to choose the female cannabis plant
because we can use a laboratory or we can use our nose or the way the smoke flowers make us
feel as a guide to which individual female plant is the best or better than all the others
where we can't do that with male plants because you don't smoke the female.
You don't smoke the flowers of the male plants.
The male plants really don't produce a smokeable flower.
And because they don't produce a flower, we can't or they're sorry, a flower that produces a
lot of resin glands.
We can't really use the same laboratory techniques that we use in the laboratory.
I mean, I suppose we could, but it would only give you a little bit of a hint as what the
plant would look like if it were a female plant.
Whereas if we choose female plants based on their bud and their flower characteristics, we
can kind of do what I call positive selection on both sides of the cross.
We can find a pollen donor plant that has traits of interest and we can have a seed mother
plant that has maybe the same traits of interest or different traits of interest.
And that way we're doing positive selection on both sides of the cross.
Whereas if we were trying to breed a male with a female, we could understand everything that
that plant genetically contributes to the female flower on the female side.
But on the male side, we're kind of shooting in the dark.
So what I'm picturing in my head is I'm going to take one female plant, spray her with STS,
to cause her to give off male pollen, and then I'm going to pollinate that to a second female.
And so both of these female plants have got traits that I'm interested in.
And so hopefully the seeds from that second female plant, when I grow them, will carry the
phenotypes and the traits that I want from both plants.
And then I will secondarily choose from those.
Yeah, more or less.
Yeah.
All right.
So if it's more or less, we'll clean it up, right?
Because people are listening and they're going to want to do this.
Yeah.
So if you're listening at home, I always recommend that we treat our donor plants as if they're on
about a three to four week schedule ahead of your female target plant.
So you always want to take your donor plant and trigger it into 12-12 or trigger it into flower by
putting it in darkness or, you know, 12 hours of darkness.
And on the first day of doing that, you spray the plant with STS, which becomes an application
that I usually do weekly until their third or fourth week.
We then wait two to three weeks for our target plants until we move them into the flowering
chamber, because the STS, it does slow the plant down a little bit.
And I'm not sure why it does that.
But there seems to be a delay or there's no synchronicity in their flowering periods if you don't
trigger the pollen plants before.
But yeah, it's really about selecting plants on both sides that you find interesting and
bringing them together through this STS process.
And there's a lot of benefits to it.
One, as you said, Shango, you're more quickly able to move towards your breeding goal
because, again, you're doing positive selection on both parents, not just the one.
But secondly, every time you want to grow out those populations that you're experimenting
with, your test crosses, if you're using male-female breeding, 50 percent of those plants
that you have to spend time, energy, nutrients, water, soil taking care of and bringing
them to maturity only to find that they're males is really, it's kind of a drag.
In fact, a real pain in the ass if you're trying to do it on any type of scale.
Whereas when you're using all-female breeding, again, one of the benefits is that you're
receiving gynoecious seeds out of the end.
And therefore, every seed that you plant is going to be a potential breeding candidate or a
winner, you know, a plant that you can look at.
It's not just taking up space until you find out that it's a male.
So that's one real benefit.
But I think the benefit of being able to really look at the chemistry of both plants before
you bring them together is a huge, a huge boon.
And, you know, in our work at Napra, we really, we showed that that was a really fast way
to make progress when you're breeding for specific chemical types.
Even though I do like the process of choosing male plants, compared to actually using a
female plant that is directly displaying the traits that I want, it makes talking about
tight internodal spacing and rubbing the stem of a male plant to guess what the terpene
profile would be like, it makes it seem like caveman, like pure prehistoric.
Well, it really is.
It is really caveman style.
And, you know, when I when I do that type of breeding, and it's not to say that I never
use males in breeding projects, but typically when I do use males, I won't use a single
male. I'll collect pollen from, you know, 10 to 15 plants or maybe more.
But you only select, say, 10 to 15 percent of the of the plants that you're growing.
And you're really looking at at a whole set of characteristics, you know, resistance of
molds and mildews and that kind of stuff.
And all that, you know, like you said, the leaf shape and the internode distance and the
floral structure, you can kind of get an idea of what you're looking at and use that as a
loose criteria to select away 80 percent of the plants.
But I still use the remaining 20 percent.
I'll collect them all and mix all their pollen together, because like like we were talking
about earlier, that provides some level of genetic diversity.
But if we're really trying to get, you know, tight down and dirty with one specific
chemotype or one specific smell profile, it's a lot easier to take two plants that already
have that smell profile, you know, either as determined by the lab or by your nose and
using those plants to mate together.
And you'll see that the end results are vastly different.
You much more quickly approach your goal if you're using females on both sides.
I can totally see how positive selection, right, choosing the traits I want in the two
females to get there more efficiently.
That makes total sense to me.
But I know that there's a whole bunch of folks out there who are going, oh, no, man, like
I absolutely need to use a male or it's just not right.
So let them if we were to science that up a little bit, you know, is there anything lost
by not using a male?
There is. There's a white chromosome that's lost and it's not lost.
I mean, we can preserve white chromosomes and a handful of seeds in a fridge for, you
know, 20, 30 years.
So it's not like we're in any fear of actually losing the existence of the wild
chromosome. But the truth is, is even when we're growing those regular seed lots or what
we call regular seed lots, those male plants don't fall into our marijuana production.
Right. We don't into the production of cannabis flowers.
We just don't use them.
Males are essentially irrelevant to that process.
Otherwise, you know, cannabis has in its genome, cannabis has 10 chromosome pairs, nine
pairs of autosomes and one pair of sex chromosomes.
So when we're using, you know, when we're really what we're doing, we're breeding is
we're just shuffling copies of those 10 chromosomes.
But when we again, when we look at marijuana production, we're only concerned with the
variation present on the nine chromosomes and what's on the X chromosome, because
what's on the Y chromosome is really kind of irrelevant for a drug cannabis
production. There is something called crossing over in which Y chromosomes and X
chromosomes exchange these little pieces of DNA.
And there's something on the male chromosome called the pseudo autosomal region and all
that means is that there's part of the Y chromosome that actually does exchange
genetic information with the Y or with the X chromosome.
But I don't think that we're truly eliminating anything of value to drug cannabis
growers by creating feminized seeds without Y chromosomes.
Right on. Fair enough. All right.
So I've got one more.
I'm going to ask you a question about about sourcing STS.
But before we move on off of this, I'm going to I guess we'll call this another fishing
expedition. You know, when I have people on this show that have got a level of technical
knowledge that I may not know, I like to ask this question, which is what am I not asking
you about female only breeding that people want to know?
Right. You know, I really only you know, I'm learning about it as you're telling me about
it. And and and so but you you are very experienced with it.
And you know what tends to get people excited.
So so so what else is there?
What what what is another female only breeding data point or something that you think is
important and relevant that people would want to know?
I don't know. I think that we've touched on most of them.
I think the important thing to realize is that the two real take homes that I really want
people to to think about are what blame are we putting on the process of STS that really
should be.
Seen as blame of bad selection of plants or plants that had negative traits, and I think
I think the community really assumes that the process of creating feminized seeds.
Does something to the genetics of the plant, and that really hasn't been shown in any type
of research anywhere.
I think, you know, I think that as breeders, we need to do a better job of testing the
seeds and being open about the techniques that were used to produce the products that
people are buying and give the consumers as much information as possible.
But we also have to educate the consumers so they know how to deal with that information.
You know, it's you know, it's enough to say, hey, we have these are S1 seeds.
But if you don't know what an S1 seed is, I don't think that that information is really
too, too helpful. Right.
So, so, so, you know, there's chances are that there's a lot of people who are going to
be all hot to get some silver thiosulfate now.
And for me, if I were to do a breeding program like this, I'd probably just, you know, call
up Matt Riott and buy a bottle of his, you know, feminizing spray, which is STS.
But but I don't really know a lot about this chemical.
Is there like like how do we know about the veracity of the STS that we're using?
You know, do they do they sell it at, you know, scientific supplies or do we need to
find somebody in the cannabis scene that has, you know, made a batch?
Like what's the nature of this chemical and getting it?
Yeah. So typically when you're buying it, you can buy it.
So if you want to mix your own, there's recipes for it online and there's all sites or
all sorts of different types of recipes for it.
There's typically two components that you need.
Silver nitrate, which is a crystalline chemical you can buy for about, I don't know,
about 20, 25 dollars for a gram or so.
And and then there's sodium thiosulfate, which comes in two forms, which complicates the
recipe because there's sodium pentahydrate, so sodium thiosulfate pentahydrate, which
essentially has water molecules built into the crystal and then you can get it without
and the molecular weights are slightly different.
So you have to know which one you're working with.
If you if you're trying to mix your own.
Typically, what is done is you make you measure out a given weight of each of the
crystallized substances and you mix them into a set amount of water and those that now
you have to stock solution, which you then mix together and you have to pour one of
them into the other and not the other way around.
Otherwise they react in a very negative way, not a negative or dangerous way.
But the the the compounds don't come out as needed.
That all said, for most people that aren't playing around with it, you're probably
better off to just order it online.
I noticed there's a couple of outfits now selling spray bottles on it on Amazon.com.
And if you're in the United States, there's a company called Hybrid Tech, who's a
plant breeder friend of ours from Oregon that is likes to be credited as the first
person that kind of created the swell of feminized seeds, even though he wasn't really
the first person to create the the product.
He did independently develop it.
And he's doing great work, too.
He came up during that same show I referred to earlier with Caleb from CSI Humboldt.
They are they send best practices back and forth.
Yeah, Hybe is we've always known him as Hybe, but he's a he's a really he's an
educated plant breeder and he really knows what he's talking about.
And he thinks about plant breeding as a plant breeder, but not as someone that is
trying to make money off of seeds.
So anyway, the bottom line is he sells it and it's it's you know, it's probably more
expensive than you need to pay for it.
But it's a ready to use formula that you can just order and it comes in the mail and a
little spray bottle and you can just spray that on your plants.
And, you know, I think if you don't know how to mix lab chemicals, it's probably
that that type of product is right up your alley because it is STS is an oxidizer.
And, you know, it's you don't want to be breaking bottles and putting your hands in
it or any of that kind of stuff.
It stains really badly.
If you if you, you know, knock it over on a wood table or a white table, for example,
it's going to get it's going to stain it.
For the for the especially nerdy folks who want to make their own, you mentioned that
there were different types of recipes out there.
Do you have a, you know, a keyword that you want to drop so that that people could use
to find a recipe that that you find is reliable?
If you type sodium thiosulfate cannabis into Google, you're going to find a whole bunch
of recipes. I would mix it a little stronger than most people are making it.
Just concentrate it a little bit more.
Don't put as much water in.
Obviously, you know, use gloves, long sleeves, goggles, all that kind of stuff when you're
spraying it. Just just use common sense.
And yeah, you'll be able to find the components online, usually from sometimes they sell
the photo formularies like places for developing film like old camera film.
Anybody remembers what that is?
So earlier when you were talking about the breeding aspect, you said, well, you know,
you you set the flower or you set the plant to 12 12.
It starts to flower.
And from from the day that you flip to 12 12, you start spraying the plant once a week
for the first five or six weeks.
Did I repeat that correctly?
Four to five weeks, usually by that point in time, it's dropping pollen or it's or the
the male flowers are well towards development.
The key there is that you want to you want to have.
So I call I have two groups.
So we call the target plants and the donor plants.
The donor plants are the plants that get treated.
They're the ones that are going to become the pollen donors.
And so we put the pollen donors into flower two to three weeks before we put the target
plants in the flower.
And that just gives those plants enough time to get well into their male flower
development period so that by the time that they're ready to open and release that
pollen, your female plants are then ready to receive pollen or your target plants are
ready to see pollen.
So we leave like a two to three week window in between when we induce the donor plants
to flower and then when we induce the target plants to flower.
How much STS do we spray on?
I'm one of those people who tends to think more is better.
And I'm since I've gotten involved in learning Korean natural farming, I'm like
teaching myself to not think more is better all the time.
But with this, can you just give us some kind of rule of thumb of how much to spray?
Like, we probably don't want it damp, but we also probably need it uniform.
Yeah, it's a little more coloring with crayons than doing intricate science.
You can just kind of spray it.
I wouldn't necessarily encourage people to spray it onto the actual leaves of the
plant. The sun leaves are, you know, they will absorb the color.
But it's this chemical can be a little bit photo toxic.
So when they get exposed to subsequent light, it can damage them.
We want to spray what I call the crotches of the plant.
So the junction where the leaf petiole or the stem of the leaf meets the branch, meets
the either the branch or the main stalk.
And that area is where the new flowers are going to grow from.
So essentially anywhere that you think you would see, you know, see a bud site on a
female plant, spray that bud site or the tip of the of the shoot at that bud site.
But don't necessarily worry about the sun leaf itself.
It's more about spraying the ethylene blocker on the area where those flowers are
going to produce rather than on the leaf.
I'm glad we hit that, because in my head I was actually picturing a preexisting flower.
But that's right. If you're going to start this at 12-12, you're not actually spraying
it on flowers.
You are spraying it on future sites.
So you're really you're actually probably trying to, you know, spray branches at the
at bud sites, but before they're there.
So it takes a little bit of experience to know where those are going to be.
Yeah, a little bit.
And it's it becomes obvious, you know, after you after you plant the or after you the
plants have been in flowering for about a week or 10 days, you're going to start to see
little tufts of flowers.
And at that point in time, yeah, you switch to spraying the flowers themselves.
Because we want the whole point of the action is for the ethylene to act at that flower
site. And we want to shut down the production of female flowers and in turn have the
plant produce male flowers.
So the plant will still grow little buds.
But the idea is that those little buds are now made up of male flowers and not female
clusters or colas.
Right. Yeah.
Right on. Cool. Well, Ryan, thank you so much.
You know, I love cannabis in general, but as somebody who talks about and and helps
patients source female seeds and as somebody who grows feminized seeds, it's always
been kind of a mystery how these how these plants or how these seeds are produced.
And I just kind of went on faith.
Right. But I feel a lot more, I don't know, empowered understanding what's going on
behind the secret sauce and also to know that, you know, it's not feminized seeds that
that are often bad.
It's actually poor growing, which actually makes or excuse me, poor selection, which
makes a lot more sense to me.
So so thanks for sharing your valuable time and your experience and and breaking it down
in such detail for all of us.
Yeah, it's absolutely my pleasure.
Anytime, Shango. Right on, brother.
So if you want to find out more about Ryan Lee and his breeding work, you can go to his
new website, which, you know, if you're hearing this the week that it comes out, it's
probably there's probably just a placeholder there for now.
But that's going to be at at Chemovar dot com.
That's a C-H-E-M-O-V-A-R.
Chemovar dot com is going to be the future home of his company website.
And if you want to send him a message or or, you know, check out his his what how his
interactions with other folks in the scene, you can follow his Twitter feed at Chimera
Genetics. And that's C-H-I-M-E-R-A genetics on Twitter.
You can find more episodes of the Shaping Fire podcast and subscribe to the show at
Shaping Fire dot com and on Apple iTunes, Stitcher and Google Play.
If you enjoyed the show, we'd really appreciate it if you'd leave a positive review of
the podcast wherever you download.
Your review will help others find the show so they can enjoy it, too.
On the Shaping Fire website, you can also subscribe to the weekly newsletter for
insights into the latest cannabis news and product reviews.
On the Shaping Fire website, you will also find transcripts of today's podcast as well.
For information on me and where I'll be speaking, you can check out Shango Lose dot
com. Does your company want to reach our national audience of cannabis enthusiasts?
Email Hotspot at Shaping Fire dot com to find out how.
Thanks for listening to Shaping Fire.
I've been your host, Shango Lose.
