And welcome to the next episode of The Podcast, a cannabis podcast for budding enthusiasts.
As always, big, big, big thank you to our sponsors for helping to make the show happen.
Seeds here now, your number one seed bank in the business.
I'm not just germination.
Why would you go elsewhere?
They got all the most fire breathers.
Go check out SoulFire.
There are some great new crosses in stock.
Likewise, a huge thank you to Coppett Biological Systems.
These guys have got all the best beneficial bugs, predators, microbes, and feeds to keep
your garden happy, healthy, stocked up on defense to stop those bad guys from ruining
your next harvest.
Likewise, a huge, huge, huge thank you to the Patreon gang.
You guys are the lifeblood of the show and you help to make it happen.
If you want access to early episodes, additional unheard content, additional prizes and more,
go check out www.patreon.com.
On this episode, we are grateful to be joined by Chris of Compound Genetics, here to give
us the lowdown on all of the newest Compound crosses, the Runts CoLab, the Hype Industry,
rappers and so much more.
Let's get into it.
All righty, so a big, big thank you and welcome to the man behind all the mouthwatering creations
we see over at the Compound Genetics Instagram page.
Chris, thank you so much for joining us today.
Thanks for having me here.
It's good to be here.
Awesome, my friend.
So, the first question we like to ask people, what are you currently smoking on?
Oh man, a wide variety of stuff.
I have some apples and bananas, some Baby Yoda, some Arrowhead which is stymied by Clay
Fukushima the Menthol.
I also have some Jokers which is white Runts by Jet Fidgetlotto, some grape gasoline, some
laughing gas, some blue sushi and some bubblegum skittles rosin, oh and some Fatsa rosin.
So, a wide variety of flavors.
Wow, you pretty much just mentioned every strain I wanted to talk about in this interview.
So, thank you so much for giving me a perfect segue but the one that I'll just quickly jump
into first, I think you said blue sushi or sushi, what's that one like?
Yeah, blue sushi from the Tenko, it's a skittles cross I believe or a sushi cross.
It's from the Tenko, they do an excellent job at LA.
Oh, awesome and I've always, it's probably a silly question but I've always wanted because
I've never had sushi or any of the crosses.
Does it actually taste like some sort of sushi?
A little bit, yeah.
Use your imagination for sure.
It has the U-turps for sure.
Interesting and I mean, in general, would you classify yourself as someone who kind
of gravitates more towards like the flavor profile of strains or are you more about the
feeling of it?
Definitely, turps are important for me, turps for sure.
Perfect and do you feel like, I've always had this opinion that it's always a bit of
a bummer when you smell a strain, it smells so good and then it just doesn't quite translate
to flavor.
Are you of the same mindset or you think like good turps?
Exactly, exactly.
Turps are very important, they have to be spot on, I hate the names that don't apply
at all, it messes up I think the whole experience for sure.
Hell yeah, I always think like yeah, like when you get a strain that tastes as it smells,
it just kind of elevates the strain to the next level.
Definitely, I agree.
The full package of it, it checks all the boxes, you know.
So I mean, before we get too deep into the breeding questions, I'd love to just ask,
do you think there's anything you can do as a breeder to try to help make the strain do
that?
Like, do you think it's just the parent selection or?
I think testing and using the right cultivars to begin with is very important.
Having the right selections to start with that are true to the name, true turps, and
making sure the breeding is proper to begin with, testing and make sure it translates
into the final product.
Yeah, of course.
I think yeah, testing has got to be the foundation of any breeding project.
Alrighty, well, what an awesome little lineup.
I just want to quickly jump back to one other strain you mentioned in the intro because
I'd never heard of it before.
I think you said Arrowhead?
Yeah, it's a new one I'm working with, Brenner and Khalifa.
It's from the new, it was Khalifa menu.
It's a Khalifa Kush by Menthol, that I want to carry with Brenner from the Cookies line.
Oh, wow.
What a powerhouse combo.
Correct me if I'm wrong, does that mean that it's kind of similar to the Khalifa mince,
but there's also thin mince mixed in there?
Yeah, it's more of a cookie-esque, you know, than the actual OG with the Khalifa.
Wow, okay.
And I think the question in terms of the Khalifa stuff that I've been wondering the most about
how I, when I first saw all of this was like, how did all of this come about?
Did you reach out to him?
Did he reach out to you?
How did it all happen?
The whole Khalifa collaboration?
Yeah.
It was kind of spur of the moment.
I've been working with Brenner in the past couple of months on some, so the female came
my way, I was fired, got it in his hands and he liked it and just kind of went from there.
Wow, I mean, what a cool little synchronous sort of event.
I was specifically wondering, did you try the Khalifa OG and you liked it or did he
have that and kind of brought that to the table?
Like how did that part work?
I like to cut, I got the cut from my friend, first class genetics.
I worked with him on my last mental breeding project and it came out really fire.
I found some really unique females from it.
One of my friends in LA, pure and proper cultivated it, you know, and I got it in Brenner's hands
and since the fire, I was selected.
So, just checks all the boxes.
It's a really amazing cultivar.
Wow, that's like a cool sentiment to hear because you don't hear about a lot of new
OG cuts coming out that people think are cool and like kind of different to the others.
I noticed that you work with a lot of different OG cuts.
Do you think it's probably one of your more preferred ones?
It's definitely unique.
I'm not exactly sure the background, but it's definitely a unique OG.
It reminds me of like a triangle SFV hybrid a little bit.
It has gaps in both of them, really strong vigor and strong track coverage.
Really, really heavy OG for sure.
Strong on the gas.
Hell yeah, I'm a big fan of the triangle and the SFV, so that sounds like it's ticking boxes
already.
I guess my next question would be is, do you think that the TK is probably the origin
of a lot of OGs or do you think they just kind of appeared differently?
I'm not really sure the history of OG.
I'm going to dabble on that because there's some real aficionados on that subject.
So, I just know the triangle is one of the standouts from the West Coast and has been
stable in the community for a long time.
Yeah, for sure, for sure.
And I guess as a final little question on OG before we jump to the next topic was, do
you prefer the really gassy OGs like kind of like, you know, your high octanes and stuff
like that or do you prefer the more cushy ones like the TK?
I like the gassy ones for sure.
Those are my favorites.
The gassy feels, that's what I'm all about.
The gassy OG is the staple I think and my favorite for sure.
It's so hot, you can't deny it.
It's stable in the community for a long time to come.
Yeah, 100%.
And I think I kind of realized that myself when I was talking to Comer a while back and
he said, you know, everyone's trying to reinvent the wheel but there's so much more work to
be done within the gas field because as you said, it's just like such a dominating flavor
profile that people just fall in love with, don't they?
Yeah, it never gets old.
It's always a staple.
It comes and goes.
It's always there.
You never go wrong with gas.
It always sells.
It's a hit and people always love it.
For sure.
So, let's jump back to the start.
Would you be able to tell me a little bit about the first experience you ever had with
cannabis?
The first experience I had with cannabis was in high school I think or my freshman year.
I had some friends that were going downtown to this festival to smoke bulls.
I said I wasn't sure what that meant.
I was going to do the whole thing.
I was like smoking bulls, what's that?
We took the bus downtown and there was a drum circle down there.
It was like an open vending market with bands and music and stuff.
And they were smoking weed.
I was like, what's going on here?
I smoked some weed for the first time there.
It was so high and I kind of fell in love with it from that point.
Hell yeah.
I mean, what a cool story.
Do you happen to know what you were smoking on or was it just kind of like the reggae?
It was just some high grade Oregon indoor.
No names at that time.
It was just kind of the green chronic, you know.
Back in the day, it was the staple, the green bud.
Oh man, I'm jealous.
And I guess it's maybe a bit of a redundant question, but you obviously got high the first
time you smoked?
Oh yeah, very high.
I was floating on water basically.
It was incredible.
Was that the moment when you kind of started to think maybe you were going to be involved
in cannabis throughout your life or that happened a bit later down the track?
That happened a bit later for sure.
I was definitely fascinated with cannabis from a young age, in my teenage years.
I kind of pursued it and kept it under my radar for a long time, but I didn't really
make a career until later down the path.
Yeah, okay.
And so, what was the transition from say around that time to when you first started
to have your first grow?
Was it a long time, short time?
In 2004, I had the opportunity to go to Amsterdam with a friend over there.
So, I went over to Europe for two years and I really studied the coffee shop culture and
really got absorbed in it.
I learned a lot about the marijuana and how it works and how it affected me in my life
and what I really appreciated about it.
And then I came back to Oregon in 2006 and it was around the time of medical marijuana
and I got a basement with a friend in his house and I kind of started growing up there.
I progressed from that to moving into other houses and managing more facilities and I
started working with the sensories and kind of worked from that point on.
I kind of really dug into it when I got back from Amsterdam and kind of like made a bit
of a passion there.
Yeah, awesome.
It's kind of interesting how that seems to be like a common thread for a lot of people,
like they have that epiphany in Amsterdam.
Were there any genetics you remember from that time that you were working with that
you were like, man, that was like a cool thing to start out working with because in retrospect
it was like this legendary strain from Amsterdam or was it just more kind of whatever you could
get your hands on?
When I started back in the States, I was working with basically basics of like shish kaberry
and stuff.
Some of my favorite cuts were the time where Pacific North was dog shit, Fort Collins Cops
and like heavy statuas, those were really head-stompers I really fell in love with.
And like the original East Coast Star Diesel, those were all some of my favorites.
Yeah, wow, that's so cool.
I noticed when I was looking at a lot of your work that like the dog shit popped up and
I think I even saw the cough in there once or twice and I had only ever really seen Fletcher
from Archive try to like push these strains in terms of saying to people like, look, these
are great strains, you just got to give them a chance.
Do you feel like you're trying to do the same in a certain sense of like get the word out
that these are still killer crosses?
Not so much.
I think Fletcher's the champion of that for sure.
I've been preparing for that all day long.
I'm more focused on the modern market with compound but those are definitely staples
that are kind of lost as Rolex and not really recognized with today's modern players.
Sure, and I mean just out of a personal curiosity, I've never tried the dog shit for example.
Do you feel like a well-grown, you know, kind of bud from dog shit would still be pretty
enjoyable for most people these days or it's a bit of like...
Oh, definitely, definitely.
The problem with that is it goes 12 to 13 weeks in the flower so no one knows the flower
properly so it's kind of a lost pill that you get the attention it deserves.
So, yeah, if you ever do it, definitely, I think it also the name kind of holds it back
but besides that, I think it's a great all-around cultivar.
Yeah, I think we have heard from some other guests before that they thought the name might
have put some people off but that's good to hear that it's still power.
I had no idea it was a 13-week.
Do you happen to know the genetics on it?
I don't, I don't, I don't.
It's a really strong head high though, really thumping.
It's a really intense, like, woody turban profile.
It's really unique, unforgettable.
That's amazing and I guess as a general question, do you find yourself gravitating to sativa
strains often or more of like a cush guy?
I like sativas when you can find them.
It's kind of hard to find good ones in the States anymore.
I kind of just found one on Instagram for a while but I'm initially more on the exotic
hybrid chain right now.
It's my favorite profile right now at the moment.
Yeah, sure.
I actually had a question about that which was that we see a lot of various different
strains being labeled as exotics and I think that a lot of the time it kind of boils down
to this cookies or cush kind of lineage.
Do you ever think we'll see sativa exotics hitting the stores?
Definitely, I think so and I hope so.
I hope the market expands too.
I think it can be done.
It just has to be more of bringing the cultivation time down.
I think it's the pros and the cons and the lack of buy appeal sometimes.
But you can hybridize that with some of the modern for sure.
Yeah, sure.
I can understand that.
This is a kind of a question that I still don't know much about myself because it's
just hard to answer but in your mind, what makes something exotic?
That's a good question.
I definitely think terpene profile is key for exotics in this market.
I think people focus on that before they actually start selling profile.
I think purple is king in California right now.
I mean you can't really sell anything but or have any relevance in the market if it's
not purple.
So, it's kind of interesting how the market has changed that and it's kind of shunned
away most green but as far as like being top shelf and being popular.
Yeah, sure.
I mean that all checks out.
Interesting.
And would you ever consider like some cool old world genetics exotic or it's not about
like how available it is, it's more about like the aesthetic and the look and whatnot?
Oh, definitely.
Definitely.
It's all over the place.
I can't know.
Very rare.
I think it's just a matter of perspective.
I think the modern market kind of pigeonhole certain things.
There's a bigger picture in the wider world of those.
Yeah, yeah.
Great answer.
So, let's go back a little bit.
You mentioned that you started out doing smaller grows and then as they succeeded, you're progressing
to bigger and bigger as time went by.
What sort of a grow style do you tend to use and were you using back then?
I was using mainly soilless grows and like cocoa or pea at the time.
I was doing drain away, it's pretty basic introduction to grow style.
Great.
And do you feel like the sort of synthetic or soilless style of growing has come a long
way since then or do you think it's more just people learning about how to do it better?
I think people have learned how to do it better for sure.
It's totally advanced in a lot, but you can't really reinvent the wheel.
There's only so much you can improve on.
It's technology and innovation, but I think it's definitely the grows have gotten a lot
better as opposed to the earlier era of like medical days.
Yeah, sure.
And the age-old debate which commonly occurs on the show, do you feel like really well-grown
soilless can stand up to really well-grown soil?
Yeah, to a degree.
I think they'll definitely have their own attributes and traits that are different from
each other, but I definitely think they can be comparable if grown well.
Sure.
And I mean, I'm asking you this because I know that you're so tied in with a lot of
these companies and whatnot.
Do you know of any companies that are selling maybe rec weed or large-scale stuff that are
doing it with soil or you think like soilless is pretty much the way to go?
I don't know anyone that's trying to sell at all as far as rec weeds, as far as like
Intel and Cocoa and Rockwell.
It seems to be the trend right now.
I don't know anyone doing anything like that, unfortunately.
Sure.
Except for a pest cultivator and an organizer doing that too, on a large scale.
Yeah.
And do you think that's because of just like pests and crop failure or do you think it's
just ease of use?
A mixture of both, I think.
I'm not sure which country makes that happen, but it's definitely not the reality at the
moment.
Yeah.
Okay.
And I guess final question on that sort of like idea is, do you see anyone doing like
a sort of a hybrid system where maybe they're growing in Cocoa but trying to do it kind
of with organic inputs otherwise?
I've heard people using teas and stuff like that on top of like basic salts too, a little
bit of hybriding, but nothing beyond that.
Do you think there's any merit in that or you think like just try to do it properly
soilless?
I think there's merit in that.
In my experience, you can get more robust herbs if you use teas and additives, not just
one basic salt, I think.
I think people are conscious to implement more things into their growth.
Hopefully, they do that.
Yeah.
I mean, that makes sense, right?
Because, yeah, people get more on game with their turbs and whatnot.
Okay.
So, if we jump back now, you were kind of developing as a grower and you're moving into
bigger and bigger facilities.
During this time, was there anyone who you kind of looked up to?
Because often we hear people talking about having read some of the earlier books like
Sensible Tips, stuff like that.
Was there anyone you looked up to or you were kind of discovering things on your own?
Looking up to, I'd definitely say I see Meg a lot.
Back in the day, I wrote for her a lot.
The city that is not in the knowledge base.
So, the other brewers I looked up to were probably Exotic Shreds and Mike.
He was definitely the first real brewers I looked up to that had a really well-robust
commercial brand.
It was really put together and really dialed with his presentation and his quality.
And he was in Northwest too, so it was a good influence for me.
Yeah, true.
I forgot he was around that area as well at the time, wasn't he?
Yeah, he was in Washington, I believe.
Yeah.
Okay, cool.
Yeah.
We hear a lot of people talk about how Mike had a kind of influence on them like that.
I think that's kind of cool credence to the company because I think in some people's mind,
they still think of Exotic as a rather new brand.
But as you pointed out, they've been around a while.
Yeah, since 2014, I believe.
13 or earlier is when I first caught wind of them.
Sure.
From that point, kind of when you're upscaling and growing and growing, at what point did
you first have the idea about Compound?
Compound came about around 2016 to 2017.
Later into my actual cultivation phase, more as a progression of my understanding of the
value of GenX and seeing when to do my own stuff.
Okay, sure.
And how long did it take you to get the working pieces in place from the moment you first
started thinking about it to actually getting it going?
Actually, surprisingly, pretty quickly.
I saw some seeds for the first regular line that I found the nail from at Chalice Festival
in 2016.
And the first cultivar is for the 10 line, the Jetfield Gelato that I'm talking about
at the same time.
So, it was a very fortunate situation where I was able to acquire so much of GenX initially
just with the brand.
Yeah, okay, cool.
I mean, that's interesting because I remember the first time I saw your stuff was the Jetfield
Gelato.
So, I guess I must have seen it kind of not too long after things first started out.
I remember thinking to myself like, this looks like a really sort of fire strain, like the
crosses you made with it.
And I remember looking into the genetics and the thing which caught me was that it's kind
of like an interesting mixture of genetics.
There's like the 303 seeds, there's the high octane OG.
What was it about those specific genetics that you were into?
Did you grow 303 before that or you liked the overall picture it was putting forth?
The cultivar was mainly gas.
I found it was really unique, gassy gelato that I liked.
It had really good structure.
So, I gravitated towards...
I received the cultivar from my friend, Korean City Cannabis and SF who developed the cultivar.
I helped name it and originally got it was called Gelato.
I changed it and named it Jetfield Gelato with his permission and I kind of really put
that cultivar into the spotlight using it in breeding projects.
Sure.
And I know that a lot of people probably missed out on some of those initial drops.
Are you the type of breeder who likes to remake the sort of popular crosses or are you kind
of like, nah, I make them once and once they're gone, that's it?
I like to make them once when they're gone.
They're gone usually.
Scarcity and make things rip.
So, the cultivar has a unique ability to have a unique cultivar.
It's not going to be watered down and really sold and resold over time.
Yeah, sure.
And I mean, are you aware of any of the Jetfuel lines still being in stock or are they just
long gone at this point?
They're pretty much sold right away.
Most of them are gone.
Yeah, that's what I thought.
I was like, you know, hanging on to a prayer.
There's still some sitting around in the archive.
So, I noticed from there, actually, sorry, rewind a little bit.
Am I mistaken in that I think that when Compound started, it was a collaboration between you
and another breeder, was it?
Yeah, it was.
Yeah.
Okay.
And when did you kind of go your own way with that?
In the summer of 2018.
Okay.
Okay.
And was that just sort of like you wanted to take control of the direction you were
heading in?
No, it was kind of an unfortunate circumstance that happened.
Kind of a fly in between us, me and my partner at the time.
So, there was no one reason for it happening.
Yeah.
Okay.
Would I be correct in that the menthol was made before the separation?
Yes, it was made at the same time as the Jetfuel Gelato.
I'm trying to put this all together because I noticed that Weiss Farms also uses it.
Weiss Farms, yeah, my old partner.
So, I guess the obvious point to state is that you both recognize that the menthol was
like a cool line and that's why it's popped up.
What is it about the menthol that you're really into?
It's a unique cultivar.
It's like a white gelato with gassy, minty menthol turps.
It's really unique.
It's really deep purple and it tends to breed very frosty exotic plants with a good
density and good flower time and very robust and resilient to both chirosome and mold.
So, it checks all the boxes and it's really a strong cultivar that's unique and it's a
good breeder for sure.
The thing that really caught my eye about it was that, like the Jetfuel Gelato, it had
a lot of similar components in it, but it notably had that white diesel in it, which
I thought was interesting because that came from white label seeds, which I hadn't really
heard a lot about, to be honest.
What was the backstory on those seeds and what kind of attracted you to using a fairly
unknown breeder's work?
It was actually from another cultivar that Crane City and SF made.
It's actually this diesel white that he made in-house and used it for the breeding project.
I believe it's from that.
Ah, okay.
That makes sense.
That makes sense.
And maybe a silly question, but I guess that the strain itself is very mentholy in flavor?
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
Actually, I got the code.
It was called Dots.
We changed the name to the menthol cultivar in the kids' house.
The company said, this one's like menthol.
So, we decided to call it menthol.
So, the name is separate from there.
Yeah, okay.
Makes sense.
Makes sense.
And out of the menthol crosses, if someone was looking for one that was sort of the most
mentholy they can find, because I've actually surprisingly had a lot of people say that
that's like a flavor profile that it's kind of a little actually hard to find.
Which cross would you recommend that's sort of the most mentholy out of all of the lines
you've done with it?
That's a tough one.
Probably the Tokyo Snow is probably my favorite of the lines.
The Hibachi Supreme by the menthol, which is Hibachi Supreme is GMO by Living Legends,
which is LA Confidential by Legend OG.
So, it's a really unique cross.
It can't really gas the mentholy.
Yeah, wow.
That's got some real powerhouse strains in the mix there.
What's your thoughts on the Legend OG?
I've seen you've worked with it a little bit and it's one of the more newer OGs on the market.
Do you like it?
Which cut are you talking about?
The Crinkle cut or the actual Respect OG cut from LA?
Yeah, good point.
I forgot that there was the two cuts.
I think the Crinkle is the preferred one.
Is that correct?
Or you tell me what's up?
The Crinkle is a little bit different.
It's not really a true OG in my opinion.
It's more like a cushy OG.
It's more not as fuel-y as the actual LA OG.
The LA OG is more a traditional OG as far as I'm concerned.
The Crinkle cut is more of a...
It's a different cut.
It's hard to describe.
It's definitely powerhouse for sure.
They're both kings in their own right.
But definitely different for sure.
I prefer the Crinkle more than the LA.
Okay.
Do you think they are like sisters to each other or just strains that happen to get the same name?
I think they share the same name.
They're only similar in being an OG to some degree.
Yeah, sure.
Okay.
So, I mean, moving on, there's so many strains I could choose to talk about from your lineup
because there's just been so many powerhouses.
I think the one that I was pretty interested in next was the collab you had got with Rado in the works.
It was the gasoline grape?
The grape gasoline, yeah.
Grape gasoline.
My apologies.
How did this one come about?
Did you try the grape pie and you were like, oh, this is a winner or how did it all happen?
Well, Ken Rado has been a friend of mine for a while since I started breeding and he's been a good ally,
a person I've bounced many ideas off of and he's been very supportive of me since the start.
When I did the first Jeff Vigilato pollination, I sourced a grape pie cut and used it in the pollination
and asked Ken Rado if we could do a collaboration with it.
Back across the call, I grabbed grape gasoline and he agreed but nothing really came out of it
because we got sidetracked with other things.
In a few years later, I've been in the line with my friend Fino Hunters in Michigan
and selected the cut I used in this pollination.
It was so far, it was such an amazing turn profile.
I reached out to Rado and said, let's do a collaboration on this cut.
He said, okay.
He sent me some cuts and we made a pollination and tested the line.
It's a really unique profile.
It's really, really grapey and like cough syrupy grapey with some sour.
It's really one of my current favorites right now.
Wow, that sounds awesome.
It kind of sounds like what I imagine must taste like but it sounds like you've done even better.
I noticed on a few seed banks that we're doing some pre-sales of it.
It's all sold out.
Obviously, people are hyped as for it.
What can these people expect from some of the crosses?
Just some of that flavor imparted or you think it'll be more new flavors coming out of it?
There's definitely going to be lots of peanuts in there that are heavy grape,
a few of these soury grape dominant.
There's also going to be some new profiles.
We use a wide range of cultivars with a wide range of terpene profiles.
You're going to find lots of different things based on the cultivars we use.
I expect the growers to find some really amazing peanuts in the selections.
You just mentioned Rado a moment ago about someone who's like a friend and you like his work and whatnot.
A question I like to ask everyone who comes on the show,
are there any other breeders who maybe you're not necessarily doing a collab with or anything
but you just kind of keep your eye on and you think they're doing some good stuff?
Yeah, right now in the Bay Area, there's a brewery called Dio Farms.
He's doing lots of work down there.
He doesn't really release any cultivars or seeds into the public.
He's doing lots of really good cultivar development.
He puts in the time and the work and does really amazing stuff.
So I want to watch for sure.
Nick Runce, he's the one that comes to mind right now.
And so the Runce guys are doing some good stuff too.
Nick Runce from the Runce crew is a good friend of mine.
He's put in some real seed work with the Runce guys.
So you should see some stuff from him next year also.
Yeah, amazing.
I mean, I think a lot of people, including myself, are really interested in the work you've been doing with the Runce guys.
The first question I would generally speaking want to ask is that, you know, Runce has been sweeping awards as of recently for like strain of the year on a few different platforms.
What's your thoughts on Runce itself?
You often hear people say that it's kind of like a watered down gelato.
Do you subscribe to that idea or you think it's better, different?
What's your thoughts?
I think Runce is one of a kind, something unique.
And the real Runce is definitely a watered down gelato.
The triple profile on the white Runce is incredible and hard to describe.
It's like Skittles, but different.
It's just really unique.
And when you're growing white Runces in a league of its own, it's definitely not the biggest cultivar.
It can be a little finicky sometimes.
But real Runces are definitely a profile that's going to be here for a while.
So it's definitely a staple if you get the right cut and it's grown by the right cultivator.
Sure.
And I mean, like all popular cuts, I'm sure there are many imitations.
Do you think that the reason maybe some people have this somewhat negative view of it compared to gelato
is just because they're not getting the real deal?
Probably, yeah.
And there's lots of poorly grown Runces out there that's kind of not doing it properly.
So you need to find the right cut to get the good representation of it.
Yeah, of course.
I mean, with that being said, you've done a lot of work with the Runces already
and we're going to delve into it even more.
But do you feel like at this point, if someone was to see Runces winning all these awards
and they're like, hey, I need to start breeding with that,
do you feel like they're almost a bit too late to the party to get on board that train?
Probably not.
It's not the hot new thing anymore.
It's just way out there now.
But I think it's going to be around for a while.
You'll see some hybrids of it and new flavors of it for a while.
It's a new staple for sure.
Yeah, okay, cool.
I saw that a lot of people were raving about your Joker's line.
And I was wondering, was this where you first saw the potential for the white Runce line itself
or did that come at a different time?
I saw the potential initially, but I was cautious to do it.
I didn't want to take away the glory from the Runce guys.
But the white Runce polish came into fruition after becoming friends with Naking
and working with the Runce guys more and decided to do some seed products together.
Yeah, okay.
And I mean, on that exact topic, what's it like to collaborate in Runce in general?
Are they primarily the promotional part of it and you're doing the breeding part of it?
How would you describe this collab?
I definitely did the work for the actual process myself, but Nick Runce is definitely hands-on.
He has great ideas and has lots of input on the cultivators and where to take things and how to move forward.
He's very influential in helping shape my pace since I moved to San Francisco from Oregon.
He has a good taste and really is picky about what he wants to move forward with Runce.
So he's been very helpful with the creative aspects and puts a lot of work behind the scenes.
You don't really see it come to fruition later as the forefront of the brand,
but he's definitely played a big role as far as the genetics and most of the creative aspects.
Yeah, I think undeniably he's done a lot of work in the creative aspect and creating the brand and hyping it and whatnot.
I forgot to ask just a minute ago, the white Runce itself, it's got some cool genetics in the works,
given it's got the menthol and whatnot.
Could you give us a little rundown on how the creation of this strain occurred?
Was it just one of the strains you were making at the time or did you really think this one's going to be a winner?
I've got to do this pairing.
White Runce? The cultivator itself you mean?
Yeah, the line, yeah.
Well, the white Runce came from the Runce guys themselves.
That's their work, so I was using it to make the line with.
Ah, okay.
What I thought was when I was looking through all the various lines, all of them look insanely good,
but to me, the Rose and Gold Runce looks like it could be one of the most anticipated strains ever, so to speak.
What do you think people should expect from these seeds?
Do you think they're just going to sell out like hot fire?
Because I mean, that's what I imagine.
They're already sold out pretty much.
As far as I'm concerned, the demand seems to be through the roof.
I'm actually doing another pollination right now.
I'd like to see more seeds and more flavors from that collaboration in early next year.
Yeah, wow.
Do you have any ideas about where you want to take this line if you're going to work it further?
Or do you have other projects you're more interested in working with in the future?
I'd like to find some standout cultivars from the seeds and try to work those further
and definitely incorporate some new males I'm working with and take it further.
But if fewer girls are what we find in the seeds, then the Runce guys are going to go with it.
Yeah, okay.
I mean, something that I noticed from your work in general is that you do seem to have a really wide diversity of unique females you're using.
Many of them I don't see being used in other people's work.
Does this come from you being really on top of finding new clones and trading with people and whatnot?
Or do you just do a lot of female hunting yourself?
A mixture of both.
I really try to collect as many cultivars as I can and really probe my network for seeds and breeding projects.
I try to make my lineups for my products as exclusive as possible.
And I try to really hone in on new cutting edge flavors from breeders I respect and friends.
I collect those and acquire them and use them for my projects.
As well as selecting my own site and house.
Just a mixture of both.
I have a wide network of people I know.
People I respect, I tend to stay in touch with.
They trust me with their cultivars.
So I do lots of work with unique cuts I'm able to acquire, which has been one of the benefits to Comfrey moving forward.
It's helped me have unique flavors and unique lines to release to the public.
Perfect.
In general, would you advise aspiring breeders that they should be looking to pheno hunt a little bit within their own lines?
Or it's okay to just bring in new clones and just pollinate them?
I guess I'm making that sound a bit bad.
But I guess the question is, do you feel like it's important for a breeder to pheno hunt within their own lines?
Or is it an optional thing because enough people are finding new stuff all the time?
I think it's important to work your own stuff and make your name with your own stuff.
I think breeders should not be too afraid to network with other people.
I think that's a good thing to move forward, especially with the modern era of legalization.
And be able to be more out there and not be so afraid of it.
But you still need to work your own stuff and make a name with your own work as much as possible.
And find your own selections.
I think that's the key to breeding and making flavors.
Yeah, okay.
So when you go about creating new strains, do you kind of do it in a conceptualized way?
Where you're kind of thinking of pairing two strains together and you're like,
yeah, they're going to blend really well together.
Or is it more of a case of trial and error and you're doing a big pollination
and finding the ones that are standing out and then proceeding with that?
It's more design, more plan.
I definitely have more thought into it.
It's more premeditated.
I try to select the best things that represent cultivars and traits I'm looking for.
And where I think the market's going, what trends I see,
and kind of use that as my guiding tool along with my intuition.
And kind of just what I want to see on the market is under a compound that fits my taste.
Yeah, great answer.
So when you're doing breedings, for example, I have to ask all our guests this
because our viewers absolutely love it and I love hearing about it too.
What are some of the things about a male that would impress you?
Are there characteristics?
We often hear people talking about stem rubs, things like that.
What's your go-to?
My go-to is bigger.
Stem rubs is a factor, but not really a deciding factor to make.
It can be misleading for sure.
Stability, I like to do lots of testing on males, dry-eye testing,
like different life cycles, things that mature,
and referring to normal settings to make sure it's stable.
I look for how early it flowers and how fast the budsets go on,
how dense the pollen stacks are.
Lots of different traits besides just the terpene profile.
Sure.
Have you ever toyed with the idea or considered reversing a male
and seeing the terpenes that come off the reversed male?
I've heard of that being done and some people have done it themselves.
I've never tried it personally, so I'd be curious to see how that works.
Yeah, I really want to, and I haven't been able to figure out the answer to this,
but I want to know if it correlates.
If you reverse a male and the male ends up producing trichrome
that smells like grape gasoline and then you try some of the crosses of that male,
does it consistently impart grape gasoline flavors
or is it not correlated in a way?
That would be an interesting one, I think.
I'd be very curious to find out.
The mystery about males is you never know how they're going to breed
as opposed to the fems.
Fems seem to be more dominant based on the cultivator reverse,
but with males you never know what's going to be dominant or recessive
or what's going to breed true or not.
So, the mystery of the male.
That's it. I like that.
The mystery of the male.
That's like a new catchphrase.
Yeah.
So, let's just say you've made a new strain.
How many seeds do you like to run to kind of get an idea
of what's going on with those genetics?
And so, like for example, if you ran 10 seeds and found one hermie,
would you be like, this line's bunk,
or do you feel like you've got to run more than that
to kind of get an idea of what's actually going on within the line?
I like to run at least 50 to 100 seeds per flavor
to find a good representation of what's going on.
Ideally, more to find a real standout than a standout at this time.
You should be able to find a good representation with at least 50 seeds.
Yeah. That's a good number. I like that.
So, I guess this is a bit of a devil's in the detail question,
but hypothetically, at what point would you can a line?
And I think I've asked another guest this in the past,
and it is a bit of a tough one to answer, I understand.
But let's just say, for example, you ran 20 seeds or maybe 50,
and you found some of the best results you'd ever seen ever,
like the most fire stuff you've ever found.
But you also found a number of hermaphrodites.
At a certain point, would you say, look, this is actually worth releasing
because the fire is so good it makes up for the hermaphrodites,
or is there a certain point where you're like,
look, I just don't accept that at all across the board?
I'm not really a fan of releasing drugs that are hermeneutical or unstable.
I'd probably lean towards those improving cuts
and actually releasing the seeds.
But I'd try to stay away from releasing things that are unstable
and try to only release the best of the best.
I think people are having strong progenics are crucial moving forward
as people become more prone to on budgets.
And having proven progenics that are strong is very important moving forward.
And in general, do you like to do in-house testing
or do you use external testers?
A mixture of both.
I mean, you can't see anything better than yourself.
Seeing firsthand is crucial,
but I'd like to have a group of people I can trust to do work with me as well.
Sure, I would agree with that.
Good like five or ten people, maybe.
A little more smaller people you can trust to take good photographs
and record good details and notes.
Yeah, and I mean, you raised a good point there.
Good photographs.
I think it's Mr. James Bean who said,
a good photograph sells a thousand packets of seeds.
How important do you feel photographs are
to being successful as a breeder in this modern era?
Very important.
I think you can do so much of a hype and reputation.
I think good seeds can sell out the season.
You can have a standstill.
You have a good photograph posted and boom,
it'll sell 10 packs overnight or 20 packs.
But I think photographs are important.
I think it also shows that you time in to test your genetics.
I think back in the day, you get away with selling seeds more without photographs.
I think the market is becoming more savvy and understanding more
that no photographs didn't really test it or didn't put the time in.
So, I think photographs are the way forward.
Sure.
And I mean, I guess an extension of that question is,
do you think it's possible to be commercially successful
as a breeder in today's climate
and not be particularly active on social media?
Yeah, I don't think so.
But I'm not sure how far you can go with that,
but I don't think you still can for sure.
Yeah, I mean, I've asked that question to people in the past.
And funnily enough, we hear people like Rado get mentioned
who aren't exactly posting every day but still kind of crush it.
Yeah, Rado does good work.
He's a staple of that.
He's been one of the ones that kind of paved the trail
for the whole feminized market in the States, I think.
It was a big inspiration for me.
Rado has just put so much work in and done so many crosses over time.
It's pretty impressive.
Yeah, I think Rado has put out a really, really good number of films.
And as you said, he paved the way.
What's your thoughts on fems?
We often hear people say things like mothers that come from feminized seeds
aren't as good as mothers from regular seed.
Do you buy into that at all?
I don't buy into that at all.
It's not true at all.
Maybe it comes from unsealed parents to begin with,
but I think good fems are solid parents that are tested
and aren't made with hereditary genetics or genetics with unsealed traits
can really stand the test of time.
Sure.
I mean, we hear a wide variety of sort of whispers and rumors about strains.
Another one I hear is that females from fem seeds,
I mean, that's a bit of a misnomer.
Of course, they're females.
Plants from fem seeds will lose vigor quicker than regular ones will.
Is that another one where you think that's just an inaccuracy?
I think it's an amplitude that it's untrue.
So, there's lots of rumors and misconceptions about feminized seeds
that just come from misinformation.
People aren't really doing their homework
and just believing what they hear on the internet.
Yeah.
I mean, there's certainly a lot of rumors, isn't there?
So, I guess to follow up on that point about sort of losing vigor and whatnot,
given you've got the dog shit and the cough
and some of these quite more older strains,
do you have any ideas about what results in strains losing vigor over time?
I've definitely seen that in reality in the grow.
I'm not exactly sure what contributes to that, but I think there's several things.
I mean, overall plant care and plants getting abused over time with sprays
and treatments and pests and disease and poor growth conditions.
I've seen it drift over time.
You know, cloning and reverting to veg.
I'm not sure what the science behind that,
but I know current problems like hoplite virus and things like that
can definitely make plants change.
So, unfortunately, I've been able to back all my genetic company
and tissue culture with no labs.
So, I have all my stuff clean now and it's all tested.
So, I've been able to utilize all proven sterile plants in my breeding products
moving forward.
It's been a real advantage to my products and helped me maintain my plant vigor.
Yeah. I mean, what a great segue you just gave me.
I read the article in The High Times you did with THC's about tissue culture,
and I thought that was really cool.
What was it that first caused you to get involved with tissue culture?
How did you first find out about it?
About 2014, I found out about it and I was just fascinated by it.
I thought it seemed really interesting, the way forward possibly.
So, it took me a while to get into it, but I was able to meet some people
at the DSG labs who were interested in node labs and just networking
through my relationships.
It's been pretty amazing to see what THC can do with the plant
and how you can really improve plants and really revitalize them through THC
and back up so much genetics easily with THC.
It has lots of advantages.
It's really cool to see it moving forward and see where it can go.
I don't think I've ever really spoken to anyone who got tissue culture
done on their clones.
Do you believe that tissue culture would get rid of that vigor issue
we just mentioned in the prior question, or it's more like getting rid
of hoplite and virus like you mentioned?
I've seen THC bring back vigor.
I don't think it's going to bring back like terps.
I think plants like drifted and the terps are kind of like gone.
That's not going to change that.
I don't see that.
I don't think it's going to bring back sour diesel terp.
I don't see that happening.
I think there's some misconceptions for sure, but overall I definitely see it
bringing back vigor in plant health on plants that need it.
Certain ones, not all of them, not like a blanket approach,
but it definitely can help certain plants for sure.
Do you feel like the difference between the clone once it's undergone
the tissue culture process versus before is quite substantial
or it's more like a subtle thing you need to be familiar to pick up on?
Some plants are night and day.
Some plants go from like one pound to two and a half pounds overnight with the THC.
It's really amazing to see the difference.
Some plants, it's a subtle difference.
It's very different from cultivar to cultivar.
Wow.
That's exciting.
I mean, do you think that we'll see like this delineation over time
where like there's a subdivision between like there's like the sour D clone
and the tissue sour D clone and like the tissue one gets like a bit hoarded
or whatever?
Do you think that we'll see that divergence over time or not really?
I think there's something to be said for constantly replenishing your mother's stock
with THC.
So, you know, people that do that will definitely have a different version
of their cut over time.
If the people that can back it up faster in THC before it like gets older
or gets beat up, I definitely think we'll have a more elite version
of that cut for sure.
So, you'll see something like that move forward for sure.
Okay, cool.
And I mean, as a final sort of question on tissue culture,
do you think that it's just going to become a standard part of the industry
where like pretty much most successful breeders end up getting their
oldest of tissue culture or do you feel like it's still a bit of a sort
of nuance thing that not everyone's necessarily going to engage in?
I think it's still a nuance and still new.
I think it will take a while for it to like catch on.
It will always be the traditional breeder in this space doing his old prune
way of, well, I think that will still be around but I definitely think
going forward the more recreational growers, the more mainstream growers
adapt to the TC, it will definitely become a standard move forward
as the industry progresses I think.
Sure.
And I mean, over the past say two years or probably more but for me,
I've noticed it in the past two years or so that like different lighting
has come a long way, particularly the LED stuff.
What's your thoughts on the LED lights?
Have you jumped on board that yet?
I've used it for some pollinations for sure and for flowering.
I would see some advantages to it.
I mean, definitely there's a different lighting.
There's so much lighting that's coming in this industry,
it's hard to keep track of it all but LED definitely has a place to stay for sure
and definitely can help it grow.
I don't really have any preference over the tube but it definitely is a good lighting for sure.
You can do good breeding with it in small spaces with like tents and stuff like that
and not have to worry about heating as much and burning your plants.
Yeah, certainly it's good for the reduced heat output.
You mentioned doing pollinations there.
What's your preferred style of pollination, like kind of doing it by hand
and having a real hands-on approach to things or do you just like to stick them
out in the room and give it a good shake?
Very hands-on, checking on each plant, making sure it's pollinated up and down
and it's light covered and you get the most out of each plant for seed production.
Sure, and I think it was the late sub-cool who said that he liked to pollinate
around week two, week three.
What's your sweet spot for pollination in order to get like really good seed output
as well as good seed quality in terms of maturation?
Around week two and a half to week three to week four, it's the latest for seeds.
I found it works the best.
Sure, and do you tend to do like a few pollinations or just the one
and that's pretty satisfactory?
What do you mean one pollination?
I'll pollinate two or three times at least, maybe four times, a couple of rounds in the room
to make sure it's fully saturated and fully covered.
Yeah, you nailed the question perfectly.
Have you ever worked with any of your females that you're reversing to do a pollination
and you've found that like the pollen's not particularly like it's not being taken
by the female plants?
I've never had that happen, actually.
It's all been pretty successful and very robust in its pollination and seed production.
Yeah, amen, that's awesome.
I just, I always read about like, you know, how there's the infamous TK,
which is like people really struggle to get pollen from it and you hear about,
you know, on the other end of the equation, MAC-1, which is not accepting the pollen
and it's kind of an interesting concept, the idea of like plants not wanting to accept pollen
in a certain regard.
I've seen that with MAC-1 for sure.
I did a pollination with MAC-1 in the Jif of July and basically done the whole MAC-1
planting out about like 10 to 15 seeds.
I've seen it happen with MAC, I forgot about that.
The MACs, we really don't like that.
So, I'm not sure what causes that to happen, but it's definitely a weird plant for pollination.
Yeah.
Overall, what would be your advice for kind of a novice, kind of more emerging breeder,
someone who's trying to get the wheels rolling on their own thing?
What would be some advice you'd give them in terms of like how they can do it properly
and help establish a good name and brand for themselves?
Try to make something unique of your own first before you start a new brand.
Create a unique cultivar of your own and work that, make sure it's stable and unique.
And once you have something of your own, it's kind of like use that as like your introduction
to the flavor.
I think too, people just like take a pack of seeds and like pop them in front of, you
know, the other breeders.
If you do some real work and make something unique on your own, you know, it's just one
cross, but it's your own flavor.
You'll have a lot better chance of making ways with your own company.
Definitely.
Something I've noticed about your brand, Compound, is that you've done really well in terms of
getting your seeds into a variety of different seed banks and distributors.
And it's really helping to get the seeds out there to market, so to speak.
What would be your advice for someone who's hoping to get their seeds to a seed bank at
some point?
Do you think it's just about presentation and like promoting the brand?
Or what's your advice on that front?
I think presentation is definitely very important.
And having good photographs and good Instagrams, social media presence is huge, I think.
And just having the right sex and the right names, I think naming is important and branding
is key for having a new brand now as the market continues to progress.
So branding and presentation is a big thing.
And if you're a director of fire, you'll do well.
I mean, yeah, proof is in the pudding.
I mean, on that exact topic, many people will point to Cookie Fam and to a lesser extent
to Runtz and say that these are the leaders in terms of illustrating that marketing and
brand presentation is arguably the most important thing in the industry.
Obviously, it needs to be backed by a good quality product, but marketing is king.
Would you agree with that sort of idea?
Marketing is definitely important.
I think quality is king over marketing.
You get a really pretty bag and really nice branding, but if you don't have a fire flower
in the bag, it's not going to go so far.
I think quality is the trump of it all.
And really good marketing with really good design and I think both of those yield really well.
Yeah, solid sentiment there.
So just a few questions ago, you referenced the idea of like if you had like a fire strand,
but there was some herms in it, like rather than releasing it, you would just sort of
release cuts and try to get those out to people.
I'm noticing that there's an increase of that in the industry in terms of like we've seen
Jbeezy do it with the Cookie Fam a bit, like kind of like contracting or creating certain
cuts for them to then sell under their line.
Is this something you're going to pursue further?
Because I noticed that I think you're likewise doing that with the Cookie Fam.
Is that right?
Yeah, I'm working extensively with Cookies and Brewer right now to develop flavors for
their menu and to create new strands for their brands and for moving forward.
So over the next year, you'll see a large amount of compound flavors for the Cookie
brand.
I'm going to be working with most of their library.
So I'll see lines in Culturas for the flower brand and a whole bunch of new products moving
forward.
It's very exciting.
Yeah, okay.
I noticed that Jbeezy was working pretty exclusively with Cookies going forward and I've heard
that maybe he's bowing out and you're going to become the more prime time collaborator
with Cookies.
Is there any truth to that?
I can't speak on Jbeezy, I'm not sure what he's doing, but I'm definitely working with
Brewer and I have a tight relationship with him.
We'll see compound Cookies a lot next year and move forward.
So yeah, compound Cookies is here to stay for sure.
And doesn't the name roll off the tongue as well?
Compound Cookies, I love it.
Yeah, I like it too.
And Runts Compound, they're both catchy.
Yeah, Runts Compound as well.
Like you imagine like a little jail being like staffed by little Runts guys.
I love it.
I like that.
Cool.
So I think the next question that comes to mind is I'd love to just quickly chat about
Burner for a sec because I've become a bit of a Burner fan over the past year or so.
And I think that it all started when Sticker Farmer put up a post saying like, you know,
people hate on Burner, but the reality is this guy has created an industry in terms
of like exotics.
And there are so many people who are putting food on the table because of what he's done.
And I thought that's a really unique perspective on Burner that no one's really put out there,
but it's true as far as I can tell, like people eating because of this guy.
Do you feel like there's truth in that statement?
I definitely think Burner's paved the way as an industry leader.
He's definitely a visionary as far as that's concerned.
He's definitely opened the doors for me.
So yeah, he's definitely an influential person in the scene.
He's definitely helped many people make a name for themselves and continues to.
Sure.
And I think sometimes people try to like give him a bit of flack saying like, you know,
like he's just this hype man.
He doesn't do much.
But I've got a sneaking suspicion that he probably works very hard behind the scenes.
What's your perspective on that?
Oh, he works very hard.
I mean, I call him at like 7 o'clock in the morning with ideas and we're constantly on
go.
He's definitely lives and breathes, eats and sleeps.
And so his energy is intense with this and he definitely is his passion.
You can tell.
So he's easy to hate on because he's the king.
He's on top and he only has a target on his back.
But at the end of the day, he's a really nice guy.
He's been very, very good to me.
I can't say anything bad about him at all.
His work ethic is solid.
One of the best in the industry.
I probably should have asked you a bit earlier.
How did you first get in touch with him and how did this collaboration come about?
Originally about two years ago, he reached out to me to do a project in Oregon.
We talked about that for a while.
I don't know how it really came from that.
But when I moved to LA, to California, excuse me, I reached out to him again and he asked
for some samples and we connected that way.
Yeah, sure.
Okay, cool.
And what do you think is the future for the Cookies crew?
And can I put a little prediction out there that I feel like apples and bananas is just
taken off?
It's not for sure.
It's going to be a stable strength for next year for sure.
I mean, more firefighters, more compound, more innovation, more leading the pack for
sure.
Yeah, that's exciting stuff to be able to follow.
So I mean, following up on the apples and bananas, it's one of the strains from you
that has seriously caught my attention, possibly more than others, along with obviously the
masses just jumping on it like hotcakes.
What is it about this strain that you think makes it so unique?
Is it a balance between those two sort of flavor profiles or what makes it stand out
to you?
It's a combination of things.
I think the name, the flavor profile, the triggering profile, the bag appeal, the potency,
it just checks all the boxes.
The brand with burn, just to the next level.
So I think it's a staple.
It's a really good strain.
It grows well.
It's vigorous and it yields buds that are really appealing to smoke and look at and
just all around enjoyable to have in your jar, your bowl.
So I think it's going to be a good one, giving good responses towards it.
So I haven't heard anything really bad about it.
It's been really fortunate to have that response and see it being received so well.
So hopefully it continues to make waves and it does well.
I think it's going to be one of the hot ones moving forward.
And how would you describe the flavor profile on it?
Because I've heard a lot of people talk about the apple flavor, not from apples and bananas,
but just the apple flavor in general.
And they say like, oh, you know, like it's not really bang on apple.
It's kind of a round apple.
Would you describe apples and bananas as having like a somewhat clear apple and banana flavor
or is it more leaning to one side than the other?
It's more like a gassy, like ripe apple with a banana excel.
It's not really a true apple, like a sour apple or apple flavor.
It's more of a dried apple, I'd say.
It's more of a gassy fruit.
It's not really a fruity fruit.
There's more gas in there, more of a fuel-y flavor.
Sure.
And I mean, you just referenced the apple fritter.
I've noticed that the fritter is really doing well for itself and doing the rounds at the moment.
Do you feel like that has the bang on apple flavor?
I don't know about bang on, but it's an apple turd.
But I mean, it's kind of paved the way for the whole apple trend right now.
You've seen last year, I think, the sour apple itself.
But I don't think it's a good representation of apples for sure.
Yeah.
Okay, sure.
Do you plan on doing any more work with...
Because I think apple fritter is from Lumpy, is it?
Yeah, Lumpstass.
I believe that's Sacramento.
Yeah.
Are there any other sort of cuts or strains from Lumpy that you plan to work with in the future?
I don't have any other ones.
It's the only one I have right now.
His work is really unique.
He's one of the trendsetters currently in the industry for sure.
Great answer.
So, just to jump back to the apples and bananas for a moment, one of the things I was wondering more than anything is, what are the genetics behind it?
It's a granddaddy purple by Potomac Cookies, by Blue Power, by Gelati.
It's a mixture of the Gelati with the granddaddy purple and some Blue Power gas from Sin City Seeds.
Wow.
That's a really cool mixture of new and old genetics.
Do you have any fond memories of the granddaddy purple?
Not really.
It was never big on my radar initially.
It was kind of like the table with that one, unfortunately.
Okay.
How about Blue Power?
I feel like that's making a resurgence with Sin Cities having that newer release recently.
Yeah, they do lots of good work for sure.
I'm big fans of them.
They've been around for a while.
That's cool.
So, yeah, really kind of nice mixture of different things.
What's the next step for you with the apples and bananas?
Is it the rose gold runs?
I'm going to be doing a Feminine Slime with Burner Cookies next year that we're working on now.
I'm also going to do a BX Slime with a regular line of new meal.
I'm trying to find the BX stat.
And then more called order to develop it with the rose gold runs.
I'm just trying to find new unique things from the seeds that you make with that.
I'm also doing a Gastropop with Grape Gasoline by Apples and Bananas with Kenrado.
So, we're hunting that seed and trying to find some standout or finesse with it as well.
Wow.
The hybrid with the Grape Gasoline.
That sounds like that's going to be like fruit punch amazingness.
Yeah.
I came up with the name Gastropop and I made the cross and we just named it recently.
And the seed just finished so we're about to hunt that.
So, I'm very excited for that one also.
Wow.
Yeah, that's cool.
And I mean you mentioned you're going to be doing a line with cookies next year with it.
Are there any females from the cookie library like that like you know Berners got that you think it's going to pair particularly well with or maybe like a bit of a secret female that people aren't aware of but you think is going to make waves when you pair it together?
Oh man, so much stuff.
I'm really excited to work with the Berners Cultivars.
Especially like the F1 Deru and one of the original cookie cuts.
His Grenadine, his, I don't know if the Fish Scale also, one of the other new cookie compound cuts.
There's a bunch of new stuff.
So, then you're like Thinning Shrub Lotto and some Cherry Brummies and some Sour Cherry stuff.
So, you just got a bunch of new females so I'm excited to assist with the new samples and try to find the best ones using our collaboration.
Wow.
Yeah, you just gave me so many good avenues to go off on.
I think the first one thing that you've just brought to mind is, it's now clicked in my head that obviously you've got access to the Cookie Fam genetics.
So, when I see on your drops that maybe you've made a hybrid with Snowman, is that with the real Snowman or with the S1 that's still quite hard to get but not the original one I guess?
Yeah, all my cuts are original from Cookie Fam for sure.
As many as Snowman's done or anything from Powers I've thought has worked but any cut I use are original, official from Cookie Fam for sure.
Okay.
I mean you referenced the F1 Derb and just in that previous answer, have you seen that flower on its own and like what's your thoughts on it because it's such an elusive thing to come by.
Like, there's a lot of people out there who still don't even know if it really exists including myself.
I haven't seen any flower at all.
So, I'm very excited to see some.
Burner just got the cut recently so I should have some examples a couple of days ago.
So, I'm curious to see more about it myself.
Yeah, wow.
That's exciting.
The Fish Scale, have you been lucky enough to try that?
I haven't actually been able to come across that one in flower form.
Yeah, I made that cut so it's one of the new Cookie Fam cut players as well to cross the menthol by High Society.
High Society is a Jeff Hill Biscotti so it's a Jeff Hill Biscotti by the menthol.
It's really gassy, charcoal-covered, very unique.
Yeah, awesome.
I mean congrats.
I've heard that one's doing really quite well for itself.
That's awesome to see.
Yeah, it's one of the new ones for next year as well.
So, it feels like Cookies has struck on a winning equation whereby they get like a really skilled breeder that they're happy with to help them with the breeding work and then they kind of take more control over like the marketing and the distribution side of things.
Is that how you envision this collaboration going forward or do you think that you've both got more input in either side of the equation than maybe I'm making it out like?
I think it's more of a harmonic relationship, more on the same page.
I think I have marketing and creative control as well as they do.
We will have a good vision moving forward so I think it's more of a share collaboration I think moving forward.
They definitely have a good marketing approach and a good vision for that but I definitely think it's a good fit.
We both complement each other.
Yeah, I mean that's the secret to winning success I guess is that yeah, you're both helping out.
I read in an article that was talking about apples and bananas.
It said a line that really got me thinking.
It said, sneakerheads line up out front of Supreme stores to get the newest shoe drop and soon many of these same people will be lining up out front of dispensary for the new apples and banana drops from Cookies and Compound CoLab.
Do you feel like this statement is true in that the cannabis scene is becoming a marketplace where the hype beasts are starting to really get involved who were maybe once historically more just invested in the sneaker game but now they're trying to be likewise at the forefront of the cannabis scene?
Definitely. I think cannabis is becoming more trending as it becomes more legal and becomes more accepted publicly.
I think you're going to see more and more trends and more shifts into that as the market progresses.
Yeah, okay. Exciting, exciting.
Do you think that we're going to see just a continual rise of more of the exotic types of strains or do you think that there is still room for other strains to do well in the masses?
I think there's room for all of them.
It's just in the pudding.
So, if the agriculture is done right, it will stand out and shine.
Yeah, okay. Good answer.
So, I was doing a bunch of digging around your Instagram finding some questions and I came across a post which caught my eye which was that when you were testing the Joker's Crust, there was a tube which I think had a seedling in it that was Joker's Crust to Black Lime Reserve and that caught my eye because I like Black Lime Reserve.
It's a neat strain from a Fishinado Amine gene.
Is this a line that caught your attention and you want to work with it in the future or was it just more of like a little experiment you were toying with?
I received those seeds from a friend.
That's actually a gift that somebody gave me that I decided to include my most recent thing on.
So, I'm excited to see what those seeds hold.
Hopefully, it's some degenerate gems.
I'm a big fan of the Black Lime Reserve also.
Time will tell.
I'll let you know soon that those are about to be flowered.
Yeah, I mean it seems like a cool cross to me so I'm excited to follow the results on that one.
So, a question I bring up in every episode because it's just a staple of our show in general is Chemdog.
I've seen that you've worked with the Chem-D in a few crosses.
You've also worked with Chem-D I-95 hybrids, all killer stuff.
What are your thoughts on the Chemdog cuttings and do you have a preferred one?
I don't throw off fire.
I'm concerned.
I like the gas on the flavor.
The high is incredible.
It's a very unique high.
I'm not really prone to the high.
It's more of a knock you on your ass high.
It's also a concern.
I don't have a big time of soaker so I don't like to be so inabilitated or knocked out but it's a staple for sure.
I wholeheartedly agree with you on that one.
I am someone who does enjoy smoking during the day but it can be debilitating at times when you smoke the Chem.
I guess my question becomes what's some of your favorite daytime smoke then that just kind of puts you in that right spot to not be couch lock and still go about your daily activities?
Right now my go-to is Runz Crosses.
I really like the Runz profile.
It's a strong terpene profile but it's not too strong.
It's around 24, 25.
The maximum.
I like that.
It's a good terpene profile.
It's a good daytime soaker and it kind of keeps me through the day.
I like to have a soaker that's really strong and terpene.
Sure.
Do you ever smoke any sort of wild sativas, like you know, the sort of anxiety inducing ones you sometimes hear about or not so much?
No, I try to stay away from those.
I'm not a fan of those at all.
Yeah, it's interesting.
I used to be the exact same.
I hated them.
And then somehow, I don't know how, I slowly started to like them a bit more.
I kind of found that anxiety a bit fun.
But as someone who used to not enjoy it, I totally get where you're coming from.
As a bit of a random one, is there any strain that jumps to mind for you that was like the most sort of anxiety inducing one you've ever had?
Probably a strain called Golden Pineapple or Niometic Turbine.
It's a cross of N05 by Durban Poison from the Northwest.
It's a really spicy sativa.
I don't know.
It's got me going pretty hard.
Wow, that's cool.
And yeah, I've actually tried Golden Pineapple before and that's a lovely one.
Great terpene profile on it.
Yeah, really classic pineapple terp.
Really strong yield or two.
Yeah, yeah, for sure.
For sure.
So, in general, what are some genetics either from your own or from outside of your own work from other people?
What are some genetics that you're excited to pop next?
Next, probably the White Rinse Crosses are my radar.
I'm really looking forward to working the Rinse Crosses.
Apples and Bananas Crosses, the Grape Grass Crosses, all these are my stuff for next year.
The Cookies Lair is all the stuff that I'm working on.
The Gas, the Rinse Crosses, the Scaler Crosses are big for me right now.
I'm really excited about the Scaler Crosses and Gas and all the cookie stuff.
It's all turning for me.
And I mean, the debate is age old, so I don't expect you to necessarily give any definitive rulings.
But a lot of people often speculate about the genetics within Skittles as well as the genetics within Cookies.
I don't suppose you have any speculations about what's exactly involved in either of those clones?
I'm not sure exactly at all.
But I know I'm good friends with the Turfbox guys that made Skittles.
And I'd say that what they say is true.
I mean, I know Tony, he's a regular guy.
He's not one to lie.
So, I believe him.
When he says Grape Ape by Sweet Tooth or something like that, I definitely think that's just a weird phenom that kind of came out of nowhere.
It's a bit of a deterioration of the actual structure and bag appeal.
And I mean, when we look at Skittles itself, you often hear people talk about how it just doesn't quite have that bag appeal that some of the other exotics have.
If you were to come across a new strain that was similar to that, or even in general when you're just working with Skittles, do you view that as like, no biggie, just got to make a cross that brings the bag appeal and just keeps everything else?
Or do you view that as like, oh, that's kind of like a bit of a bad trait for a strain to have?
It's a bad trait for sure.
I think Skittles kind of got lucky with that one.
I'm not sure what it could be.
I definitely think it's hard to replicate that.
But with that said, I think turfs are king.
Turfs will always shine over structure.
I think the market will still appreciate it as far as its worthiness, turfing over structure and vigor.
The cultivator is just going to hate it.
It's a fine balance of what the market wants versus what the cultivator wants to cultivate.
It'll be interesting to see how that will move forward in the industry.
Do you have any speculations about what is in fact inside cookies?
No idea.
No, I can't comment on that at all.
Yeah, I honestly think that we'll probably never find out.
I agree with you, probably too.
It's going to be a mystery for sure.
Yeah.
And I mean, it really probably actually just adds to the mystique, right?
I mean, the fact I'm asking you about it right now is just kind of a testament to like, why maybe it's a good thing we don't find out.
Yeah, and same thing with chemdog.
Who knows what chemdog is?
It's a mystery to a degree.
Yeah, exactly.
I agree.
I agree.
So, on the topic of turps, I noticed that in your library you made a cross called the leopard.
And I loved the name of the mum, Cheetos Kush.
Not only is it a cool name, but it also kind of evokes these cool images of flavor.
Where did that one come from and what's it like, the Cheetos Kush?
I received that cut from a friend of mine called Manic Farms.
It's a cross of a boba cush, UK cheese, a boba structure with the cheese profile, with the cushy aspect to it.
It's really unique.
Wow, yeah.
So, I guess it probably does have like a Cheetos sort of flavor.
Yeah, it's really solid with the name for sure.
That's awesome.
That's awesome.
And I guess it raises the idea of how important do you think a name is to a cross?
Some names make and break, but other names, you can't help but feel like they're not really fitting.
What's your approach when naming a strain?
I think names are very important moving forward.
It really sets the tone for a strain.
A bad name can really hold a strain back as far as appeal in the market.
But I think naming is really critical.
I think most people don't do strains justice with cheesy names or names that are very classy.
They try to have names that are in the test of time, more timeless names, more well-thought-out names.
So, it's kind of thrown together to really be creative.
I think things are going to last, going to stick around for a while and appeal to a wider audience.
Yeah, definitely.
I can't remember who it was, but in a previous episode, we spoke about how it's a bit frustrating when a really cool name gets given to a shitty strain.
Because now you just can't use that name anymore.
Exactly, yeah.
It's horrible.
Yeah, okay.
On that general line of thinking, are there any of your lines that you feel like haven't properly been discovered by the general public?
Or as the fans might say, they've been a little slept on.
No, actually, my lines have been pretty well-received.
I think I'm actually grateful for that.
They've been almost too well-received.
It's a lot of stuff out there, I can't really keep up with the demand.
I think moving forward, I want to get more seeds out there to my fan base.
It's been a humbling experience and awesome to see it move forward.
Yeah, I mean, gosh, what a position to be in.
My seeds are too well-received.
It's crazy, it still takes me back every day.
Yeah, that's awesome to hear.
I guess another question I was really interested in asking you is that there's been such a prevalent rise in the consumption of concentrates over the past four or five years.
Particularly with the casual enthusiasts getting involved in cannabis more and more.
We see a lot of increase in vape pen sales and whatnot.
Do you think there's merit to trying to breed a strain specifically for concentrates or for vape pen production, given how prevalent it is?
Or do you think that's just a secondary thought to just creating a good plant in general?
I think there's something to be said for that, for sure.
There's definitely a marker for that moving forward.
I think there's definitely certain profiles you bring up for concentrates that are different from flower production.
They're huge, they definitely have advantages versus traditional flower production.
I haven't really dabbled in that myself.
I don't see people doing that, like Bloom Seed Co and O'Neill Seed Co.
They're definitely focusing on the more extract-worthy cultivars.
But, I haven't really dabbled in.
Sure.
And do you have any strong feelings one way or the other about the rise in popularity of vape pens?
Because some breeders and some people within the industry are kind of really not exactly stoked about it.
I think the high is different, the taste is a little off.
But there's a place for them for sure in the market, but I'm more of a rosin guy.
Ah, rosin! Is that the go-to?
Yeah, rosin. That's my concept for sure.
Would you say that you prefer rosin over, say, flower?
No, not at all. Flower is king for me, for sure. Flower first.
Oh man, after my own heart.
Yeah, it starts at the core first, and then you go to the extract after the flower.
The real deal first.
That's it, yeah. I think for me, nothing will ever get me as satisfied as just trying some nice flower.
It's got to be the bee's knees.
I agree with you, man, fully.
So, with that being said, are there any sort of strains you've ever made, or just tried, maybe not necessarily made by you,
where they really just blew you away once you got some flower of it?
I've tried, one of my favourite strains I've tried was Soma's Lavender in Amsterdam.
I remember that trigger profile being so amazing. I've really experienced that since that day.
I'm blown away by that profile. It's one of my favourite ones.
Yeah, that's actually an interesting one. We hear a lot of people reminisce about Soma's Lavender.
I wonder what happened to it.
I don't know. I'm sure it's just in the house somewhere. Let's hit him up and find out.
So, to get back to some of the more recent work you've been doing in terms of your collaborations with various people,
before we get into some more specific questions about it, I wanted to ask you a general question,
which is that in the past we've spoken to guests and they've spoken about how they hope that over time
there'll be this emergence of the ultra-high-end cannabis market,
kind of in the same way we see that with champagne or with whiskey, the real primo of the primo.
Do you think that with the current trends in the community, where people are willing to pay more for weed
and willing to pay more for exclusive cannabis and things like that,
do you think that we will see the development of such a premium market or a terroir or an appellation sort of thing like that over time?
I think so. I think the market's very early in its progression.
I think as you see more legalisation acceptance in the market coming forward,
you'll see a lot more maturity of things as far as what you described.
Yeah, okay. Do you feel like it's still emerging or like we're there now already?
Very early. I think it's still very, very, very early.
There's still a lot to come, a lot more events, a lot more levels of presentation and experiences to come.
In this industry, I think we're still in the very, very, very early phases of it.
Sure. And to kind of bring back in the ideas we were discussing about the names of strains in relation to this high-end market,
do you have any strong feelings about the name game at the moment in the sense that we've heard people in the past
express a certain sentiment that they're not super fond of the dessert menu sort of names,
where every sort of dessert is getting used up and we're now even seeing things like you mentioned with the sushi
and there's Wagyu, so we're even moving away from dessert.
Do you think that we're going to move away from dessert names?
Do you think that that's going to have any impact on the development of this high-end market?
Or do you think it's just people being weird about names?
I think people are being weird about names.
I think some of these names are here to stay, they're not going to go away anytime soon.
I'll be curious to see how the naming plays out once you can actually trademark names and people are using names over again.
There's no rules to how naming people are just renaming names that people have used in the past.
It's getting kind of messy, so it'll be interesting to see how that pans out moving forward
and how people can actually lock down names and secure their names in a legal aspect once things become legal.
Sure. And I mean, while we're kind of talking about the names,
how do you feel having done this collaboration with Khalifa has affected you, like with Wiz,
in terms of, do you feel Cross is using the Khalifa Road G do well because of the name just on its own?
Or do you think it's not as simple as that?
I think they definitely do well on their own.
I think the name is more of a widely known in the market now, and has a marketing behind it.
I think the marketing helps that strength go well.
I mean, it's also a good OG to give us a commercial effect,
but I think those guys have the advantage of being ahead of the curve with the marketing
and having presence in the industry for a time since you first do marketing.
So I think that'll play well for them moving forward and contribute to their success.
Do you think that doing collaborations with like entertainers, like rappers, for example,
is going to be something we see more of in the future?
Because I remember initially when Burner first hit the scene,
people were really critical of the fact that he had this sort of rap gig on the side,
but it now seems like it's becoming more mainstream and just introducing more people into the cannabis scene.
What's your thoughts on the collabs with like famous entertainers and the like?
I think there'll be lots of them moving forward, but I'm cautious to do them with everyone.
If you look at my DMs on Instagram, I get certain messages that people want me to do a stream constantly.
How much does it cost to do a stream, or how do I get a stream?
So everyone wants that.
So you'll see people trying to jump on that bandwagon moving forward.
But who can do it right, who can actually execute it properly and not water it down?
I see so many brands right now that have poor quality of power and poor quality overall.
If you don't have quality, you don't have something that's unique, and people won't go very far.
So yeah, that's the key for those products and having a real stand in the industry.
Oh man, I'm going to have to thank you again for replying to my email,
considering you got famous rappers filling up the inbox.
All kinds of people, it's crazy.
People wanting to stream with me, make you horny, weird messages, laughing so they're silly.
Yeah, rappers are in for that stuff.
People are wild, right? It's crazy.
Many of the top brands at the moment, you ask them about their growth space,
and they don't even have growth spaces, they're outsourcing to other people.
Do you think that that's going to become more standard,
or is there any truth to that as far as you can tell?
There's definitely truth to that.
Lots of people are outsourcing to do it wildly.
Definitely, in this industry, I think a few people actually have it all vertically integrated.
Some people do it very rarely, some people are doing it all on their own.
Most people have some partners to some degree.
It seems like it's challenging to get it all by yourself.
I think it's more over time to see that happening with brands.
I think it's still wildly labelled for a while.
You'd be surprised how many brands have wildly labelled in there.
Yeah, and do you think over time that it's just going to become segregated?
Like there'll be people who produce and then they sell to the brands,
and then the brands retail, or do you think it's just a temporary period we're in?
I think it'll still continue.
I think lots of these brands that have brands now will fail
and have to end up doing what they're labelling to survive.
So, we'll make sure the ones that can hold on to their actual brand
will be themselves the ones that fall for that, just to survive.
Yeah, sure. I guess, yeah, certain times people find themselves in a bit of a tight spot.
So, to jump away from that for just a moment,
I just wanted to quickly jump back to the breeding stuff for a second.
We often talk to breeders about their hierarchy of traits in terms of like,
for you, you've mentioned already, terps is very important,
but in terms of things like yield, ease of growing, stability,
what are some of the things that you think of first and foremost in your mind
when you're creating a new cross that you want it to have within it?
Besides terps, I'd say structure and vigor and potency.
I think it's very important that a cultivar is viable for someone to cultivate
on a commercial scale before it enters the recreational market.
So, I don't want to make cultivars that are just like, check one box,
or terpenes or proponents with better after-shooting yields and bad vigor.
I think it's very important to check all the boxes and really focus on robust genetics
moving forward and things that really please all aspects of the cultivation and flower profile.
Yeah, sure. Like having it well-rounded. That makes sense.
Yeah, yeah. It's very important for me.
So, what's your thoughts on the current sort of seed pricing within the market?
I've heard people in the past talk about how we should get standardized pricings
where everyone sells an F1 for the same price, blah, blah, blah.
Do you have any particular thoughts about the seed game and pricing,
or do you think it's just like market forces?
I think it's market forces. Some banks charge more than others, unfortunately.
They don't abide by bigger rules.
I think it all comes down to just your brand presence and how good your seeds are.
I think the proof is in the pudding.
You should pay for what you get for it.
I really don't like the idea of expensive seeds.
I think they should be more middle-of-the-road, not too expensive.
Rare gen, people don't want to pop with their sub-senses, but middle-of-the-road.
Sure. I think the reason why this came to mind for me is because
I remember not too long ago there was a lot of people who were a bit upset
about the price point of that Runtz release,
and I think many of the packs were selling for around $700 each.
Do you feel like there should be any sort of upper limit to how much seeds should cost?
Like, should there be any consideration for like sort of having cost-accessible lines for the public?
Or do you think, look, it's just market forces.
If someone wants to offer like a cheaper line for other people to be able to grow their work out,
so be it. Or what's your thoughts on it?
Is it just a case that not everyone gets to own a Gucci bag, so to speak?
I think there should be seeds that are available for like a cheaper price than anyone can buy.
There's something to be said for seeds that are upper scale, like more luxury seeds.
I know with those Runtz seeds, those are very, very limited.
Those guys spent lots of time in developing those seeds.
They have a more exclusive limited release only available to certain people in small scale.
So that was their approach.
It doesn't make sense that $700 is the price they're selling for seed packs.
So I think likewise, some of those same people who weren't too happy about the Runtz release
kind of had some concerns that maybe that seed drop was the result of a crop failure that kind of pollinated itself.
Do you think there's any merit to that idea?
Or do you think it's just simply a case that the Runtz team kept the project under wraps
and didn't really reveal it until it was complete?
I think it's later. I know those guys wrote very well.
I know they did excellent testing on those lines. They put lots of work in.
It wasn't a fluke or an accident.
They did real work with that.
It was pretty thought out. They didn't have to arrest when they released it.
Yeah, sure.
So, I mean, another line of yours which caught my eye because it's really cool was Legend Orange Apricot F2.
My first question was, does it have an actual apricot taste?
Because I've never been able to come across that flavor profile before.
It does to a degree. It's more of an orange profile.
It's a mixture of orange with apricot-esque.
The actual mill used didn't translate to true apricot in my opinion,
as opposed to the original orange apricot cultivar from Obsolete.
But there's definitely some orange and some apricot in there for sure.
Sure. And what was your kind of goal when making the F2s?
Was it just to get a bigger genetic diversity so you could find a male more specifically embodying what you wanted?
Or how did you go about doing the F2?
I received those seeds as F2 when I received them.
I originally got the seeds from Capulet or Chalice in 2016.
I hunted those seeds and found the male and I made the F3.
So, they were already F2 when I received them.
So, luckily I already had that trait locked in.
That makes sense because I noticed that on the website you spoke about how
there were all these various breeders who had gone into this line.
You mentioned Capulet and Harry Palms and Rado and Oni and stuff.
I don't think I noticed any mention of Obsolete.
Was that where the orange apricot line came from?
Yeah, it was Obsolete who made the original orange apricot clone.
And I believe Capulet found a male from his original seed stock and planted the Legend OD cut.
And that's what made the F1 and then he made the F2 from that.
So, yeah, it was the orange apricot from Obsolete's original release.
Nice.
And what sort of characteristics can people expect your male to bring to crosses?
Does it bring that sort of apricot-esque flavor you mentioned?
It does, yeah.
The male is very dominant.
All the crosses I found that were heavy orange apricot dominant.
Everything just came out all that stuff, unfortunately.
So, everything you find would be very apricot orange heavy.
The line is pretty old, so it's three years old.
So, all the seeds are pretty much sold out.
But everything you find would be very apricot orange heavy with kind of like a sativa-esque hybrid high
with some OG gas mixed in there too.
So, it's unique for sure, but it's definitely not my current go-to.
I mean, it sounds like it's got a little bit of everything in there.
Would you ever consider bringing it back, doing some new crosses with it,
like pairing it with the white runs, for example, or it's had its time and place?
It's had its time and place and trying to move on and focus on new things.
Cool, cool, cool.
So, the next one I wanted to ask you about, I haven't been able to get anyone to give me any info about this one,
but I think you're going to be perfect and I'm probably about to butcher the name, so please forgive me.
The acai berry?
Acai berry.
Acai, damn it.
I was 50-50 about whether I was going to say it the way I said it or the way you said it.
That's like, seems like it's a very tightly held cut and it seems very popular.
How would you describe the flavor and the high on that one?
It's like a berry, kind of a very dark purple, berry-esque term for profile.
That's why it has the name acai, I think, for the name, because it's kind of like a dark berry, kind of purple cultivar.
It's one of the more mellow jellows as far as the high, as opposed to the others.
It doesn't yield as well, but it's definitely a pretty cultivar to look at.
It kind of breeds really purple-esque plants when you're pulling it.
It's definitely a unique flavor and it's a staple in the jello family.
Yeah, I mean, and follow on question to that, which of the various gelatos is your personal favorite?
Probably the 41, the Bakio.
Yeah, I got to agree. That's definitely my favorite.
They're all fire. That's like the guava a lot. The guava gelato is really fire.
Okay. How did you manage to come across the acai berry?
Because I just don't know anyone else who's got that besides Szybinski himself.
I received it from a friend in a Korean city in SF.
He gave it to me around the time I did the Jefffield pollination back in 2018, I think.
Cool. So you've been working on it for a minute.
I guess as the follow-up, do you feel like there are any of the gelato cuts which maybe aren't the 41,
not your personal favorite, but you think that when you pair them with males, they produce really nice offspring?
Yeah, definitely. For sure.
I think they're all good. They're all very unique.
The gelato lines are very unique, a collection of cultivars, which is one of the staples of the last couple years, I think.
I think the 41 is probably the best breeder for sure there.
Yeah, sure. Definitely seen some powerhouses come from that one.
And speaking of powerhouses, anyone who's been following your Instagram feed would have seen some amazing looking photos
of the baby Yoda Fino of the Califa mints.
Can you give us a little bit of a backstory on that one?
Yeah. It's a Fino I got from my friend, LA Pure Proper.
It's one of the brewers and I selected for the menu.
It's a mint-thawed by Califa Kush. It's really a caked out cultivar with heavy jerk-up coverage.
Kind of got like a soapy, gassy, curvy profile, just around 24 to 25% THC.
Very unique, very heavy yielder, very robust cultivar. It's really amazing.
I'm excited to get that one out to the public more next year.
Amazing. And is that one where people can maybe find their own version in the Califa mint seed packs?
Or you think it's more of like a clone and if they want that, they're probably going to need to track down the clone?
I don't think it's a rare Fino for sure. You might be able to find some similar versions in the seeds, but I doubt you'll find the same one.
All released about 100 packs of the original Califa mint seeds, so they're definitely rare also.
Damn, well, there you go guys. Looks like you're going to have to get the clone itself.
And I think I read on, I think it was your Instagram post, that originally you wanted to name it after Mickey Mouse.
Was that right? But Disney's a bit litigious?
That was an article from Iowa Weekly. Wizkliff is the one that came up with the name.
All that's creative, idea and creativity.
Yeah, okay, cool. I still think Baby Yoda is a dope name for a cut.
Yeah, we'll see how long we can run with that one though. There's various reasons there.
Yeah, see if old George Lucas comes in hard.
Yeah, hopefully not. We'll see that.
Speaking of IG, we're kind of going through an interesting period at the moment.
There's been a lot of companies that have been having issues with IG, removing their posts, censoring them, banning them, all that stuff.
It almost seems like you have to say like 10 times in a post these days, like not for sale, not for sale, not for sale.
On face value, it seems to me like your Instagram is doing really well with the marketing and whatnot.
Do you have any tips or do you feel like it is very hindering and it's just all about how you play the game sort of thing?
I have no idea what makes it happen. I'm not sure why I got lucky. I've had some problems in the past, but overall, cross my fingers, knock on wood.
But yeah, I'm not sure what makes it happen though. It seems like a roll of the dice, honestly.
Sure. Do you think that there'll ever be some way forward where people can exist on the social media platforms and not be harassed?
Because the thing that I noticed the most is that it seems like most of the companies that are sort of having them censored and having stuff removed seem to be legal companies in legal environments.
So it's kind of like at what point are you going to leave us alone?
Yeah, I think it'll change eventually. I think we're in this kind of weird timeframe where it's quasi-legal in some states and not really federally legal in all states.
So I think once it changes, more companies are accepted nationwide and become more publicly accepted, you'll see more changes and more acceptance on social media. I just hope so.
Sure. So a few times throughout our chat, you've mentioned that you're hoping to release cuts or that cuts are released.
Do you think this is going to be one of the ways in which breeders operate moving forward where they don't only sell seeds but they start to get cuts out to either clone dispensaries or they contract them to various parties? Is that something you see gaining popularity going forward?
Definitely. I think it's huge in the market moving forward as we have more legalization. I think people want those breeder cuts. It's a huge market moving forward.
It's important to have yourself clean and TC and verify the disease for your claim of where you're selling. It's a chance to protect people's gardens if you start with proven cold hours.
Yeah, sure. I mean, kind of a bit of a left of field question, but I was just curious to ask you, would you ever consider trying to develop a strain specifically that's like on the larger yielding side?
Because I think that sometimes you often hear people talk about how they love exotics, but the yields are always like, you know, something you got to take into consideration when growing them. Would you ever try to reinvent Blue Dream and bring some new sort of piece to the game that's just also be yielding?
Yeah, that'd be awesome. I like that idea. I was looking at a really big yielding Runts cross and I think one of the drawbacks for Runts is people claim that it's yield. So I think that's one of the traits you can improve with Runts and you'll see it over the coming years is improve Runts cold hours and have really strong potency and yield, but with the Runts terpene profile from the original cross.
How would you describe the Runts terpene profile? Some people say that it smells like just a mixture of gelato and Skittles. Do you feel like it's more nuanced than that?
I think the real white Runts is a very strong profile. It's very skittles terpene dominant, but it has a unique. It's like skittles and steroids, but really unique and really strong. In my opinion, it's hard to forget.
Yeah, sure. And I mean, sometimes you hear people describe Skittles as having like a sort of soapiness to it. Do you ever pick up on that? And do you think that's the same sort of soapiness that people describe in other strains or they're sort of different ones?
I don't really taste any soapiness in Skittles. It's more like a grapefruity kind of like a non-e kind of like really unique, like a gravy. It's hard to describe. It's so flavorful. It's really amazing in my opinion.
Sure. And do you have any predictions as to what might be the next big flavor profile to take the scene by storm?
I don't know. It's a hard one. I think everyone seems to be on a quest to find the old Skunk Terpene. It seems kind of lost though. But yeah, I'm not really sure. I know Gaslight is a staple here to stay. I think this is a revival of that.
Sure. And I mean, you just raised a brilliant little topic of discussion. Many people are currently trying very hard to find or bring back the Roadkill Skunk. Was that something you ever had any interaction with and or would you ever be interested in trying to track that one down yourself?
I haven't had any interaction. I'd love to find some but it's a holy grail. It's kind of hard to find. Everyone seems on the quest for it. But we'll see. I would say that profile might be lost but hopefully not.
Yeah. And as a bit of a random aside question, would you ever consider doing any CBD work? Because I noticed that although there are breeders out there who do work with CBD, you never see like cookies CBD crosses. Is that something you might be interested in looking at or not particularly?
Yes, I'm actually working on some CBD stuff right now with some partners in Oregon. Do some CBD lines with some existing cultivars from compound basically taking some of the compounds, staples and favorites and hitting it with some CBD males. So this is using type 2 and type 3 products next year for sure.
Ah, that's exciting. What sort of females jumped to mind for you from your collection that you think would blend well into that project?
I would select some jokers and some high society, some apples and bananas as well. Some staples, some of my classic ones and blend them with the CBD and it makes some unique crosses.
Good answer. I'm sure there's some exciting stuff in there. To jump over to kind of a more community topic, I think a few years ago, might have been 2018, might have been 2019. I think I saw you guys had a booth at one of the events. Was it Emerald Cup or am I mistaken?
Yeah, I saw one of those.
Yeah. What's your thoughts on the current state of the sort of events we have? It feels like there's been a bit of a changing attitude amongst like the real breeders and real hardcore enthusiasts since REC was introduced. And notably, we've heard a lot of people say that they're feeling like, for example, the Emerald Cup like hasn't quite been the same as in prior years. Do you share that sentiment? And what do you think would be the future of these events? Can we expect to see compound at these events?
Yeah, I think the events have definitely changed since realisation for sure. It's definitely more mainstream now, but I think they're here to stay. And I think as you see COVID kind of like fade away or become more under control, just as the events come back, I think they're huge and they play a big role moving forward as it becomes mainstream. So, you'll see compound at select ones, probably the premier ones only through the throughout the year.
Yeah. If it got to the point, because I think in some states, it's now the case that like it's really hard or even not possible to sell seeds at the events. Would you still go to the events if you weren't able to sell seeds? Or do you feel like there's got to be some sort of give and take with the breeders themselves?
I'd still go to the events for sure, to just see some friends and to kind of socialise. But I think you should be able to sell seeds and sample flowers. I don't think that I've generally sold a sample flower. I think that's a big downfall into their full potential.
Unfortunately, I kind of breed to eat and sleep this every day. I'm passionate about my work too much so much to my downfall. I like to get into some more products, but right now, I'll compound all the day, every day.
For sure. And I'm bringing a new question into the game because we've asked a few breeders this and I'm going to make it a new staple. What's your favourite food?
Lebanese food, hummus and falafel and garbanzo beans, stuff like that, the whole Mediterranean, Middle Eastern food.
Oh, Habibi, you should come see me. I live on it.
I'm down to do it, man.
Yeah, dude. Lebanese is the best.
I'll bring the apples and bananas for dessert.
Oh, shit. It's a date.
I'm down to do it.
That's awesome. Okay. Well, this brings us to the final five questions which we like to ask all breeders.
First one is, what's the most memorable weed you've ever smoked?
Probably that dog shit or the lavender from somewhere. Those are my two favourites for sure.
Sure. And is there a strain out there where everyone you knew was like hyping it up, talking about how good it was and then you finally tried it and you were like, this isn't that good?
Yeah, no offensive cap there, but the Mac is the one that comes to mind.
I think that one does tend to polarise a lot of people. I actually really like it, but then again, I've only tried it like from Mac and Skunk Tech who are both really good growers and I know that there's a lot of people who maybe don't quite do it justice when they're growing.
Yeah, it's a really weird profile, isn't it? It's like orange juice and incense mixed together. It's so weird.
Yeah, but no offensive cap there. He's my friend and he's a good organiser. He's my cup of tea.
Yeah, sure. Look, I'm sure it's nothing he hasn't heard before. So, chill, chill.
So, next question is, I'm about to drop you off at a desert island where you're going to spend the rest of your days there. You can take three strains of weed with you that you have to grow forever. What three strains are you taking? What three clones? Or you can take seed stock if you want.
White Runts, Jetfield Gelato and probably Dog Shit.
Dog Shit.
Love it. Nice little mix there. Opposite end of the spectrum. You're about to drop someone off to an island. You're not particularly fond of this person. What three strains are you going to leave them with on the island?
All the same strains.
Love it. Very diplomatic. I like that. So, final question. If you could go back in time to any place throughout history, anywhere around the world, you can just, you've got a time machine. It's going to take you wherever you want. And the goal is you're going to collect either some seeds or some cuttings or whatever it is. Where are you going, when and what are you collecting?
I would like to spend more time in the Hashi region of Middle East and explore the Hashi strains. Afghanistan, Middle East, Pakistan, Morocco. Get involved in that. Always a dream of mine to be involved in the Hashi and see the traditional methods and be immersed in the old ways.
I was going to say, dude, we need to go do the Silk Road together.
I'm down to do it. You fly for it, Thomas.
What an experience. That'd be so lush. Fantastic. Well, that is an amazing answer. I think that just about brings us to the end of things. Was there any shout outs or comments you wanted to make in general?
Shout out to the Runtz crew, Nick Runtz, Burner, Piggies crew, Node Labs, my friends, DSG Labs, Turpog, Scotty, Ted, everyone that supports me, Dio Farms, all the fans at Compound, everyone that's really pushing the development of genetic development and doing good quality work.
Yeah, amazing. Well, I mean, again, thank you so, so, so much, Chris, for coming on the show, for sharing all your knowledge and in general for being the amazing genetic maestro behind Compound Genetics.
I appreciate the opportunity. I like your time.
And there you have it, my friends, the latest from the hype beast himself.
A big, big, big thank you again to Chris from Compound Genetics for taking the time to come and chat with us today.
Likewise, a big, big, big thank you to our sponsors who helped make this show happen.
CTN now, you know them, you love them, best breeders in the game. Go check them out. They got you covered, guarantee on satisfaction, not just germination.
Likewise, Coppert Biological Systems, your number one stop for all things beneficial bugs, microbes and powders.
You need that beneficial army, the beneficial microbes and the feed to keep the good guys stocked up so they can fight off the bad guys.
Make sure your harvest is the best to date by using their products.
Finally, huge, huge shout out to the Patreon gang. You guys are the lifeblood of the show as you know. I appreciate you so, so, so much.
If you're listening and you would like to help support the show, I'm sure more episodes happen, early access to content, additional unheard interviews, so, so, so much more.
Go check out www.thepape.com.
www.thepape.com.
And so much more. Go check out www.patreon.com.
The podcast.
And that's it for this episode, my friends. I hope you enjoyed it. I'll see you for the next one.
We'll see you.
Transcribed by https://otter.ai
