I've got a really nice looking cup of coffee here.
So hopefully, hopefully we're both good to go.
I love coffee.
It's my second favorite thing.
I like that.
Hello.
Welcome to the next episode of the podcast,
a cannabis podcast for budding enthusiasts.
This episode, as always, was brought to you by 420 Australia,
your premier store for lifestyle and apparel,
as well as organic gardening solutions, your number one stop for all things organic.
And finally, CTA now, you know,
best in the game, germination and satisfaction guaranteed, not just the former.
On this episode, we're speaking to the rare and mythical gooey breeder.
Heavily requested.
Lots of info.
Here we go.
Alrighty, so a big thank you and welcome to the infamous gooey breeder.
How are you doing? Thanks for joining us.
Thank you very much for having me.
I really appreciate this opportunity to visit with you today.
So we're going to do a little curveball first question.
What are you currently smoking on?
Actually, mom gooey.
I just loaded a fresh bowl.
Is that like just typical or is it you've been experimenting a little bit lately?
Oh, no, no, no, no.
The way that I the way that I smoke is.
I
this is really hard to explain, but
I always use gooey as a reset because gooey for me is really strong.
It's always been strong.
The plant's going to be thirty five years old
this year.
And so
it's a good gauge because then I can go off of that onto the test plants that I do
because with so much I need to have a constant that I can say, OK, I like this
because I like everything about mom gooey and that's why it's such a popular strain.
Well, I guess before we jump into kind of the vault of mom gooey,
let's go all the way back to the start.
What was it like when you first
experienced cannabis and what was the cannabis scene like back then?
Oh,
I was introduced to it at a very tender young age.
And I still remember that day
very vividly.
Friend of mine had saw his older brother
doing it and laugh and enjoy himself and have a good time.
So he thought it'd be.
Kind of fun to bring it over to us, you know, my friend of mine
that I hung out with all the time and this guy we just call kind of cohorts.
And we went ahead and we took one of the old style plastic bubble pipes
and and some matches and some of this stuff.
And he had had quite a little bit for I
couldn't believe he took what he took, but I didn't know I didn't know that much
about it, but it seemed like a lot to me.
Anyway, we put that in that plastic bubble pipe and smoked it.
That didn't really seem like there was doing that much.
But we were at the top of this huge grassy hill.
And I remember just running up and down that hill, just go up to the top and roll
down laughing and laughing.
And then later on, we kind of understood that that was that was the initial feelings.
Then I I was an Air Force brat, so I moved around a lot.
And at that point, I realized that, you know,
I kind of needed to make sure I could have it all the time.
And gosh darn, this stuff has seeds.
When I was 13, I thought, hey, you know what?
This has seeds. Why am I looking for it?
Why don't I just grow it?
Because I come from a agricultural based family out here in California.
And so we
went ahead and I would get seed and mix it in.
And by the time I was
15 or so.
I was doing pretty good, I was living in Nebraska at that point,
and it grows wild there, so I figured out real quick that you could just kind of
hollow out a patch of the wild, throw in the good seed and just let it go
through nature's course and come back at the end of the year.
And it was there. It was seeded with the hemp.
But who cares?
You know, it was better than nothing.
So and then moving to England after that,
I had two years of not being able to grow anything
because you can't grow much in England outside.
Back then
in the 70s, it seemed to rain half of the time, half of the year.
It was it was raining and dreary and I didn't have much luck.
So but there were some integral parts before then that made up GUI.
And, you know, we can we can touch on that if you want.
I don't I don't care.
But that's those are those the basic, you know, beginnings.
And within that are the beginnings of the GUI mom that is so popular.
So as in you are collecting the seed stock over that time period?
Yeah, absolutely.
You know what? What the fun here's the fun part about GUI that I've told this over
the years, you can go on to Breed Bay, I'm sure, and find it at other places, too.
But
there was a short interim time
before going over to England where I was in New York City and I was there for a long
enough period of time that I was able to acquire some of the local fare.
And
during that time,
the founder of High Times had smuggled in this gold Colombian pot
that nobody had ever seen gold pot before, and they were having a real hard time
getting rid of that.
So they developed this magazine called High Times to help sell that pot.
And one of the centerfolds of one of the very first issue or the subsequent second
issue was this huge room full of this seven hundred pounds of pot with a girl
laying on top of it, smoking a joint.
I got some of that pot from
some friends of mine in New York at that time who started seeing this and thought,
well, OK, this is interesting and good.
And so that that turned into the Colombian gold
portion of Mom Gui that started the whole thing.
Because then soon after that, the golds became popular and I had a gold and that
went into it, too. And those are the seeds that I tried to
take over to England.
And I had to hold on to what I had until I got back to the United States
and to California, because that's where I came back to.
And it started developing Gui at that point.
It went through other additions and it went from there.
So when the Colombian gold first hit New York, it was like no one wanted it,
I guess, because you were saying they were having trouble.
Well, yeah, they'd never seen gold pot before.
That was odd. And they were having a hard time.
And, you know, dealers didn't want to see that.
Everything was brown back then.
What's this gold stuff?
What's what's been what's been done to it?
What's you know, it was just a it just wasn't turning over.
And so they developed High Times magazine just for that reason.
Yeah. Wow.
Yeah. People can look that up and it's all true.
And that's the very beginnings of Gui, you know, very beginnings of the Gui Mom.
And that's when people really love her.
I mean, I have to tell you that I get more
requests and compliments on that one plant than
virtually anything else.
And that's hard, hard to say because there's some really
pretty stuff that folks have really enjoyed, too.
But nothing gets in like mom.
So
so that's what's it's a very important thing because those are all old school
genetics. They're all made up from stuff that just doesn't exist anymore.
So that's what makes it so important.
So when you started to make Gui, was it like an intentional transition
into breeding or were you just kind of making seed for yourself?
Oh, yeah, I was just making seed for myself.
But then, of course, you know, I started to get a little bit more educated
and I started to understand more that manipulation was within my grasp.
And when I did find something that was
out of the ordinary or something that really turned me on that I wanted to add,
I realized that I could build it in.
And I'm
very blessed to be able to
be very picky.
And, you know, and so I learned that I could focus in on what I needed and
how to find it.
And Luther Burbank really helped along with that.
Luther said, you know,
choose one trait and, you know, shun all the rest.
And that's basically how I breed.
When you did first start making Gui and you kind of started to get more a bit
cluey about what you were doing around that time period, did you know of anyone
else who was trying to do it on that same level, like like trying to take it real
seriously, like were there any other breeders or you just kind of really isolated?
You know, I in my own little world, as far as that goes, I I
I'll tell you, this is a funny story.
I had a point where I was in Arizona and I had two plants.
And I can only have two plants in this one spot.
And it was really hairy in Arizona.
And I was really scared.
And
due to the heat and all that stuff, it's very challenging and stuff.
So I ended up losing one of the plants.
And it turned out that it was probably the male that I lost.
So I only ended up with this female.
And I kept waiting for seeds to come about because I was just used to seeded pod.
Didn't know anything about any of that.
And this thing just kept going and going and going.
And finally, when I picked it, it was just
this beautiful seedless plant that I just thought, wow, this is very unusual and
there's no seed, but I like this a lot better.
What happened? And so then I thought I invented
Sensimiya, I thought, oh, my gosh, what a great thing.
Then I did some more reading, of course,
and then found out that, no, this has been going on for thousands of years.
The Chinese done it.
And so so anyway, after that humbling little revelation, I
went ahead and built on that and said, well, this is really good.
And right about that year or the next year
after that, Sensimiya became the really big thing.
It was it was the thing.
And it took off from there.
That was right at the very beginnings of when the seed banks were starting to
advertise and get out there from the Dutch.
It was right in that time.
So did this revelation hamper your breeding
efforts at all, because like on the one hand, you're making gooey.
Oh, no, no, I have more seed.
I just I just found out what it was that I had done.
And so now I now I could do it intentionally.
Now I knew how to control it.
And it's just like any other learning process.
It's a simple thing, you know what I mean?
In retrospect, you know, duh.
But when you're 15 and you're the only one who's grown
intentionally, it's it's it's it's it's a really interesting thing that really
started me, my my my father looked at me once and he said, you know,
why is it you want to know so much about pot?
Well, you know, can't you do something, you know, more constructive?
And
nowadays I bring that up to him now and I say, you know why?
Here's why.
Oh, panel.
He gets it now.
But, you know, that's it.
You know, you're you're drawn to what you're drawn to.
And this happens to be what God put me here for.
And so I'm trying to do the best I can.
Yeah. I mean, the work speaks for itself.
Right. If we go back, if we go back to the mumgooey for a moment, though.
How did you get the other parts of the puzzle is the the tie and the Maui?
We got a lot of questions about the Maui, you know, tell us, because you say you got
it from the source, like what's the backstory behind that?
Yeah. You know, well, here's the deal.
I've known a lot of friends in the islands for all my life.
And I was turned on to this gentleman who in 1972 developed what he called Wowie
on Maui.
And that was a beautiful strain,
really definitely Asian genetics,
but with a twist.
And he he never really could tell me exactly what that other twist was.
But in it, it was obviously now and looking back at it,
it was obviously there a Pakistan
that had been brought onto the islands or it was an Afghan.
One of those two.
I lean more towards the Pakistani just by the way mom stacks from it,
because that's a lot of where she picked that up from
when
most of the genetics that are in
Gooey are heavily sativa and they were tall and, you know,
sativa and stature and stuff.
And then after the Maui was introduced,
because that was the second to the last component that was introduced into that.
With the
tie being the last
one that really kind of set the structure in a very
tight and completely changed way from what I was used to for the years before.
When breathing in
with the Colombians and that.
So I really I saw the change.
I really like the change because it didn't take away from the
central point, but it just made the plant so much easier to grow.
It quickened it up.
Three.
He's got a six from six and a half weeks on.
It can be picked and it varies a lot in the medicine that it produces.
Because
you get radically different stages.
And this is one of the benefits of this plant, because
early on it's good for some ailments and late stages.
It's good for completely different stuff.
And it's all from the same plant.
And I actually need to outline that more
online and kind of help people to understand that
it's been lauded as a wonderful strain for nerve pain.
And for migraines, things like that, that are I really look forward to
expanding on that knowledge out there and getting folks tuned into that so that they
can help themselves really excited that today I just got a hold of some very old
pure GUI seed that I had made prior to.
Let's see.
I think these are two thousand and nine.
And I have two different stages, so I get to go back and I get to revisit it because
I've gone through all my stocks and good old North Star.
They had them in their
cold keeping
spots to keep them fresh.
And so he's returned those to me.
So I'm looking forward to being able to offer people the old school pure GUI seed,
which everybody just absolutely loves.
I can
give you the description of that.
There are the stages of GUI that are
using the old S1 skunk one as the cubing mechanism.
Why did you choose to use the skunk as the male?
You know, I did that because the skunk one contained some of those
sativa
strains, the same exact ones.
When skunk one was made, it's not an indica.
It's a combination of several things and occupable gold is one of them.
So I wanted to use that as a
reinforcer for that.
And that just seemed about the best choice, because when you know that
these
wildly crazy genetics pools that are out there now, that if you can trust something,
even back then, I realized I need to trust this.
And that was the best place.
And I've grown that strain for years before.
Because I just enjoyed it.
And I thought, no, this is going to be good because I know both strains very well
so that I can separate what I'm looking for and still keep the components
that I think are beneficial, and that's exactly how it works.
So it says online that the stock you use was from SSC.
We've spoken about them a lot on the show.
And a lot of the breeders regard them really highly.
Do you feel the same?
Oh, yeah. SSSC was
a really, really good company.
I really, really say that they were really professional.
I enjoy everything.
You know,
early on, I was into them when they first started to go ahead and sell in high times.
And I was all over it.
And I found that they were excellent,
excellent in the quality that they put out.
And you could trust it to some extent.
There were some things that, you know, in retrospect that I would go,
maybe, you know,
but overall, I would just say, you know, kudos.
Thank you very much.
They benefited the world, really, as far as that goes.
They really did.
Well, interestingly, I've never really heard anyone who didn't like their stuff,
so I'd love to know what did you think was a bit missed from them?
Well,
there were a couple of things like the Purple Rain you could never get.
It was all I think they must have had it like once and then it never would.
You never were able to get it again.
That was frustrating.
I had a little bit of German nation problems with a couple of their.
Lines, but, you know, I got to hesitate as to what which ones they were.
It was a long time ago
and I don't want to I don't want to really muddy their reputation with something
silly like that, but there were a few times where some of the seeds I got,
I questioned and, you know, but that was I ordered a lot.
So everybody deserves a swing and a miss now every now and then.
I hold no grudges at all.
Yeah, no, totally.
And so just as a final little question on them specifically,
what was the favorite strain you grew out from them?
Hmm.
You know, I'm just going to have to say the skunk one.
Yeah, I, you know, because it really just had
overall what I really enjoyed about a plant, you know,
you could get phenos that were a little bit more sweet.
You can get phenos that that had a little bit more hashy flavor,
but the profiles were all basically like really tight and really well done.
And I just I just found that to be a very
consistent line, the same thing with the Afghan one.
It was the same way.
Really nice, really dark leaves, wide, beautiful, perfect indica structure,
really quality, quality work.
That's interesting because we don't actually see as far as I can tell,
a lot of Afghan one pop up in your stuff.
Is that something which never really interested you?
There's a reason for that, because I gravitate more to the sweets
and that thing, those things that just stink the place up.
And
most of my breeding was always for
clandestine use, and so I lean towards that sweet smell because it doesn't
tend to permeate the way that that the pure indica go.
They just they you can smell them a block away.
Yeah, you know, so that basically I'm just a sweet pot kind of guy.
I just that that's where I go.
And so it's always fun to try other things.
But one thing I've noticed when you go
into dispensaries nowadays and stuff, everything smells
like everything else.
And I hate that.
And that's why I can't.
Exotics goes and tries to split that up and to to make the the savory flavor
of whatever I'm trying to express the flavor and make it really unique.
And I've been very lucky to be able to to achieve some of that for folks
because it really does make a difference to set the brand apart.
It doesn't taste like ordinary pot.
Then that gets people's interest.
People are more into flavor than they used to be.
Without question.
So just on what you said there,
it's an interesting point you raised about the differentiation of the flavors.
Do you think that cannabis has the ability
to produce any possible smell, given the right genetics?
Well,
I let's just say that I think that the cannabis can go a very wide range.
I don't know that it can go to any smell, but I mean, it's demonstrated, you know,
everything from sweet tropicals to, you know, gas.
So it's got a potential.
I don't know how people
see with science being the way it is now with them extracting these turpins and then
going ahead and putting them back on and copious amounts that muddies the waters a
little bit, but for straight up breeding, I think that if you find a flavor,
you can amplify it.
And let's just put it like that because that's what I do.
I use some strains as amplifiers for another flavor.
That's not like that.
It's just
a totally different flavor, but maybe I want to bring it out more.
So there are certain strains that I use to do that because they act like loud
speakers and then you just look for those phenos that the target.
Taste is predominant and you just use that and bring it forward.
So would you kind of say that your primary
attribute you breed towards at the moment would be specific flavor or is each project
a little different? Oh, no.
Yeah, no, no, no.
There are tons of projects.
I'm dealing with a company in Colorado that for legal reasons, I can't give them
any details, but this company has asked me to develop a line for them for mechanical
harvesting because they're developing a mechanical harvester to do things on a
large scale and they have discovered that, of course,
if you have a specific type of structure built into a plant,
that it makes a difference in how the machines do their job.
And so I've been asked to develop a very strict type of plant that
accomplishes this for them.
And so we're in
they just have gotten the second series of prototype
target plants to see if they work for them.
The first couple were just what they wanted.
And then they just wanted to add some different different components,
namely purple.
They wanted them purple.
Wow. That's that's some really kind of specialized breeding.
Do you do that type of thing a lot?
Well, yeah.
As a matter of fact, we do.
That's kind of where I think I think there's a couple of different things
that are going to be crucial for people to keep in mind in the coming years where the
industry is going and targeted
skills and and industries like that are going to be more apt to be around longer.
The good old days of people just being able to grow and do what they want and make
make do with what that are basically going to go away.
And it's only going to be the people that really, I think, have a long history
or are highly skilled at a specific part
of the industry that are going to be around for the duration.
Big, big money's going to eat a lot of this up.
It's going to be a problem.
And so, you know,
one of the things that we target is these specialized portions,
plus going on the exotic and because that has mass appeal and we're hopefully going
to target the mom and pop who want to grow six plants in the backyard here
in California, you know, we'd like to capture that market as well.
But we have several different avenues that we are exploring besides the seed
industry, the seed industry is really just a.
My own.
Specific little thing,
just because it's what I enjoy doing, I enjoy manipulating
and
to that end, what I'd like to
to try and do is do more professional breeding for the industry on request.
You I don't know whether you guys know
about BPS or not, but BPS is the Black Platinum Society and it is
I probably the most expensive
seed bank company in the world and it is ours and it's an invite only.
People can't just join.
They have to be invited to join and it and it's all
private.
And
the only thing I can say is, is that probably some of the largest names
in the industry are members.
So
we've got that to deal with
in this as well as all the specialized breeding,
all the other things that we're into and going into are also pretty interesting as
well, I mean, I can keep going and going and going.
So you better stop me here.
Well, I mean, if we just jump back to a little reference you made a second ago
about how exotics in general are on the rise, I think what's really interesting is
the majority of your work would widely be considered really exotic,
really tropical, that type of thing.
Do you think it's just a matter of time
before the masses really pick up on your strains and run with it?
Because as you referenced, it is the current hype.
Well, here's I'm hoping to be to actually get ahead of that.
I've been trying to work to get ahead of that.
What what we target in is I like to target the very high end of the scale.
If you were to look at liquor, I'd like to be the high end liquor
person that I want to be that that.
I want to be that Rolex, you know, in the end.
And I've always strived to be that way
because it's important to me to be.
There for the customer and give the customer the ultimate that I can give them,
and because, like I said, I'm so picky and it's been a real curse, actually,
that that really allows me to be able to focus in really tightly.
And with that couple that with the micro breeding that I do,
we it allows me to move in advance on these things really fast
in.
Relation to other people who are doing different styles of breeding,
and so I'm hoping to get ahead of all of this because our
company plans involve really go getting into where this industry is going,
at least in California, I envision within the next few years,
you're just going to see large scale
production and all a lot of that is going to wipe out the mom and pop special,
these little stuff that people adore so much.
And I don't want to see that happen to my company.
And so as a result, that's where we want to try and
partner with large scale producers and keep the brand
on the high end for people to be able to get.
I've spoken to a few different breeders
about this exact subject you're tapping on, and I guess one of the sentiments I've
heard expressed from a few different people is that there's always going to be
a demand for the ultra high end, and the presumption is that a lot of these big
corporations are probably not going to be putting out the absolute best of the best.
So with that in mind, do you feel like a black market environment
for that will always be kind of inevitable and there may be a spot for these
people who look as though they might be wiped out if they were willing to go
black market type thing?
Of course, of course.
You know, there's always going to be that component.
I mean, there's still a component in California for moonshine.
You know,
there are people that still make moonshine in California.
I mean, even to this day.
So there's no there's no reason to think that this is going to quell it
to the full extent that they want to do.
But what I do feel is, is that
our industry has the ability at this early point to manipulate it to the proper
perspectives and keep everything in line with the way that we want the industry
to evolve, and I think it's just incumbent upon individual producers to, you know,
show up to their best game, make sure the customer is taken care of,
make sure that everybody plays by the rules.
And I just think that it's
because you're going to be able to manipulate it so much.
The government's going to do what it's
going to do and the state's going to do what it's going to do.
And you have to be light on your feet and be right on your feet when you do it.
And it's just the way it is.
So so now you're going to have a component.
Yeah, that is illegal.
You are going to have that.
But, you know.
Overall, you can still have this wonderful, legal, exotic.
At the same time, and it's done right and done fair and done
beneficially to the society, and that's where we're going.
That's what we want.
So what would be your advice in terms of how, as a community, we can get to
the kind of goal that you're describing whereby there's self-regulation and the
mom and pops haven't been forced out?
Like, what would be your plan for us to get there ideally?
Well, I think that the people need to speak up.
They need to make that call to their representatives.
They need to make sure that
their voices are heard as far as that goes.
I don't want to see people edged out.
I just think that you're looking at huge money and you're looking at people with
deep pockets who don't give a damn about the industry.
All they see is the green.
And those people have a way of.
Edging into this whole thing, and I'm very, very cautious of that,
but I think the way around that has been shown just in the political climate
that you're seeing right now, you're seeing a resistance to that kind
of thinking that that kind of controlling.
And I think that that just needs to transpose on over into this industry, too.
And we need to keep our voice heard.
We need to keep them understanding that you're talking about monumental shifts
in in local economies in some areas.
You know, I'm in northern California.
I know what the economy is based on around here.
And to disrupt it to the point that they're talking about disrupting it is going
to be a detrimental thing for a lot of people.
It's going to be very scary.
And that needs to be worked out.
That needs to be taken care of and considered when they're doing this.
So the local municipalities and stuff,
they have to come together on all this and find a way to work with these people
and the subject. I mean, that's that's just how it has to work out.
Getting there,
you know.
It all depends on how organized the voices are.
I think I think if and I've railed on this
for years, don't come off like stupid stoners.
Don't portray yourself in the hippie garb of the old days.
Don't, you know, be professional, be smart, come off intelligent.
And, you know, don't be the one with a bong
in your hand when there's people are interviewing you on television
for a particular issue or whatnot. Don't be that guy.
We need to project a new image and it needs to be one that,
you know, society is going to accept.
You know, I used to have really long hair
and finally it got beaten into me that, you know what?
People judge you by what they see.
They don't judge you by your character.
I finally ended up cutting my hair.
And that's what pop smokers need to do.
They need to cut their hair.
That's I like that.
That's a good metaphor.
You know, it works.
I mean, it is really true.
So, I mean, just with that word of wisdom in mind,
if we could just jump back to a different topic we spoke about.
I just want to touch back in on something you mentioned a fair bit earlier.
You were talking about how you harvest gooey at different times.
She's got different medical properties.
Something which I had recently noticed is
the gooey cross C99 crosses that Duke Diamond did.
Some of those phenos, particularly one that a friend of mine has grown,
is quite high in CBD.
And that was a bit of a surprise to me
because it doesn't seem apparent that there's a ton of CBD in either
of those parents, or am I wrong?
Is the gooey CBD rich?
Oh, very.
Yeah, especially early on.
Sure.
You know, you're looking at.
Yeah, yeah.
You're looking at a wonderful array of things.
It gets kind of racy at that point.
You know, it's a little racy
early on, but it really hits the pain at that point, too.
But then as it progresses,
the couch lock and the sedative qualities really come forward.
And then I noticed that
if you let it go a really long time and then age it or let it age for six
months in a jar or something like that, yeah, the CBD is really predominant and
very nice and very palatable to the flavor changes to this rich
maltiness that's quite intriguing and totally different from fresh gooey.
Fresh gooey is really sweet and tropical.
The cured stuff is a lot more complex and I enjoy it, too.
So, yeah, no, you've got a lot of really good stages.
And I think that what I always recommend to people when they're growing gooey is
just start picking early on when you see
when you see about an eighth of the hairs on there, pick it and try it and see what
you think. And then and then as it goes and you get half of them are gone, you go
ahead and try it there. Because usually I'm used to describing this to people maybe
who have never grown the pot before and I use the pistils as a gauge for them so
that they don't have to think too hard because I usually use a loop or a microscope.
Yeah.
So I think something which is interesting, which you just said there is,
you know, just start picking the buds off at different times.
In order to do that, you'd have to be an organic grower, right?
Yeah. You know, all you're doing is gauging.
And I mean, it's not perfect.
You know, of course you can make it better, but you're not looking for that right then.
See, I'm a very purposeful person and everything that I do as far as the
what I'm trying to get done, I'm looking for an exact thing.
And in that point, I'm looking at what the effect is
because it's a little harsh or whatever is not the focus.
I expect that you can move on, you know, focus on what you need to focus on and not
try to judge the thing at that point because you can go ahead and flush it.
And then, you know,
I would I would think that you would already start to be flushing at that point
anyway, you know, only because, you know, six and a half weeks.
You're almost there. It's time to start.
Yeah, that is true.
What type of nutrient regime do you use?
You know,
I grow every way you can think I use everything and I'm very stingy because
what I try to do is develop strains to not need a lot of fertilizer.
And if you put even mom gooey, if you try to give her too much, she'll
reject it and be really pissed and you'll be very upset.
So, you know, I always target to try and have strains use as little as possible
because I'm thinking of the customer nutrients are expensive.
Let's try and make them go as long as you can.
So there's I always try to breed towards responsive plants that don't need a lot.
I get a lot of gripe for that.
Actually, people people are so used to, you know,
pumping their plants up and was, you know, if it's bred properly towards that,
you don't need to do that, but I'm not real good about getting that info out.
I guess maybe I need to do more of that.
Yeah, it certainly seems like a good trade to have.
Well, one would think, but I get I get a lot of grief for it because I think people
just think that it's going to produce better and it's not necessarily true.
And also, too, it is what it is.
If you're trying to get.
Huge, thick things, you can do it,
but you need a huge, thick plant in order to have it come from.
You're not going to get from this little bucket.
Yeah, totally.
I've seen I've seen gooey mom with
that 13 feet tall with a top bud larger than your head
and with bottom branches as large as a man's thigh and six feet out.
It can get huge, but,
you know, people
they expect certain things and they go into it with preconceived notions.
So, you know, we try and educate as much as possible, but
sometimes you you're surprised.
I don't know. I don't know.
No, it's a good point.
I think another thing which just popped
into my mind is you mentioned that the tie was the last thing you crossed
into the gooey, do you think that the end result of the gooey does have a lot to do
with that, like does the tie account for a lot of it?
Oh, no.
I don't know. I know.
It doesn't count for a lot of it, but it accounts for the I think
the specific type of high that this plant gives you.
See,
all
I look at I look at resin as a vehicle,
and that's why I wanted to build really resin plants with really large glands,
because, of course, the epidermal layers where the THC is.
And so I wanted more of that epidermal layer on that gland.
And so the bigger the gland, the better off it is.
And so in targeting that, you can go ahead and then build in whatever you want.
And you've got this huge vehicle of this huge these huge glands to work in.
And so when I did that and the tie is an interesting story and it's a fun story.
This tie had washed up on the shores
of Northern California in these aluminum canisters.
It was dumped off offshore and got discovered.
And we were able to get some of that.
And it had this most exotic chocolate tie flavor.
There were some really amazing sticks that were with that.
But the best stuff were these flaky kind of brownish cinnamon,
reddish cinnamon tie that had the chocolate flavor to it.
But it also had this really bright strawberry note to it.
And that was the tie that we used in doing it on the very last portion of it.
And it it just really finished the flavor off and gave it that little
psychedelic edge that I love so much.
And that that tie was it was just
is one of those things that you remember all your life.
And to be able to smoke gooey and to be able to go, oh, there it is.
It's just a wonderful thing.
Yeah, well, I mean, you just mentioned
the the big trichome glands, which is interesting because a lot of people,
you know, kind of the more knowledgeable sources have traditionally said that you
more equatorial sativas tend to have thinner glands.
Did you find it to be like a bit of an uphill battle trying to make them thicker
or did it come easily? Now, you see, that's where you see.
That's where the Maui came in, because the Maui, I am sure, had Pakistani.
And I think and Pakistani glands are huge there.
They got large glands and and and and
the tie had, you know, they were they were almost surface,
you know, almost without any stock, but but just fairly,
fairly noticeable and very, you know, fairly good size themselves,
but not as big as the the the components of the Maui added from before that.
You know,
the Cambodian had a nice dusting,
but it wasn't like it was after the Maui component.
And I really think that that's and it just carried over.
The tie didn't didn't reduce the size it carried into it.
And that's what I mean.
You use things as a vehicle and you select for it.
This this plant happened to be the only one that was like this.
It was the resin that it made was a mutation that it was easily a third again
as resinous as anything else that was in that at the time.
And that's why I selected it and kept it going.
And, you know, it's just become such a favorite that I've just kept it going.
So, I mean, you just kind of touched on it.
Then when you when you did first pop the gooey seeds, how many did you pop to find
the mum?
That was let's see.
That was a long time ago
and probably.
Knowing
in that in that particular instance, there was a greenhouse,
so we had probably maybe 30 plants of this going.
It was sharing it with another
grower and he had one side of the greenhouse, I had the other.
And I was doing tests and stuff.
And I had everything in pots so that when it came time to do seedings and stuff,
I could move them out and get his stuff seeded because he was not seeding anything
of his. So I would I would I can't remember exactly
the numbers because I don't pay attention to that.
It's just however many females that I was going for through that at the time.
And I would guess from vague memory about 30.
And so was this before the advent of indoor lighting?
Like, how did you keep the strain going at that point?
Oh, oh, yeah.
No, this was this was at the very beginning stages of that.
I remember
buying one of these really incredibly silly little hydroponic
kits and we would just use that and root
cuttings in that because I had a bubbler in there and it had
kind of like I think kind of like a hydro corn kind of a thing.
It wasn't hydro corn because that was much later.
But it had something.
You know what? It was the old lava rock,
the red lava rock that people used to use.
That was what it was.
And we would just root in that and keep things going that we like,
because I learned early on that cuttings were amazing thing.
I learned it was called cutting a slip back in the day.
And taking slips was the way that you had to to preserve things.
And I learned that that from an old lady who was doing
roses and she was taking slips and then rooting them.
So I thought, well, that's interesting.
Then I learned how to root with
moss on while it's on the plant.
You wrap it in gauze and moss with a rooting compound and you can grow roots
while the plant's still growing and then just cut it off and plant it.
That's always a fun trick.
That's certainly something I haven't seen done regularly these days.
Oh, no, that and burying the branches,
you know, partway having it serpentine up and down and then you bury the and tie
down the things and it grows roots right there and feeds the the the branches.
You can do it that way, too.
Well, I like doing that on on certain types
of sativa is because they do grow vine like and and that works out really well.
The feeds the plant and makes for a lot better meal.
So the last little part of Gui in terms
of the makeup that we haven't spoke about the backstory, the Cambodia,
how did you get that one that came from a gentleman who was
stationed over in Vietnam at the time and had brought back seed
that he had with he actually brought back pot, smuggled it in some way.
They weren't really looking for it back then.
So he had quite a little bit.
And he dug some of this out when I was
with a friend of his, and I happened to notice that he was
just throwing the seeds away and I said, oh, can I have those?
He said, sure.
And I said, can you save those seeds that you get off of that for me?
Sure.
So I actually gave him 20 bucks and he saved all the seeds from probably,
I think, about three or four ounces.
And I use those to find the ones that I wanted.
And that was a really spicy, delicious pot.
Just had a really nice spicy flavor to it.
I really enjoyed that.
I miss that.
I think I miss all of these.
Do you think that Cambodians kind of one
of the land races, which doesn't get enough of a good rap
because you don't see it come up a lot compared to some of the other ones?
You know, I'll tell you right now, all of the land races,
you can't hardly trust land races anymore anywhere in the world.
The days of these types of pot are just basically gone.
Either they've been eradicated, they've been torn away in drug, not drug,
in war torn areas.
They've been infiltrated by other types of strains that have been
brought from outside and they've polluted the gene pools that way.
It's just a real sad commentary.
But I mean, obviously, I'm sure there are places in the world where
there are still pure lines, but they are few and far between.
And I'm sure if you talk to Bodie, he'd tell you the same thing.
He travels a lot and he can, you know, he can see that there's
a trend that is not not very good because people are sharing.
See, even if you go and you share seed
with somebody, you know, just out of a gesture of kindness,
you're doing a disservice in that area towards this end.
And, you know, it's just a sad commentary.
Landers's anymore are so difficult that you really need to when you acquire one.
I can perfectly use an example here from the Emerald Cup.
Badger, who works for Subcool,
gave me some seed from a gentleman from Australia who said that he was.
I'm.
Growing this stuff that this is what the aborigines grew,
and it was a fourth generation.
Backcross,
and I don't know anything about it other than that,
the ones that I've got growing off of it right now
are supposed to be landers, but
they have one of them has an auto flower under 24 seven.
So I'm kind of
disturbed about that as far as that goes.
It's and I don't know if you've ever heard of it.
It's called reindeer syrup.
No.
Yeah, so anyway,
in just using that as a fresh example,
you know, I highly doubt that there's auto flowers like that because this is
supposed to be a 13 week sativa. Yeah.
I would expect that.
Yeah.
So so I am skeptical at best and I use that as an example.
You just don't know,
especially it's almost like the game telephone where you send a message around
to a group and it changes by the time it gets to the other end.
You just never know anymore what you're getting.
I stay within my gene pool that I have now almost exclusively.
There are a few things and I always listen and tell people where where and what
I have and what I've used.
But for the most part, I don't use other people's work.
I just stay away from it.
That's interesting because I was going to ask you that question,
like, would you ever consider it at all or it's just not interested?
Oh, it's not that I'm not interested.
It's just that I look at it this way and I've always said this.
I want I want the customer to have a wide range.
I don't want intermixing and stuff like
that to get in the way of the customer experience.
And if the customer wants an AK-47 to get an AK-47,
I don't want to give them an AK-47 times mom because, you know,
that's some of the same genetic that they're getting.
And while it may be fine and or it may be wonderful, who knows it?
It.
I guess
I've always just wanted the customer to have a wider experience and to blend
in this stuff and muddy it and dilute it is not the not not something I'm attracted
to, and I just think that that I think it's better that if they
that other breeders do that, that that's you know, that's what the young breeders
are for, you know, that's who I'm breeding for is those young people coming up who
want to do a mix like that.
I just don't want to see people do it by name, you know, so that they can have a cool
name that that's dumb, you know, that's just dumb.
Yeah, totally.
Yeah. Breed for purpose.
Don't breed for, you know, stupid stuff like that.
And the other thing, too, and I'm guilty as anybody is, is that,
you know, we need to start
putting positive connotations to this product and not negative ones.
Yeah. No more green crack.
Yeah, you know, I'm like I said, I'm guilty of it.
You know, the double death stuff and, you know, the dementia's edge.
It goes on and on, you know, but.
All those things actually had a.
A purpose for a point, a point of purpose for medical use, because like double death
was for actually terminally terminally ill people to make it a little easier on them
and the dementia was to help sharpen the brain.
Yeah, that's interesting, because I actually saw a double death
pop up and as well as death grip, you can't find a lot of information
about them except for that, you know, like dark related to dark desire.
What's the makeup of double death?
And how come everyone online?
I think what I found was someone guessing
the lineage online, but it looked wrong.
So I was just hoping to get like a clarification.
Well, double death is is the death grip times the GUI 96 percent.
There you go. Yeah.
The thing I found said it was like there was in and lava in there as well.
I was like, that doesn't sound right.
No, no.
They're what they're probably referring to.
Let's see.
What would that be?
I'm trying to remember.
Oh, I wonder if they're thinking about dark desire.
Maybe because dark desire has double death times in times, GUI times the
the African, which lava was built from and the GUI, not 84 percent.
From what I remember.
So what was it about the GUI 84 percent
mail that made you choose to use it in a few different crosses?
What stood out about it?
I miss that mail of all the stages and of all the GUI progressions.
That mail just had everything.
And I, I get focused on different things at times and I get I should have kept that
mail, I really miss him. He had
he basically looked like mom.
He basically had that really tight structure.
He had a really great.
Capacity to pump out pollen
and his resin content, you could smoke a bowl of him and you just get so stoned.
He was he was a real good a good one.
The only thing I and I think this is what made me get away from him was he seemed to
pass on a greater penchants for powdery mildew.
And I was trying to breed away from that.
And the good part about this is, is that the seeds that I got today,
I have the seventy two percent and they will
go to mom and then that will build that 84 percent again.
And so we have a chance to be able to find
a male that's somewhat like that in that because he had a lot of body to the to the
high that I liked.
It wasn't all head.
It had I like a balance.
I like a little bit of each.
And so he had that.
And that's what we're going to target for in this next round.
Bring those back.
And with a lot of of hope and a little bit of luck,
we're not going to get away from producing those seeds on a large scale.
Those will be a fixed entity when I find the right ones, if I find the right ones.
So kind of touching on the issue of germinating old seeds, do you have any
techniques for doing that and what's the oldest seeds you've ever germinated?
Oh, boy. Yeah.
You know,
I did germinate a couple of seeds that were probably 10 years old.
Anything more than that.
It's pretty iffy.
And
you can try a little Gilbreak acid, you know, like a two or four percent
solution of Gilbreak acid, because that'll be the component that gets lost in the age
and soaking them in a solution of that increases the chances of being able to come
back to break acid is responsible for that explosive growth that comes out of a seed
when it first
comes out of the shell and, you know,
like Drupal's and in more in size and an amazingly short period of time.
And that that component is what's responsible for that.
Yeah. Great advice.
Yeah, so and it's readily available online.
No big deal.
The other thing about germinating old seed,
what other thing that I found that can help is to probably stick them in the
refrigerator for a few days.
Some people
have even tried putting them in the freezer, like a deep freeze,
and then bring them out and try and germinate them there,
because that kind of simulates a winter kind of situation.
And, you know, some strains respond to that.
So it's just a suggestion.
I've heard of that working as well.
So something I wanted to ask you was seeing as you have kind of alluded
to the Hawaiian, the Maui was, you know, some Asian and some Pakistani and whatnot.
How do you feel about what would generally be regarded as landrace Hawaiian?
Is that what it is or is that a different thing in your mind?
There's no such thing as landrace Hawaiian.
There's no such thing.
There's no such thing.
Landraces need to be
inbred in in
microclimate areas for for generations upon generations in order to be real
landraces. Landraces don't exist in Hawaii.
Everything is imported.
Everything that you see in Hawaii,
from pineapples to trees to everything in Hawaii is imported.
And so there are no such there is no such thing.
Now, there are longstanding strains that you can find in Hawaii,
but even a lot of those have disappeared over the years
due to, you know, just the raids and, you know, growers dying off and,
you know, all kinds of stuff.
But no, there are no such things as landrace Hawaiians.
OK, yeah.
So another quick little pop question I
wanted to ask was, Gooey's got to be one of the oldest clones I've ever heard of.
What's the oldest clone you know of?
I don't know.
I'll have to muse on that.
There's been so there's been you know, there's been so much over the years.
I
hmm.
Yeah, let's get back to that one here.
I'll have to think about that.
Yeah, too easy.
So Zyn is another one to me, which has got an extremely interesting
makeup, most because it's such a wide, eclectic pool of genetics.
Why was there so many kind of different parents?
Like, what did you just kind of keep working until you felt it was finished?
And that's kind of why.
Well,
Zyn, you know, it really all started with I was pissed off at Soma
as far as the rock bud, the way that it was so inconsistent.
And I just
needed to work on that.
So I hit it with Gooey with with with a male Gooey.
Back then it probably would have been a 50-50.
That was probably the first
attempt at
starting in on the Gooey Cubing.
So back then that was that would have been it.
So
I hit the only.
Halfway decent rock bud
from Soma that I could find in like two packs.
And at the time, I also had sub
had sent me some
seeds that he was getting ready to sell the the Sputnik one point.
Oh,
I have some cool.
And I basically started Breed Bay a long, long, long time ago with
pistols and and Doc Bob and
we were among the very, very first people to sign up.
And so we have a long
relation, even though we have radically different breeding techniques.
And so I had tried some of that.
And there was one Fino in there that
oddly enough, didn't express any color,
but was a nice flavor.
I enjoyed the flavor.
And so I hit
a male from that group that I thought was pretty close to the female that I like.
And
hit a gooey mom with that.
And that really kind of seemed to to be a nice.
Segway into the into the.
Rock bud, you know, because the rock bud was able to stay pronounced and pretty hard.
And then I went ahead and I used something that was given to me,
it was called a very, very surprise and very, very surprise.
I had
a male from that I used on GUI as well.
And I put that into that mix.
And then the whole last component after that was the eighty four
percent male GUI.
And it culminated in this purple bud that really none
of the other things that expressed that I had to think it came from the
the Sputnik.
Yeah, OK.
You know, it could have been the very, very surprise, but I never saw any plants
that express color in that.
So
but I know that the Sputnik had a
a purple component in the genetics and it just came out in that particular Fino.
And boy, that was yeah, I got I actually got rid of Zin and I did away with it
because over time, genetically, it starts to have recessive stuff come out.
That I don't like.
And one of them is hermaphrodism.
It comes out about the fourth generation in certain mixes, you know, in certain
when people are trying to grow.
And even even within my strains, if you mix it with certain things like
tyburn fairs or something like that, it's going to it's going to give you a
hermaphrodite city. It's awful like that.
So I I aced it out
because I don't want that in the genetic pool.
But people love the earlier stuff.
And as long as they, you know, you know,
are growing those things out and testing their work,
they'll be able to screen that stuff out.
So
we allow the ones that exist now to be out there.
But that's it.
Yeah. OK, so the very, very surprise.
That's an interesting one. You briefly touched on it.
It's not very well documented.
What is your speculation as to the genetics of it?
I really don't know.
I grew it for two years and it had some a wide range of phenotypes.
But the most desirable ones were pretty much
expressed in kind of a sativa fashion with a nice full bud structure and a very
sweet, nice smell that I enjoyed, never saw a color, though.
And I think anything that is named Berry needs to be colored like a berry.
That's just me.
That makes sense.
So if we just jump over to Lava for a second,
why did you make that one?
And were you looking to make it purposely or was it kind of a bit of an accident?
Oh, here's what when the original African, excuse me, hold on.
I'm trying to drink.
The Lava African is
really it's a really exotic tasting plant.
I like I love the color.
Color was really dark when I saw the small amount of examples that I saw of it.
But the seed that I got from it,
when I grew it,
every single thing was purple on the plant, even with a really dark expression
to the leaves here in Northern California.
They were green, but they had this dark look to them that was different than that,
like an indica look to it.
And then when they flowered,
the deep purple that it had was just awe inspiring.
And it and the high was crap.
And I knew that going in because I had tried some of this stuff before.
But the high was it was just crap.
But I didn't care because that can be fixed.
I just wanted that component of the color.
And so
I mixed that and with an old indica that
it was just it was just a gorgeous indica.
And there was also a Hawaiian part of it that
this gentleman, friend of mine that
grew this beautiful I want the closest thing I would say is like a
Kawhi electric kind of a plant, although that wasn't it.
It was just something that he had grown himself over on the islands,
which is what I like is, you know, little stuff that people don't get released
and stuff that got added in with this old indica that used to be
illegal when I got ahold of the seed here
in California before they made indica is illegal.
It was called the cabbage bud and it looked like cabbage.
It didn't have a lot of structure to the bud and stuff.
It was mostly leaf, but it was just crusted as all get out with this
incredibly skunky smelling just really who it was.
It was something.
It was a fun, fun plant.
And I had that for many, many, many, many, many, many, many years.
And I use the
a male from the African on that.
And then I added the Hawaiian and last on that.
And lava I wanted to make was actually almost exclusively for the Hawaiian market.
I sent that back and my
my Honolulu rep
had rights over that for a long time and had
many islanders grew that because it purples up no matter what.
And it really was a big hit over there
because they loved it, because I had the the photograph, you know,
look, and it also had this exotic taste that I kind of looked like a Moroccan spice
bizarre kind of thing to it that everybody just really enjoyed.
And yeah, I still I still enjoy some of the types of lavas.
I'm working with some lavas that I'll bring out later on that kind of build
on that more and bring more of that out to the foreground even more than lava did.
But yeah, that was
that was something that
a I of course, the
THC levels were, you know, in the middle,
but I could build on that and make it it much better.
And so we're working on that.
And we're going to bring those those old favorites back to Guthunder as well.
Wow. That's really exciting and something to look forward to.
You mentioned the purple and how it's really pronounced in that one.
I remember reading an article you wrote.
You discussed how you bred the dark desire
as an attempt to breed a better purple strain.
What to you is a better purple strain?
Is it just an aesthetic thing or is it more of like in the medical sense?
No, well, there are several components to that.
Of course, the medical sense is first and foremost.
And I've given a number of my purple lines to researchers who are back east.
I don't want to really expose them or
anything like that because they're they're working kind of, you know,
underground, but they are actual real researchers who are exploring the
components of the the the antioxidant qualities that come from that and what
they're what their interplay is when we're smoking them.
I have a an inkling and I've gotten some.
Vestiges of of of them saying, yes, I think what you're on to is right.
And we're excited for that because
the anti inflammatory
things that it brings to the table really, you know, are key when you're smoking.
You know, I mean, that's you're causing inflammation to your lungs.
So if there's another key component to
smoking purples that fights that inflammation, I think that that's
incredible plus and needs to be explored more.
And that's what's exactly what they're doing.
So we're excited about that.
And I work towards that.
But also, too, of course, it's aesthetically there.
I mean, people look at that and go, wow, that's pretty.
I'd like to try that.
But my biggest thing in the past has been that people.
Smoke purples and it has this musty flavor of the the purple component itself,
the actual chemical has a taste, and if it's not mass and overridden,
it it's not palatable, it's not very good at all.
And so what
I have always strived to do is to build in a much more flavorful component.
And I think that when people start
getting more exposure to stuff like midnight snow and those crosses right there,
they're going to be overwhelmed with how much purples can taste different than what
they're probably used to or exposed to in traditional purple lines.
So I'm always excited to do that.
But, oh, yeah, I love midnight snow.
It's just delicious.
It certainly seems to be one of the newer
ones, which I don't think the public have fully picked up on yet.
Do you attribute that to just, you know,
it's just kind of not out there yet, or do you want to kind of push it a bit more?
Oh, no, there's more work I want to do, but here's the deal.
I've purposely kept this market of mine
very limited for a very simple reason of future marketing.
The more that I could release seeds at a number of places,
and you've seen that they've been an attitude before and they've been
other seed banks before and right now they're at
James Beans seed company, the JBC dot com.
And that's the that the only place right now other than my private reps and the VPS
folks that are getting seed, and that's by design, because, like I said,
I want to be able to hook myself into the larger production market.
And part of that is creating, quite frankly,
a high end product that you can't get a hold of readily.
It's it's hard.
And that just keeps, you know, that status.
And that's where I want to be.
It doesn't mean I don't want everybody to have it.
It's just that up until now, this is how I've built the product to be.
Yeah, and I understand that.
So just referencing back to the article I
mentioned where you spoke about breeding the dark desire for the proper purple,
I think a little later in that article, you said something along the lines of
non-true genetic purples generally occur due to like the cold, maybe a few other
little factors, but this isn't quite the case with your ones, which are like the
true purple. It got me thinking, what do you think are the mechanisms which make
that occur?
Oh, you mean as far as as
the other ways other than being genetically built in?
No, no.
So like traditionally, people would argue that the cold induces purple,
but your lines would argue that that's not exclusively the only way.
So I'm kind of thinking, well, if it's not the cold, like what what does do it?
I think you even referenced something along
the lines of like slower movement of carbohydrates.
Oh, yeah. Well, as far as the sugars and stuff
moving as far, but those are that's that's what happens in the in the fall
and winter for I reference trees like a maple tree or something like that.
When when those things stop moving through the
the plant, then these pigments come out.
That's they're always there.
It's just that they're always masked by chlorophyll.
And and and and now all of a sudden without the the chlorophyll in the in the mix,
all of a sudden they're visible and that's just basically what happens.
That's what a cold induced thing it's things are moving slower in the plant.
And and you're not able to to express those.
It's just a different time of the year.
You know, it's just their cycle.
They're going through it.
And it's the same thing with pot.
Some strains don't purple at all.
They never will. No matter how cold it gets, they'll just stay green.
There's others that have this penchance for the.
Sugar is moving slower through the plant,
and as a result, the chlorophyll doesn't get moved and they start to die off.
And as a result, they express these purples.
Then there's my type of purples, which are genetic mutation that
probably was developed in response to high levels of UV exposure.
It was just another way of protecting the plant,
much like resin in high altitude things.
It's it's speculated that that's why the plant developed it initially
and then other other theories come into play, like, you know,
insect deterrence and whatnot.
I would argue that the plant kind of hooked on to human nature
long ago and probably built itself around us more than anything,
since we do have receptors in the brain that are just for that.
One thing.
Yeah.
So just finally referencing back to that article one last time,
well, not really that one specifically, but in general, do you plan to do more
articles going forward because it feels like they're quite informative.
The community seems to engage quite well with them.
I, you know, I don't I, I don't know.
I am what I am trying to do right now is
I'm in the beginnings of writing a book about my particular method of breeding,
because I think it's a good time to bring this out, to keep people
on the straight and narrow.
The only problem is minds and numbers game.
And it's really is truly a numbers game.
But there's ways to manipulate that
that I would like to share with people so that they can do this.
And ultimately, this can be used in an industrial setting.
But, you know, other than that, I really haven't even been approached
other other folks that are skilled with photographers,
you know, skills and stuff like that have have presented my work very
eloquently in magazines.
And that's about the extent of the exposure that that's gotten.
But, you know, God bless them.
And that's fine.
And of course, I would do more.
I'm really, really hoping that
I can advance this brand here with the laws changing the way they have in California.
It's made this much more complicated.
And what I'm hoping
that will come about is that I can
partner with some individuals who've got facilities and we can move the brand
forward at that at that rate a little faster than what I can do on my own with
just my company alone.
Yeah.
Yeah, it's it's it's an interesting time.
So I guess maybe an interesting question
that would be for someone who's just starting out, what would be your advice
to kind of the aspiring breeders, like without necessarily giving in to what you
referenced earlier, where you're just making a whole bunch of, you know,
F1 hybrids with not a lot of intended purpose?
No, see, that's the whole thing.
That's what I want people to not do.
I want people to start focusing in on targets.
I want them to pick a target.
I want them to understand their
parent plants before they do any breeding.
You should know that plant inside and out.
And that means growing it more than once.
That means growing it in more than one
fashion and in one situation and putting it through stresses.
Everything that we do is is has goes through a lot of different steps before it
ever hits the market, because you need to know these answers.
You need to be able to tell people what's
going on and you need to be able to understand the pitfalls that then you can
give them to be able to make sure that they don't have a problem.
Everything that I grow is based
in the way that I describe.
Everything that I describe is based on a one gallon pot with potting soil, water.
And that's it, maybe a little cow crap, and that is it.
That's how you get a base standard,
because I always gear myself and my instructions for the beginning grower
who's never had a seed in the ground before.
And everything that everybody sees is kind of based off of that.
Yeah, I get what you mean.
So I guess how do you feel about breeders who put out seeds without testing them?
Not so much that in itself, but more so when people get asked about that these
days, they'll say, yeah, but the market just moves so fast these days.
You can't test it.
There's not enough time.
Well, no, no, no.
And that's not in my life.
That's not proper breeding.
I'm sorry. You can call yourself a breeder.
You can you can throw pollen around, sell seed.
And, you know, a clock is always right twice a day.
Even if it's broken, it's right twice a day.
But that doesn't give people a license to be called a breeder.
A breeder is someone who picks a goal,
designs to that goal, meets that goal,
tests that goal to ensure that subsequent breeding with that.
Is OK and doesn't have a little built in time bomb.
And then you release it to the public
because it also it really also depends upon the market that you're going for.
Again, I that's my mindset because I'm breeding for breeders.
I'm not most of the people that buy my work aren't.
Mom and pops growing in the backyard, they're people with a purpose,
they're doing it for a reason, either it's for production or it's for further breeding.
They've got an idea.
And so in my mindset, it has to be the way that I just said.
Now, if you're just, you know,
providing seed for folks and stuff and you're not trying to sell them pie
in the sky websites with all these beautiful pictures and oh, my God.
And then you grow it and it doesn't look anything like that.
Then then no, I'm against that.
And
you're always going to have the bad apples.
What are you going to do?
I just think that it's better to be an example that people want to go by.
But then to be an example of somebody that ripped somebody off.
And you're scorned and and that that's a short lived life right there.
What good is that?
So you make a couple of bucks doesn't last.
Yeah.
That's just not the way we do it.
So I guess on the opposite end of the spectrum, who are some of the breeders
whose work you're really fond of and I guess you would be willing to recommend
to other people if they wanted stuff outside of your lines?
Well,
of course, North Star Genetics, I really am proud of because, of course,
they use my work in some of their stuff, but they also have their own
distinct ideas and they breed much the same way as I do.
Very, very, very well tested.
And I enjoy their attitude.
And I like Bodie's attitude.
I I have to really admit,
I don't grow a lot of other people's stuff.
The stuff that I do tend to grow more than anything is
these little nobody's ever heard.
Nobody will ever hear kind of people that have got something
that they've demonstrated to me is interesting.
That is that I want to follow through and see if I can either replicate or if it was
just a fluky thing or whatever, those are the kind of things that usually get my
outside attention. Other than that, I have
years of backlog seed that still need to be tested, gone through and cataloged and
stuff, and so I really don't have time for to enjoy other people's work the way
that I should.
I just I of the stuff that I have tried
from other folks, I get a little frustrated with how much it tastes the same as other
peoples and there's not a lot of distinction to a lot of it.
Every now and then I'll try something
from somebody that has a lot of distinction to it.
And I that's interesting.
And then I feel good about that.
But that's another choice for the customer to have.
But I really got to confess that I don't
have a lot of exposure with other people's work these days.
I got so frustrated with it back in the day.
And I didn't see a lot of testing with people doing that work, and I started to
harp on breeders all the time and calling to the carpet.
And there's people that are no longer around because people like me voice in my
opinion about, hey, look, you need to know your shit before your
shit gets out there because people are spending real money.
And they're they're spending a lot of months
hoping that this is going to work out for them only to be disappointed.
That's not right. Yeah.
Yeah. So that's just that's how I look at it.
And I always tell young breeders, get a target.
Don't.
Not know what you're doing as far as what you're breeding with, know it inside and
out, and then be honest with the people and be helpful, be the
giving more than anything else, be giving.
Don't don't depend upon every little sale of 10 pack of seed that that's it.
And then your responsibility ends as soon as the customer has it in their hand.
Now, that's not right.
Carry them through when they're grinning
with the whole beautiful plant standing before them that they just can't wait to
dry and smoke, then then you can smile and say, OK, I did a good job,
especially when they after they dry it and they smoke it.
They go, oh, my gosh, that's that's the real the real gift from God.
That's that's the best thing you can have.
And I look forward to that more than anything.
So do you feel like in general, maybe the
onus on breeders to take that customer service to the next level needs to kind
of increase to match the times we're in in this day and age, especially what's
going to set you apart from Joe Blow?
I mean, now all the days all he needs is this fancy website.
You know, you can post a gazillion
pictures just stole all over the place and and
you just got to
know, be be that person that they want to call on for their genetic needs.
Just just work towards that end.
And you know what?
It's not going to happen overnight.
Breeding is not it's taken me my whole life.
To get this far.
And there's still a lot I want to do.
But it's no easy road.
It's a road that can be done and if it's done properly, you can enjoy success.
But if you don't do it properly in this day and age, it's not going to work.
The Internet never forgets the Internet
always will be and the Internet has the last say.
So have it say something good.
Don't have it say something bad.
Yeah.
So, I mean, just to kind of change topics for a second, I remember reading one
of your descriptions and it read something along the lines of it has the word gooey
in it, it better be gooey. What does that mean to you?
You know, like what what what embodies gooey overall?
Sticky, it's got the resins got to just be proliferous.
You know, that's that's that's the trait that she's best known for.
And that's, you know, if it says it, it needs to be it.
Just like like I was saying about, you know,
a berry needs to really be purple, I think, or damn near because
it should be like a berry build stuff that's going to be like it says.
And, you know, if it's
one of the examples I use is the old Mendo Hayes,
because that stuff has this absolutely overpoweringly wonderful
lime vodka
taste that people it just it whips their head around.
What is that?
That is what you want to do as a breeder.
You want to bring out that stuff now.
That was one plant that I found in a group of seed that was given to me
and none of the other plants were like that.
But that's what you have to do is you have to find that particular,
amazingly different.
Plant and bring it forward and then use it and midnight snow is beautifully purple,
but it tastes like old Mendo Hayes.
People love that.
So on the topic of Hayes, did you ever get to sample the original
stuff and how different is the Mendo Hayes from the original?
I think the old Mendo Hayes is from that original work because those seeds
originally came from Santa Cruz and then they were grown for,
I think, probably over 30 years up in Mendocino by one guy who said he never
released them, he just interbred back and forth.
But he never claimed that they were the original.
But he called it Mendo Hayes.
So he he he said they came from down there and God rest his soul.
I was lucky enough that he gave me a few of them.
And it was only because he said, well, take these and make them famous.
OK,
and sure enough, I found this one plant and it's like, oh, yeah, who buckaroo?
It has the Hayes kind of a look to it.
It looks I mean, if you looked at a plant of this, you'd swear to God it was Hayes.
And the flavor is just, oh, so wonderful.
I just can't wait to have more people enjoy it.
So if we take a look at one of your other
strains, one that had always caught my eye and kind of made me had a bit of a laugh
was the Psycho Patch. I actually grabbed the pack of it.
I liked it so much because it's the Afgui and the Gui.
Was that just like a little funny kind of I wouldn't call it like a pun or like a
play on words, but, you know, like they both got the goo in the name.
Was was it just kind of like a fun thing or do you really like the Afgui?
No, I'll tell you,
and this is this is probably going to get people more riled up than anything.
But unfortunately for them,
the genetic DNA has been tested
and confirms what I've been telling people for years.
My partner made Afgui and I made Gui and we both they were both made basically at
the same time with a year.
An 18 month, I think it was, spread between the two.
And the Afgui got its name because it was
the Afghan one that was crossed into Gui and Gui was first
by about 18 months and it was grown in an indoor situation.
And I've seen people say that it was, you know, an indica and Hawaiian and stuff.
Well, yeah, that was the component that
people focused on in Gui was the Hawaiian part.
And there's been a big debate over this for years.
And I've heard of other people saying that,
you know, that it was this guy in a surfer guy over in Hawaii that
originally developed it, yada, yada.
Well, you know, I got examples of of Afgui and they were tested.
Against Gui and it showed a clear genetic relation to the between the two,
which is what I knew already, because my partner sold Afgui clones.
All through the 80s,
when we made it in the late 80s, when we made it and locally and it just took off
because it was really a nice plant, it was really a good plant.
I didn't like it as much as I like Gui.
So we agreed that he would go ahead and take that.
And I actually even
out of deference to him for many a year, I didn't mention it just because I was
kind of hoping that he would come into the the scene and be able to start
spreading some of his other breeding that he did that was really wonderful.
But he never has.
And he's actually local and kind of lost touch with him.
I miss him.
But yeah, it's confirmed that.
Those two are related, so I thought, well, you know, why don't I just go ahead and
cross it back to each other, because I don't ever recall ever doing that and
the resulting plants have a you know, they have a
squat structure of about five feet, six feet tall maximum, but they're really wide.
And
they are just some of them are just really deliciously tropical smelling.
And I really, really enjoy that part of it.
But overall, it's not my favorite smoke.
Yeah. OK, so what traits are you looking for in males?
Are you looking for GUI traits in like most of the males or is it different for each?
I look for the target trait that I'm using for that, for the target of the
breeding. Yeah, again, everything is specific to what the target is.
And you want the males to have dominant traits that.
Also, you know, are going to have when they're recessive, they're going to stay
recessive, they're not going to get cast on and expressed in that next set.
And I look for males that perform that way.
And how do I do that?
I've already tested them with other stuff.
Before I use them for the particular project, I already know how they're going
to pass on their traits in different scenarios.
Sometimes I'll use
strains that have some of the same
genetics as the targeted one so that I can go ahead and I can
see how the interplay is.
And once I am happy with that, then I go ahead
and use that male for the targeted purpose.
And then I feel through those plans.
A kind of a common idea expressed by a few
different breeders is that they'll have one particular mother for you.
Might be the obvious one, maybe the mom.
But they'll use a lot of their males on
that because they know predictably how the mom breeds.
Is that something you do or do you use a wide variety of pollination?
That's one of the things.
It depends, again, on the breeding goal.
If you're breeding for a wide spectrum
of expression, you're going to want to use more than one male.
You're going to want to use multiple males on targeted plants
because you're going to get a wider expression.
That would also be if you're doing pure Landis's that you want to maintain.
You're going to want to use more than one male on more than one female.
Again, mine's a numbers thing and
bigger is better in this game as far as numbers go.
You want to have as many as you can grow and maintain
as you possibly can.
And then you want to be ultra picky about what it is you select.
So the male,
you have to stick with that target.
People get distracted.
They get to where they
you know, they see this and they go, oh, that's interesting.
Does it fit your target?
You know, if it's interesting, put it aside.
If it's another thing that you want to do.
But it's on its own thing off to the side.
It's not what your target is.
Stick with your target.
And that's what dictates what the males are all about.
If if I'm trying to breed out
recessive
hermaphrodism or something like that,
I'm going to test the males to make sure that that's what happens,
that I'm not breeding that in or or or what genetics triggers it.
And all this stuff takes time and it takes numbers.
But that's the beauty about this company that I've made is that I do that.
And the breeding method, the microbreeding that I do allows me
to be able to do this on a scale
that allows me the luxury of the numbers
without having to get all carried away.
And I'm going to explain that in the book.
So I think it's going to be a very valuable thing and it will touch on all
of these types of of things that people are wondering and how to avoid.
I think that that's just the next step
and the next progression towards making this a better industry.
You just referenced the book.
When when would such a thing ideally be finished?
I'm hoping within the next year,
because I really want to add a lot of examples in color to it.
I've already got a lot of them, too, but I really want to show there's a couple
of instances that I haven't got pictures of that.
I want to show people
progressions and what I'm talking about and what it what it entails and why it's
important and and it's just a refining thing.
And I'm probably going to release it as
an e-book so that people can just download it, you know, and get it right away.
I don't even know if it'll be a physical book.
It seems to me that people don't do that much anymore
as far as traditional books, plus, you know, killing trees, yada, yada.
I'd rather yeah, rather make it
I think makes it easier for people to have and carry around.
And so I'm looking forward to that.
And I do all that stuff myself.
So, you know, I got it takes a little time.
So you just referenced, you know, dealing with hermaphrodism is probably
recessive. Have you ever found a line where it had just outright hermy issues,
but you were so into it, you were like, I'm going to breed this out over a few
generations?
You know, I started to with a line called Zinfel and
I just started to get obsessed with doing
this because Zinfel had it has it all.
It has
beautiful, dark presence, beautiful colors, beautiful
berry, deep berry smells,
a nice, heavy, heavy yield.
Doesn't take much nutrient to grow it,
and it's really forgiving in a lot of ways, but every now and then it expresses
hermaphrodism on some of the buds.
They can be sporadic nanners here and there.
But that's just I just can't do that.
You know, and what I found is, is that if you let that stuff go,
then it tends to get more and more.
I attribute it to the tie.
The tie traditionally had that and I bred away from it
within the tie.
When I was growing that tie, the pure tie was just wonderful.
But some examples of it did hermaphrodize really easy and a couple of them didn't.
And those are the ones that I was able to to use, like in making gooey.
So
you can get away from it, but it's lurking there always.
And all it takes is that trigger gene to be able to bring a recessive into a
dominant, and that's what testing is all about.
So, like I said, there is no shortcuts if you're doing it right.
There's only shortcuts if you don't care.
So how do you feel about filial breeding
versus, say, backcrossing? Because I've noticed you do do filial breeding,
but there's not a lot of backcrossing as far as I can see.
The only back, well, again, it depends on whether I want to cube the line.
If I'm cubing the line, you always go back to the target plant
and you go from there.
But other than that, it's just selective males for targeted traits.
And I'm looking for I really try to stay with one trait only.
You know, I really want to target just one trait.
There has been times where I'll say, well, this has both.
OK, we'll set it aside and do further testing.
Hopefully that's the case.
And that has worked out sometimes.
But for the most part, you know, when I'm doing
lines like pure gooey,
every every succession goes back to mom because I want that's the target plant.
And it's just that simple.
I mean, if you've got this beautiful plant and you want to make seed of that plant,
the best thing to do is to find another opposite type of plant
or one that has some of the genetics in it that are exactly the same.
But the rest differs so much like an indica sativa hybrid.
And you're looking for it to mate it with another sativa.
And you're just going to breed away all the all of the indica expressions.
And just target target the other plant,
and then that's you just go through it in succession until you've got it.
And that's when you have to be the most picky.
So, yeah, there is backcrossing is is important, you know, in certain instances.
Again, it's the target of your goal.
And that's what I hear more and more
in questions like these and stuff like that is that that's what's lacking in
breeding in general to a large extent is people don't think far enough ahead.
They're just still stuck in the next very next seed plant that comes off
of the very next seed and they're not going very much further than that.
That's not that's in my book.
That's not breeding.
Is there any circumstances in which you would opt to use the like a GUI mom you
found from the seeds you created out of the cube project over the mom GUI,
or would you pretty much always opt for the mom GUI?
I have in the past.
I have.
It would be a separate project always, of course.
But yeah, I mean, I have in the past there.
There's there was a comes to mind a few years, many years ago.
There was a version that was
more resonant mom was the focus of it.
And it had there was a mother plant that I had for a few years that I was using as
as a balancer for mom.
And
ultimately, I got rid of it
because I found that it was too dominant in crosses and it would it would just
overwhelm everything. And when you're a breeder, that's not good.
So so after a while I got rid of it.
But yeah, the more resonant mom one.
I'm sure you could probably look that up.
There's probably somewhere on Breed Bay.
And it had it was it was resin on top of resin.
It was beautiful, just beautiful.
So, yeah, I mean, there are certain instances where, of course,
you know, it's all about.
What you see and whether it is right or not, whether it's something that is going
to be useful and targeted, targeting is always the thing it is.
So, I mean, given the specificity of your goals and kind of often implied,
again, it would be a separate project.
It would have you'd have to set it aside and have a separate thing.
No, it would not immediately step in and be the substitute quarterback in the game.
No, the quarterback stick.
So given that a lot of your strains are
using a lot of different steps you've made along the way, have you ever had any
projects where it's just worked on the straight F1 and you've got exactly what you
wanted? Oh, yeah.
Oh, absolutely.
One of those examples, a really good example
at the time would be the Purple Mayhem.
Yeah, yeah.
The Purple Mayhem was exactly what I wanted for a shot.
And it didn't have I mean, I I'm sorry.
It was exactly what I expected for a shot.
What I want from it now and with lines that I'm working from that is I want to add more
power into it, I think it needs to have a heavier hit to it.
But a lot of people just love the state where the high is right now.
And you get those wonderful flavors that it has.
Oh, yeah, that was that was a that was a blessing right off the bat.
And do you ever get to try any of the more
modern strains, you know, the current F1 hybrids being released?
Have you ever been blown away by any of them or it's all just much the same?
You know what? No, that's no,
I don't get high off a lot.
You know what I mean? I am my tolerance is incredibly high.
And I complain about this to breeders all the time that, you know, OK, when when does
it start? If I do find something, what I find more and more nowadays is bottle
rocket bot where you feel this incredible rush and then it's gone.
Where go?
Ten minutes later, where the hell's the high?
No, I want that.
I want something that lasts and has a nice longevity to it with a steady feel.
I don't want a lot of peaks and valleys.
That's that's.
Yeah, I don't like a lot of previous guests have referenced that the closer you get
to land race, if not land race itself, generally you get a high more akin to what
you're talking about, you know, very unique, no ceiling, just long legs.
What do you think it is about hybridizing
strains which has caused us to lose, like to almost put a ceiling in place
as to how good the high can be?
Well, I think that that's almost like art,
you know, where beauty is in the eye of the beholder.
I hear I hear all kinds of different
references to older pot given by people who have the knowledge of it.
And with younger people, they have no way
of expressing that insofar as because the knowledge just isn't there.
And I find that
maybe
life experience has more to it than than
they give it credit, you know, as far as this goes in so far as this particular
question goes, you know, I think the more references you've got,
the more
you're able to draw off that and can conclude better.
And I just I just like the old the old fields.
I think have
a better presence, and that's why people like like GUI, for instance, they really
find it to be a unique thing these days when it it
it isn't unique to me at all, obviously, but it's what I expect.
And it's kind of like one of those signposts
in life, and that's why I'd like to get it out there more is to have people
understand the way it used to be and how it was back in the day when it was really
unique to have all these different
strains that
don't taste like the next strain that's that you did today.
And they're just too much too close.
They're just all too close.
So there is this kind of topic we've referenced in the past on the show where,
you know, although there is this this idea you're putting forth, it comes up all
the time and everyone agrees with it for the most part.
But there is a few strains where people
kind of say they are kind of undeniably elite.
You know, some of the cushions, some of the cams and all that type of thing.
How do you feel about those ones which the public still hold as some of the best?
Are they just same same category for you?
It's still not interesting.
And well, you know, no, I mean, of course, there's been there's been a few really
interesting ones that really catch your eye, like the a nice East Coast sour diesel
that's really gassy. I mean, that's really neat.
That's a really amazing thing.
The the the different
the different sativas that that I find more more palatable flavors and more
uniqueness in stuff like that.
And I really just don't find as much.
Pleasure in the cushions and and and the the the OG everything's
I just don't I just don't get it as much.
And it all tastes generic whenever it starts to taste like a pot shop smells.
And I know I'm just not into it.
And that's where I put a lot of that
stuff that's out there now is I even though there are these elites and stuff,
they aren't what attract me.
Let me put it that way.
Yeah, fair point.
So just I guess to kind of maybe answer some of the curiosities some people might
have, although indica's aren't your favorite, which one has left the best
impression on you?
Well, of course, the old the old indica's like like Afghan one
and the old cabbage indica's.
If if anybody I know there are certain
people that are nodding their heads when they're listening to this, that remember
that old 70s indica before it was illegal that had this absolutely it was a skunky
taste, but yet it was sweet at the same time.
Very unique.
Those types of the high was just.
Deep and soul reaching, almost
it was quite something.
And those are the kind of things that I gravitate to engage my
indica off of are things of that nature.
The old Pakistani, those were incredible, too.
Those really had body to them.
They had flavor, they had presence and they grew wonderful plants that just they
were just a pleasure to view.
Some would have a pH issues that would allow the pistols to turn this bright
magenta color and they were just gorgeous to look at.
Just really something else.
Those are the things that I remember and gauge all the work today on.
And I just don't see a lot of it.
I just see a lot of hybridization, different expressions.
I'm guilty of it, just like everybody else.
I'm the stuff I'm making isn't like the old stuff.
It's just not.
But that's progression.
This is how it is.
So you referenced the cabbage, but was quite skunky just on that topic.
I like to throw up by everyone.
Did you get to try what people kind of call the roadkill skunk?
Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah.
It was it that has a different kind of a smell to it.
That's a lot has a lot more of the gassy
qualities mixed in with that heavy indica
smell and presence of the dead skunk.
So it really made it pronounced a lot more.
And that's what I was speaking to earlier, where people can make strains that make
a completely different smell more pronounced just by adding a louder voice to it.
It's like the vehicle that that shares and gets expressed from.
And that's that's that's a good example of that right there.
Yeah, very, very strong.
Very smell.
The high was pretty much a body high as far as I remember.
Tried some of that up in Mendocino.
Yeah, nice.
Yeah, no, a lot of friends up in Mendocino.
It's a good place.
So I just wanted to a bit of a random
question, but one I was kind of personally interested in getting answered.
I've noticed a few people I've seen posting
photos of what they have is the mum gooey, I believe.
And they say things along the line of like they got it from you, maybe one step
removed from you. Is that true?
Like, do you give cuts out pretty freely or you kind of keep it quite close to chest?
Nope. I've always given it away as much as possible.
Yeah, because I mean, a lot of these people, I had no reason to doubt them,
but I was kind of like, yeah, it seems like he's definitely happy with it being out there.
Oh, absolutely.
Again, you have to understand the method that I use.
Yeah.
The more people that understand the breeding and stuff,
I'm hoping that maybe they will be attracted to other stuff that I've done
and maybe they'll want to try other things that I've developed if they like this.
You know, and and and not only that,
he's probably one of those plants I
let's say I wanted to file a patent on it.
I can't do it.
If if a plant has been out in the public
for more than a year, then it's considered pretty much open source.
That's it.
And so you can't patent a thing like that.
Well, it's a signature plant.
And I I think that people really need a gooey plant in their garden because it's
one of the more enjoyable plants that they will ever, ever own in their life.
And I.
And testament to that, it being thirty five years old,
you know, this plant is is a keeper and there's reason for it and it and when
they try it, though, they want it and and that was one
of the main motivations of creating the pure gooey seed was the fact that people
I couldn't I can't give enough of the gooey away.
I just can't I can't do it.
I haven't got the capacity.
But, you know, if I made a seed that mimicked mom as much as possible,
I can that I can do, I can get it out to a lot of people.
And so that was the motivation and it always is the motivation to everything I
do, you know, is that this is the best way I can do it and help people.
That's why I don't charge
whatever the reps are charging.
I don't know. I don't I don't keep up on them.
Whatever they're making is fine with me,
that whatever they can get, but believe me, I don't charge a lot to them
because I want them I try and encourage them to keep the price low,
to keep it affordable, because I want people to have this
absolute deal where they they they buy this stuff.
And so many times in this industry,
they'll buy something from a picture that looks so wonderful online and they get it.
And it's not what they wanted.
I want them to be surprised.
I want to be overwhelmed.
I want them to be, wow, you know, I got my money's worth out of this.
And I'm so happy that I spent this money.
That's what I want.
And in giving Gooey away,
it just shows people that the real intent of Canada Exotics is not money
as much as it is their satisfaction and their happiness.
But because life's short, let's let's let's make it the best it can be.
Yeah, good motto.
So I wanted to run the idea by FEMS.
What do you think about them?
Will we ever see some mum Gooey S1s?
No.
There was a time where I did produce that
and the genetics on the S1 side are gone, so
I didn't keep them.
And did you find the results just weren't
particularly good anyway, or would you consider doing it again?
Yeah, you know, I found that mom completely overwhelmed it,
just completely overwhelmed it almost 90 to 90 percent of the time with very few
of the really super desirable components coming through from the from the S1.
It just didn't work.
I think the reason that it well, I know the reason why it is and the reason why
it is because Gooey's composed of mostly Landers works
by and large, so their genetic chains are very dominant
and people have to be wary of that when they're using it, that that's where it's
going to go as far as
genetics go.
Genetics are like water.
It's going to take the easiest path.
And if people know their shit, then they're going to be able to
know where that path is going to go before they even breed with it.
They'll have a good,
reasonable expectation of what to expect if they know their stuff inside now.
And Landers is when you're when you're working on old Landers is like that.
You have to know that those are going to be dominant in especially in
heavy hybrids like today, where there's hybridization upon hybridization.
You know, all the stuff is related and whatnot.
The more truer dominant lines from Landers are going to overwhelm that.
Yeah, totally understandable.
So on the topic of land races, Durban Poison 1, Durban Poison is one
which I find is always kind of peripherally present on the scene.
People are always kind of talking about it, maybe never in the limelight.
But the thing which I wanted to ask you is, have you ever tried it?
And how do you think it compares
to the African ones you've been experienced with?
It's a lot different.
But then again,
I've I had exposure to
some of the older.
Like red Africans and stuff like that,
back in the day, back when I lived in England, there was
I can't remember what exactly where, which region it came from, but
it was just
really, really, really interesting.
And the Durbans are a lot better structured.
They're a lot more like they've been
bred
for production and for producing
rather than the stuff that I have been exposed to, which is gathered,
was mostly gathered wild.
I have a producer friend who does a lot of generic photographing for Hollywood,
and he has been able to get me a lot of these things.
And he was one of the ones that got me that purple African,
where they called it weak heads because it wasn't very strong.
Those are the kinds of Africans that I've been exposed to back in the day,
the African black, I did try a couple of times and that was stunning.
But the Durban poison, I find to be a little bit more
commercialized, I guess, is the best word for it.
I enjoy it.
I mean, it's a nice high.
It doesn't seem to last that long for me.
But I'm a hard nugget to please.
So unfortunately,
I would never incorporate it in anything I do.
Yeah.
OK,
so just kind of jumping out of the land race for a second.
Berrymania, it's an interesting one because it incorporates the TGA line
Lemon Freeze, which is rather obscure one, hasn't been around for a while.
What was it about the Lemon Freeze which attracted you to it?
Because it pops up in a few places.
Yeah, Lemon Freeze wasn't Subcool's work.
It was a subordinate of his that made that and he didn't really care for that.
But what I found about it was that it had a it was a good vehicle.
It had
the ability to pass on
its structure along with some of its lemon flavor.
But you could easily get a little bit of a taste of it.
But you could easily overwhelm it with other traits.
And like, let's say, frozen lava was a good choice for that because
it allowed me to build this
deep purple with a crusty, beautiful dusting of heavy resin
and still bring that lava forward.
And it didn't it didn't
overwhelm it with the typical lemon turbans that
is so typical of Subcool's work.
And so I found it to be a better use than anything.
I never I love Sub as far as a person goes.
He's a wonderful guy.
I enjoy him as a person.
I never really found much of his work
that I could get behind as far as that goes.
But this wasn't made by him.
The selection wasn't done, but it's one of his most asked about strains.
Unfortunately, Sonny was the one who made it.
So, you know,
that's interesting because I think the common sentiment is that a lot of the more
memorable lines from TGA did come from Sonny's work and the whole TGA Canada crew.
Yeah, I know.
I never really wanted to step on sub like
that because I've known him for so long and I do appreciate what he's built.
But Sonny really was a very, very key component.
And I liked.
That particular thing.
Probably more than anything else that I ever tried from TGA.
Yeah.
So something I wanted to ask, I've seen a lot of kind of support from you
for a few specific forums over the years, however, you noticeably not present
on Instagram, do you feel there's a big difference between the platforms?
And how come you're not so present on Instagram?
Well,
I had
pistols from Breedbase set me up an account on Instagram and I do have one.
But in all honesty, I
I'm an older person
and social media to me is.
Its own thing and its own time consuming thing, and I've got shit to do
and I just don't have time to I leave that up to other people and they're busy, too.
And so Instagram to me, I should I know I should be on it more.
I know if you look up GUI reader on Instagram, there's a shitload of beautiful
pictures of stuff that people have grown out.
And I've only just recently started to comment on some of that stuff
and to address maybe an issue or two that I saw on there.
I just I just don't spend a lot of time.
I'm a very private person.
I don't have a Facebook account.
I don't have
very much at all out there.
I mean,
I guess it would benefit me and maybe I should do that more,
but I'll probably end up just hiring people to do that PR work for me instead
and give them the information to post or whatever, because I just don't have time.
Yeah, understandable.
You know, it's just more that
the work is more important than than that.
I can't I can't do anybody any good if I'm
sitting online posting pictures and being self gratifying.
That's not me.
That's not what that's not what this company is about.
This company is about the customer and I'm
not doing them any good by sitting there posting crap online.
That's what other people can do.
And they do and they do it quite well.
They do it much better than I could ever do.
So I would like that.
Well, you know, hey, go with your strengths.
I don't claim to be, you know, good at very much.
But I do try to be the best of what my capabilities can do in what I do.
So, you know, let those people go with their own strengths.
Yeah. So there seems to always be a bit of a call that demand is always
exceeding the supply for your seeds, do you tend to do that on purpose?
Like you limit your seed releases or is
it just simply, you know, all you can do for the moment?
Well, no, I mean, I can produce much more, but most of
most of the reason that I keep the seed
restricted is because I'm the bigger picture of what my company is all about is
development for the mass market when it comes time.
And the the seed business is an ancillary offshoot of that,
that one generates the the.
Necessary buzz to keep the product in
demand, but it is also I do want.
I do want to share this with people, and so
I'm getting to a point now where.
I'm trying to do both where I do want to
expand enough to give people the ability to be able to get a hold of the work if
they want it, but I also want to have and capture those
very, very specific phenotypes that I'm looking for.
And the primary reason why I'm making all
this seed is for myself, for that particular goal.
But, yes, I mean, along the way, other people should be able to share it and enjoy it.
And if I find really good plants, I'll give them away just like I always have.
And if they're interested enough in it and they want it and they need it for a
particular reason or they just want it because they've seen it and they fell in
love with it, well, that's reason enough, let's give it to them,
you know, because it doesn't change my work.
My work is is there's always going to be
somebody wanting something from me in some way, shape or form.
I just hope I can give it to them, be it one way or another, whether it be
providing seed to the public or providing that one little plant for that person who
really needs it because maybe they're bedridden and they, you know,
they need it for pain or whatever it is that that's what God put me here for.
Yeah, that's what a kind of great message to abide by.
Who are some of breeders from years gone by who are no longer putting out stuff and
you know, you really wish they were still around or you had some of their stock?
Oh.
You know,
I would probably say just for the experiences that I've had,
I would I kind of maybe would say
if I had to choose any one person, it'd probably be Reeferman
just by virtue of the spread that he used to offer with some fairly predictable
results overall every time I appreciated his work.
Yeah, nice, nice selection.
So sorry, go on.
I'm sorry. There are there are very few.
I mean, I've tried the
Barney's Farm and all the the ones that were big names over in Europe.
And that's what pissed me off enough to
to start really getting serious about getting this work out was just the lack
of caring and the lack of of consistency and the lack of
expression versus sales.
You know what? What was said isn't what I see.
And and that sort of thing.
So I really got soured on growing other people's stuff.
There isn't a lot of stuff that I grow from other people.
You know, it has to usually makes its way to me from people I trust who do grow other
people's stuff and they say, hey, you know, you need to look at this.
Yeah, basically it so I don't grow a lot of other people's shit.
Yeah, I mean, you have to learn the hard way, right?
Well, you know, every yeah, everybody has their own path.
And I would rather I've got, like I said,
years of stuff that I still have to to go through.
And and, you know, it never stops.
It's like the mail.
It never ends.
There's always something else to do, always something else to check.
I'm looking at a pile of seed right now that is in a box.
That I need to go through that's just
from this last year that the box is like
seven, eight inches deep, two feet wide and about thirty two,
thirty three inches long and it's full too much.
That's just one.
I need I need a bunch of acreage.
I got work to do.
So, I mean, that's the kind of thing that I just I'm too focused in with my own
stuff to worry about other breeders.
And like I said, I want the public to have as wide a variety to choose from as
possible, so I'm not going to mix it up and explore a lot of other breeding
because that's for the public to do.
And that's I'm just here to serve the public.
And that's not serving the public.
If I'm wasting my time growing other
people's stuff that is ultimately not going to I'm not going to use because I just
don't do that. That is what I do.
Yeah, understandable.
So, I mean, question on the similar lines as the last one,
maybe going to be a bit of a hard one because you may not have thought of this,
but which one person has had the most impact on your life in terms of cannabis?
Luther Burbank.
Quick answer.
Well, the only answer is that I think I've
expressed that off and on throughout the interview is that
you got to look at a master craftsman who has a very
fine view of what his goals were and the extent and the breadth and width of his
work is staggering. I mean, I'm working with one plant
that man worked with amazing amounts of plants, amazing amounts.
He developed things that
are just mind boggling.
And he did it all in a very short period of time in his life, really
pretty amazing, you got to really respect him.
And so, yeah, I would say if people, you know,
did a little bit more reading about the basics that he would teach,
they could benefit quite a bit from the reading.
Yeah, great answer, and I'm sure everyone
probably has a little bit of homework to do now.
Oh, yeah.
Well, I think they'll be amazed when they figure out, like I said, I mean,
the potatoes that we know and love, he's the one who made them.
Blackberries that grow alongside
of the roads here in Northern California and beyond.
They're all because of Luther.
It goes right on down the line.
It's absolutely incredible.
Yeah, without a doubt.
So we'll move on to getting towards the end of it.
We've now got some questions from the fans.
I think you saw that post.
So hopefully you haven't gone ahead and seen too many of them.
But the first one is,
where can we expect to see your work available in 2018?
Well, I'm working
on trying to do some refining of releases.
So
the the one thing that I'm hoping to do is to be able to late summer
be able to release the next stage of the pure GUI.
And that's being optimistic.
But I'm thinking it's doable.
And
as far as where to get them,
JBC dot com is probably going to be carrying a lot of lines of my individual
reps in various places, Hawaii, down in L.A.
and Nevada.
Those folks will be posting stuff individually online that people can find.
What I try to do is give everybody different sets of genetics so that
they're not offering the same things so that overlap and everybody
is able to benefit that way.
And then there's just more of a spread.
So that's the goal for 2018.
Along with what I'm hoping to find is somebody in the northern California area
who's got growable land with a building on it that we can move into and start
developing some stuff under state.
Guided licensing and
all completely legal, 100 percent, that's our goal to get that set up
and we're looking forward to hopefully making that happen.
We've got some leads.
We have a lot of folks who are ready to invest in this company.
They're just waiting for those hurdles to be jumped over.
And so that's what we're working on.
And once we do that, people can.
Look forward to a
a faster release time of materials, because the more space I've got,
I've got a lot of space now, I have a lot of space now.
But to get into a legal situation,
we need, you know, we needed another facility that's
different than the ones that we're working with now.
So we're looking forward to that.
And that's going to really benefit everybody because then I'm going to try
and bring the seed prices down. That's my next goal.
I think they're too high and I think, you know, people ought to be able to get
a beautiful result that's fantastic for a really reasonable price.
And that's what we're looking forward to.
Yeah, sounds like a good outcome for everyone.
I'm hoping.
Yeah, sorry.
The next question was someone said that they heard you pop beans in relation
to the phases of the moon, if that's true, what are the benefits?
Well, you know, I do.
Yeah, in reality, there's very little benefit.
It's a fun little thing to do.
Sometimes I will do that.
I have found that you get a little bit of acceleration, especially with super moons.
But those are few and far between.
And a lot of times they don't fall in the right times of the year.
But I have a tendency to just plant
at least a couple of beans during super moons just because it's
been a long held belief that that accelerates things and gets them going.
Whether I have not found that to be
really true insofar as a final outcome, but it's a fun little thought.
And it's just one of those things.
It's like Groundhog Day, you know,
thinking that the groundhog coming out of the ground is going to predict what kind
of forecast you're going to get in the next six weeks.
It's along the same lines.
You know, it's all farmers almanac kind of a thing.
Yeah, no. Cool.
So what are some of the techniques you use
for keeping such old clones in healthy condition?
Well, you keep healthy mothers and you just keep you just keep glipping them
and producing the mothers off of that.
The gooey mom that I have now is not
the original, very original plant, although it is
it's the same exact plant and for it.
Since I keep the lights on 24, seven on mother plants like gooey
all the time, plants don't know how to tell time and to them, it's just one long day.
And so it doesn't know.
And I just keep clones going and make
mothers off of those and then clip those and you just keep on going.
And it is the same plant.
But you just have to be diligent about
keeping your clones going through all those years, and that's what I've done.
I have other plants that are very old, too.
Yeah, like like a stock you're using around the same time type of thing.
Not quite that old, but no, but, you know, there's some I have a few Jamaican
honey varieties that are just wonderful spearmint gum kind of things that I'm
developing there. They've always proved to be, you know,
those bright speaker kind of plants, you know, the carrier plants
and
now Dark Desire is getting older.
That's at least seven years old now.
And it just goes so fast, time just goes by so fast.
Ain't that the truth?
Have you have you noticed any of your older clones
kind of degrade in any regard?
Because some people have said that even despite best efforts, yeah, it happens.
Yeah.
I am always skeptical of genetic drift.
I think it would take a long time.
I mean, I use tomatoes as an example.
There's there's tomato heirloom tomatoes
that are plants that have been growing for over 100 years.
And their fruit is just as tasty and delicious as it always has been.
But
genetic drift is really, I think what you're seeing is an expression of micro
climates and very small changes in environment, be it soil conditions,
nutrient level, pH, all these different things come into play and can
deceive people into thinking that a genetic drift is happening.
It for the cosmic forces to come along and degrade genetics to that point
takes a long, long, long, long time.
And I just don't think people are alive long enough to really notice that in a
given example. And I use GUI as a perfect example
because it's been around so long that there's people that I have not seen for
decades that when I hand them a joint of this, they look at me and they just look
at me and they go, this tastes exactly the same.
And this feels exactly like I remember it.
And that's that to me just says, yeah, I know.
Yeah, it's grown in exactly the same way that you remember it,
you know, using the same mediums.
I always tell people with GUI,
I like GUI the best grown in rock wool with general hydroponics nutrients.
It has a particular flavor out of that.
And the only other variable I would say is
that I do like the flavor of a metal halide in that situation better than a high
pressure sodium, but I'm growing more towards LEDs as they develop and get better.
So, but a specific
heavy blue light that comes from the metal halide has a particular flavor
enhancer in GUI that brings more of the sharp,
sweet flavors forward, and I really like that.
Well, the next one is we've got someone
here who says they've got an old pack labeled Superstar,
and they're just wondering what's in that.
Oh, gosh.
I think they said one of the parents might be old Mendo Hayes.
I cannot remember that.
I remember the name.
I don't remember what's in it.
I remember it being a bright.
Gosh, I'd have to look at my notes and I don't have them with me.
Um,
hmm.
No, that escapes me, that one.
That's the old mind just isn't clicking for that one.
I'm sorry.
We've got one question here.
It's what would be your recommendations
for breeding against recessive auto flowering traits?
But testing
male male selection and testing, it's just that simple.
It's like any other trait that you're
trying to breed away from or breed to its testing.
You know, do it till you're satisfied.
I mean, I don't I don't
nine times out of ten.
Any problem that people have with this stuff
can be fixed with just doing the proper testing.
And that means proper testing involves stress.
It involves different situations.
It involves putting the plant through its paces.
That's how you get strong plants that are well developed and can be predictable
and can take a punch, you know, is by doing that.
And to me, if it's if if you're
if you have that genetic in there, you get rid of it and get rid of the whole line.
I can use Zen as the example.
Like I said, I got rid of Zen because of that.
It had a recessive that I couldn't get rid of that.
It just it would appear not in the first couple of crossbacks or even with other
stuff, but it would come out in the fourth generation and it would be really prevalent.
Well, that's not acceptable. Get rid of it.
So that's how you deal with it.
You get it out of the gene pool.
But you can't know that until you test.
Yeah.
So when you select males, do you like to leave them all kind of
untapped, untrained and just see the natural expression?
Yeah.
Oh, everything I do is all natural.
Oh, what good is what good is changing the shape?
Going to tell you what what good is is is allowing a plant to develop in a different
way other than the way that you bred it to grow.
I don't understand that.
That doesn't tell you anything.
What you how can you speak intelligently about how big a plant is going to get if
you interrupt that and send it sideways?
Yeah. Good point.
Good point. So yeah.
No, no. You leave everything natural.
That's why I said before, all of my all of the stuff that people see,
all of the stuff that I tell people how it is, is based on a one gallon pot with
store bought soil and a little cow poop and water.
Yeah, that's it.
I mean, because you need to have a standard.
It's in basic science, it's controls and that's the control that you're using.
That way, the only if everything is getting the same light,
they're getting the same water, they're getting the same air and they've got all
got the same soil, the only thing that's left is now is for
them to express what the genetics have and that's what you want to find out.
So it's basically that simple.
Yeah, so we've got another question here,
which says, do you know if any of your current strains you've made
notably good for migraines? Yeah, gooey is good for migraines.
Like I said before, the nerve pain, it's been notably, you know,
like multiple sclerosis and stuff, patients really report a really good relief
from that and that's why I'm really hot to get that strain back out on the market
because overall it's just a good medical strain.
It has multiple uses, a very wide spectrum of
effects that are can serve a lot of people and migraines are one of them.
Another one.
That would be currently available for that
would probably be after the island,
because it's got a lot of it's it's it's our CBD
dominant strain
and it's really good for pain that way, too.
There's not a lot of it out there, but I know that
JVC right now has it in stock.
So and if you were to look to pursue a CBD project further, would you want to look
within the lines you have now to find CBD or would you consider bringing like,
you know, a Charlotte's Web type thing in?
Oh, I've got plenty of stuff to work off of, including hemp,
you know, from the Midwest that is just really has copious amounts of it.
Just wonderful to work with hemp to be my first choice.
Yeah, that's that's an interesting point, which hasn't really been mentioned before.
Yeah, I think it's I think it needs to be
exploited more because what my company and the website details is that there's a
component that we want to develop where we utilize the refuse of the of the.
Industry and turn it into different products and
be able to serve the making the use of the whole plant right on down to the
the stocks with making turning in building
materials and that sort of thing, textiles and and all that stuff.
And and part of that is the CBD production,
because you're going to find that I think whole plant material works the best in
certain instances and people who are using CBD, I think, would benefit more from whole
plant production than just targeted
extraction like that.
I think there's a lot more benefits to it
that way than than people are crediting.
And I think hemp would be the target for that because it's just already so rich and
well within government compliant, you know, regulations for THC and stuff.
It's really low.
So, you know, that's just a quicker avenue to go by is is is using hemp.
I've even found that when you buy
birdseed that is supposedly sterilized,
30 percent of that
bag of big birdseed will will germinate.
And generally it comes from hemp.
And so if people want a little tip, they can go out there and get that and try it.
And they'll find that they get a percentage of them to grow.
And then they can use that as a whole plant
source to be able to do the treatments.
And I think they'll really benefit from it.
Wow, because we I've been interested in getting more information on things like
the the FICO, like the full extract, and a lot of people are just not that
experienced with it. No, I mean, you're going to run into that
because it's so new, but there's such a focus on it.
And here in California, there's so many
people there are focused on it.
It's really fast developing.
People are getting better refinement.
They know what they're they're doing.
We've got specialized people that are working on these products.
And you're you're really seeing a lot of good results.
Gosh, I'm seeing more and more of it all the time.
It's just wonderful.
Yeah, nice.
So we're on to our last little part of the interview now, which I like to call the
quick fire questions that hopefully a little more short response ones.
So first one, what was the last strain to really blow you away?
From other people and anything could be your own work.
You think, you know, I have to always go back.
I love Pearl Tie.
Pearl Tie is one of my favorite ties.
And I think the last time that I had a good
Pearl Tie was several years ago.
But it's one of those
strains that sticks with you and gives you
a perspective that you just don't usually get from pot.
And that's that's one of them.
I love Pearl Ties.
The Pearl Ties that are around today.
I know Barney's Farm has a tie that looks like it.
I think it's the Grin Spoon
strain.
It isn't quite up to par.
I know Bodie has
a better example.
He had some at the Cup there this last year.
He actually was handing out handfuls of it.
And as soon as I took a look at it, I said, oh, darn tie.
And he goes, you know, yeah, I like it.
And so actually there were some seeds in that.
And I've got them growing right now.
So we'll see if that continues on.
But it's kind of like Bodie said, it's kind of one of those highs that makes
you sit there and stare at your feet for a while.
Yeah.
It's so funny.
Sorry, I was going to say it's so funny.
You mentioned that because of the trip I most recently did.
That tie from Bodie, the Pearl Tie was definitely the stand out to me.
And I can attest it'll stay with me.
It was unlike anything.
And just to touch on that point you made about Barney's Farm.
I think the information that's come out recently is that you're right.
It's not a tie what they're offering.
They're actually offering an S1 of funnily enough, a reefer man strain.
And it's his one called Senor Garcia, which was the Oregon Blue Tie.
Yeah. So that's why it's got that look.
But you're right.
It's very much the poster child for that kind of Pearl Tie alternating calyx look.
Isn't it? Right.
Right. The old days,
that Pearl, the Pearl Tie that was like that had a very strawberry presence to it.
Its flavor and the stems were just covered in resin.
It was just this big space of stem covered in resin.
And then a couple of little poofs of flower and then a leaf or two.
And but it was just so good.
And the high was just so
satisfying and rich.
And the flavor was just overwhelming.
That's what I really enjoy.
I miss that pot probably more than just about anything other than maybe an old
Congolese that I tried in England that was actually, quite frankly, the same structure.
Just really red.
Yeah. Wow.
Have you looked into coastal seeds work at all?
I know they've got access to some nice Congolese.
You know, I did try that.
And as a matter of fact, and I didn't find it to be anywhere close
to what I remember what the original stuff was.
I was actually quite disappointed.
But, you know, you can't like I said, I'm really, really picky.
And it's not it's not fair to them because that work may be fine.
It's just not what I would have targeted.
Not I wouldn't gravitate towards it as a result of my knowledge.
But like I said, that's what I was saying before.
Your your history really colors what you.
What you know, and quite frankly, I'm a dying breed, you know,
pretty soon I'll be gone and that memory of those types of pies will go with me.
And unfortunately, I hate to see that for young people because, gosh,
the history is so rich and so delicious.
I'm sad that that more people can't experience it the way I remember it.
Yeah, undoubtedly.
So next question is, what's your favorite smoke right now?
Well, if I was to pick an outside.
Source right now, North Stars,
Moon Shadow,
has he used the old Mendo Hayes and he did he mixed it in with something else
that I don't know what it is, but it's just really, really, really flavorful
and really nice, and I I really.
And enjoying that as far as a smoke, I only have it in full melt,
but
it's good.
I normally don't smoke concentrates and extracts, but that one I make an exception
with, so I'm enjoying that work.
Other than that, I just I constantly smoke old Mendo Hayes,
gooey,
dark desire and.
Midnight snow as as as ones that I will go to day in and day out,
the Jamaican, if I want to kind of a spirit gum kind of a flavor, I will go to that.
And if I want to have something that's nice and and cerebral that I have a few
individual plants that
their origin escapes me at the moment,
but they are sativas.
One of them is a Mexican based one that I smoke that I really enjoy, too.
But for the most part, again, I've got too much material to go through.
And I the most of the smoking I do isn't for pleasure.
It's basically for research to find out what I want to go to next.
So I know you're not that big into kind of, you know,
strain of the month type things, but out of everything you've tried over the years,
what was the one thing where it was the least memorable to you,
but it seemed to get quite a lot of traction with the public?
Oh, God.
Wow.
I don't know.
I don't know.
Wow.
Jack, the ripper comes to mind immediately,
but beyond that, the.
The old bubble gums, I was always disappointed in those
because I never could find a good bubble gum, Fino.
And I was disappointed, quite frankly, in the Northern Lights varieties.
I thought that I never could really
understand why they were as popular as they are.
And the White Widows, I never could understand that either.
I always thought that they lacked huge.
Yeah, interesting answers.
So the next next question.
Sorry, gone.
Well, I just I don't want it.
Like I said, I don't downgrade other people's work as a rule.
It's just that I'm really picky and I'm
it has to have it all in order to impress me.
Yeah, no doubt.
So if you could only pick either indoor
growing, outdoor growing or greenhouse growing, which would you pick?
Oh,
I do all of those.
And each one has their purpose.
I would have to say if I was
on a desert island and I could only have one, you know, I unfortunately I'd have to
say, oh, I'm torn between greenhouse and indoor
only because
and I would probably if I had to choose
between those two, I'd have to say indoor.
And the only reason is, is control environment completely.
And and and for my purposes, I like a controlled environment.
Doesn't mean I don't use the outside.
Doesn't mean I don't use greenhouses because I love greenhouses and I love
growing outside, but if I only had one, it would have to be that.
It had to be indoor.
So do you have any land race varieties that, you know, you're yet to crack into,
but you kind of thinking to do it in the future?
Yes, I still have work to do on something, some stuff from China.
And there's some Indonesian stuff that I
got a hold of a couple of years back that I have not broken to yet.
So those
and I hopefully have a little guy coming back,
the bringing me some stuff from Burma.
And I'm looking forward to him handing me those.
So those things have to be gone through and see if they're viable and worth
using and see if they've got anything in them.
So it's going to be a little while.
But yeah, I mean, there's there's all kinds of stuff on the horizon.
And with, like I said, the advent of being able to to get
more space and availability to be able to get this stuff out, we'll get it done.
So if you could, sorry, sorry, different question.
We've kind of touched on it already, but just for clarification,
out of all the old world genetics, you've kind of, you know, land race,
close to land race, all the stuff you've been able to try.
What's been the most unique?
Oh, and all the Asian stuff could be lumped into that.
The ties, the Cambodian, you know, those those areas, I think,
just have the most intense presences and the the highs are very rich.
Also, there's been a lot of areas in Mexico that I really enjoy the product from.
Mexico has a really wide and varied climate and environment and a lot of really
incredible, unique stuff has come from that area.
And even on down, you know, going into Brazil and
some Brazilian
material that I've had before has just been stunning.
But it doesn't adapt as well going north.
It doesn't it loses a lot in the translation, so to speak.
But Mexico really does seem to be a lot
more stable and does tend to do better up here.
But I would say of those, the Asians and Mexicans are ones that I really enjoy the
most and I would if I had to be on a desert island again, growing indoors.
Those are the ones I would use.
So lucky last question,
if you could kind of transfer one quality from the land races or any strains and you
wish that, you know, modern genetics would take on more of this, these types of traits,
what would it be?
Probably that psychoactivity that is that that field of.
You have to be old to remember this kind of thing, but I mean, there's there were
strains back in the day that would take your breath away and you would wonder if
you were ever, ever going to come down again, though.
That those are the kind of things that I remember.
And there's been a few.
A real expressive ones like the old Puna Rota was one like that, the the tie sticks
of old, I used to really enjoy that, even though some of them, they said they were
adulterated and I don't know that I've the seed that I grew from had a lot of the
same qualities and I really found that to be a presence.
So, yeah,
got to go with that.
Just I really miss the psychoactivity of it all.
It's all become much more sedative and and or racy
without having that that quality that
just makes you say if you were in a dark room, it would almost be a kind of a
mushroomy kind of experience with visuals and it would that kind of thing.
I miss I look for that a lot even now in this stuff because it's there.
You just got to find it and bring it out.
But if you do and some people report the GUI does that to them,
it to some degree, if they smoke a lot of it, because it's really
got that edge of that tie and the Cambodian that really had those qualities
as a predominant part of their high, it got muddied with some of the other stuff.
But it can come out and I'm going to look
for that in the pure GUI when I make it, I'm going to try and build that back in.
So keep our fingers crossed.
Fingers crossed.
So I think that one might bring us to the end of it.
Did you have any comments or shout outs you wanted to make?
Well, I really want to thank you very much for a wonderful interview.
I really appreciate the opportunity to express my views.
I know I sound like an old stick in the mud.
I am.
And that's just fine.
I really want to.
Let people know that we really try hard
to make sure that every customer experience is a good one,
and we want to bring our very best to you and on any scale that we can do it.
That's how we want to perform our job.
And if they have any problems, if they have any questions, if they have any
inquiries or anything like that, go on to the website, give us at
Gucana.
They can also use GUI Breeder or Canada Exotics dot com.
Any of those will take you right to the website.
Go to the contact page, write Matt a letter.
He'll get ahold of me and we'll take it from there and make
sure that your experience is a good one.
And I thank you very much for the opportunity.
No worries. Thanks again for all the information.
Hopefully we'll get to chat again soon.
Oh, I hope so.
And if you have
further questions or if anybody needs anything on your end, you just go ahead
and give me a tap and we'll get right on it.
Big, big thank you to GUI Breeder for taking the time to chat with us again.
Also, thank you as always, Team OGS, 420 Australia, CTNL,
best in the game at what they do respectively.
Thanks to the Patreon fans.
You guys are the MVPs as always.
More content coming their way soon.
La la la la la la.
I'll see you.
