One thing I find with the Australians is I never get any negativity and I just think that is I think
something everyone could learn from
Seriously, just never get any negativity or any rude anything from anybody in Australia, and I love it
Hello welcome to the next episode of the podcast the cannabis podcast for budding enthusiasts
On this episode we're excited to have the other half the mad combo mrs. Mad herself
But as always this episode was brought to us by our sponsors seeds here now, you know, they're the best
They got mad farming gear probably gonna want to hit that up by the end of this check them out for 20 Australia
Number one for 20 lifestyle. No questions. Oh, yes, if you want that top shelf, it's that simple
Let's get into it guys
All righty, so a big thank you and welcome to other half of the deadly mad duo mrs. Mad, thank you for joining us
Thank you for having me
So a little mix up to the normal question. What are you currently smoking?
Right now I just finished smoking a joint of
The rainbow SS OG by smellboat seeds actually
So is that is that some like sneaky product placement that's been popping up everywhere is this intentional?
No, actually, it's not. I just happened to sit down and roll a joint
I I actually haven't been smoking a whole lot of flour lately. I've been smoking mostly concentrates
We
Haven't had any of our own dry flour for a while because we've been pretty busy lately with everything going on
But no, I was lucky my brother-in-law
Gifted me some of his concentrates and some of his dry flour. So I figured I had twisted up and sample it
No sneaky placement
No, no, I wouldn't think so. Anyway, it's it's great
I was lucky enough to able to try it
But the question that I really want to ask so are you like a joints person primarily?
Depends I just I just like to honestly smoke
But like I said daily lately
Most of the time throughout the day I smoke concentrates
Right now I have
Some
Extreme cream from the Jensen project. There are some local friends of ours. It's actually really good
and
Then a friend of ours named bang mingo. He's
Gifted me some it's like from dragon scale emerald dragon out of Humboldt County
It's a yeti og live resin. It's really good
killer and
So, do you find that you would you would smoke flour exclusively if you could or you very much like concentrates as well
if if I'm if I have a chance to smoke flour it would
most likely have to be ours I
Am I'm really picky when it comes to dry flour
I
Don't know. It just has to be right. I don't like harshness
I don't like my throat throat to burn. I hate to cough
I don't want to choke from what I'm smoking
So in my personal experience dry flowers my best best bet is going with whatever we've grown personally
But concentrates if we don't have like I said if we're out and we don't have access to something
Anyone of our good friends usually have some really killer
Concentrates that I can get or like I said, I got like a couple of buds that were gifted to to me by
smellboat seeds, which is nice
For sure. Okay. And so now let's go all the way back. What was your first experience with cannabis? Oh
my gosh
Honestly, I don't even know if I can
Specifically remember my very first experience with cannabis as far as cannabis itself
Smoking wise I was young
I
Almost hate saying some of this stuff out loud because I was I was really young
sixth grade probably
Couldn't tell you what it was because
Back when nobody really named anything and they all had real generic names
Everybody called it green bud chronic
It was kind of it's not like it is now once prop 215 in California
went into motion here and
there was a
Obviously a market for it. That's when it seemed like strain names became something that was real prevalent until then though
It was pretty much called
Green bud skunk
Nothing really had a recognizable name like it does today
So when you were growing up, it sounds like cannabis was rather prevalent. Did you grow up in the Emerald Triangle?
Not where
Everybody always asks us like where are you from? What you know, where do you live specifically and I could tell you specifically
But nobody ever really knows where we're from. It's a very small town. I've been in California my whole life
As we're with Matt, he traveled a bit as a kid, but I have I've been pretty much in like the Central Valley area
my entire life
But yeah cannabis has been for as long as I could remember I was really young I can even remember
as Matt has stories about his his parents when they were kids, I think my
My dad hit it a little bit better
They didn't really smoke a whole lot in front of us when we were really small
But I do remember a couple of times seeing some plants growing in our backyard when I was a real small child
Okay, and so
At what age were you when you first heard of like the first breeders and who was the first breeder you'd ever heard of?
Oh
my gosh
You know, I don't know because I would say for me personally like as far as breeders and the whole community
I've never been seriously fascinated
Like the way Matt is he
He has an insane brain for it. He remembers
Anything and everything he's ever read or heard or any research he's ever done
He I mean he has just an amazing brain for it
But me I've never actually had a specific
Interest or draw or any of that to like hunt as far as who who all is in our community
I feel kind of like a jerk because I was saying we were at we just went to
the endo
Expo in San Francisco and I feel like a jerk because I really don't know anybody. I don't spend much time online
I'm pretty much a homebody and I spend most of my time with either my family or my plants
So it's like I don't I've never really
I don't spend all my time doing research on who's in the community and
Who does what I focus mainly on what we do here?
And on our own projects and in our own house
So like I don't even remember when I was a kid and like pot was on the scene. I don't even remember
Talk about pot breeders. It was really something that I learned a lot about
once mad started taking like a massive interest in really learning about cannabis that's when I
Just learn anything like any real true knowledge there was to learn I learned from him
Before that I would say was all probably just wives tales and probably junk really
Yeah, I think we've all been fed one of the two of those wives tales before oh, yeah, there's there's
There are there's so many of them and with cannabis like the entire
Almost the entire industry seems to be kind of built on that in some way
Industry seems to be kind of built on that in some way shape or form. So yeah, like my knowledge anything
um
Anything that I have it. I'm lucky I was blessed to learn directly from him and he just has an amazing mind
so I never really got involved in the
Like I know a lot of people do they spend a lot of time online and they spend a lot of time researching
Strains and breeders and all of that. I I don't I don't have the time for it
And I never really had a massive interest in it
Nor have I had a massive interest in searching
The information on lots of different strains only what i'm currently interested in at the time. I just don't have the space for it
so if we were to say
Take a step back. What was the first strain that you and mad were maybe going together?
That kind of really got you in wrapped in the whole saga of it all
Oh my gosh. Um
We actually have some pretty funny like really interesting stories. Um,
The very first few plants that I can remember like specifically remember him growing
They were actually outdoors and I don't even think they had names to be honest
Uh, I I can't even remember how we went about
getting them
um, we we pretty much
You know now that we've been growing for I don't know 20 some odd years longer. I'm not sure but around there
Um you you you get to where you have to keep notebooks
Uh, so I would have to like go dig and try to figure out when and what but back then I think those three plants
He had I don't even think they had names, but he was growing those outdoors at the time
but as far as like when he really took um
Like I knew we would be growing for the rest of our lives when he first locked down that lavender plant
Um, it was pretty crazy he I remember the day he brought him home
Um, it was a weird day because I at the time I had a full-time job
I was working a full-time job and that day when I was at work, I got a phone call
And they tell me that my identity had been stolen
Somebody was using my social security number and my full name
and they were basically using my information to obtain employment, so
Um this particular day when I got home from work, I did what most people would do in the situation
I had to call the police department and file a report and
We had a police officer standing in our living room taking this police report from me
And he comes walking in the door with um his lavender cuts
They were in a brown paper bag
He had gotten from like a our you know, our our small circle of friends that we had back back when
And yeah, he walks in the door with those and it was um, it was actually valentine's day
And he walks in the door with them. It was kind of awkward
But of course the police officer in our house
He has no idea what what he has because they're in a brown paper bag
but it's just one of those things that you remember forever because
That really was the strain. Um
That started his major interest and his complete love and passion for cannabis and learning about
um the benefits that it's given to
Not just him and me but a lot of people that we know as far as like a medicinal use
Yeah, of course and so how did the urkel then get in your possession?
Oh that came super short after um
See this is one of those things. Um, like as far as like the lot of research being done
Um, like I said, he took mad took such an interest in really learning about just cannabis and
proper ways to grow it and the you know,
The ways to go about getting like the best flavors most resins and like just all this stuff that he had such a fascination
for
and um
he was reading a lot about
I don't know. You can call them rumors
Whatever the stories that were going around at the time about urkel and lavender and how?
They were um said at the time to be the same
And he was dead set in proving that they weren't
and again, we had this small circle of friends and
um, our friend at the time was super interested in scoring the lavender that we had and of course mad wanted the urkel that he
had
so we um tight circle keeping
Keeping things amongst ourselves
Uh, we had agreed we were we were actually gonna give him a cut of our lavender which never turned out to happen
um, but we got the urkel and we've had her ever since and I want to say that was just like maybe a
couple months possibly after we scored that lavender, but we've had them ever since
and um, he was just dead set on proving they were different and
That they were not only different but different enough and worth hanging on to both of them as different cuts for
You know for as long as we've had them
And how come the other guy didn't get the lavender
Oh, yeah, he shortly after went to prison
It's just the
Yeah, so he's we have we yeah, he's gone. We haven't seen him or heard from him in years
I believe he's still in prison. But yeah, just one of those unfortunate events, you know how things go and you
In this business, especially if you're someone who may not necessarily be careful. Um, yeah, he was um
a good friend of mad's and known him for a long time and
they made that little deal and
um
We hadn't you know, it's one of those things we hadn't taken cuts yet and he had his so
We got the urkel and we hadn't taken the lavender cuts yet and
Before we had gotten to take it. He had gone gone to prison. So he
that's how it turned out and lucky for us we had we preserved both of them because
Madden I were just talking about this the other day
if it were
If it would have turned out any other way this person that were you know
This person that we're talking about who ended up in prison. He likely wouldn't have even hung on to
Um the urkel cut because he was much
His interest kind of funny was much like people today, you know, they move on to the next strain
No one really hangs on to anything. It's really funny and we did we we hung on to him this whole time
So I guess the question i'd love to know then is what project or what strain was it that?
really got you involved in it because it sounds like mad kind of had the the reins of the
The chariot up until this point like at what point did you really kind of become like a 50 50 in the partnership
Which we know now
Oh my gosh. Oh, that's a crazy story actually. Um
Well, because I don't I don't have a full-time job anymore
But at the time I was working a full-time job one that was extremely stressful. Oh, I don't even know how I did it
um, but I was a manager in retail and um
I was on a just a short vacation. Just I took a couple a day vacation. I want to say maybe
Two days backed with uh, two more days to get like a total of a week long
and uh, we had gone out to dinner
And come home and mad was out back with our dog playing with him
And just one of those things he pulled something we think not sure but you know, he has a long
Uh history with health problems with his lupus and whatnot
And he started to not feel good instantly after this
And I knew he was sick, but I wasn't exactly sure what was going on long story short
Short, he ended up having to go to the emergency room. He was in really bad shape
And they admitted him pretty quickly
They had a lot of specialists come in and they ended up having to do like an emergency surgery on him
They opened him up and had to figure out what was going on with him
And they even at the time had told us that he was likely to die
They had had us call in all of the family and do that whole bit
And he was in extremely bad shape
and we had um an entire set of plants full-blown flower
Needing care and I didn't have a choice but to do it and it wasn't really my thing
Like I said, I was stressed. I worked a full-time job and we have a daughter, of course, and
I um, I would help him, you know on anything that he needed
But at this particular time, um, I just didn't have a choice
He was in the hospital and he couldn't do anything about it and he ended up being in there for like almost a month
So I had no choice but to care for
Everything we had um running at the time and I kind of uh
with my personality just adopted, um
I don't know. I I kind of like to have control so
Once he got home. I had a hard time giving back giving him back his space. I
Just I wanted to be in there. I I felt like I needed to have input on everything
Which i'm sure just annoyed him to no end because he's thinking you're telling me
What to do and this is my space you've cared for for a month
But yeah, it's like I just really enjoyed it. I found that I liked it more than I thought and um
Eventually like work started to stress me out to the point where um, I just between that and with mad's health
It was so bad
it was just easier if I were home to help him with what he needed help with and
I it made me just a better all-around mom to be home instead of giving my time to a full-time position that I wasn't
able to really keep up and
So helping him with the plants. That's how I ended up getting thrown into it
is that is how it happened I got thrown into it and didn't have a choice and
lucky for me, he's um
he's a wicked record keeper and he has stacks and stacks of books with dates and
Every day he does something he writes notes and he gives a solid explanation for why he does what he does and that's how I learned
and um
Once he got out of the hospital, he obviously needed my help for
A while afterwards just his recovery alone was like a solid year
um, but yeah, he
Just over the time taught me and i've taken over small things here and there like
I am insistent. I do all of our cuts. I just have a
A preference and I am i'm a i'm a control freak. So
I like
To have control of things
That's how I ended up doing what I do
Yeah, no, I can I can see where you're coming from
So what was the first strain that you were involved in the creation of because I guess i'm kind of wondering
Was this all happening before the creation of say the triple e wicked or was it after that just as a general timeline?
Uh, you know, i've always had some kind of some type of influence. Um
uh
What I you know when we when we when we decided like when we started breeding, um initially
It wasn't even about like breeding for anybody. We were doing it really for ourselves and
like I said mad had like this interest in the comparison of
You know, what are the true differences between urkel and lavender?
Can you see it in their offspring and so yeah, like this was his
project that he took on and that's where it started, but you have to remember like I was his
The person that gets to sit there while he bounces all these crazy ideas off
So i'm always present listening to you know what he thinks we should do
And then of course he always asks my input
um
I had I I think the t-dub and the pj lines particularly are his babies, but for me
My one of my most hands-on I would say is probably our clementine selection the clementine male
That one for me was definitely my baby because originally he had no interest in it and he wanted to kill it
and I just insisted no that he was definitely a keeper and I just
There was just something about him he was amazing and he ended up becoming a really solid project
And so that's one that I would say is pretty much
More mine i'd say than his
that's a really good point for us to jump off on because
one of the questions we had submitted by our patreon fans was
why is
Uh, the urkel cross clementine called mrs
Mads bubba is it like for example because you think it it's like a good representation of barber in seed form
Or is it like what's the backstory?
well
Okay. So first off never was really a fan of naming strains just to kind of put that out there
Never thought I'd do it. Honestly swore. I never would but the time came and we had to obviously start naming things
So we did
That's actually not as easy as you think
Um, I I don't I don't really particularly like it but with that strain, um
Like I was saying california
for us particularly we started with the prop 215
And when back when we had a bunch of dispensaries, you know open up and down the coastline
um
and
one of a really one of the common cuts that was always floating around was the bubba kush and
when we started searching through when we were doing our own, um searching and testing of the
These particular beans we had noticed that in this particular
this particular strain the
urkel by clementine
it was showing
Tendencies and a physical appearance that did it looked a lot like the bubba kush and I honestly thought that it was even had
A little bit more of a better flavor
um
I would say probably because of our urkel
Um, but that's actually where it came from plus the need obviously
To name strains, but that's just how it does it comes about in that way. We
when you're when you're growing them, you're looking at all of um,
the traits that they express and that that particular strain
showed a lot of um, just it looked like a bubba kush and um,
I don't know. I kind of thought it it was a bit better myself, but you know, i'm good. That's a biased opinion, of course
And so how do you how do you feel about the original bubba? You're just not like the biggest fan or
No, no, I liked it. Um
You know, we obviously don't don't have it but um, no I I obviously I did I liked it or I wouldn't have
looked to try and make something that
You know resembled in some way shape or form or was like my spinoff version of that
that's like basically, you know what we're we're always trying to do we're always trying to
Put something out. We're always looking to do something better. Hopefully
Yeah, of course and so
Do you like to approach?
a project with
A very kind of pre-conceptualized idea of what you're trying to do
Or are you more so happy to just kind of you know trial things out and if something hits a winner you're like great
Let's pursue that
Well, I I don't know I think there's a kind of a fair amount of both really, um
We could sit and talk, you know plans all night long. Um
And we actually do we will sit I tell him
this is another reason why we're like the house of notebooks because we will sit and
Try to write things down and you jot your ideas down because
As fast as they come you also lose them if you don't, you know, write them down somewhere, but we do we talk about what?
We think would match up. Well
Um, we think about what we would like to maybe hunt for a say male
And in the future or maybe like what what we're looking for both male and female and what do we want to like hunt?
We're always hunting. We're always um
testing something
Uh that we're not growing something without you know, we're always looking through something. But yeah, we're always keeping in mind. Um
We're always looking to make
You know what what's the next strain that we can possibly make what would be good pairing up and always looking to make something better
There's no point in doing it if you're not otherwise
So
Question I love to ask people you mentioned, you know, you're always looking to pop new things find new things
What's the next thing you're most excited or going to pop to look through?
Well, um
Gosh see, I don't i'm not really sure. Um, I know
I don't see i'm not I don't know how much I can say I got to be kind of careful here because I don't like
to give away too much, um
I know we're gonna start looking through our t-dub
Uh, we're gonna start
Narrowing down some selection there
I was gonna say I think I saw from maybe it was you or maybe it was mad that yeah
There's gonna be like a filial release of pure t-dub
Yeah, he's got something he's got something in mind, um
Like I said, he bounces ideas off me all the time. But yeah his
He's talking about his next angle he wants to really dig deep in the t-dub so
Um, that's where he's going. Um
I don't know. Like I said, we talk we talk ideas all the time and we do have a new female
Well, we have two two relatively new females in our collection
Um the hogs breath which we were gifted by the hogs breath family. They are amazing people by the way
um, they gifted us that female and
We are for sure gonna take it to our clementine mail, I think that will make for something amazing for sure
Um, so we have that project at some point in the works. There's that's nothing too secret. Everybody pretty much knows about that one
Um, and then we did we scored a new female
On the sr71
I can't wait to see you know what she has to offer. But again, yes
Another known kind of purple strain so i was about to say that's purple cush, isn't it? Uh-huh. Yes it is
Uh mad and I were talking about this just last night
Um, you know how there's some things that him and I have grown before and we've really held on to things for a long time
there was um, I want to say we we had a
Celine for the longest time we had her for like six years and
we just eventually
Cut her loose, but she was really nice. It's just it takes a lot to
To say you're a solid keeper and can stay in our garden for that long, you know
So outside of lavender and her cool what has stayed in the garden for that long
Well, we've got
Scdc would be like a close second or third and then we've got our clementine. Um
And that's another thing too we will be digging through our clementine lines because we have f
We've got a night. We have f2 f3 and f4 stock of our clementines just sitting
The the threes we've dug through a bit, but the f4s are the ones that i'm the most interested in
So those are ones i'd like to make a project of soon, but that's another one that's been in our garden for a while
um our clementine
Um, but clementine scdc, I don't really know, um
How long like the i'm not really even sure how long the urkel and lavender have been in our garden exactly I just know
they've been in our garden since pretty much since mad got real serious about growing and
Um, he you know, he knew he wasn't gonna let him go
But the scdc was the one I want to say he acquired
Around that same same same time shortly after and then the clementine also we've had for quite some time
Oh northern lights, too. I don't know why I forget her. We've had her for a long time. I want to say maybe
six or seven years possibly
somewhere around that
And do you know where she comes from at all?
like you're
Um
I don't
Yeah, he was gifted the northern lights was gifted to us by
a friend, um of
Mads and I don't know
Like what of that?
I don't know what of that he has said. I guess I should have asked him that um
I'm, he could tell you more on that because that was something that he actually had to direct
It was a cut that was gifted to us from um a gentleman he met. Um on one of the
Boards way back
um, but like I said, we've had it for about six or seven years, but
I honestly can't even remember his name
I would have to ask mad on that one
And so what are some tips or tricks you might have to just kind of keep?
Plants healthy over the long term in the way you guys have with these cuts we're talking about
Um cleanliness is
probably the
The biggest thing that in your space cleanliness is the biggest thing that you could do
No matter what cleanliness is the most important for healthy plants. Um
airflow is also
just
small things
common sense with the garden seriously
You'd be surprised apply common sense to everything you do with the plant and you'll keep it alive. It doesn't really take that much
um
But yeah, we try to keep
Um, we try to keep it as organic as possible
Mad mixes it up quite a bit when he's um in flower. He's like a little scientist in there
um, but as far as me when i'm anything in veg
and our mothers
or
Our fathers I should say
um
Just I do I like to keep them as healthy as possible
Um
Just control any obviously a a clean area and
Keeping your bugs gone or out under control. Um
Cleanliness controls all of that believe it or not. Um
But it doesn't take much and like I said, we use really basic products two of
Two of my staples would be like dirt md and um, sea crop use those religiously
micro md love those products
And so I think you just hinted do you tend to more look after the fathers
Um
well
I
Look after pretty much anything. That's in anything that's in veg. I
Keep those going 24 7. Um
But yeah, I do I look after our fathers too
Do you what are like some tips for maintaining dads because that that's a that's a good question
Yeah, I know some people tend to I know some people have issues trying to maintain males. I I don't I just um
I find if I keep them you can keep them cut back more which is nice. Um
I tend to keep them cut back and smaller than I would females. You can control them more that way
And um one of the things that's really nice, um
for
Like I was telling mad when if we're going to be running. Um
like a pollination
one of the things that I like to do is I will
Keep my like if I have a couple of them, I always they're always in the same space
But I always have at least three males at the same time. Um
in any given space but
What I like to do is I won't cut on them if I know we're going to be pollinating
and the reason I won't cut on them is because they will actually compete with each other and they'll force each other to
Like throw pollen faster and more pollen too, which is really nice
So if we're getting ready to do something like that, like we're gonna run a pollination run
I'll leave them in there and I won't cut on them at all during that time frame because then when I do throw them in
there
To throw pollen they seem to be a lot
It's like they're competitive basically and they'll throw a lot more pollen, um, and they'll produce faster which is nice
and have you ever noticed any changes over the long term to the males just because
People sometimes say I mean so maybe this is a bad question because i'm going to completely contradict myself here, but people say when he um
Maintain mothers in poor conditions, you know over time they deteriorate i'm wondering if a certain
Similarity would happen with males and how it would manifest but I guess because you know
You maintain things nicely. You probably wouldn't see that anyway
yeah, but you know what something you're saying you you wouldn't think that but
I do I actually well, I will put plants to the paces. I will stress them out like you do
You would not believe I mean to where they look ugly and sad and completely unhappy with me, but I have to do that
It's something you have to do. You've got to know
You know, what are their limitations?
What do they like what are they tolerant to how do they react when you do this?
Um, it's something that I do I do I stress them out. I make them ugly
But one of the things too plants do they will I have seen they will deteriorate especially if they're not in like optimal
conditions, but i've also found too that even though they will do that I can turn that around also, so
You kind of have to stress them
You have to stress them to see
You know what they do when they're stressed how they handle a stressful situation
So you have to do that you have to introduce that kind of environment to them
um, but yeah, the males do they I don't know they're they
they have obviously differences because it's a male plant versus female, but
I don't know. It's kind of common sense you
You can kind of just watch them and you can learn from them as you watch them grow. It's a pretty common sense basic thing
Yeah
So I remember last time I spoke to mad. He said that you guys were running
Hydro and organic and then like does that mean you've got two different setups or like you do like a hybrid type of thing
Now from my understanding on that. Um, yeah, I was wondering I was wondering about that and my recollection of that was
he was referring to
Um
Because we're always in soil, but he my understanding was he was actually referring to organics and synthetics
Because he does he he does use some synthetic nutrient lines. Um, and I believe that's what he was actually referring to
Yes, no weird dirt. It's not hydrate
Yeah, no. Yeah, he does. Um
He does he does try um
He does try to keep it as organic as possible and now
From when we first really started heavily growing
It wasn't as easy organics weren't
As big of a thing there was a lot less. Um
Nutrients and there were a lot less lines on the market back then but now he has a lot more
options available and
We both uh, we're always willing to try
You know something new you always have somebody approaching you asking you if you're interested in trying a product, um
I'm always willing to try something new. Uh, I just don't like to
personally take in a bunch of stuff I know I won't be able to use or
I'm not going to have time to get to uh, but I am I I am always interested in something new
I in our veg space. I always try to keep it. Um
Organic for me I find as long as i'm doing my transplanting like I should
Uh, I I rarely have to give them much of anything and like I said, my staples are like pretty much uh, dirt md
micro-md
And um sea crop and if i'm transplanting my plants appropriately and i'm maintaining everything the way I should
That's pretty much all I have to do and then I throw it over and it's it's in mad's hands at that point
I give him big healthy plants and then he gets to go from there
Nice, and so do you ever like to do flower runs of your own or are you just happy with the end product you get already?
Everything that we do we do as a team. I i'm super lucky. I would say he is too
Um, but everything we do we do as a team
Um, we do always have something going
Always there's never a time
When there aren't plants growing in our space and um, it's kind of funny because
Our daughter was in here the other day and she's like, you know
Most people grow up on house plants
me
Pot plants
It's just kind of funny. Yeah
You know, she's she's been around them her whole life since the day she was born. She's known the pot plant
So it's kind of funny because like we too we grew up with house plants not pot plants, but she's grown up with pot plants
so
Had that that proper upbringing
Yeah, proper upbringing, but hey must be right because she's like, uh, she's walks around carrying a 4.5 grade point average
Must be must be doing something pretty. All right
So something I was meant to ask you earlier, but we'll just loop back on quickly
I wanted to know so you you mentioned which stock you guys were interested to pop from yourself
But this one could be real could be hypothetical
If you had to or maybe you already are planning on it popping stock from another breeder. Who would it be?
Oh my gosh, see that's a hard question and two I don't want to offend anybody
but that is like such a massive list to choose from
Off the top of my head because this is an off the top of my head sort of question here
No one's gonna hold you accountable. Don't worry. No, I know i'm sure they'll all hate me in silence. Um, no
Just with you asking that question in the moment. I have a serious interest
And obviously playing around with some of duke diamond's gear
I just do can't help it, but I do. Um
Uh, one of our friends like I was saying earlier bang mingo
He's one of my he's my go-to concentrates guy right now when i'm desperate. He always hooks me up
Um, he's been growing some of duke diamond's gear and he's actually growing our gear in there, too
and his plants, I mean everything coming out of uh,
duke stable is gorgeous so
off the top of my head, that's what comes to mind, but um,
Like I said i've been listening to a lot of your podcasts too and uh,
Mr. Bob hemp hill too. He's got some very beautiful plants that he's working with there
So I imagine he would have something of interest too
um
Gotta remember though. We're always going to be limited to space
um
so
Anything that we pop it has to be worth our time, you know, it just has to be
Yeah, well, I mean those are two solid choices i'm sure they but I also
I also have some of yours. I have some of your genetics too. So
I have a I want to know what?
Out of everything you have if you could if you could out of everything you have if you could share one of your strains
With everybody which strain would it be?
Probably the licorice mama. I think I sent you that one as well
Nice
Yeah, I think and why this one in particular?
Well, it's like it's two strains I made so i'm super down with that
Like crossed together to make that one so I can definitely get behind that one is like my own work more so than a lot
of other ones
but more importantly
I was like super super disappointed with like the colorado durban and people because I love licorice and people always said that was like
The licorice thing, you know, like the aniseed type of thing and it just it just wasn't it was like it was just the most
Generic sweet smell i've ever had like i've literally
bought
um
Like shitty feminized seeds back when I was a noob and I didn't know what I was doing like not because I was buying
Feminized seeds, but I was literally just on like, you know, the very beginning of my whole grow journey and you were learning
Yeah, and and some of those shitty feminized seeds
I had had the exact same smell as the durban just this generic sweet smell and I just don't get how people
Can get licorice from that but i've created something that I feel is, you know, very licorice admittedly
um
You know, it's it's got some gojioji in it, which is australian
That's also known to have a bit of licorice in there
So I think it's obviously probably tapping back into that to a certain extent
But yeah, it's it's very much a licorice. Whereas the durban I was like man anyone who says this is licorice has
Got quite an imagination
Are we talking like a black licorice though? I mean, that's very yeah black licorice
Yeah, that's what I wanted and that's and so that was why I was a bit let down with the durban
Ah, so that one would I would be interested to definitely look in that
Yeah, I think it would be a good one to check out
But um any of the raspberry mama ones are good and all of the tests have come back like it seems to be quite dominant
So you get a lot of raspberry in most things. So
In that regard i'd say look at the mum you like and go from there
nice
nice now i am curious about this because
I know i've heard this question when you're selecting for like a male your male selection. Is there something that you specifically look for?
Yeah, like traits well i'm like you I stress the hell out of it
So it needs to survive the gauntlet for one but um, I can't stand like auto flowering males
Um, because I for a while I thought that was like the norm and then I realized I was just stressing everything too hard
and
And so then I took a step back and I was like, oh, okay. Um
But yeah, there's a few little inside tricks like duke's sharing. Okay. I'll share one here, um, which do share with me
I hope he doesn't mind when you when you get real serious, you can start to do some crazy stuff, you know, you can
Get your mail you take clones of it. So you've got you know backups and whatnot
and you grow all your mails out to a certain size and then you
Like, you know get all tease the soil or whatever the medium is out and you can actually make judgments on it
Based on the size of the root ball and stuff like that, which is not immediately apparent. Otherwise
and that can be you know pretty indicative because on females like
A lot of people think that yield is proportional to the number of nodes on the plant and that's not true at all
It's totally proportional to the the root mass
um in most cases and so
Yeah, like having having a really solid root system is something I value on a male which I think people don't look at at all
right
Yeah, so that too that could be with I think too something people don't look at either is um,
You you know starting with or using just a more mature plant in general
As in like the male's more mature
Well, even female or male, um just maturing it, you know letting it grow letting it
Fill in its container just letting it really grow and express a lot of times people with females too. They'll
Uh sex them and just straight throw them into flower. We actually do we like to mature and we like our plants mature before we
You know flower anything? Yeah, we you just get a better result much better
Yeah, like when they're they're naturally kind of already transitioning to flower because they're that mature
Yeah, it's just like um like him and mad and I were talking about this the other day
Who do you think is going to make a better mother a 15 year old girl or a 30 year old woman?
and weigh it
Yeah, I mean it's it's interesting to see I I because a lot of people talk about like bob hemphill
We'll loop back to that for a second
He talks about the the four-way and it kind of brings this point in mind like does a mother that's really old make
Worse offspring than the same cut when it was younger. Like does it affect the seeds?
You know, I honestly I I don't know see I there's so many um
There are so many aspects to which you have to consider
You know from with each plant, you know the growing conditions
Um, was it stressed did you use you know new things with it?
Like there's so many different factors that can play into a plant doing different things
It's so hard to pinpoint
Like, you know to a scientific level what caused what so that's like tricky. That's a really tricky question
I don't I don't know but I do find that
Um with us here we have lavender and urkel. They're very old plants. They're extremely old. We've had them
Like I said, I want to say around 2000 or so
Maybe longer maybe less. I don't know. Like I said back then you didn't really keep
Dates on stuff. You just kind of hung on to something but when those plants are really healthy, they produce beautiful seeds
So maybe it's just the factor of whether or not you're you have a healthy plant versus the age of the plant. I don't know
I think the far better way to uh to phrase that question would be like
Deteriorate cuts because if a cut has known to deteriorate
And like the bud you get it off it now is just nowhere near what it used to be
When you make seeds with it are the offspring going to be similar to like, you know
They're going to have flavor profiles similar to the deteriorated version now or to when it was fresh and much more fuller and you know
Like its original self
Yeah, I think that's a really good question and I wonder about that too I I don't I don't know for sure
Like I said, there's so many factors
that go into
Well
When you're making seeds, for example, there are so many things you'd have to look at
You know with that particular grow
That is a really good question. Have you noticed anything in particular with your testing?
No, I mean
The the I lost the oldest cut I had not too long ago sadly, but um
It's I mean, but even then it was only like three and a half almost four years
I think no, I think it was about three and a half
But um, so I don't know if that's really
Old enough for stuff to really deteriorate. Maybe it just means i've taken care of it
Well, so to speak but yeah, not not in that period of time. Unfortunately, I haven't noticed anything
Yeah, I mean there are times where um, I even mad and I have talked. Um,
Well, we're we'll complete a grow and we'll be like
We'll we'll ask each other. Do you think maybe this is showing signs?
Like it has degraded at all
As far as like the flower the finished product and there are times where we will think yep
It is it's just old and then you'll have your next run and you'll be like, nope. She's every bit as impressive. So
Sometimes I I wonder if it's a per strain thing. It could be um based off of that particular run you had
Like I said, there's so many factors, um, but I haven't us here have we haven't had any
Particular experience where I would say, you know, we've ran we've we've created seeds with like our older cuts
Which we have both the urkel and lavender even the scdc. She's older now, too
Most of our stuff is older at this point
um, but
As far as like how the seeds are created
Um, there's certain things that I have picked up on that are different from plant to plant
But I haven't actually noticed anything as far as like a degradation
Handed down in like the offspring to the seeds nothing like that. Um
But I did notice, uh as far as breeding goes with our clementine the clementine line
Um, whenever we make seeds the clementine seeds they come out every time almost
Without any stripes
They're just almost like little blondies is what I would call them little blondie seeds and they're even kind of have like the weird shape
to them, but they're
Always super viable. They pop instantly. They're fast and they're just really strange looking seeds, but they
Uh, you never worry about them because they always pop and they're really fast to pop but they just look so different
So different than the rest
So, what are your tips for picking a male
Oh, um, I it depends on um, it depends on the the strain to start with. Um
For me, I like to see a good
I like to see consistently what the females look like
Um, so we'll start there first
Um, I want to know what the females
Of that line come out looking like before I would even consider whether I want to even look at a male
Um if mad and I are um going through say a particular strain and we're testing and we find um,
really worthy keepers, uh within those beans, then we would consider
Maybe a male and that would be worth looking for
um, so at that point maybe we would and um structurally like with our clementine male when I chose that male I chose him
because he
Came out and he actually looked like what you would
Attribute to a female plant. His structure was just super squatty
He didn't have hardly any node spacing and I just loved him. He was pretty and
He had just such a deep dark green to his leaves. He's just a beautiful
Plant and I just really liked him
So for him, I liked his structure
um
But with our pj male, he's a little bit different. He also has um
He resembles the appearance of a female plant
but of like the pj female so
Um, there's more a lot more node spacing than say with the clementine male way more node spacing on the pj male
Um, but really with this one. He's got a instant smell
develop
Developing resins to him already
Um just unique colors running all up and down the stems and the petioles of the plant
So him it was just about that. He had a smell and structurally he he resembled
Pretty identically a female that was a keeper for us. So that was kind of why we chose him
And those seeds themselves were they quite old when you popped them
Oh my gosh
If so, what what are germination tips you have
oh my gosh, um, well on the
The clementine male that one was hunted a while ago
And i'm not really sure how old those beans were
I'd I would I would have to ask mad but on the pj beans i'd say they were probably about eight years old
I want to say maybe older that's getting on
eight but um
Yeah, they were a pain in the ass they didn't the pj beans didn't even want to pop for us
We had a real hard time with them and i'm not a fan
I honestly I struggle with the beans. Um, if they don't want to pop they just irritate me
Usually mad deals with the beans I do cuts. Um
They tend to agree with me more
um, but on the beans, there's a couple of different things, you know, some people like to just
Like soak them in a dark space in a cup. See if they a taproot will show
Some people like the whole paper towel method
You know moisture and paper towel
Um, we usually will use if we think they're going to be a tough crack. We'll usually soak them
It depends what your issue is. Um
You can scuff them. Sometimes that helps them pop. There's so many different things that you can try
There's the
gibberellic acid I haven't used it yet, but
Um, that's only because I haven't dealt with the bean yet that we couldn't eventually get open
But I do have some
um, yeah, usually you can
Usually you can help them along in some way shape or form. So we haven't really
encountered a problem to where we couldn't get at least, um some beans from a strain to pop but
The pjs were a little bit trickier, but we obviously were still able to select from those which was good
So I just wanted to loop back to one of your previous breeding projects I was interested in
Whatever happened to the space queen mail you guys were using in the evil queen project
Um, we killed him
You just didn't make the cut. No, we just didn't
No, we didn't um
Everybody really did people still ask us about that to this day
We still even have some of the beans like if people ask i'll totally give them
um, we do have some and there is some really interesting things to be seen in there, but
mad mad him and I both we hate anything that has any tendency to show instability we just
Is you know nobody you just that's like the most dreaded thing when you're hunting through seeds and you're you know
You have that feeling or you're concerned about finding something. That's not stable
So when it came to those it just we didn't trust them and it just left us uneasy and for that reason
We knew we could find a much better mail. So we
killed him
Yeah, okay good answer
And so I feel bad saying it but it's true
Yeah. Well, I mean
Do you think it came from maybe more of the the chem side of the genetics or was it more the space queen side of things?
I I would say space queen side. It had a oh it was a that was a stinky plant. Um
Hmm and it also too it had that that that pineapple expression that was really like known to be on the space
Space queen side of things. Um, yeah, but like I said that one wasn't even one that really interested me
that was
That was one that was really more of mad's thing. Um
back then
when he had acquired the urkel and the lavender the reason why he even got into the whole space queen side of things is because
He was really interested in proving that there is a difference between the urkel and lavender and he thought that that space queen
uh male might be the way to go about doing that by showing the different expressions in the um,
You know in the in the seeds that we created from both parents
Uh, so that was his main reason for that and then once he pretty much got the answer he was looking for
and he was pretty much done with that male, we just decided to move on to something else and
That's when we stepped into the t-dub and the um, the pj project originally
So yeah, we had just decided to move on to something. So we wanted something obviously more stable is what we were looking for
so
In the past mad has hinted that he thinks t-dub might have somehow found its way into the creation of tangy
I've spoken to a few other people about these quite credible sources and they say they're not so sure. That's the case
What do you think on that one?
Well, um, of course I have an opinion, um, I don't think i'll share
um
Yeah, I look I I gotta be honest. Um
On this particular topic I kind of hate this topic
um, this was a topic that was actually brought to
I'll say matt it was his brought to his attention by
A few different people, um, very credible sources and breeders too in the industry. Um,
This wasn't something that was a thought of his this was something that was brought to him
By outside sources originally, so that's where this whole entire thing started up
up with to begin with um
I think basically
uh
Like I have my opinion. He has his other people have theirs
basically
him and I
All that we ever ask of anybody is if anybody uses ours or anybody else's genetics for that matter or their strains
I just ask that people are honest and say they say what they use and we try to live by that the best that we can
too
Which is another reason why we don't work any we try not to really work anything outside because if you're only working
What you have then, you know, you can trust it and you're not being dishonest about what you have. Um,
But as far as him
You know kind of creating that topic that didn't come from him that was brought to him by other people
Um as far as his opinion on that I would I would I would much prefer you ask him about that
Um, but we just don't like to start we're not looking to start any trouble in the industry for sure and um
Just basically I just think everybody could benefit from honesty and uh, it would it would it's in the best interest too of the genetics, too
and everybody just being honest about what they're working and
You know saying
What it is is actually what it is
That's all I really have to say on that
Okay, and so just on a topic you mentioned then about like not really bringing in new stuff
Do you ever feel like it's self-limiting?
Limiting maybe if um
I guess if if our entire game plan was based off of just looking to pump out as many strains as we possibly could
Um if we were on the whole, you know strain of the month
What's everybody interested in in the moment
Yeah, then I would say maybe so maybe we were limiting ourselves, but i'd like to say more that we just have um
Some guidelines that we've set for ourselves. It's kind of like a set of standards
It kind of keeps us. Um
I don't know. It keeps us kind of working staying away from what everybody else is doing
um
And you know at least we're working things that we have true confidence in is how we both look at it
And we're not opposed to bringing
Bringing things in. Um, it just has to be really worth bringing in to even
bother, I guess I would say so
Again, like you you have to give up all your time and energy to keep these plants alive. So it's really got to be
Worth giving your time and energy to to keep it alive in your stable. So
You know, I would say we don't limit ourselves. We just have really high standards
And so like with that being said about the willingness to bring in something if it was worthy
Is there anything that's caught your eye and you're like, oh that might be one of the things
Well, I can't say a particular strain. Um
like not not as a particular strain, but
I have told mad one of the things that I would like to really start looking for is a really good cbd strain
um
Because for me i've actually been getting into some really awesome cbd concentrates lately and they work
Really good. Um, I have fibromyalgia and it just really does it helps
Like all my aches and pains and just the overall
Shitty feeling that you can have throughout the day and it just works really good. So as far as bringing in something new
That's my personal interest. I'm i'm I want to find some like a really good cbd
strain that I like
um
so again
If it's something that we're going to bring in it's got to be something that either he has an interest in or I have an interest
In or it's going to benefit him and I in some way
Because that's like everything we work is based off of that to start with, you know, everything else is just like a bonus I guess
And so what would be one of the current males you'd love to cross to a cbd strain because that was one of the questions
I had like what would be the first cbd offering you guys would want to do?
Oh gosh, um
Well, I think for I think if you were to ask i'm just saying based off of my own personal experience
But I think if you were to ask mad
I think if him and I were to to
Have a discussion on we were to throw a male in there that we have a lot of both have a lot of confidence
And I would say we both have a lot of confidence in our clementine male
So I would say definitely can't go wrong there
Plus he's he seems to be doing pretty all right. And um, and all the other projects that we've used him in so far
And so how do you like to test your new lines do you just like to you know pop 10 seeds pop how many seeds
You just give some to your friends. Like what's your general kind of way of doing that?
well
Well, we of course we like to grow everything we like to always test our own stuff. Um
It's really hard to try to form an opinion about a strain based off of just what you're seeing coming from other people
um, we also though
Keep in mind. We love to see uh other growers growing our genetics too because that gives you
Um some solid insight as to what the everyday person who grows your beans are going to get
It you know what? I mean? It gives and it also gives that kind of perspective to the to the public to see
What you know a random person who buys your beans gets and this is what they were able to get when they popped your beans
And they grow them. So we also like that so
We do put our beans out there
Um, oh, there's a lot of people who grow our genetics and we don't really know them. Um
there's a lot of people who actually
appear to rep us
Quite aggressively online and I do like to put out there like believe it or not. We met them online
That's the only way we know them is because they've acquired our genetics which is really cool
Uh, because all the representation of us is basically just what they have come across on their own
so we do um
We both have tried to spend a little bit of time
uh, we ask that our growers, you know tag us in
like our own genetics that they've grown so we can
Repost them and show people like this is what the general public is also getting with our genetics
so we find that to be helpful, but
we um
We have uh some personal friends too we share with but we like to
Test all of our own stuff first first and foremost. That's how we do it
So just referencing social media i've noticed that since we first chatted to matt over a year ago
Your guys social media presence is definitely ramped up
Was that intentional and do you think it's possible to survive without a strong social media presence as a breeder?
You know, I do
Um, I do think it's possible to survive without social media
It's harder because a lot of people like to have that contact with you
I think that's one of the things that matt offers that a lot of people don't um, it's really cool
He's well, he'll talk to anybody. He and he tries to answer everybody
Uh, in fact, I personally I feel like people get more time from him than I do
Believe it or not
He does I mean I honestly I have such respect for it because
a lot of um, a lot of growers something that you know, if you ever ask them they'll tell you
They will message breeders over and over and over again and nobody will get back to them most of the time they get blocked
um, so I do I love the fact that mad will he will
Sit down and he will give lengthy responses. He will answer anybody's questions. Um
So I do I think that's awesome that he does that and I think that's one of the things that he does very different
From a lot of other breeders out there. Um
Just the fact that he allows access to himself I think is big
But I do think you can survive without social media, but it would be a whole lot harder. I really do
How do you feel about the way female growers and breeders are perceived within the industry in general
Um, you know, you don't actually see a lot of representation of women in the industry, uh
I think there's probably a whole lot more women growing
um women growers and breeding than then we know about
and I
I don't want to I don't want to say something that's going to be offensive, but I think it has something to do with
I think that there's a lot of obviously it's like a male dominated industry
um
But there's there's something uh about the way it's changed a little bit because of social media
you have um
I don't know it
kind of like ordinary people feel more like um, kind of like somebody famous i'd say and I think they really enjoy that attention
and I think that um with the female growers, you're not really going to see that as much I think they just kind of do their
thing and
I don't know. I I I
You just don't see them out
Like that, but when you do the only women you really see heavily in the industry are usually
dressed up and you know
meant to be handing out dabs in a tight tank top, so
And I don't think that's like a fair representation of women in the industry, but that's basically what i've seen from my perspective
One of the criticisms put forward that i've heard at least is that
There's seemingly like a dichotomy within the mind of the average male smoker within the cannabis community in that
Uh, you know a lot of guys within this criticism will supposedly be like yeah, we want more female breeders
That would be awesome. You know, i'd love female breeder whatever like that whole type of thing
But um, but then as soon as a girl puts herself forward as maybe something like that the immediate assumption is
Oh, you're just fucking around and your boyfriends grow
Yes. Yes. Yes. Um, you feel like that's quite an accurate representation of the way women are met in the industry
yeah, I think um, there's a lot of I think there's probably a lot of
A man in the industry that probably have that perspective that they don't want to share this. Does that make sense?
I don't want to share this. I don't want to share this with
When i'm with women, I don't know what it is. No, I get what you mean by that
We think very different. Um, it's not a knock. I think that
We work the way we work because this is how this is the balance of things. I really think that um,
but I think too
When you've got something that they've started out with and they were used to it like being theirs
I don't know that they're so confident or comfortable
Sharing that per se and let's face it. You do not have to be a dude to grow good weed
You just don't any think of it like this when I was when I was a kid
Um, all the men in my family were all either in the military or something. Most of them were away most of the time
Women they ran shit. They ran the entire house. They cooked dinners men went to work
They came home at the end of the day they had dinner
They went to bed and they did the work process all over
The only time you saw them was on the weekends when they were doing a couple of things around the house
But let's face it women ran stuff. They cooked dinners my grandma
She had two vegetable gardens in the backyard and my grandpa did tend to him on the weekend
But my grandma ran stuff
all the time, you know, it's like that's kind of I think we forget how much
Hands-on women really do have just an everyday stuff all the time
So I think they forget that
Yeah without a doubt
And so this is maybe like a harder one to answer because it's just so blunt and to the point
But do you feel it's harder for women to gain recognition or respect within the general industry as it is?
Yes, I can tell you for a fact. I know it is. Um
Uh prove a point
um
If you just to prove a point open up my instagram page and then open up mad's instagram page and look at our followers
I'm just saying if something happened to mad all you guys would be fucked because if you don't have contact with me
How are you going to get our beans?
You know what? I mean? Like seriously if something happens to him you guys need to be able to talk to me
So yeah, I I do see that I noticed that some some people have no problems, but there's a lot there's like a
a vast difference between um
the
The people that view me and him as equals despite how many people he tells he's like i'm right by his side. I
Every bit I need him as much as he needs me. This is how we work together. We're 100 a team
But you can see it like clearly. Um
just
In the respect that we're given not by everybody. I'm not singling out everybody but you can clearly see it. There is a difference
Yeah
and so
What I was just going to say was one of the the counteracting views that I had seen to this discussion was that?
As we mentioned earlier, it could fundamentally also just be a little bit of a underrepresentation problem
and what I think is meant by that is the fact like if you were to say for example, look at
How many male breeders there are and of those male breeders?
How many have gone on to become super successful not just in the fact that maybe they're known but they've actually got something
Which is really well regarded and it kind of stands the test of time or whatever
Right, if you set the bar that high it's only actually, you know, like a you know
Maybe 20 30 people who really meet that criteria
and so you kind of get what I mean when I say there's an underrepresentation like maybe
We just need more females contributing stuff and then we would easily see stuff rise to the top
Because it is the cream of the crop type of thing
Yeah, I do think um, I think that is
That's actually probably um again, that's one of those factors like I was just saying
there's lots of factors that contribute to why things are the way they are and
again, you have to remember to the seed industry the way it kind of started up was
Mainly because you had legalization popping up in the states, you know here and there and you had people who were ordering seeds overseas
and whatnot, but that's kind of what started the market and
Um
You don't it was guys
it was it was the men in the industry that were doing it and a lot of it was again social media has really kind of
Uh kicked that into like a much higher gear
and it was men that um, it's the guys that were doing a lot of these little internet deals and trading and sharing and
Swapping genetics and that is what built this industry
So at the same time I can understand that and that is why you probably don't see
Um a lot of female faces
You know behind genetics and breeding
But I do think you will see more
Yeah, like what I was just gonna say with that being said you just recently partook in your first breeding panel over the weekend
I believe
Yeah, that was interesting. That was really interesting. So, how did that go for you? What was the experience like?
Cold
It was actually
It was actually cold that day. No, it was nice. Um
The I got to meet two other ladies in the industry both very nice and smart ladies, um
Elena she's with the green fire genetics. She's she's young
Um, but she's really sweet. She's really nice and she's coming up in the industry. Uh, I
I spent a little bit of time hanging out with her. She's a really cool chick
Um people should check her out and then the other lady on the panel. Her name is um, ginger doer
Now that lady right there is an amazing example for uh, just growers
honestly
um
Have you have you looked into her at all?
Did you happen to see any I was about to say you sent me the name just earlier and I was gonna look into it
But I haven't got a chance to just yet
Yeah, um both of them
um, elena is
more
Yeah, she's more into like our side of things, you know, like the you know breeding and whatnot and
Um ginger is has like this massive commercial
background and she just has some of the coolest stories and
Seriously the knowledge in that girl's mind
Puts most of the people to shame. Um, she's just uh, she's an amazing example
of a grower
On so many levels like if you can track down an interview with a female
She would be i'm mind-blowing. I I think it would be a killer interview to listen to and she has so much knowledge
Honestly, like I have a little bit of a crush on her. I gotta be honest. She's
So just she's amazing. She's a mother of five for starters
Um, she's also like into painting and stuff. I've done a little bit of like research on both of the ladies
I thought they were both very nice and interesting, but
She's um got an agricultural background and she's been into like growing pot since a youngster
So her story is really cool
and she just the knowledge in her mind is
Just it's insane. I think if you could track down an interview with somebody
She would be a cool one to get
I'll uh send her information
Yeah
So i'm gonna stretch your mind back now to the emerald cup
I asked mad and smelly this question, but I wasn't able to ask you in the interview
Did anyone bring you anything at the cup that you were really surprised by?
Yeah, actually, um, I do remember this question, um
I I got i'm gonna be honest here. So
First i'm gonna say to have that much cannabis in that small of a space
I would have honestly thought I would see a much higher grade and
Um a wider range of really killer weed. I really am surprised that I didn't however
There were people that brought us some really killer examples
Um, there were a lot of people who I don't want to sound I don't want to sound like that
But i'm going to just say it a lot of people brought us. Um
Samples of
Our genetics so basically they had got our beans popped them grew them and brought us finished product and
That was some of the most impressive that we did see. Um
one other really
Kick-ass example of some solid smoke. I not only saw but I was lucky enough to smoke
Um was from duke diamond and it was his um his lavender
That was on point just saying that was really killer weed but there was there was um
there was a a good five or six people that brought me in mad personal samples of their own grows and
There was some really well-grown cannabis in there some outdoor indoor. I mean just really nicely grown
Nice well done product, but I was a little bit underwhelmed at how much cannabis was there
Considering there's I I would have thought there would have been a much wider
Selection and a higher basically a better grade of cannabis
Just to be honest
And so I I know that you're quite uh selective with what you smoke
However, if someone like, you know, whether it's they've grown it or whatever if you've got some stuff not grown by you
but it's some stuff from your
Stable so to speak, you know, it's one of your guys creations
Does that kind of make you more open to trying it or it's still just like it just has to be growing well
Um, no, i'll it look if we're in a situation and somebody passes me a joint and it's lit i'm gonna smoke it
I will hit it
I'm gonna hit it. I dude i'm i'm a stoner. I'm just i'm being honest
I'm gonna at least give it a shot, you know
Um if it makes my throat burn and it makes me choke i'm less likely to take it back and hit it again
So yeah, i'm that diva like I will I will bypass it, but i'm always gonna at least give it a try
Um, I mean unless i'm sick, of course if i'm sick i'm probably just altogether past but no i'm not like that
I'm gonna if somebody tells me it's good. I'm always gonna give it a shot people
People send us stuff and give us stuff all the time
Um when we first really got into this one of the reasons why we ended up breeding
cannabis seeds in the first place was
I can't tell you we had what we felt like we had a few really solid keepers, you know at the time
I think we had urkel lavender and sedc were our main keepers and
Um, every time somebody would come to us and tell us. Oh, I got the best strain. You got to try it. It's so good
So we would start there they'd give us some samples of some dry product and we'd smoke it always disappointed
So then we're like maybe it's just needs to be grown proper
So then we would go about it that way you acquire a cut or whatever seeds. However, grow it out finish it
No, it just wasn't
uh, no just wasn't wasn't good enough to be considered a keeper like in our stable and that is
another reason as to why
We do keep um, I mean we have we have a lot of plants don't get me wrong
But that's why you do see us work with a very limited selection because we have like a set standard that we go by
And if it can't stay, I mean if we can't hang on to it
If it doesn't stay in there for at least four years, we're probably not even gonna bother with it
Yeah, okay
and you know
and so
What do you think is kind of your favorite aspect of breeding?
Um
I honestly enjoy just the selection process. Uh
Cannabis, it's it's crazy because you never really you never really know what you're gonna get
You kind of just have to pop the beans and start looking
And that's what's really cool. Um, you put these two parents together and you might find like less variety
Amongst these beans while you put these other two parents together and you might have a lot of variety
but the only way to know what you're gonna get is to just grow them out and look and that's like one of my
favorite parts is um
Pop in the beans and then
They're really not that fun until they get to a certain size for me
But once they hit a certain age and then they start to mature and sexing and whatnot
That's when they really become fun because they start to at least show you something. Um
I personally too
Um as far as like selection and keepers and deciding
I don't like to decide on necessarily a seedling. I would prefer to make my decision on
Um a take and cut that we've grown multiple times to give it a fair representation
Uh, because they always grow different um as a cut always grows different than a seedling
So that's kind of one of those things I like to do, too
It's interesting you mention that because I remember
Again looping back to the bob henpeck chat
He he referenced that because we were talking about how you know, like over long periods of time cuts degrades and he was saying
Yeah, like how many times have you seen like a plant perform well on the first time and then it's just shit after
And I actually thought about it over, you know the period afterwards and I was like, yeah
Actually, I have seen that once or twice like, you know
And I I guess I I didn't really understand why it was happening at the time
But I just figured like maybe I grew it well the first time and then just whatever afterwards
But it's it's also interesting how there's the opposite to be said as well
You know like how there's there's i've got more examples that come to mind of stuff that gets better
you know, like the older the clone is like I think it's a pretty widely held consensus that
The flowering time drops a bit, you know
Once the clone gets like, you know, maybe a year or so old like it, you know
Over the course of that time it drops a little bit like do you feel that's the case?
Yeah, I do
Yeah, I mean it does it change it change by taking the cut and flowering out cuts
You do have a more true example of what you're going to get
especially you have to look at it from the perspective of
If you're flowering out your seedling and you're trying to make all your decisions based on what that seedling does
You're not going to have a very good representation because the cut always it always behaves different
It's more true to what you're going to get if you continue to continue to grow that cut
Do you see what i'm saying because you're going to grow a cut so
I just think you get a better representation by flowering your cuts than you do making a judgment call based off of your seedling
And the cuts do I do find that they what they call it a little bit of a loss in hybrid vigor is what they?
That they would attribute it to um, not all of them are that way, but I do find um, the cuts grow much more
Consistently so as far as structure, I I much more prefer
A cut because seedlings tend to grow kind of crazy in my opinion
But I do think there's a bit of weight. I do think you do suffer a bit of weight loss, but you can make that up
like I was saying earlier by just um
Like I said, I like to have a more mature plant. I prefer to flower a more mature plant an older plant one. That's been
kind of shaped and
You know one that's basically been influenced by me for a set amount of time
Yeah, totally
So how does the growing trend within the california seed to the sorry the californian scene?
To grow from seed affect your breeding
Does that make you guys want to try to you know get something that's really vigorous out the gate?
Or do you still think it's it's rather a small
Trend so to speak at the moment
you know
I I don't I don't know. I don't want to sound like an asshole, but we don't
We don't we're not aiming and everything that we do we're not we're not basing it on what you would say
The market is asking for or what the general public is asking for and we're not
We don't do that because there's plenty of people out there doing that
um
What we're trying to do was more. Um
We got started for ourselves really just looking to make a real solid different forms of medications that can target
Different things about your illnesses. Um
Some that are better for daytime some that are better for night time
But something that you always have to go to that's always going to work
So I mean the basis behind why we do it is very different from why most people are breeding
um cannabis seeds in the first place, so
Yeah, we're not really looking to just please like the marketplace
Um, so I think that's different our priorities, I guess are a little bit different
So maybe that's what it is
But our main goal is always just basically
really good solid medicine
um
Something that you can go back to
Hopefully year after year, but we'll still offer you
That solid medicinal value you hope it has but also stability
Because you can breed all the flavor you want, but you got to have some kind of stability
And that's what we're hoping for. We're hoping to kind of just have an across the board
awesome
strains for people to have access to and hopefully not too expensive because you want everyone to have access to them, too
So we're aiming for stability good solid meds and something that you can turn to year after year. So
You know
That's our goal
So that brings up a good question submitted by another one of our patreon fans
They say i'd love to know what uh,
What strains these breeders consider to be the most medicinal like what is a medicinal quality to you because obviously it's very subjective
So yeah, what to you is medicinal?
Well, I think it really depends on what you're obviously it would be symptoms that you're trying to target. Um
for me
I would say like if i'm gonna if i'm gonna grab any strain that we have in our
In our arsenal to basically smoke
To just overall take care of any issue I may have
For what we have I would aim I would go for the lavender every single time
um, and the reason I say that is because
That particular strain just gives you uh, just an overall calming effect throughout your entire body head to toe
And it just does something too like your stomach. It just soothes it makes everything calm
It has the ability to target migraine headaches. So it's just overall
A solid strain for your entire body
So if you're not really like sure what you're aiming for if you're just trying to touch on different
Um symptoms that you may have for a range of ailments. I would say lavender
But you know your reasons might be different you might want something just to help
Um, like you might want to take a couple hits and lay down and be able to go to sleep easy
Um, I would you know every and everyone is different too. So it's like a tolerance thing
um our clementine
it
um
If I haven't been smoking a whole lot and I smoke that that one can actually make me quite paranoid
I mean like i'm not like really paranoid
uh, and makes me stupid just really
I can't think I can't focus. It just makes me a mess
So that's not a good one for me if i'm like feeling a little paranoid
But everybody's different, um, I like to say that every strain we have offers some kind of medicinal value to it
Otherwise, we wouldn't even have it
So
It kind of brings me to I mean not not the best segue, but i'm just going to run with it
Anyway in terms of your guys offerings
Are you gonna have a really wild sativa offering ever?
Hopefully
Where would you even start like what type of genetics would you think about like, you know
Do you have anything in the in the you know?
The treasure chest which might be able to fill that category or you'd have to find that first
Oh my god. No, we actually we do we have so many beans. It's ridiculous like we have so much stuff
It'll probably sit there forever and never get touched would be my guess. Um, we have a lot of things
We have a lot of stuff that we've even created that have never even
Seen the light of day. Um
We've got stuff like that. But we also have a lot. Um, a pretty wide collection of beans that you know
We back in the day were collecting
um, you know kind of a touch on something that you brought up about limiting yourself or bringing things in from the outside, um,
that kind of
Actually plays a role in why we do stay within a lot of our own lines because
we did there was a point in time early on where we were we were searching beans all the time and
That was the worst feeling ever is when you're going in there to check your plants that you need to be able to rely on
and they are you know, if they're freaking out because you
popped
genes that are just not stable and
Um, that's what that's kind of where we came to the conclusion we were going to start creating our own
Genetics because it was becoming costly you're popping beans
You're thinking you're getting one thing and you end up getting something
I don't even know and usually it just the risk of pollinating other stuff in your room because you have a hermia or a freak
It just totally was off-putting
And we decided that's when we would just start playing within our own lines and we've slowly
Expanded on top of that and like I said, we do we bring things in and there's things that we do
We don't openly talk about uh, we learn that the hard way
um
But no, we've got stuff to play with like I said, we even our clementine
That one in particular we have we've got f2s f3s and f4s just sitting
Um, we've dug through the f2s f and f3s a little bit but the f4s have been completely untouched
So we have some of those to play around with if we wanted to but we also have some some blueberry lines
um, there's other things we just it's just all a matter of time and
What project you actually want to work on at the time and what you have the time and space for?
Yeah, so I mean if we just touch back on that evil queen I mentioned before
It had some chem genetics in it chems obviously a pretty focal point of this show. It pops up a lot
Would you guys ever want to try to?
Get it and use it like have you tried what you think was real chem and did you find it medicinal for example?
um
well, you know, we actually
That that the one that you're talking about it was uh, I want to say it was the chem
Chem by chem by cindy99 I want to say and we actually had that particular
That female that keeper female we had we kept it for I want to say five or six years at the time
Um, and don't get me wrong it visually speaking. It was a keeper in so many people's gardens
um, and it like it was really uh, it was
Uh, really good for taking pictures of it was beautiful and it had so many resins
But the one thing that we both felt like it just kind of lacked for us was the flavor side of things. Um,
and we also too we just couldn't we we found we weren't able to incorporate it with anything that would
Um bring out that flavor, but also offer that stability that we were looking for which is why we discontinued that particular
Um that that keeper female that we were working with at the time
but um from that particular line, um,
We were gifted
Beans so we still have beans from that particular strain the
The chem dog by cindy99. So if we ever wanted to revisit we have we do have some things to work through
um, but like I said, it's just
Really if it's not something I want to work or if it's not something mad wants to work
It's just going to sit there for a while and it's not going to get touched
So
The deep crippler is you know a line. I don't think many people have heard about
How come you guys haven't, you know, put it out there as much as the other stuff and do you plan to work it further forward?
You know, um, we actually have talked about that. Um
Everybody does everybody who has had contact with that particular strain really did like it
um, it never
I don't know. I didn't
I didn't really have um
a particular love for it
um
It just wasn't one that I don't know
I people love the scdc which would be the mother that we used at the time to create those seeds
but i'm
Other than being super like beautiful and pictures and like uh, just a mass resin producer like I don't I don't love her
We keep her because mad loves her so
She's not really my particular passion, you know
Do you know who made that one?
Uh, the scdc. Yeah
Oh
Um, i'll leave that one. You can ask mad about that one. Okay, that's like a debatable
The scdc is a debatable. I do believe we are the only ones that hold it
Yeah, okay like a wink wink
No, I i'm no i'm pretty sure seriously. Like I have you seen anybody else that has it? No, I I
Well, I initially thought that you guys made it
Wow, i'll let mad discuss that one with you that plant isn't I just don't love her
That's one of his babies not mine
Yeah
So who are some breeders out there? He would love to collaborate with
Um
Oh god, why would you ask me that?
I don't know. I guess the question
Okay, the question that I would ask you is what breeders would love to collaborate with us?
Well, I guess firstly you'd want to the devil's in the details, right?
So we're going to assume that they're going to bring one parent to the table and you'll bring the other
I have a feeling I know what parent they would like us to bring to the table. So
Yeah, I well I if I were you I would I would push to bring the male
Jazz it up. There you go
So, who are you suggesting for us
Well, I mean it depends what if you just it's all about what you want really like I mean if I had to think like
I want you guys to do something different
So I just pick someone really different just so that no matter what they picked it would result in something really different
Yeah, completely different
Yeah, or like something that's really well regarded and super sativa and just see how it goes like, you know, something like that
So i'm a sucker for sativas, you know
Yeah
Um
Hmm. I don't know. I don't really know how to answer that one
well, I guess the other way I would think about it is
Who is is there a strain out there where you look at it and you're like man?
I just love to cross the t-dub to that and you know, if it's yes, then you know, who is the breeder of it?
You know
Gosh, I wish that was one you would have maybe sent me in advance because I know there are some out there
Off the top of my head though, that's a little tricky. Um
I know there's a couple of strains out there because i've specifically talked about them, but I just can't think off the top of my head
Like I said
If we were to work with somebody
Um the the first and foremost important thing we would want to work with somebody obviously that has a good reputation
Um, and we're always looking
for honesty
um again, I think that's something that
It's a bit of a problem
I think I I don't know. I I think we have uh, there's a problem in the industry of not calling things
What they actually are?
And I wish people would just call things what they actually are
Um, okay, so you want to take the lead
Just like just serve a hot one up for us. Oh, yeah, right
Okay
Like I just do I think that I think there's probably a lot less strains out there in existence than we think
There's just a lot of names. There's like you've got one strain and it actually has like seven names
You know, everybody thinks it's seven different strains, but in reality, it's not it's really just one. I wish there was a lot less of that
basically, totally
Um, so yeah as far as working with anybody collaborating, I don't know specifically not anybody in particular
I think we're just so busy doing our own thing. Um
Plants really believe it or not are not our first priority. Our first priority always is our our child. So
um
She's 17 now. So hopefully soon she'll be going off to college if that's the case
We'll have a lot more time for other things but as of right now plants kind of come secondary
You know, it's a good good life decision
and so
the question submitted by another one of our fans is
What to you is the difference between a breeder and a pollen chucker?
That's a great question, huh?
Yeah
Probably the definition would be my guess
um
I guess it depends who you actually know. Seriously. I guess it really depends on who you talk to
If i'm giving like my opinion based on what I think the like the industry standard would be
I would say a breeder is somebody who um has a more
solid knowledgeable
Understanding for the strains that they're working
Um and have some of maybe their own stuff
Um aren't just crossing other people's works and you know this
Going and getting this female from this breeder and this male from this breeder and throwing them together
I would think that's more of a pollen chucker
Um, I don't know. I think it depends who you talk to
No matter what breeding's breeding. It's pollinating a plant and creating seeds anyone technically can do it
It's common sense. It's pretty
It's a pretty basic thing anyone can do it, but doesn't mean anyone can do it well, um
but I do I think it's just um
I think it's more of a probably the
The the standards behind the person doing the work because I think that an actual a true breeder
I think they probably really do care more about what they're doing and have a
A solid love for what they're doing as where a pollen chucker in my opinion is probably doing it for the cash
And just to pump out strains to make money. That would be
How I would view the difference
Does that make sense?
Yeah, of course
and so
What do you think of the various land races because I mean obviously clementine comes from afghani origin
So maybe that's something that's got a soft spot for you
But if you you know had to pick a land race that you know
You are more fond of which would be the more favorites for you
Oh, you know
I don't know. I would say obviously I love our I love our clementine. It's
Just an awesome afghani plant. I love it
The high from her is just amazing. Um
again for me
I
Put it in front of me. I'll smoke it. I'm either I either love it or I don't you know, um
I think
For me to actually say that I like a particular strain or I have like a really solid love for something
I do I I would have to sample it and i'd have to
I'd have to be able to um, at least try it. I that's the only way I can really give an opinion but um
As far as ours I I just love that the clementine that we have that's why we you know, we continue to work it and
Like I said why we even talk about maybe digging even deeper into those f4s that we have might be something interesting to look at
Yeah, well, I mean would you ever consider trying it maybe not necessarily a pure clementine line
But just trying to maybe create a more indica type of tangy thing because that's the thing which I found
unique is that a lot of the more orangey strains are not afghani by nature and so
um, I think it would be really interesting to have like, you know, like an offering that's basically like, you know,
Very indica very medicinal, you know, you know trying to gun to be a very orangey type of thing
Is that something that interests you or you think the fads over?
You know, I honestly think that pot strains as far as like the fads of flavors and coming and going I think it's going to be
just like um
Probably just like music and clothing, you know from the 80s to the 90s. We're gonna recycle through all the ugly shit all over again
That's my guess
You know, like we'll like something now and then give it about 10 years and we'll bring it back and everybody will act like it's new
again
Um, that's just the nature of it. I think that's what will happen
Um, I don't know like I do don't get me wrong. I like good flavors in my cannabis
But there has to be a balance to it
You know, it can't just be good flavor it's got to it's got to do more than that
It's got to do more than offer a good flavor. It's got to gotta get i'm. Sorry. It's got to get me high
And so
This one's a little left of field, but I really want to know the answer to this
Would you guys ever consider doing urkel or lavender s1s?
No
Everybody asks that and everybody says why not?
The question is is why?
Well, I want to I want to really play devil's advocate here
If someone else came out and they started doing it and their cuts were real so you knew it was happening
Would that affect your decision at all?
Nope, um, actually doesn't I believe csi doesn't he hasn't he has one his urkel?
Rats, no, you're one step ahead of me
Oh, sorry
Yeah, no, okay
He definitely yeah, he definitely does do that and the mendo perps as well
Which is cool because I mean I think there's some people out there who are looking for that
But to me it raises the next question is
Do you think it's possible to find something as good or better than the mother in an s1?
And if so, is that an influencing factor in your decision not to do it?
well, um
First I would say there's a reason why we don't we don't do the whole s1 thing. We don't believe in it, you know
it's your
I know on some levels you say part of like the advancement and society is technology
And whatnot and we're always manipulating things, you know, so people
Die later on in life and all this stuff. But as far as messing with genetics, um mad and I aren't fans of it. Um,
Just not um, and I would say as far as s1ing the lavender or the urkel if it was that simple as just s1
You'll find something so much better than why hasn't it been done and why isn't it talked about all the time?
And if it were that simple, why do breeders that have also supposedly the urkel cut?
Ask mad for it regularly. So those are the kinds of questions that I ask myself. Um,
So no s1s won't I don't ever see them happening not with us. Um,
And I don't think it's as simple as just s1 and you'll find something better because if that were the case
It would have been done already
Yeah, so i'm actually if the opposite mindset of the eye i've yet to see a single s1 which is as good as the parent
Yeah, see and I but you know some people ask too, um
Do you do you ever find where uh, the strains that you've created come out better than the like the keeper mother and i'm like
Yes, otherwise we wouldn't bother
Uh create, you know, otherwise we wouldn't bother
You know, it's a different obviously it's better but it's a different better. It's different than the mother
um, but I do think there's
If it did come out if it was something as good or better then people would do it all the time and they would do it
With everything and then there would be no need for regular seeds, I would think
So yeah, I gotta I gotta say no to the s1 thing if it were that simple to find something so much better
And it were that that much easier I would think it would have already been done by now
And does that extend to just feminize in general like would you do femme crosses or just now?
No, we we we um, you know, like I said i've learned from mad so
based off of his um
Like I said, he's he's got a really he's got a mad brain
He um the amount of knowledge he has taken in when it comes to cannabis is insane
It's just like nothing i've ever seen before and um, he has a solid belief on why he doesn't believe in it
why he does like regular seeds and
He's made his argument with me and I can I can I can agree with that and I you know
I I can look at it too even with like people in genetics. I mean, I really wouldn't want to do that with my kids. So
You know kind of the same thing
Yeah
so
I wanted to ask you a question that I asked mad in the initial interview I did with him
How do you feel about granddaddy purple seeing as it's kind of like the watered-down urkel?
Um
You know, I I guess I don't really have much of an opinion either way. Um,
I was actually smoking some and some concentrates of the granddaddy purple. Um,
we went to that indo expo and mad packed my vape pen, but he didn't pack the
Top of it. So I only had the bottom half the battery portion. Uh, no cartridge
Yeah, so i'm like how am I supposed to smoke when you only packed half of my shit?
But when we got there the one of the seeds here now guys, um, ben was nice enough to gift me
One of the little concentrate tips and it was granddaddy purple. So I got to smoke that it was pretty all right. So I mean
No to me wasn't as wasn't nothing like urkel
Do you see any similarity or you're skeptical on the link?
Uh, it's like a like a very watered down mild
Version maybe but it's definitely not it's not the same as urkel. It's uh actually has to me it had more of um,
I don't know maybe more of like a perfumey type
Kind of spin to it
That made it more different than the than the urkel was for me
But it definitely it didn't the one thing I can say is for it being concentrates. It didn't even get me high
It just gave me like a really like mild buzz so that was kind of a disappointment but it was just nice to have
Is that a concern you have in general because what i've heard is is that?
There's just like an exponential growth in both the demand and the supply of these cartridge types of products
And i've heard that that's where a lot of the shady back
Shady back
Back counter stuff can happen in terms of like material getting process that like probably wouldn't pass or stuff
Like are you concerned about that? Or do you think it's all a bit of like rumor wives tale type stuff?
Oh, I think anytime that you have rumors, you got to take into consideration things come from somewhere. So there's likely some truth to it
Um, but I think anytime you're doing business with people you just need to do your research
um
You know, you should know what you're getting into at least if as far as that goes
um
like you mean as far as uh
Concentrates like as far as testing and being clean like for your bugs and yeah
What i've heard is that like?
There's a lot of bud which you know
Maybe does have an issue but it just gets turned into concentrates and then by the time it gets down to like the type
Of thing which would end up in a cartridge. It's so highly processed that you would just have no idea
Like that it's been like there's like pesticides and all that. Yeah. Yeah
And stuff. Yeah. No. Yeah. No, i'm sure there's definite truth to that because it
That has to have come from somewhere. I would I would assume there's truth to it. But um
Like I like I was saying I would just assume you know
Um, whoever you do business with if you have somebody
You know creating those for you or making putting your
Making it into concentrates. You should you should probably know where you're getting your your medicine from at least have an idea
Once which is also one of the reasons why mad and I like to
smoke our own
You don't have to worry about it
Do you think there's a certain negative element in the way that there's this?
In the way that there's this separation from the plant in that you can just get this cartridge and it's so removed from the flower
That it leads to this situation where you get these crazy, you know, possibly adulterants in there
Whereas if everyone was just still sticking with flour arguably
It's more medicinal and you're more likely to spot any, you know visual issues things like that
Yeah, and I actually do I have even noticed. Um
Uh, you know concentrates they say concentrates are stronger, but i've even noticed sometimes uh, um
a difference from say if you were to take this
Urkel
flower smoke it and then compare it to the same concentrates made from it I noticed there is like a
difference in the way my body like
Reacts to that even if it's the same strain
um, I don't know I do feel like um
I feel like I do have a more true feeling
Front of a stone when I smoke an actual flower versus concentrate
I get I feel like it gives me a better. Um,
I don't know like I have a better feel of that particular strain if I smoke it in flour versus concentrates
Okay
I definitely agree with that one myself
and so
Uh, I found a forum post many years ago, I think it was 2011 or something
And it said that like it reckons it had the genetics listed for the triply wicked and the purple jackie
Have you guys tried to keep that under wraps?
No
any any
Anything that you can find like any any records of when we were online
It should be fully accessible to anybody that wants to see I um
We've always been honest about what we worked from when we originally first got um
The mail that we worked in those lines. Um
That was it was a mail that was gifted to us. I know mads told this story before. Um
It was um, like all the names were always left out
So it just made me wonder like do you intentionally not want to reveal the lineage of certain things or?
No, like on on which one in particular which which form is this that we're speaking of is it was it who's post
There's one on roll it up by a guy called elite nugs. Um, he says he's a friend of yours, but you know
Oh, yeah. Yeah, I remember him. Okay. I know who you're talking about
Yeah, yeah, what what is it that he listed specifically because I was never on roll it up
he says purple jackie is mendo cross a purple urkel mail and
Uh, triply wicked is lavender cross a purple urkel mail
Okay, no there is actually like a bit of a story to this it goes back a bit further and I I do prefer mad
Tell this story. I think he's even actually covered this when when you and him did one of your interviews before. Um, okay
Oh my god
It's like such an extensive story the gentleman that we got our mail cut from back then when we first worked it
Uh, there's like um, he contacted us and he says i've got this cut. These are he has a cut and
Um, they're these beans that he had and it was uh, this the particular he got them they were
what
labeled as urkel
Purple urkel beans now. This is many many years ago. So
Madden him formed a relationship and there's like a whole story from there and I believe he's told it but as far as like dates
And all that stuff that's something that you'd have to touch on with him because like I said this goes back to like the beginning
When I really didn't have so much involvement
um, and this was a deal between him and this particular guy, but the reason it's listed that way is because
um
They believed it was from the urkel
The lineage was from the purple urkel the mail that that we were gifted back when we used it
Which we did we ended up killing that mail, which was the one that was used. Um to make the original
purple jackie beans and the original tdub beans
Yeah, okay
Um, so if you dig back a bit further maybe 2003
2006 or so somewhere around that area
Um, it's another forum that we were actually on
There's a particular story in there and it'll explain all of that it explains. Um,
Just in in full detail
um
Where the cut itself came from that this mail we we used in the project
the truth is is it's just basically we had to label it as we were told it was and all we know is what
People believe they were labeled as at the time and it was supposed to be from
the same lineage as purple urkel itself, so
There's no secret behind the lineage. It's just nobody really knew what to call it. And at the time it was actually labeled
the triple e mail like as in e
E and e
Because back then too. I don't know if you know or how familiar you are
But there were times when they were spelling urkel with an e does that?
Ring a bell to you. Yeah. Yeah. I remember that photo, right? Okay, so
and
Um some of the research done back on this this cut that we also were gifted
Back when this project was originally created
That's how they were labeled was as urkel
So that's where the e came from because the original spelling on those were spelled with an e
So if you look back further, you can find some more research
it's all there to be seen but as far as like
the full details and the story and the names that would all be best to come from mad because
my brain just
Doesn't remember all of that stuff quite as well
Plus I like I said, I didn't jump in until I had to
and that was much much later when he got so sick and um,
He ended up in the hospital and he just couldn't do all this work by himself anymore. So
yeah, um
I believe he told you this story too when you guys did your one of your interviews like I almost positive he had
yeah, yeah, he did it was just um the those details about the
The urkel and the lavender and where it all started as the parents I think we didn't get those bits
yeah, and see that's too where his why he's always had such a fascination too for
understanding the urkel and the lavender lineage because
He's and he he's he's positive like he's he's sure he knows what it what it was that created
Like he knows if you ask him he knows in his mind what?
Created that lavender and what created that urkel and I just he he has an amazing mind for it and
um
back then that's what sparked his interest because everybody was so insistent that all the purple strains back then were
Identical and they just weren't and he knew it and that's that's where all of that
That interest came from was because of those projects he had started up
yeah, and so
The thing that i've noticed about the purple strains is to me
They've got some of the most kind of most enjoyable terpene profiles, you know, you referenced earlier. There's like a perfuminess to them almost
How do you feel about that? And what's your favorite terpene profile?
um
well
I don't know. Sometimes I feel like a brat. Um
With the lavender side of things you tend to have um, I would say it is more floral
Sometimes, um, my daughter will even say it has like a like it reminds her of walking into starbucks the smell
um, so lavender has that smell which is really nice and it does um,
It does roll over into the flavor sometimes and then as to where urkel
Urkel will tend to have more of like a grape soda every once in a while, too
You'll even pick up like a pink bubblegum flavor in there
Um, but that's like you those are the bit of a different uh flavor profiles in those purples and then
in our uh, wicked clementine and like some of the t-dub
T-dubs that we've grown
They are heavily citrus. I mean, it's so
It's so it's so
Dominant and some people will say it's orange like some will say it's uh, lemon like
pint, uh, like pink lemonade like
Some will say it's more like grapefruit. Um, but those those types of turps actually start to bother me after a while
I do lean more towards um
That the flavor that the urkel and the lavender tend tend to carry
but I do also like um
The more old school flavor that that clementine kicks out because it's just it just reminds you of like a real old school bud
um
just kind of maybe like a
I don't know just really
Really soft easy on the lungs like a real mild
Maybe mild kind of like a hint of pine to it, but almost sour at the same time. It's really nice
It sounds good
It is good and it's actually super stony that clementine. Um
It does if you like if I haven't been smoking much of her it just fucks me up like makes me stupid
So
Final question that was submitted from one of our patreon fans
They say I would love you to ask mrs. Madd
What does she look for in a keeper and how does she approach a growing room in general?
And so I think what they mean by that is is it just purely about like effect like you just smoke it and that's all
Or either other considerations like yield, you know ease of growing all those types of things. Like how do you decide keepers?
Oh god, everything everything I take everything into effect. Um
Like starting in veg. There's a couple of things that i'm going to pay attention to first off in there. Um
One you got to take into account what your grow space is like, you know, if you have um height restrictions
space restrictions of any type you need to
Focus the strains that you grow around that. Um, which is one of the things that I love
I like to say, you know, our strains are really nice about that
Because we are limited with height and space and whatnot we do try to focus a plant that
Can produce you something super stony with the flavor but also in a manageable space and doesn't like top out at crazy heights
So we do try to touch on that. Um, so i'm looking at stuff that grows similar
To a structure that I like and I do I like a shorter squatty plant. Um,
I like a growth structure that I can
Um control rather easy
um, I don't like a super finicky plant so if if um,
If she gets if I give a if a female especially gets root bound and if it starts getting temperamental with me
I don't like that. I don't want it to be root bound and start showing problems instantly. I like them to be super tough
I don't like them to be um
I don't like when they're temperamental because then if you have to like be away
Or there's going to be any type of stressor, you know that they're going to be easily set off
I don't like to necessarily keep plants like that
Um, so structure's big, uh pest resistance is nice
I do not like strains that uh have like a tendency to have powdery mildew. That's the worst
especially if you're
Limited on the space that you're working. You don't want to have to deal with powdery mildew and stuff like that
so we stay away from strains that
Um have tendencies to pick up powdery mildew or draw in certain bugs, but at the same time we also uh
Plants that are really expressive in their turps tend to draw
Bugs nuisance bugs so, you know, you kind of have to balance that out
um
now as far as in
Flower like oh two stem rubs are always nice
I know people talk about that a lot but just any kind of smells that you can pick up from them
Might give you some um signs on what what a plant will give you
um
Just the colors that they express
How thick the stalks get I pay attention to everything. Um
Again, like I said, I stress them I make them ugly
I like to see how how reactive they are. Can they crowd out? Um
Are they strong enough to crowd out other plants when situations get tough, you know when when things get really overgrown
Can they dominate as to where another plant may get pushed out? So I look at stuff like that
um
Just stuff like that, uh
But keepers
Again, like we're always looking for we do I like to stay within a certain type of structure
it was really super hard for me to take in that um, the
The lemon larry that we took in because I hate its growth patterns
they're really like crazy and it's not really within the what i'm used to but um,
So yeah, that's something out of what I typically would like but i'm working with it
That's still very comprehensive answer
so
Something I would love to quickly ask where do terpenes and aesthetics rate for you?
So for example, if you bred something and it's absolutely amazing smoke, but there's no terpenes
Is that like a no-go for you? Like where do all these things sit?
All right, that's actually really an easy. That's really one of the easier questions. Um
Seriously looking for balance all we're always looking for balance
Um, it's got to offer you up some, you know, very specific things. Um, like I said one
You want stability first and foremost stability is important
Two if I can't stand the taste of it, that's going to be a bit of a problem
If I don't like it if it's going to make my throat hurt if it burns my lungs, those are all problems
so I know like if it's
I know if it's doing that on a consistent basis. I can tell you without a doubt. It's not what my husband is doing
In flower because he babies his plants and they always come out with the best available flavors. So if it's something that's not
just
Giving it up in the flavor department. It likely won't even be touched by us
but it could have all the flavor in the world if it doesn't
Uh doesn't give you the desired effect of you know
Getting you stoned taking care of your stomach issues
Um taking care of your aches and pains and your sore back or helping you sleep at night
There has to be balance but stability first and foremost. Um
And like again, it should it should be giving you something
every bit as good as
Those keeper mamas and if it's not giving you every bit as good as those keeper mamas or better
Then it's just not worth your time
so
So on the tail end of it all now
This is a question. I love to ask people. Um, but I think in my head
It always seems like it'll be a harder question than what it is
If you could only do one for the rest of your life indoor or outdoor, which one would it be?
Okay. Yeah, see this is funny mad would tell you all day long. He would say outdoor. I would not I would say indoor I
Maybe because i'm i'm i'm i'm not big on change. Um,
I don't like change whenever I make changes nine times out of ten. I find myself very disappointed
I'm talking across the board in life. So maybe that's why I say that. Um, no, i'm just being honest
Every time I make a change
it rarely
Turns out better. So i'm not a fan of change because of this
I'm i'm the kind of person that if I find something and it works for me
I'm not I will I will make a change if you can give me evidence
That shows me if you do it like this and you can give me an example of how
There will be solid evidence to prove it will be better. I will
But you have to be able to present me with solid evidence because i'm not about to abandon everything
I know and everything I do great at
Unless there's a good reason to do that. I that's just that's me
So in regards to indoor what is your preferred type of light
Oh my gosh, you know, this is where there is no there's no, uh, there's no real compromise here
This is all mad
No compromise what mad says goes? Um, no for my veg. I we've got just basic t5s
Um mad's pretty basic. He's old school. He likes old school all the way, but no he's um
Pretty dead set on the certain things that he uses but no
Um when it comes to stuff like that, I don't I I don't um, I don't pretend to have input there
Like I said, what are you guys running flower?
Um, he's actually he's old school, dude. He's got um,
the uh, what it
Hps is so hard for me. Yes. He has high pressure sodiums, but he's got just we have our old school ballasts in there
But they have never done us wrong
um hydrofarm all the way
Uh never had a problem not once and I think the ones that we even have have like
just the best warranties on them, so
Yeah, he like I said, he even is to a certain extent like me, you know you
Um in anything that we do he's very much a perfectionist like I am. Um
I don't mess with anything if it's working well for me unless I find a reason that I need to change it
In that case I will um, he's the same way
But actually it's funny that you bring that up because he was just telling me the other day
um
because we're gonna be
needing to put some
Plants into flowers soon, but he was talking about wanting to go through a bunch of changes on um lights and whatnot
And i'm thinking oh i'm so glad that's not my
That's not not in the within the realm of the things that I do because I don't want to deal with it
I really don't but that's one of the things really nice about what him and I do together because
It's such a shared
Responsibility. He really does do the things that I hate or I don't I don't like to do
And trust me there are some of those and then there's some things that I just i'll be honest
That's another thing I love about this industry. You will never know everything there is to know there's always something to learn
Cannabis is one of the coolest things because you will never have all the knowledge there is to have you can always learn something
New and I really do enjoy that
um
but yeah, uh, we get to share in everything that we do and
He has such an extensive knowledge. Um, and he's been studying for so long that
He's he does make a good majority of our decisions unless like I said, it's one of those things that falls within my um,
You know things that I like to control because I am I am a control freak
He will tell you i'm almost borderline psycho when it comes to the things I like to control
So what's a general grow tip you've got for the viewers just to you know, get things, you know
Just perky a little better that type of thing
You know, I think one of the things people don't realize I I think they forget it is basically a weed
Um, just keep in mind, uh, they they're real basic. They grow it's pretty simple. Um, they don't require a whole lot
um, just really
Love and care you can really just watch them and they'll tell you everything that they need
Um reading is always good. Um
One of the things that I actually personally feel like I have learned myself that has been extremely helpful for me
Is if I ever have a problem?
The one thing I don't do I know everybody runs to the computer first thing. Um, I do not go on
pot forums
I refuse to find information there because most of it a lot of it is crazy for starters
But a lot of it will send you to doing things to your plants that's crazy dangerous bad for them
Um, sometimes we'll kill them
Um, but also we'll we'll straight up make you panic
Um, so I what I try to do is I try to do a lot of my research
just basically apply common sense knowledge to it and then I do a lot of agricultural site research and
We're lucky to have some friends in like agricultural business
So you can ask them questions and they can kind of give you some guidance on which way to go
With certain products or you know pest questions. Um, so yeah, I would say
Don't get all your information from pot forums. That could be really dangerous
and really bad for your plants
um and just
Don't overdo it. Keep it basic and then read books. Don't just run and ask
Somebody that you think can answer the question for you
Go get the knowledge yourself read as many books as you can. There are some really good ones out there
I think mad has probably about 20 of them in his possession
Over the years he's been collecting
um, but yeah, I think a lot of people too with um pot plants, they just overdo it they
They think more is better and it's not it's just a basic plant and it grows pretty easy. It really does
Yeah killing it with kindness
Yes
All righty. So this brings us to our last little quickfire questions first one
What is your favorite strain? Can only pick one?
Oh, that's a hard. Hmm
I don't know
Like today my favorite strain would be lavender
for sure
Um, I don't know we've been we've had it in our collection in our collection for so long
It's like I said, it's one no matter how crappy I feel
I know that I can I can go to lavender and get some type of relief. So i've got to say her lavender all the way
And so what is the strain that's just least left an impact on you slash just didn't impress you at all personally
Oh
My gosh, oh this feels like an awful question to answer. There's so many of them
Oh, yeah
I I don't know. I don't want to say like left awful impressions
I'd say that there's a lot of strains out there with a lot of hype to them just based off of names
Which kind of drives me crazy? Well, that's actually the next question like so we'll just combine them together
What's the worst strain to ever gain traction with the masses?
Uh, I
I think depending on what strain is
The current cut of the month club would be the one that falls in that category for me
So probably as of lately i'd say some dumb ass
Cookies or something like that. Um, I just hate that. I don't know why but I really do
Again, like you were asking earlier. Do you feel like this is why I don't feel like i'm limiting myself. I feel like i'm setting standards
By doing that because then we're not running out doing the exact same thing that everybody else is doing and let's face it
Everybody else is doing that same exact thing
So, yeah, nope
Cookies all of those what else is there? You've got what what was you had that nine nine pound hammer for a while there?
Which that's been a ways away. Thank god. There was um
You have like of course like the ogkb like all of these little ones that pop up with all these crazy
Followings, but I do i'm not saying that the strain itself sucks because i'm not saying that i'm just like I think the hype
behind it is
Overplayed and overblown is more how I would look at it
totally
So if you could only smoke one land race variety for the rest of your life, what's it going to be?
Oh my gosh
I don't know dad. I don't know. What would you pick?
Whatever that land race tie boat he gave me was
You don't know what it was
Yeah, it was like pearl tie. I think he said it was lowland tie
And why why was this your pick?
God, it's so good
Is what what stood out what about it stood out to you
Because it's like um, it's like what you wish super silver haze was it's like everyone's happy you're happy it's a good time
Is there any strains that you can think of that, um
Are like really really good, but just don't get any attention
Blue magoo
Straight up number one
I love blue. It's my favorite strain. Can you hear me? Okay. What what is it?
it's um, it's the
It's it's made by an unknown grower from oregon and it's a cross of blueberry and williams wonder f2
um, so pretty solid genetics in it and it's kind of like it's kind of perfumey in the same way that like urkel is but
More of like a blueberry and roses type of thing as opposed to like
A real, you know, like musky perfume in the way that urkel is I think
Yeah that the blueberry flavors can get kind of overwhelming at times though
Is it?
You like it? We actually yeah, we played with some blueberry
I I think we may that might be something we might revisit at some point
But when we did we played around with the blueberry and the urkel
We even have some blueberry the northern lights by blueberry somewhere
Um, but when we played with that urkel by blueberry everything it just smelled like a giant blueberry muffin in everywhere
It was like blueberry muffins all day long and I just got really tired of that
There's a significant demand for that
Maybe we should
Maybe we should definitely consider looking back into that because I could see maybe the northern lights by blueberry being fun to play around with
You know that might be something worth looking into
I think it's it's a cross that's been done by so many different breeders
It's going to be hard like, you know
I think a lot of people probably like for example me when I hear northern lights blueberry
I'm like, oh, yeah, like one of the million northern lights blueberries
And that's just obviously like a knee-jerk reaction due to how many just rip-off companies there are offering that
Um, whereas I think the urkel blueberry would be really really unique and as far as I know no one offers that
Yeah, we have those too. We do we've uh, we
We grew actually a bunch of them out and it was just like we were both so sick of it
When we were done it was like
that smell
Everything was just like a blueberry muffin. It was so overwhelming
You just really got sick of it, but I think we were sick of it
but I don't think anybody else was it was just one of those things and
The t-dub the the t-dub lines are actually like that too because they're very
That citrus the citrus scents and tones that they pick up are so heavy and dominant. It's like
It's so overwhelming for your palate at times
Yeah, okay. So lucky last question
If you could go back in time to any place collect any seeds, which ones would you get?
I don't know
That's actually a really good question
Would you go and grab the bundle of uh, you know?
Because who knows how many seeds there were in the original urkel or lavender batch, but like, you know
Go sweep them up or what are you thinking?
No, I don't think I would
I don't think I would I think I'd go. I don't I don't know. I just
I
I I think i'm ready to look look at something a little bit different, too
Um, I don't know it would I'm not really sure
I think there's so much put behind. Um, everybody wanting certain strains and whatnot
I don't think i'm as obsessed as others are
So these kinds of questions I think other people think about them quite regularly and these aren't
things that really have ever crossed my mind and
I think it's just because um, i've never really been into that whole
the strain craze
Uh, like the research and who had what and what stories this i've just never really been that into it
Um, I don't know and it would be hard for me to say
If I haven't actually smoked this particular strain, I can't see myself really wanting
I don't know
I guess i'd have to have some sort of interest in it to say I would want those beans to play around with
and off the top of my head
nothing that I could particularly think of I think
Everything that we currently have that i'd want to play around with we have access to
But like I did say though I definitely want to get some awesome cbd strain in our in our collection to work through
But I don't know as far as that question. That one's tricky
Yeah, let's make that cbd thing happen
But I mean, I know I really I really do
Yeah, so I think that just might bring us about to the end of it
Did you have any comments or shout outs you'd like to make?
Um, yeah, actually, um, i'm curious too though, what is it that you're currently working with?
Like my current project i'm doing
Yeah, what what strains are you currently working with? I'm doing i'm finishing off the cube of the phantom crackers
So i'm pretty sure I sent you the bx1s
So i'm currently finishing the bx2s and then i'll probably do the bx3s as well
Depending on how the bx2s turn out like if they if they're good enough
I'll just leave it at that but you know
I like the idea of finishing the project off where it should be. So
Um, just you know in the sense that you know statistic I like
You know at a certain point you can statistically calculate it should have a certain amount of the parent within it
And so yeah, the cube seems like the the good end point, but who knows?
But then I got some other stuff off in the the back that i'm toying with but
Not 100 sure yet. I'm gonna maybe see where it goes
There's so many possibilities when you start putting strains together
You never really know when you're going to be done looking through them. There's just so many possibilities. It's fun
Yeah, for sure. And I mean I need to take a page out of your book in regards to the um,
the organization of the notes because
I got a lot of good seeds, but some of those little baggies the uh, the the writing on them starting to fade
Oh, yeah. No, I actually I I sit down about once a year
I pull our stock of seeds like that that all have different types of patterns
like that that all have different types of packaging and whatnot and
I sit down and I will relabel and make sure because you notice after handling and whatnot
Some of them will rub off or yeah, you know, you just don't want to lose what your seeds are
But too like like I was saying we are
Uh, you know, I hear these interviews and people can quote, you know months and years and I can't I would have to tell you
Right now if you wanted to know these things I would have to go into the other room and dig out
We have stacks and notebooks
I actually I started out buying mad calendars
With the big, you know the desk calendar
So you had the big squares and he started out using those but then he would fill up the entire note section and he needed more
Space so I started buying notebooks and what we do is each day that you do something you write in
The you write your month your day and the year and you even write the day like if it's saturday you write down
Saturday so, you know, but you know, you can go back and reference each time
And we list uh, like if you're if you're feeding or you're giving them something you write down what you're giving them how much?
Um, we get real specific if you're doing any type of treatments of any kind you write it down
We write everything down and then we keep these stacks and stacks and notebooks and it gives you um
Believe it or not. You don't use the majority of it
But it's really neat to look back through because you can find that you have a lot of knowledge there
You you you completely forgot you had
And it tells you a lot about the stranger growing. So we do we're note keepers all the way
Yeah killer
And so it's nice
Yeah, you want to any shout outs or you want to wrap it up?
Well, I would definitely like to thank you for um for interviewing me today
It's been fun talking to you and thank you to my husband and my daughter. They're amazing
I don't I wouldn't I wouldn't i'm nothing without those two
And seriously, I give all my credit to my husband because i've learned everything from him he's just amazing and I love him
um
And you know to all of our our amazing growers and supporters
um, all of the people that have grown our genetics are always so nice and kind to us and
Of course, we're nothing without them. So we appreciate all the support that they've given to us. Um
Super special shout out to everybody in australia like I was telling you. Um
Everyone in australia is always so positive and they're such amazing people
Great growers too. I might add. Um
but one of the things I think everybody could learn from uh, just like online presence of the people in australia
Everybody is so kind. I have never
Ever been trolled by somebody out of australia and I just think that I just want to make that known
I absolutely love that
And again, I just would like to thank dirt mdnc crop both of those guys are amazing
Um, their products are amazing and everybody should check them out and too like I said
our homie bang mingo
um, he keeps me in my concentrates when i'm out of anything else and
He's too is likely to be a future business partner of me and mad
So there's nice things coming to in our future hopefully too and um, like I said, we got some local friends the jenison project
They're out of modesto
They operate both the medicinal and an adult youth store
um, they're called the jenison project and I go to them too for
concentrates when I need um
And they also actually do quite a nice selection process through our genetics and they also uh sell
sell flowers of um
Mad farmer genetics out of their shop too. So that's nice. Um,
But yeah, like I said, I appreciate my husband. He's taught me a lot and
He's just awesome and wouldn't be in this industry without him
And I really do appreciate you taking the time to talk to me today
Yeah, so thanks so much for coming on
Oh, thank you. Thanks for having me
Oh, yeah, and mad said to tell you um
He's how beautiful you are
So a huge huge huge thank you to mrs mad for taking the time to talk to us
Huge thank you to all you guys for listening
Our sponsors seeds here now 420 australia organic gardening solutions, you know, you love them. They're the best big ups guys. We love you
And finally our patreon fans lifeblood of the show go check it out if you haven't already
Because dina seemed to be up there you probably never heard about
