Hello and welcome to the next episode of the podcast, a cannabis podcast for budding enthusiasts.
So here we have it folks, the second part of the Bodie interview.
As always, this episode was brought to us by Organic Gardening Solutions, 420 Australia
and all things Bodie.
I hope you're ready to jump back into it.
Here we go.
So this next one is a little bit of a two-parter.
How do you feel about the idea of certain gear or cuts, so to speak, having kind of
bad vibes associated with them?
This is an idea I've heard a few times.
I guess the most notable example would be, you know, and I could be wrong here, but I
think I'm pretty correct.
I'm fairly confident that Indian guy's specific instructions were that he didn't want anyone
to like kind of F to the G13 hash plan.
But that seems to have kind of happened, you know, and I know that you broke it, but you
didn't F to it.
So that's, we're not talking about you, obviously.
Do you feel that like in that such situation where someone has made it fairly clear their
intentions and then some other party has kind of done the opposite of that?
Do you feel there is such a thing as kind of bad vibes associated with that gear or
not necessarily?
It's just a shame that that person's intentions weren't respected.
I think it's kind of a shame.
I mean, I think it applies in different ways.
Like I think for Indiana, it's a special kind of thing because he's kind of like a deep
grandfather of a lot of people.
Like he's an old timer and he was a big seed collector and he has a lot of amazing stuff
and he's very altruistic and he's in giving and he gives, he'll give, you know, the most
rare seeds ever to like some new guy that, you know, maybe that just started like he,
he's, he's kind of like this unique Santa Claus.
And I think for someone that does that, I mean, I've heard him get in trouble too of
giving out stuff that he's not supposed to, but he, for him, I think, you know, with elders,
especially, I think we should kind of respect that.
And his whole thing was he wanted that strain to be kind of like, he wanted to be free.
He wanted people to enjoy it and you want to do it.
And his big thing was, yeah, you can make hybrids, but you can't, you can't F to it
for money.
So I'm pretty sure you can give it away.
You know, I talked to him for a while, but there does seem to be a lot of those kind
of strange cuts and it's mostly people just kind of, I understand if they're really rare
and if people spend a tremendous amount of time or it's enough or it's, it's a family
strain that goes back generations.
But I think that's where communication comes in.
If you know, if people are open and they communicate about what they want to do and what things
are, there doesn't need to be bad blood or things.
And it's sad when a strain gets that kind of energetic kind of a gunk on it because
it holds that, you know, just like every seed is kind of a prayer that's just waiting to
be popped open and through epigenetics, it holds not only its history going back through
time, but all the cultures that utilized it.
Like a seed is this, I mean, people don't really realize how amazing it is.
It's this kind of dusky jewel that, that, that transforms time into, you know, into
a tangible way to interact with.
It's, yeah, it's, it's basically like a bejeweled time machine that holds everything.
So I think, you know, these seeds and clones and everything are very sacred and very special
and they don't need to have this thing around.
And I, you know, there are instances where, like I said, with families that hold that,
but I don't know, it's tricky.
I think it comes down to really the communication and if people have something that you want
to, that you want to keep to yourself, you probably shouldn't give it out because things
get out, you know, people are human.
And it's like, if you give it out, it's probably going to get out.
And it's, you know, I don't know.
I understand it from all different things, all different viewpoints, but really it's
a, it comes down to communication, I think.
And that's where it's going to happen, you know.
Yeah, for sure.
So are there any parts which you don't like to work with from maybe say the kind of the
more modern elite clones?
Maybe not necessarily due to what we were just talking about, but maybe just in general,
you don't particularly like working with them.
Are there any, you know, kind of popular modern elite clones that fall into that category
for you?
You know, I veer away from work of certain breeders that I don't jive with.
I respect everybody, but sometimes I won't usually breed with clones from someone that
I don't, our lines are jive with so much.
And for clones, you know, and I don't know if there's a, if it's a really, like if it
has a lot of drama around it, I kind of stay away with it from it unless, unless I know
who it came from and I can kind of communicate with them like GG4, like, you know, I know
that I can communicate and I could offer up what I want to do and they could respect that
and I can respect them and that could happen.
I don't know, like, you know, with Josie and people that have special things, like
if there's a communication there, I think it's okay.
But there are a lot of clones that just get out into the wild and people go with it and
people get uptight and I don't know, it's none of those kind of communication things.
It's such a strange thing.
I wish people would kind of stop chasing these clones and really just start popping their
seed collections, you know, and also, you know, I see kind of like a new interesting
trend.
It's like before it would just be these amazing clones that people would have that pop up,
like the cams and the OGs and now, but now you're seeing people that have kind of like
a good vibe and a good internet presence, like Capitulator or Stunkmasterflex who have
like the GMO cookies and Cap's got the Mac and just from their good vibes and them hyping
it on up their strain that they really like that they've created, they've kind of created
their own elites and I think, so we're not just finding them anymore, we're kind of creating
them and I think that is going to show people that anyone can find these special elites
and then, hey, if people have a problem, it's like then you have your own special elite,
you guys can trade.
It's like I think people should stop chasing and start creating, you know.
I think people, we have so much to uncover that it's kind of, we don't want to just be
chasing our tails anymore, even though it's fun and the strains are pretty cool these
days but I think there's a lot more to really explore.
So with that in mind, how important do you feel it is that new seeds are constantly being
popped because for example, in Australia, I find people don't really pop that many seeds,
so to speak, at least on average and I try to tell them in my opinion at least, it seems
like that's what drives the progression of the scene in a way, you know, like the new
things coming out that people can enjoy, you know.
How do you feel about that and does that play into your philosophy of making F1s because
it's almost a way of facilitating that?
Yeah, I mean, in California, it's kind of different.
It is a clone culture and it's kind of changing now, especially with outdoor and people realizing
that seeds are just so much more vibrant and the root system is so much more amazing and
they don't have all the STDs that all the clones do.
But you know, California is a clone culture and it's a hype culture.
It's driven by music, it's driven by coolness, it's driven by, you know, even if a strain
maybe isn't the ultimate strain, if you get rappers smoking and rapping about it, you
know, Cookie's a good example.
Cookie's is an amazing strain, it's really cool, but there's a lot of drama around it.
There's a lot of people saying, you know, this and that and it makes cool hybrids.
It's neat, but it's people are, you know, things are people just, people will latch
on to something and just take it, you know, just hammer it to the ground and it's kind
of sad for the strain itself.
It's like, I would love to see people popping seeds and I think it's happening more and
I think people are getting more into it.
I just worry about the future and the way things are going, you know, maybe eventually
as Chicanos speak, it's getting really cheaper and there's lots of brands and there's lots
of people pumping it out that people won't really have the impetus to pop seeds.
Maybe people just do it ornamentally or just for craft, but I really think that, yeah,
everything comes from a seed and all of our best stuff is always, it's just where it comes
from.
I mean, that's its origin, that's where you're going to find it and that's where we should
be looking.
Yeah.
So, I mean, if we kind of tap into the mindset of the people who are kind of promoting that
clone community, at least subconsciously, a lot of what I hear from these types of folk
is that, you know, the elite clones are just so far superior to, you know, most things
you'd get out of seeds that it's almost not worth bothering with seeds.
With that in mind, do you find there's a big variation between the elites?
Like, do you find that there are some cuts that are definitely considered elite, you
know, they're just phenomenal in every way, but then there are others which are maybe
considered elite by the masses, but they just really kind of don't stand up compared to
the other one, for example.
Yeah, I think too there's also sometimes in the clone world you get a lot of different
clones.
Like, I'm sure that, you know, there's at least two Blue Dream clones.
There's a really good Blue Dream clone that I love.
I think Blue Dream's awesome, but Blue Dream gets a lot of flack and I think it's because
people grow the really bland, quicker, more Indica version of Blue Dream.
I don't know.
I think there's clones that are elites because they have a history.
They've performed for, you know, 10, 20 years and they have a really special uniqueness
to them and they always kind of hit home just where you want them.
And then there's a lot of the, especially in the new hyper-terpie kind of, I call it
kind of a pop art breeding, kind of like a derivative breeding where it's, people are
real, everybody's kind of, everything's derivative of itself and people are smashing everything
together and it's kind of like the Andy Warhol style of breeding where it's very neon, it's
very flashy, it's bright, it's loud, you're really hitting all the boxes with flavor and
smell and it's more for the kind of like recreational kind of dab culture that loves the more, they
love the enjoyment of the flavors and the taste more than maybe so the effects or the
origins.
And so, you know, it kind of comes down to it as like if an elite's been an elite for
more than five years, I think it, you know, like OG, no one's going to dispute that that's
not an awesome plant.
Chem is, no one's going to dispute that.
But there's new stuff that comes online and people chase every day that, you know, and
it's hard for me.
I like to, I find it fascinating and I love to try all these new things and I try and
keep abreast, you know, like all the new stuff, like the purple punches and the Sunday driver
and the orange trees and the lemons, this and the, I love checking all those out and
I love seeing that.
But, you know, a lot of times those don't last more than a year or two, you know, and
same with cookies.
Cookies is a great plant.
It's held itself up and, you know, people love it and it's probably lasted the test
of time.
But there's a lot of derivative kind of one-offs that pop in and up kind of like bubbles, they
pop up at the surface, people get really into it and when enough people try it, they're
kind of like, hmm.
So, I think it's more of elites, it's what passes the test of time, you know.
And so, do you ever have any intentions of ever delving back into some of the really
old school stock like, you know, SSSC for example?
We've got the temple, you know, a good example of where you've done that.
Would you ever be interested in doing it more and if not, is that because, you know, the
future excites you so much?
Oh no, I love vintage lines and that's kind of one of my things for Supernatural Selections
is like I really get to get deeper into those and I actually have a lot of stuff going on
right now that, you know, some of my old stuff of, you know, like Beatrice Trois and NL2
and you know, like all these really unique old vintage ones I have, you know, from older
seed companies.
I have a really nice friend who was instrumental in some of the early Neville work and Sensi
work and he sends me some really cool stuff and I love getting stuff from him and sometimes
it's so junk and it turns out funny but I just love seeing it because it's like a snapshot
to a bygone era, you know, it's like you really get to see and it's neat to see what people
remember and then what the really the reality is, you know, because, you know, over time
people granulize their memories and they change and but I love vintage stuff.
It's one of my favorite things to pop and whenever I can, I do, you know, and I have
quite a good collection of vintage seeds but I can only do so much and since I do kind
of have to work on a couple different levels, I kind of have to partition myself.
So I'd say like 50% goes to Bodhi Seeds and then 10% goes to Vintage and 15% goes to Norica
and now I think maybe like 30% will go to Supernatural Selection.
So I just, I have to find that kind of pie chart that makes everything move forward so
I can pay the rent and also explore everything I can and also, you know, follow my own passion
and also create things so people can follow their own passion.
But yeah, I would love to see more vintage stuff come out and I really get excited and
I love all the stuff that Mean Gene pulls out of his hat.
He has a lot of cool vintage stuff and yeah, people are just popping on the woodwork with
all these unique lines.
I'm like, whoa, that still exists, you know, it's like, wow, someone has that.
I'm excited about vintage lines.
Yeah, I mean, speaking on one specifically, Talk of Kabul has always been one that's been
quite interesting to me and I think it's probably because of the elusivity of it, so to speak.
What was that string like and do you have a plan to use it again or have you maybe lost it?
You know, I like Talk of Kabul.
I like all those rough old Afghanis.
They're a little, you know, it depends on what you're getting.
They're a little bit bland.
The Talk of Kabul was unique in that, you know, it's from Mark's castle.
Mark is like, he's an amazing old character guy.
I think he kind of hyped it up a little bit because I don't totally agree with what he
said about it.
Maybe I didn't grow it to its full potential or even outdoors, but to me, it's a really
nice commercial, like modern Afghani.
Like it's kind of that bland but dark.
It's got the raw power of Afghani.
It's got good strength, but as a breeding plant, it's kind of bland and kind of blah
in a way, but for where it is, you know, I'm not growing it in the arid high desert of
Afghanistan and I'm not really making, I'm sure making hash with it is phenomenal and
that's kind of what I used it in is in one of my deep line alchemy crosses, which is
kind of focusing on the kind of like traditional plants that were used for hash making and
kind of hybridizing those with the G13 hash plant or other Indicas.
And it's a cool plant.
He also had another one called Warlord that came from the same thing and the whole deal
with that was, I guess there was a, what was it, like 2002 or 96, it was way back when
somewhere that special forces went in and raided a Warlord and that was growing a lot
of really amazing cannabis for hash and it was the big talk in Kabul.
Everybody loved that hash and the special forces went in and raided it and someone grabbed
the seeds and brought them back from that.
So it was one of those cool, kind of like all those old, really cool Afghanis have that
backstory kind of like alien technology has its backstory and you know, everyone, I like
those old kind of things and this actually, if we're talking about crazy old Afghani style
Stray Fox got some seeds from, I think it was from his brother who served over in Iraq
in Rania and those seeds are amazing.
Like it is like a dead ringer for like if you could take pure kush and cookies and put
them together like this spicy, bready, like Persian bakery smell and like this really
beautiful heady body.
Like it reminds me kind of like the Hollywood pure kush, the one where the LA pure kush,
not the OG like one, but the more like feminine, cushy kind of baby power-esque one.
Like there's some amazing, yeah, kind of like the LA pure, but kind of more on the kind
of the bubba realm.
But yeah, there's some of those old Afghanis are amazing and that's kind of what I'm excited
this year.
I'm doing a lot of really old, weird Afghanis outside.
I'm doing like my artifact one, which is kind of like the Afghani that everybody remembers,
but no one's been able to procure like that super accurate, almost roadkill, like cabbagey,
kind of like a deep chunky, but not as bland as deep chunk, kind of this really raw kind
of like, I don't know, it smells like a prison basketball game or something.
I don't know, but I just like exploring all the weirdest things.
But yeah, the Takakabowl, cool line, cool breeder, but on its own, I don't think it's
that the best.
It's interesting because you just touched on about four or five questions, which we'll
get to soon enough.
First question though, I'm a huge deep chunk fan.
I'm a huge Tom Hill fan.
I love all of his work.
I think we even mentioned about this at the Emerald Cup.
I've never found a deep chunk, which I was satisfied with the flavor, kind of like how
you described the talk of Kabul.
It was always a bit lackluster in my opinion.
Have you found the same?
Like I mean, I've found good use for it as a breeding tool because there's still a lot
of desirable characteristics around it.
But have you ever found a female where you were like, damn, this has got a good taste
as well as all those other deep chunk traits?
You know, a long time ago I found one deep chunk and I was like, I call it like the sativa
pheno or something, but which it's not, of course.
It was just a little bit more stretchy and a little bit more flavorable.
And it was kind of a, it seemed like a throwback.
That's the only other one.
I mean, other than that, they all, they're so inbred and they're so, you know, I mean,
that plant is like full on dinosaur Jurassic Park.
Like it must've been inbred through some families in Afghanistan for hundreds of years.
Like it is like basically it's also the ultimate like fun learning Afghani to breed with.
It was my first Afghani that I really got into and kind of bred with.
And even I did some of my early lines, I wore deep chunk crosses.
It turns everything into deep chunk, which is amazing, but you get just like, you know
what I mean?
It just, it is like terminator of, of plants and it has a really cool effect.
Like I, my sister really loves deep chunk, like just makes her laugh and it makes her
feel good.
And it's really, it has that classic, just take you home, huggy kind of vibe.
I mean, it doesn't always behave indoors.
Like you know, all the Tom stuff is more for outdoors anyways and that's where it was bred.
But deep chunk, you know, it's like if, if we were teaching a course, like it's the textbook
Afghani, like you can't get any more like textbook Afghani.
And like, like that's kind of like if you ever saw that picture of Richard Evans Schultes
and wherever he was in Afghanistan, he's standing by those really squat old plants.
I think it was in the forties.
Like it looks, it basically looks like deep chunk and I think deep chunk is, is pretty
cool even though I don't really enjoy breeding with it cause it just turns everything into
deep chunk.
I have found that myself a lot.
I found one male where kind of isn't so dominant, like it turns everything phenotypically into
deep chunk.
But I found this one male where a lot of the mother's kind of the high and the taste seems
to shine through.
So I'm enjoying playing with that.
Like Jesus, that flavor has got some serious issues with it.
But on another little interesting side note, I found a female that had just this amazing
high, I swear it must have had a really significant percentage CBD in it, but I called it the
face melter cause it was great, you know, it was like having, having like a warm water
poured over your face.
It was awesome.
Like a massage.
Yeah, I miss those.
Like, yeah, like a body massage bud.
Yeah.
So I mean, just dipping back on a thing you mentioned a few questions ago, do you think
there is, you know, a certain amount of romanticism around strains from years gone by?
I mean the typical ones being, you know, Hayes, Ty, Roadkill Skunk.
That's a great one.
You know, I've never experienced the Roadkill Skunk myself, so I'm still a bit on the fence,
especially because a lot of the people who I really trust their opinions, they speak
so highly of it.
But I mean, I hear stories about, you know, people will say like, oh, you know, you'd
smell it in a guy's pocket before he'd even walked in the house.
And it's like, is that really true?
Like I've never had anything close to that happen to me with modern cannabis.
Was it really that strong?
You know, I think there was a lot of really special old strains back there.
And I think, you know, what they always say is like, if you remember the sixties, you
weren't there kind of thing.
I think there's a lot of, there's a lot of old stoners that have a lot of fond memories
of their youth and they kind of believe in things, but there was some strains that really
stood out.
And especially I think a lot of the import from these point of origin places where they
had all the terroir and they had all that and they brought it through, those things
would really, they would really ring some bells.
And you know, the Roadkill Skunk thing, I mean, that's, that's something that I've been
kind of playing with for years and I can't get it right.
Like I've done so many different hybrids and so many outcrosses and I can get like it get
almost right, but then it won't cure out skunky or, you know, or it'll be too pissy
or it won't be strong enough.
Like you know, it's there.
And I really think that with the Roadkill Skunk, yeah, I think it was probably a really
hideous old Afghani, one of those Afghanis that was bred forever to be super, super strong
for their hash.
And I think it really kicked people's ass.
But you know, it also got people busted.
And I also think that that terpene, I think it must have some kind of lower molecular
weight or something, because I think it vaporizes pretty quick because outside it'll smell for
blocks.
Like people, you know, of course people are gonna get busted.
Like you can't miss it.
The whole neighborhood smells like a dead skunk.
But on the line for two weeks, it'll smell like that.
But week three, all of a sudden the terpenes vaporize or they something or it changes and
it doesn't, it doesn't hold.
So I don't know.
I know, you know, people reminisce about that light green golf ball, super kill you smell
through your pocket and those strains do exist, but I don't know.
I mean, I'm hoping to have something close by the end of the summer, but you know, I'm
not on time.
I don't really care.
I'm just more of a fun thing.
But it's difficult, you know, but cannabis puts out every imaginable smell you can think
of.
And somehow you can get it to create that from onions to passion flower to like fruit
loops.
It's there and you can bring it out.
And I think it's just, I think really it's a combination of maybe some kind of Colombian
Afghani or maybe even like a, some kind of really oil canny, like motor oil kind of Afghani
sativa mixed with a, with a kind of some kind of grueling, accurate, low, low, I don't know.
It's there.
I think people can find it.
I think people will.
And I think people, whether they create it or someone digs it out of their trunk, I think
it's still out there.
I think it's just, it just was kind of selected against in, in the eighties and nineties.
And you know, mid nineties is when all the fruity stuff came in, all the bubble gums
and blueberries and all that funny gross stuff.
It kind of went by the wayside.
Everybody wanted the kind of, you know, all the groovy fruity bubbly stuff and that even
put the nail in coffin even deeper for it.
So what's your favorite flavor of cannabis?
I don't know.
You know, I really like effects, but if I had to have a flavor, you know, I do like
that really bright lemon pine, sol of OG.
I like the mouth.
I like the stuff you can taste, but you know, if I had to really pin it down, I like the
really like deep roasted kind of Bubba spice kind of baked goods and sweets.
And then I like the really feminine, like she must like the stuff that's just kind of
really engages your neurons.
Like makes you like stuff that you would like.
Sexy smells.
I like that.
And then I like crazy weird.
I like the, I'm also trying to like, you know, I make a lot of weird stuff.
I make a lot of onion and I make a lot of like pirate sweat and a lot of, I try to make
really weird smells.
I have like a garlic pickle, like I'm making all these really weird lines that no one I'm
sure will ever want to smell or smoke in this kind of real kill projects that I'm working
on.
But you know, I just like extremes.
So I have a Hawaiian that I love.
It smells like gardenias and it has a really unique effect, but I think spice spice is
my favorite spice and really bright fruit.
And so what's the most medicinal strain you've ever had for yourself?
And do you feel that, you know, the quote, the most medicinal strain is going to vary
from person to person?
Or do you think that much like we do have strains that, you know, broadly treat certain
conditions, it's very likely that, you know, maybe the strain you personally like the most,
I might as well, because if it speaks to you, it possibly speaks to me as well.
Yeah, I think it comes down to, you know, definitely certain strains are more specific
for certain things, but it comes down, I think, to body chemistry and your own endocannabinoid
system.
I mean, I thought I've even heard like, well, it was a Raphael Meshulam.
He was saying that he even believes that the endocannabinoid system is in part responsible
for our own personalities, like how we are as humans and how we are as people, because
our, you know, it's like a fingerprint.
These endocannabinoid system is slightly different in the way it interacts with itself
and then interacts with cannabis itself and it can almost lend, make us who we are as
humans and so I think, you know, it's kind of like those people, I know people that smoke
a like a super racy sativa and they go to sleep and then there's the people that smoke
an indica and they want to do like a triathlon.
So you know, when it comes to CBD rich stuff and stuff, you know, it's pretty, you know,
it's pretty, you know, what's going to happen, but I don't know.
I think it really comes down to personal chemistry and finding what really works for you, you
know, and also what find people really need to communicate.
I think there should be, I don't know why there's not a website.
I mean, I'm sure there is where people are logging that have serious illnesses and degenerative
illnesses logging down what strains work for them for certain things like lupus or MS or
like really I would love to see a strain directory for people that have honestly have
things that are going on and really be able to correlate those too.
For some people it's, you know, necessary just due to the sheer amount of kind of cannabinoids
they need to ingest, but do you think the idea of making concentrates, I guess specifically
in the context of say dabs or you know, those types of solventless or solvented extractions
which are going to be ideally theoretically used through like a dab rig.
So we're not talking about like, you know, RSO caps or whatever.
So we're talking about that.
Do you feel that you, while maybe some people gain a certain sense of medicinal value out
of it, you're also losing a certain amount of ability to use the plant in a spiritual
way.
And I guess the way, the reason why I say this is because I'm not an overly spiritual
person, but I mean, there's certainly times when I've had cannabis and felt those types
of effects.
I've never had such an experience with dabs.
Admittedly, I'm not a huge dabber, but you know what I mean?
Do you feel it's the same?
Like you're almost losing your link to the plant in a way when you do that?
Yeah, I wonder.
I mean, I used to, same thing, I'm always like getting reeducated.
Like I used to kind of look down on concentrates and dab, like, oh, that's just like a bunch
of crackheads.
It's like, you know, it's like plant of the apes, but monkeys always trying to push it
further, you know?
And then I was like, and then I saw people like in Colorado as it started to catch on
and people like Green Dot and all these people like really like honing their art.
And I was realized, oh my God, this is like, this is people basically doing an alchemical
process.
This is kind of like a modern cannabis alchemy of taking the vital essence and spirits and
terpenes and volatiles and concentrating them.
And I think it's, you know, for people that have serious illness, a dab is kind of like
the only thing that's going to really get enough active constituents into their system
to really find the relief.
And I find it, I don't know, I find the whole dab culture like fascinating.
I love how it goes hand in hand with glass and art.
And it's a really unique like genre and it baffles me.
You know, I don't do dabs.
I would probably like explode.
Like I'm so hypersensitive.
I think I would just lose it on a dab.
And you know, I smoke hash here and there and that's pretty good, but maybe I should
try it.
But I don't think it's really for my system.
But for people that enjoy it and people that have, you know, maybe smoked so much that
that's the next logical step.
I like that people are being creative and at least if they have to go that far to really
make it unique and special and really push each other.
I kind of like how people are always trying to come up with the most terpy and most this
and most that and try and capture all the volatiles.
And I also, you know, I like, I don't know, I think it's just, it's a unique thing unto
itself and I don't judge.
And I really like how passionate people are about it.
But I mean, personally, I don't think it's kind of the way to go for the majority of
people.
And I think it probably people that don't understand it kind of look down on it.
But it is, it's amazing.
And even the people, some of the people I respect the most love it.
And I'm like, that is awesome.
I think that is so cool.
And I love, so it's a cool thing, but not my thing, but it is unique and it does have
medical applications, but even the recreational applications, even though they can seem excessive
and sometimes, you know, I've seen people at the cups take a dab and like, you know,
fall backwards, land on their head.
I think it comes down to being responsible and people having the intelligence to utilize
these really potent cannabis concentrations in amazing ways.
And I think, you know, you can probably have a pretty, I think it would be like a bungee
jump into the void.
I'm sure you could probably have a kind of a spiritual experience with a dab if you,
once you're like, I don't know enough about it.
I mean, the effects, I've never taken a dab.
I feel like a dork for saying that, but I just know what would happen.
You've never done a little sneaky red hot knife in the nineties?
I know, and everybody makes fun of me.
It's like, you know, we're taking a dab and everybody's trying to give me a dab.
And I'm like, you know, it's usually at a cup or something.
And that's like the last place I would ever dab.
Get a max TD while you're at it.
Yeah.
People have given me amazing concentrates and people do incredible jobs.
And I love how, you know, and you know, the highest grade bam, he lives, he's in the area
and he gives me his pen sometimes.
Those are so flavorful.
They're so fun and they're so awesome.
And they have a good spirit.
We've taken them traveling and that's, you know, that's kind of about as far as I go
with concentrates.
I like a little hash, but yeah, I don't know.
I think I would have just a dab, but I would need to be in a meditative spot.
I would need to be in my dome, like ready there, getting there in the lotus position,
ready to just shoot into the void because that's way too much cannabinoids for my system.
It's almost boring DMT for you.
Yeah, it is.
It's like a cannabis DMT and gung ho.
I honor all the people that can do dabs with intelligence and passion.
I think you guys are awesome.
You're like space commandos.
So yeah, go for it.
If you're passionate and you do a good job and you make a quality product, then more
power to you and more power to everybody that's into it.
All the glass artists and all the festivals like chalice.
That's like a dab festival.
How crazy is that?
That's amazing.
Yeah, cannabis and the whole community constantly blows my mind.
So I just try and no judge and just sit back and enjoy the ride that we're having because
it sure is wild.
Yeah.
I mean, certainly used to be a lot more anti-dabs than I am now.
But I think the thing which I see about it, which I think is going to be really hard to
make it not problematic is the visual act of watching someone take a dab is quite akin
to some other harder drugs.
So that's always going to be a hill to overcome.
But the other thing is I find a lot of people just blow their tolerance out of the water
and then they really struggle to enjoy flowers afterwards.
And I think that's something you got to be super mindful of.
Yeah, no, of course.
I mean, it's like that with at that point, it becomes a drug because you're pushing yourself
so far and bludgeoning your cannabinoid system so hard that you're creating a pretty intense
tolerance.
Yeah.
Oh, well, to get on to something maybe a little more lighthearted.
What was the biggest disappointment you've ever had in regards to popping seeds?
And was it popping some land-raised seeds that you had high hopes for and they just
turned out to be duds?
Or was it in fact a line you made and likewise, you turned out to be a dud?
I've made some dud lines for sure.
I mean, some.
Yeah, I wonder what's the worst.
I used to kind of remember I used to kind of had some lines from other.
I used to pop a lot more seeds from other people like some of the big companies.
And I've been let down a couple of times.
I don't want to say any names or anything.
But there was a while where it seemed like people weren't putting out that quality of
stuff or people were just pushing stuff out too fast or I don't know.
But something that's disappointed me.
That's a tough one.
You know, I try and respect every plant I take into my lungs.
You know, and all even weird stuff.
Like my philosophy is usually it's the worst lurking bud that has the best effect.
You know, it's usually this scraggly piece of weird thing that barely.
And I always find it funny because on Instagram I'll post some of the sativa pictures and
they'll be like, learn how to grow or what is that swag or what is that?
And they don't get like, this is such a rare, special Rajasthani plant that I got from a
Baba who's had it in his sangha crew of sadhus for eons and it's their special strength.
And people don't realize that some of these things that look funny, they have the most
amazing effects.
So, you know, these days I try.
I give everything a chance.
I mean, my most, I guess, disappointments would be smoking something that someone gave
me that obviously wasn't grown correctly or had lots of problems or really gross stuff
on it or grown with it.
You know, I mean, it's just, I think it's my most sad times when people don't respect
the plant and still produce the product.
Yeah.
So have you ever had any seeds confiscated on the way back?
Or maybe the alternative question is, do you send seeds back by mail or you take it a little
more ill risky?
I used to do it always.
I actually have been busted at the airport and it was kind of funny and synchronizing
stuff but it scared the hell out of everybody.
And my wife was waiting outside with our kids like for hours while they had me in the like
strip search room.
One of my Nepali Himalayan kind of like when I was collecting seeds there, I think I collected
like 15 lines and I had them all marked and I had them all in bags and I couldn't find
this one bag.
And I was like, you know, I hit them pretty good and I couldn't figure out where the hell
I put it and didn't know where it is.
And, you know, I have secret ways of doing it.
And you know, of course they pull me into the secondary and they're digging through
all my stuff and then in my toiletries they find this bag of seeds and they're like, what's
this?
And I'm like, oh, it's a snack.
And they're like, oh, it looks like, you know, cannabis.
I'm like, oh, it's probably hemp seeds.
They eat those in Nepal.
And they're like, and they're like, so they call the guy over, brings a little kit and
they put all the seeds in there and they shake it and it turns purple.
And all of a sudden it was like all hell breaks loose.
The guy freaks out, he grabs everything, he locks down, he hits a button and they're like,
oh my God, he's like, you know, and everybody's scurrying, scrambling like, dude, it's just
I guess it came up positive.
So the first guy comes through and he's like, stand there.
And he's like, you know, he starts going through all my stuff and he goes through, he's going
through, he's going through, he almost gets to my stash of all my seeds that I brought
over, you know, and then the next higher up guy comes up and he's like, let me look through
this.
And he starts over and he does, he does, he does.
He almost gets there and you know, and the next guy comes up the higher up and now they've,
you know, I've all these guys around me and they're really freaking out.
And then finally he is looking through everything and he's just about to find it.
And the head honcho comes up and he's like, did you search, did you search all those bags?
And they're like, yes sir, yes sir.
And so, you know, they put my bag down and they sent me and they did the strip search
and all that.
And they kind of, you know, they were saying they're going to send me to agriculture and
find me and they were, you know, threatening me and doing all these things.
It was pretty sad.
But the craziest thing is they never got to those seeds.
So I lost one pack, but I brought back like 15 and it scared the hell out of everybody.
And now I have more stealthy ways I do it.
And you know, I'm not going to say if I bring them on my person or send them or anything,
just in case those special humans that want to bust me are listening.
No, I don't have seeds on me.
I don't do anything crazy like that.
They just magically get back to America.
Yeah, that's how it should be.
It's a very real danger and people, you know, I say, you know, I do both.
I say send them, get some of that corrugated plastic that they use for signs for when the
local like city council, they put those signs up everywhere.
They're usually printed on this corrugated plastic that make a great seed shipper.
And you just put that in an envelope and send it back home.
Usually do two, send them from different places and you definitely get one.
I mean, when I sent my seeds back from Morocco, I sent them in two different post offices.
I only got one, but at least I got one.
You know, I put the same seeds in each one knowing that one probably wouldn't make it.
So whether there's a will, there's a way.
And you know, you just have to be stealthy and tricky and just cover all your bases.
Sadly, I've experienced that.
I too did the two packages and I lost the seeds you gave me.
Oh, well, I'm sure we can figure out a way to magically get them somewhere near where
you are.
We have the technology.
So follow up question.
That was maybe a bit of a hairy situation you found yourself in the States.
How about even worse in the other countries?
You know, what's the hairiest moment you've been in a foreign country?
Oh my gosh, I've been a lot of like life threatening things, but for like actual like getting busted
kind of things.
Or just whatever you rank to be the most kind of intense or, you know, scariest, so to speak.
I mean, let me think.
I think that's probably the scariest is when I was collecting seeds in Nepal during still
during their civil war.
It was the Maoists against the, you know, the ruling powers.
I think that was in the early 2000s.
And I was taking a bus to Pokhara and we had a convoy because there was, you know, they
still had a lot of problems.
So they would send a military convoy with the bus and the convoy in front of us got
blown up by the Maoists.
So they blew up the car in front of us.
That was about this, maybe the craziest thing ever.
But, you know, I've always been in dangerous situations, be it like, you know, almost drowned
once in this crazy boat in Belize on the way over to Livingston.
I'm trying to think what else, you know, even just being in Belize in the early 90s was
super sketchy.
Morocco is not my favorite place.
People really just, the mountain people are beautiful.
But it seems whenever I was in like towns, I was always being swindled or mugged or people
just weren't.
I don't know.
I'm not a big fan of Morocco, but I don't know, you know, maybe for actually busting
cannabis type thing.
I was in China and I had my pen with me and they sent me through the x-ray and it kept
on popping up in the x-ray like, what's this metal thing?
And I was like, oh my God, if you know, China's like your death.
I don't think it's death sentence, but you go to jail forever.
And so it's all about the synchronicity and the magic, the same thing.
They went, pushed it through twice, pushed it through twice.
And then it, and they couldn't find it.
For some reason they couldn't find it.
And finally when it came through again, I kind of like, when they weren't looking, I
kind of pulled it out and they went through it one more time and like it didn't show up
and I'm like, oh, whatever.
And they sent me through, but I was like, oh my God, what's going to happen to it?
Especially, you know, I'm like, oh, it's like an e-cig or something.
And you know, knowing in China, they didn't want to try it.
So I'm like, okay, I have five minutes for the effects to kick in, to get all the way
across the airport and into my next plane by the time they figure out kind of what's
going on.
But magically I made it through.
You know, there's always things, but hopefully, you know, hopefully that's a thing in the
past.
I just want cannabis to be part of the world again.
You know, it was basically our most utilized plant source from time immemorial.
It was our very first cultivated plant.
I mean, it's been with us for hundreds of thousands of years.
It's like our, it's so, it boggles my mind that it's not part of our heritage.
It's not, you know, we used, George Washington used to smoke it.
It was his favorite thing to sit on the back porch and smoke some hemp.
And you were supposed to grow it.
I mean, they, it was a law you as a farmer, you had to grow it.
Like what happened?
It's like, it really, it really boggles my mind that we're in this predicament and I'm
really glad that we're coming out of it.
For sure.
So for the last section, we've got, I shouldn't say last section, second last section.
Last section is just some really quick answers, but second last section, we've got all the
questions submitted by people who wanted to find out the inside scoop on mostly strains
they're growing, but let's start banging through them.
Okay.
So this one, go.
Top five traits you look for in a good male.
Uniqueness, a resinous male, like if you push it far enough flower, structure, really, I
think the uniqueness thing comes into the like, is just cultivating awareness with cannabis
and really getting to know it so that you can kind of connect with your heart with it.
Because you know, plants have an electromagnetic field and if you can, your heart is electromagnetic
field and if you can kind of do that, that's where you can kind of, it's this sixth sense
of kind of breeding where you just know something is special.
But definitely I think first and foremost, resinous males and structure and stability
and you know, stem rubbing is great.
I always encourage people to stem rub before sex and after because it smells do change,
you know, and also, also smell rub on the collar, like up by the top and also down below
you get a different, you get different smells.
You know, if you're breeding for color, that's pretty obvious.
Just find the best structured, best stable purple male.
If you're going for purple.
Let's see if you're doing for smell, it's going to be resinous males.
Project wise, it's just testing your females and your out crosses and further F1s.
I mean, it's really just kind of checking all your bases, doing the best you can with
your senses and then you know, that proof's in the pudding.
The best way to know if you're doing a good job, scroll them out, see how it did, see
what's going on.
Test it.
Testing, that's a whole kind of strange thing these days.
I noticed back when I started, if you didn't test, you'd get run out of town.
It seems like the norm now is nobody tests and even a lot of the breeders that used to
be so super into testing have kind of gone by the wayside too.
It's almost like it's people want things so fast and so new that they're willing to just
risk it and it's kind of like people that maybe tested before don't want to be left
alone behind.
I think testing is an important part of not necessarily gifting, but if you're going to
vent something, you want to make sure that it's stable and it has all the desirable features
that you originally wanted to put into it.
So I would say people, you should test your stuff more, please.
So I mean, a question which stands to mind from that is, I heard from a few breeders
that maybe they weren't being 100% serious, but I get the inkling that they were when
they say things like the demand for certain, say, flavors of the month or for new stock
is so high that they almost feel like they don't have time to test all.
As you said, they will get left behind.
Do you think there is room in the current market for people to be able to test and stay
relevant or do you think that the time lapse between creating a strain, testing it, getting
it to market is going to kind of start to be problematic in today's market?
I think for new breeders, I think there's like an impetus or a push.
Like they just want to get it out.
It's like they don't have the time or they don't have the back history or they don't
have the things and they just want to get their stuff out quick.
But you know, I mean, it's short-sighted and maybe you'll get, maybe everybody will be
super stoked and hype up your strain and you'll become a new breeder, but it's not sustainable.
Like then what happens when you're trying to do new stuff?
I mean, yeah, I really think that it's part of it.
Another way to do it is too, is if you do find your niche, you don't have to deal with
the strain of the week.
You're kind of creating your own new thing and people appreciate that for it.
Another thing is really find what you think is going to be the next big thing.
Maybe I try and kind of imagine what's going to be big in the future and kind of, you know,
I try and play a long game.
I kind of make stuff, I'll start about a year behind my projects and kind of think,
okay, where is things going?
Like what are people into and what can I bring to the table that might be unique and special,
but also utilize what people are really into and kind of go from there.
You know, like a lot of my newer males are more focused on chirps and resin, whereas
some of the old ones like, you know, Snow Lotus was more about bringing a sativa touch
to everything and bringing like a heartiness and Appalachia was kind of bringing in the
chem line in a different way and really adding a special spice to things.
And the G13 hash plant was kind of to allow, to turn things into a hash plant, like a proper
heavy duty, powerful strain.
I think it's really, I think you can get out of the whole mindset of trying to push things
so fast, so out so quick by just tuning into yourself and really also looking into the
future and also finding your niche and finding, you know.
Yeah, without a doubt.
You mentioned the Snow Lotus line, possibly one of your more well known ones alongside
the Sunshine Daydream and gosh, forgetting the name of the other one.
Oh yeah, oh, Appalachia and then there's a G13 hash plant and then there's some random
ones.
Sorry, just the earlier strains we mentioned, the ones that I thought were your two trademarks,
Sunshine Daydream and maybe it was Snow Lotus.
Anyway, long story short, in terms of the information you find online about it, it's
an interesting one because it seems like, you know, there's little tidbits of information
here and there.
The thing which kind of consistently comes up is it says, you know, it's blockhead cross
half gooey and there's no sweet tooth traits present.
What can you tell us more about it?
You know, what was it specifically bringing to the table?
Because I mean, it's obvious from looking at the crosses, it was a good male, but it's
kind of hard to extrapolate what traits it was bringing given the somewhat vague description.
Yeah, it was a wild one.
It was one of those strain, as a male, it was one of those ones that kind of like just
communicated to me like I just knew and I kind of saw it and it, you know, it has this
unique trait of having that purple and it follows through in a lot of its hybrids.
It has this really purple stock thing that goes on, all of it, purples up its stocks
and I don't know, it literally, it was one of those things kind of like a heartbreaking
thing where I just kind of connected with it and I felt it and I was like, oh, this
thing is special.
And then, you know, I outcrossed it to like Bubba and a couple of things that I know how
things kind of come out with it.
And, you know, and I noticed it was really allowing all the best traits to come through
of the parent mother clone and then beefing up like a lot of the potency and frost and
the structure and yeah, it was a really old, the male was a really old blockhead and then
it was kind of mixed with our kind of classic late 90s, early 2000s Afgu that a lot of people
grew.
You know, there's every town and city and environment has these kind of like special
clones that everybody kind of grew back then.
Back then we had like S15 and Bonana and Afgu and all these, you know, clones and Afgu was
a really amazing like kind of Hawaiian haze Afghani, but it kind of leaned more to the
Afghani and it had, it didn't smell so great.
It was kind of like a muted kind of berry-ish, but the effect and the resin content was just
like off the charts.
And so it makes, I think it's a really underrated plant.
I think it makes a great breeding plant.
And then that P19 or product 19 or whatever the blockhead, it had a little sativa in it,
I can't remember what it was, what was it called?
I forgot exactly, but it was a, well, it has, it doesn't, it's sweet tooth and then like
a P product 19, P19 was from that crazy yaki or whatever.
It was one of Breeder Steve's friends gave him this crazy sativa and that was the cross
and it called it blockhead because it made these really kooky flat tops and it was really
strong and virulent and that male didn't really have too much sweet tooth going on.
It really kind of captured that kind of really exotic and powerful and like virile sativa
aspect of it.
So that combined with the Afgu just made this really unique and special plant.
And what surprised me with it was it was so like clear and breeding, like it would just
lightly put its own kind of magic into crosses.
It would kind of just beef up whatever cross, but allowed a lot of the smells, you know,
sometimes in certain crosses that were probably super multi poly hybrids, it would, the snow
lotus would kind of pop through and you would get that kind of muted kind of berry.
And even in the, you know, in like the goji og, you get, you, you know, you get the berry
of the snow lotus, but you get the, you get that lemon pine, all of the og and it was
kind of this perfect balance.
And you know, I tried many different ogs originally to try and before the Nepali to try and find
one that really kind of had that magic.
But yeah, that was just a really amazing male and that's why I kept it for so long and that's
why I always used it because I don't know, it just, it was, it just spoke to me and it
just did such great stuff and indoors and outdoors, you know, I'm not a, I'm not a big
outdoor breeder, but these days I've, I kind of am, but beginning it was all indoors, you
know, and, and it, it made amazing indoors and outdoors.
So I really, I really respect and love that plant a lot because for what it did.
Yeah.
I've made some hybrids with the super snow lotus and the tranquil infantizer and I found
snow lotus comes through great in both of them and it's really nice influence.
Yeah, it is.
It's a beautiful and it has in the snow lotus female was such an amazing, beautiful plant.
Like if you ever saw pictures of it, it grew like a lotus.
It like, it didn't grow like a normal cannabis.
It made these like weird, strange, beautiful flowers and it was a dark kind of like blackish
and it had a very like a head, I caught like a heady indica.
Like it definitely grew like a sativa, but it had that deep body, but with a really open,
vast mind.
Yeah.
I could've seen some photos of that one.
It looks really nice with kind of the, uh, what's the word?
The, uh, almost like a little bit of Fox tailing going on that makes it look like the lotus.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
It's got like an inflorescent, like, yeah, almost like a hand, like a crab or something.
So a lot of people have commented on how nice that Callie orange male looks on your Instagram.
We're going to see any more of that.
You know, I, I kind of, my Callio got dotted, which is sad, but you know, that it plants,
you can still breathe with them and it's not a problem.
It's the genetics are still things.
So I tried to make a lot of different hybrids with the Callio before I let it go to kind
of work with.
I'm still working with the Wookiee Callio and I have a lot of Callio ask males that
I'm kind of playing with, but you know, the whole orange thing, it's difficult to get
something super, just that epic orange flavor and not, you know, a lot of things have that
kind of fake orange or they have that kind of a, a lot of them, most of the things are
like that skunky orange.
So it's, yeah, so it's kind of, it's one of those on the back burner that I play around
with and I keep on mixing into other things.
It's kind of like a side project for my own self and I'm slowly making like an orange
tool out of it.
You know, I'm mixing it with different things, you know, and you know, I'm right now I'm
trying to make a couple of different inbred tools, like a lemon tool and an orange tool,
just so I can hit it to things and be like, Oh, you want this with a little lemon, here
you go, you know?
And same with the purple unicorn.
I got it to a point now where I can take, turn things basically anything purple and
it still, it still creates some great things.
And even now with the dragon's blood, it's to a point where I can cross it to other plants
and they're all going to have that blood red sap come out.
Like it's the dominant trait now at about F4, F5, it's passing that red sap trait onto
everything.
So I mean, that's one thing about making your tools is you can, you can do some cool stuff
if you kind of just take time and make stuff to work with.
Do you ever plan to work with the Big Sur holy wheat again?
Not really, you know, I don't, I don't, the funny thing is a lot of people ask, I get
a lot of emails and people ask for seeds and I'm, I usually just give, you know, if someone's
really passionate about something and they really want it and they can't find it, I'll
usually dig through, I have some seconds and I'll try and find it and just give people
out if they're going to do projects and stuff.
But I don't really have those seeds left and I just have the one mom and it's a little
bit dudded and my friend lives, you know, pretty close.
His big thing is the Big Sur holy wheat.
So I, he does an amazing, phenomenal job and so I kind of just like you are, you're crushing
on this one.
So I'm just, I'm not even going to really go there.
I might maybe make some crosses with my, my female that's left, but not in, no plans in
the, in really in the future.
And you know, I know there's packs out there and I always encourage people to make more
seeds from the packs, especially the Norica.
Like you know, the people, I don't make a lot of Norica packs cause they're kind of,
it's a pain in the ass to make those seeds cause it's usually the super long flower and
Steven stuff.
So if you got any packs of Norica, please make more and give them out to everybody.
You know, I really encourage people to, to make, if you got rare seeds, make more, especially
if they're mine, pass them out.
It's like, I, you know, especially if they're deadlines, you guys, everybody can work them.
There's no restrictions on my stuff, on my stuff.
Be as creative as you want to please, you know.
Okay.
So who are some of the upcoming breeders who you kind of keeping an eye on, you know, you
kind of think they're doing some good stuff?
Well, you know, I don't, I only really get to interact with some of the ones I know personally.
So it's hard for me to say, like I love seeing all the pictures and where people are going
and all that.
But that's a tough question.
You know, like some of my friends that I, that I know that I've seen their stuff and
we trade stuff a lot.
I really get inspired by like Doc D and J Fox and the Snow High and Inspector.
It's mostly the people that I kind of interact with on a, on like a non-internet level is,
is what I get to see.
And then people like out and about, you know, I love what some of the Spanish guys are doing.
I like a lot of the land race guys.
I love like what Charlie does, like his, he's like a super ancient grandpa of the scene.
And I love, and I, you know, I like what Ace does and I even like, what's Nagpa's seed
company that does all the cool Indian jungly stuff.
Oh no, Real Seed Company.
Yeah, yeah.
Like anyone, I like people that are, you know, I really like preservation.
I like people doing land race stuff, like delicatessen.
I like people doing like really pushing into different like extreme areas, like really
pushing outside of the norm.
Those are the people that I kind of really like.
I like the whole extreme possibilities.
I like people doing their niche.
So you know, for me, it's people that are pushing things in new directions.
That's I think, you know, and I don't know who's, you know, who, it's hard for me to
tell what's, you know, like these days it's like the fake news, what's hype and what's
not.
So until I really try something, it's like, it's hard to say, but you know, anyone that's
passionate and that has a niche and is following their heart and is cool and is humble and
is really just enjoying themselves.
And I think those are the people that I like.
So I don't know, that's kind of vague, but.
So next question is, have you had any experience with the land race strain known as Zamo or,
you know, like the Reunion Island land race strain?
Because I've grown some myself.
It seemed pretty cool, but more importantly, I've heard from a lot of people online that
they kind of consider it to be the most trippy weed there is.
So I'd be interested to know, you know, like what for you was the most trippy and if you've
tried the Zamo or, you know, anything from Reunion Island, how did that compare?
Well, you know, I always wanted to go to Madagascar and then to Reunion to collect seeds.
So someday, but you know, I think a lot of the people that talk about that Zamo as being
like one of the most epic ones, it was, you know, Garrett from, what was his, he did Warlock
and did a, what was his seed company?
He's no longer with us, but he had a kind of Zamo that went around Europe and Spain
that everybody, but everybody just raved about.
And it was like the super psychedelic.
And I've tried Zamo in crosses, like in the ace crosses.
You know, I've never got to experience a pure Zamo and I know that a friend Zamo Lito, it's
one of his favorites and I would love, I, you know, I'm always growing out where it's,
you know, crazy stuff to see.
I'm looking for that kind of like ultimate high that everybody takes, you know, talks
about like that super psychedelic high.
And I, you know, I have experienced it once in Guatemala and it was kind of what was,
I always call it the tomb bud, but it was like, I've never experienced anything, anything
like it since it was kind of like, I don't know, it came on like nitrous.
It came on in this weird, like harmonic hum oscillating and like it basically just transformed
the world.
It was almost like, I don't know, kind of like if you're familiar with like the family
of like a aero-psycho-hexamines, it's a kind of a psychedelic family, like something like
that or I don't know, but it came on like nitrous and it was so soft and it was like
a cartoon world and me and my wife smoked it in Guatemala and it just, ever since then
I've been like chasing that and I've had hash in the Himalayas where it just turned everything
into the most ecstatic, joyful dream.
I've had flowers from this one Baba in the Annapurna range that I go visit all the time
when I go back there and I don't know if it's the prairie set over it or it's Chilam, but
he had some pretty swaggy looking flowers that just took me to like another level.
I've had a Wahakan that was so psychedelic, it made me feel like I was like on the end
of a mushroom or an ayahuasca kind of journey, but it seems like it's always the point of
origin places that have those experiences and you know, I'm always searching.
I definitely have some psychedelic strains, but nothing that just completely transforms
reality like some of these places that I've gotten at their point of origin.
Yeah, okay.
So yes, I would love to try a good Zanmol cut.
So for maybe a little more lighthearted question, I'm so glad we got this.
Is pineapple a legitimate pizza topping?
Yeah, I mean isn't there, there's like that Hawaiian pizza everybody digs.
I think you put whatever you want on your pizza.
I think pizza's like your own kind of like mandala of vegetables and nutrition.
You could be as creative and expressive even when you want.
I like to see people get even more creative with pizza, like with crazy like Szechuan
peppers and neat spices and maybe like fruits that don't have a long shelf life, like mulberries.
I think, you know, anytime people get creative, I love it.
So yeah, I think pineapple, maybe people could up their game and even do something
more crazy than pineapple.
But sure, pineapple's cool.
It cuts the, takes the edge off.
Well talking about pushing it to the next level, what are your future projects in the
pipeline, not necessarily related to pizza, but specifically in regards to males, you
know, what's on the horizon?
Well I'm pretty excited about this new Afghani male that I'm working with because it's so
what I've been, you know, I've grown out a million zillion different Afghanis from modern
to vintage, different companies.
And you know, I get close, but I've never got that one.
It's just, I don't even know how to explain it.
It's just like so accurate.
It's like gamey.
It's not like roadkill, but it's just like this whole other thing.
And these Artifact One, these old vintage Afghanis that I'm finally popping, they have
that and I'm so excited and it's so gross and it makes me so happy.
It's another kind of like, it's another puzzle piece in the whole RKS thing.
And I think if I, you know, have that one RKS line I've been working forever and I think
if maybe these two meet, I think we might have it.
Or maybe I have some other, I have some sativas that are kind of gross that I think if they
might meet, I think we might just have it.
But just all in all, it just has a different, it's such a different smell.
And you know, I always say if it smells different, it's going to have a different effect.
It smells good, it's going to have a good effect.
It's like, you know, I've tried preliminary samples and I think it's pretty special.
So I'm excited about that.
I got, let's see what else, doing a lot of the dragon's blood work to see if I can turn
everything in my stable with red blood as a marker.
So then I can make OGs that, you know, that are identifiable.
Like, oh, this one bleeds red.
It must be this, you know, it's a great genetic marker.
Let's see, we got some old Williams Wonder.
I'm popping again to see if I can make Temple again.
Tiger's milk, I have a lot from an old timer friend, all his weird old stuff.
Some lemon and some orangey stuff.
And let's see what else.
I'm going to do some dirty hippie line work.
And what else?
I got a backyard full of all kinds of wacky stuff.
So, you know, I'm most excited.
Oh, and I got a lot of cool Sativas.
Oh, I got, you know, some of Charlie's stuff I'm trying.
And I've got some old herbaria Bushman that I revived.
And then I'm doing a ton of my Himalayan stuff for Norica.
I'm trying to make more watermelon hash plant and then some of the other lines I never released from those areas.
What else?
Just going for it.
Just anything, you know, every year it's so fun because I just go to I have a huge seed collection and I have a big seed fridge and I just go, what this year do I want to just go with?
And, you know, there's so much I can only do like this fraction of it.
But that's why I encourage people to get a big seed collection.
Like, really? I mean, it's so fun because you can just you can just follow your bliss.
You can every seed is an adventure.
Every seed is like opening a book, you know.
So I think that's the main stuff I'm dorking out on.
The A1 Afghani, is that the same as Afghani number one or a different thing altogether?
No, I just call it I just kind of renamed it.
I got it. I had a kind of an offline old friend that owed me a favor.
So he gave me some really rare seeds and it just said roadkill.
And it was an old vintage line from NorCal.
And I was like, oh, cool.
This is going to be neat.
Like, I thought maybe it would be a roadkill skunk or something.
But it just turned out to be a really like vintage, old, super gross Afghani.
I'm like, OK, this is cool.
And so instead of calling it roadkill, because it's not because people get so uptight these days,
if it's not exactly how they remember, it's not roadkill kind of thing.
So I just called it Artifact A1 or Afghani one, like Artifact one.
Like it's that true Akron artifact that no one's really coming up with, but I know existed.
OK. And so another question we got, I don't know if it was a typo or whether it was correct.
So I'll just read it as it is.
What can you tell us about the A35 clone that was used in the DeepLine Alchemy number three?
One of our viewers has sent in the question saying that specifically, if you could tell us a little bit about your thoughts on the line
and if you would expect some good males to come from it, because he was considering breeding with it,
but he wasn't sure if it was the right type of line to breed with and just wanted to know your opinion.
As a hybrid, I think a lot of those, the DeepLine Alchemy are more for hash making and traditional hash making,
but I think they would make great combos with other lines, especially because they're hybrids,
they're usually pretty inbred plants and by making a hybrid, it breaks their dominance on like future hybrids.
So, you know, I would experiment.
The A35 was a gift from a really awesome guy named Black Bart.
And they were an old 35 year old Afghani that he's had for a while.
And, you know, he said they had some pretty skunky phenos and there's a lot of neat stuff.
So I grew them out.
I grew out quite a bit. And the line was really cool.
And I found one that was just like really just like it looked like just someone had bred it for a long time over in Central Asia,
just for hash. It was super resonant, super dark, super virile.
And it had the smells are really kind of muted.
But when you make concentrates or hash or water hash, they really come out like you get like licorice,
like you get these really complex kind of oily, earthy smells that you don't smell so much in the plants,
but that makes amazing concentrate.
So the A35 has a really great effect and it's a great plant and it has this kind of unique licorice scent.
I don't know if I'll be using it in the future, but for that purpose, it seemed like a good thing.
OK, nice. And so likewise, we've seen some photos of I don't know if it's the name of the strain or just what you kind of dubbed it,
the Ethiopian paintbrush, as well as, you know, the actual strain Ethiopian hash plant or the watermelon hash plant.
Both of these sound, you know, beyond exotic, so to speak.
Can you tell us a little more about them and if there's any chance we'll see them publicly available?
Yeah, I think so.
Yeah, I mean, right now that that well, the Ethiopian was a gift from a friend whose family comes from that area in it.
The plants that came out were really special, like it definitely could tell it was kind of like an heirloom or land raised from that area.
There were sativa, but they were they had kind of same some of the things that you could tell they might have been work kind of like in how South Africa they have some of their sativa they've worked down so that they're relatively quick flowering, kind of like the chisky and the Durban.
Some of the Durban's that are pretty quick.
These Ethiopians were relatively quick, but they had a really amazing terpene signatures and they had a really joyful kind of meditative focused buzz.
And the two ones that I kept were the Ethiopian banana one, which smells kind of just like bananas, which I thought was really cool.
I love that.
And then the Ethiopian paintbrush smelt just like kind of like paint thinner.
And then there was another little guy, too, called the Ethiopian spider.
And it just was the weirdest plant ever had the thinnest leaves and it would like weave its way through plants like to get to the light, almost like kind of like a creeping vine.
And so the Ethiopian banana, I kind of started using it with the wookie and kind of bringing out those banana kind of use it for banana turps and add a little more kind of an exotic hit to things.
And then the paintbrush is a little more strong.
It's more of that kind of classic kind of mindful sativa.
And so those are kind of just ones that I personally enjoy.
And I've kind of been slowly working with them.
And, you know, I've given out the banana to a few friends and they're playing with it.
And it's just a neat it's a neat Ethiopian line.
It's it's it's not you don't always find the greatest land.
You know, land races are hit or miss and usually to go through quite a few to find unique things.
But once in a while you get in these lines where they I don't know if they're heirlooms or what or we're just lucky.
But you get a lot of really cool stuff and just to cut in just a small spectrum.
So I wasn't kind of enjoy that.
And then, you know, the watermelon hash plant was just kind of my first I guess it was a booty seeds release, but it's kind of technically kind of like Norica.
It was one of my early hash plants I collected in the Annapurna range of Nepal that that was just this beautiful fox healing giant, like relatively quick for the Himalayas.
Hash plant that smelled just like like fresh like watermelon.
And so, you know, I let those out.
I think maybe it's been forever, maybe even like 10 years ago.
I don't know. And I think people have used those.
I think they got used in the auto.
There's a famous kind of CBD line in Colorado.
And I believe the watermelon hash plant was used in the making of auto, which is a CBD line from there.
And then a lot of other people have really enjoyed it.
But for some reason, no one ever really made any more.
I've never seen anybody give them out or make more like.
So this year I decided to make some more and they're kind of going now.
So people get to kind of experience the watermelon hash plant.
Hopefully again, it's good breeder and it really kind of gives you the taste of the kind of Himalayas.
Sounds awesome. And what land race variety has left the most lasting impression on you?
Or maybe another way to phrase is what's been the most unique?
You know, I. For smoking, I really love the Himalayan stuff like it doesn't make good flowers, but it makes the most amazing
hash. And I don't know, I for land races, there's something about that area and the culture and the religious use and the people and the trails and how old it is and all the lines and all of how all the valleys have
different microclimates and different variations on the strains and families have different things and some to feed the feed the cattle.
You know, some of these for veterinarian, some for they use for chutney and some they use the Babas used to get high.
There's such an amazing and vast spectrum of cannabis in the Himalayan valleys and in the cultures that utilize them that like, I don't know, I think that's my heart.
And that's like if I could just be myself to heaven, like it would be smoking a big chill of like Himalayan hash and just trekking into the mountains and just smiling at all the people I walk by.
And that place, if I just tell everybody and their grandma, if there's one thing you're going to do, if you're depressed, if your life sucks, do whatever you can.
Trim, work at McDonald's, just make enough money and just go trekking in the Himalayas.
Life will become clear like you.
It'll really nourish your heart and soul, especially in Nepal right now, because after the earthquake, they had it.
They're having a pretty hard time.
I mean, some of the valleys I used to really love have been completely wiped out.
So, I mean, I would say so.
I mean, I guess to get to it, the Himalayas, although I do that Guatemalan tomb bud, though, that is still number one.
And some of the Oaxacans that I've tried are amazing.
Morocco, not my favorite.
China, Laos, pretty awesome.
I don't know wherever I've been all over the place, but yeah, Himalayas and the Guatemalan tomb bud and some true Oaxacan.
Awesome. So any plans for any new Ortega lines to be released?
From Jim or from the seed line Ortega?
From the seed line.
Well, not really.
You know, I made the zombie dong with the Ortega cut and I don't have the Ortega cut anymore, but I do have, I made some seeds like some F2s and I do have some zombie dong seeds.
Maybe I could do some F2s and those those are pretty creepy.
And these giant, they were like these giant long donkey, donkey phallus buds that smelled kind of like onions and walking dead kind of.
So some people like that and it would knock people out.
It's great for sleeping.
So maybe some zombie dong.
But other than that, I don't think so.
I might give out some snow lotus Ortega freebies.
So but yeah, that's about it on this Ortega.
So do you have any lines that you've made for yourself specifically for yourself that you can never envision giving out to the public?
So I'm sure there's a lot of lines which, you know, just sitting in the fridge, so to speak.
But do you have any where you are like, I'm making this and I'm never going to give it out to the public?
Well, no, you know, that would be sad if I had.
Not in a selfish way, but you know what I mean?
Where maybe you were thinking like, no, I need it for future projects or something like that, you know?
Yeah, I mean, I'll sit on things, but there's never a point where I'm like, that's never getting out.
I have a couple like clone only that I haven't even given to like friends, but I'm sure if they ask, I'd be like, oh, yeah, try this.
And I think that I'm going to some of my like personal favorites that I don't ever let out.
I might let out maybe, you know, there's a couple of plants like my Stevie Wonder.
I've never given to anyone because it's it's one of my earliest crosses and it's it's such an awesome thing.
I wouldn't want to see it get kind of just taken apart.
And but, you know, I have a couple of special things that I want to give out eventually, like I have the access access, which is a really awesome plant.
It's like a Congolese hash plant.
And I have this one called Lush that I really love.
That's a pure Kush Lao that I think needs to eventually get out.
And, you know, I try and just I don't I have so many seeds in my fridge.
Like I try and just whenever I can get them out.
Like so I do a lot of freebies and there's nothing really that, you know, things the only things that aren't coming out to the public are things that I think are dangerous, like maybe still have latent hermaphroditic tendencies or things that I wouldn't things that are more that I wouldn't want that impact people in a negative way or kind of like what I hold back or crosses that I think are too dangerous or even, you know, there's some testers I won't even send out to testers because I don't I just do it myself because I don't I don't trust the cross.
Enough to want to even have people put their time and energy into it.
So I think everything will come out.
There's no there's nothing that I'm going to hold on for dear life.
Yeah.
OK. And so do you have any advice for people on how to best Fino hunt?
I think what the viewer was looking for was maybe things like is there like a certain size pot you like to use where it's kind of small enough that you can get a lot of plants in, but big enough to get a good representation of the plant or, you know, just in general, what are your kind of tips for Fino hunting in general?
If I'm trying to run through a lot, I put I don't know what size those are.
It's like there's pretty tall square pots and they fit eight to a tray.
What is that like a quarter gallon or a half gallon or something?
I like those. You can pretty much keep them healthy.
You got to throw them right in right when they sex.
And that works really good. And you can kind of just stack those up.
When I do a lot of the outdoor to indoor work, I usually use three gallons and wait till they sex.
And as soon as they sex, I'll clone them and run them inside and see how they do inside.
I mean, but you can I mean, I know people that do kooky stuff like, you know, do 12, 12 from seed and run them in like these micro pots and just like, you know, people do amazing things with a with a not a lot of space.
And I've seen like insane open pollinations and people's like showers where they just like run things, you know, 12, 12.
Even Satev is 12, 12 from seed, like in these tiny little things and just put like a couple hundred in there.
And I'm just like, whoa. And, you know, and then people will revenge those.
And I'm like, that is awesome. So I say be creative.
But for me, I usually try anything that fits about eight to a tray.
One of those standard black trays.
It's good. Another little off topic one.
What was your favorite year of Grateful Dead music?
I would say probably the times that I would go like I know I'm not like the world's ultimate Grateful Dead.
And I usually just went more to get for the parking lot culture because I loved it.
And I love seeing all the people freed up people and shake downstream and all the music.
And I love getting my LSD and mushroom supply for the next couple of months.
But, you know, I would say I think the first time I ever saw him as I took my mom got me a bus pass so I could go to record stores and I could go to the libraries and look at weird books about plants.
When I was in the beginning of high school and I remember I took the bus one day to the from Huntington Beach to Long Beach to the Dead Show.
And I think I was maybe like 16. So it was like just it was pretty touch of gray when I think that's kind of when everything turned weird for me.
Because so I would say maybe like 87 or something.
Although I know all that everybody says, oh, those.
I mean, but so just the times it went, you know, from maybe 89 to 90 or 87 to 95.
OK, but I mean, I'm in a way a big I'm not I've been to lots of shows, but I can't say I'm like super deadhead because there's so many people that are just boggle my mind with like, you know, they're like, oh, yeah, that's the year where they went Chinese.
So flower until fire on the mountain, like and like their minds, like how my mind has music and strains.
They have the mind of like Grateful Dead information.
And I think that is pretty awesome.
Yeah, I mean, the knowledge some people have on it all is pretty crazy the way they can tell tell the year in the show just from listening to the audio.
Yeah, it's beautiful. And my thing about the Grateful Dead is I personally more than music and anything.
I honor them and I respect and I give so much thanks for them for being the traveling psychedelic dispersion mechanism for, you know, for 50 years.
Like if they didn't exist, the world America would be a totally different place.
They toured and took, you know, like heart opening, mind opening substances all over the Americas, not to mention all the seeds that went out and disseminated all over the United States.
They were like this, this like a circus of awakening that moved through time and space all through America.
And without them, I don't know what it would be like today.
So I give maximum props to the Grateful Dead.
Thank you for creating a community that made the world different.
Yeah, I agree. And I think especially given Chemdoggo's its origins to the car park scene, so to speak, it's certainly needs to have its homage paid.
This is probably gonna be the last question from the viewers who's just managed to squeeze it in two minutes ago.
Oh, wow. Good job.
Yeah. Long story short, he wants to know, he's got a few questions in here, but I think the best one is, are you working with any of the more old school clones?
Like, for example, the New York Haze, you know, just also known as the Uptown Piff, Skelly Hashplant, one of my favorites, or the Shoreline?
You know, I haven't. See, I'm kind of funny. I don't, it's hard for me to get some of these really unique clones these days.
I kind of just do it hand to hand. So I don't get to try some of the all the super neat stuff.
I kind of have to wait for it to get to me. But I do have a lot of the old stuff.
The Skelly's in my area, but I haven't been authorized yet to have it. So that may be someday, but I have smoked it and I do think it's pretty awesome and I like that.
I love that the Cuban Black Haze is a unique plant. I work with that some. I made that Band-Aid Haze with that, which is kind of like my version of a Piff Churchy plant.
And people tend to really like that. The Cuban Black Haze by itself is a really strange plant because it gets so big and it takes kind of a while.
But it has what I call like a tequila weed. Like, you know, it has that certain Mexicans have that too.
It's like the sloshy kind of like psychedelic slosh, kind of like if you mix alcohol and sativas.
It's like a really sloshy kind of tequila, like wild buzz.
And then Shoreline, I would love to see a good Shoreline. I've never grown a Shoreline. I've only heard cool things about it.
How it's like almost like a roadkill-y thing. You know, those and there's the dumpster. There's so much cool, neat stuff.
I love, I grow crazy weird every day. I love to grow as many possible clones that people give me because I just love to check it all out.
I mean, if I get to see it, it just, you know, I go into my room, I get so excited to see what plants are doing and especially these clones.
And what's the hype of the day or what's the old hype? Like, it's so satisfying to kind of see and experience these plants.
And that's what I tell people about cannabis. It's like there's no other pursuit on earth besides maybe being a chef where you can be so creative and so, there's so much uniqueness.
And then when it's all said and done, you get to inhale it and it becomes alive in your mind. There's no other pursuit.
You know, you can race car, you can do all this. You can cook, you can make a fabulous food.
I'm sure it satisfies all your senses like your touch, your sight, your smell, your sound. But cannabis is the only thing that hits all of those and you get your mind open too.
It's like, that's the ultimate. Like something that satisfies all your senses and you get to bring it into your body and experience it that way. I don't think there's anything else like that.
Yeah, I think the food one's a good analogy. I wouldn't have thought of that myself.
Yeah, because there's awesome chefs. It's visceral. You can make the coolest stuff and it smells good, it tastes good, it makes you feel good, but it doesn't change your mind. Maybe it's kind of, but...
Yeah. So, one of the last couple of questions I always like to wrap it up with is, if you go back to one place in history and time, so to speak, where would you go to collect some landrace seeds?
I'm going to collect seeds. I would love to go to Iran right before the Ayatollah kind of kicked in, like before they threw out the Shah. When it was like, when it was... Have you ever seen pictures of Iran before?
Yeah, it was very Western looking.
It was so Western and everybody, there was no burqas. Everybody was so, it was like this modern, everybody was so happy. They must have had some really awesome strains before that. And people say Afghanistan before the Soviet invasion, but I don't know.
You know, I think I'd really like to go is, I would love to go along the Silk Road, like way back, maybe like in the like 1000 BC and just experience all of that. Because people talk about the hippie trail and all that. And, you know, that's where all these cool seeds and strains came from.
But the hippie trail is like relatively new. The Silk Road was where it was at. People were, you know, it went from China all the way to like the Mediterranean and people were trading, you know, linens and seeds and fruits and nuts. And of course, seeds were coming from China going through all these mountains, seeds from that. Things that was like, that was like the modern, I mean, if there was one age, I think of when cannabis was really kicking into gear and really people making some cool stuff.
I think it was back on the Silk Road when it was really pumping.
Yeah, without a doubt. So, which strain has, the way I normally phrase it is, which strain do you like the least? But I have a feeling you'll say you like all strains. So I'll say, which one kind of spoke to you the least?
I mean, like growing or taking into my body?
Yeah, consumption.
Let me see which one that I don't like.
I'm trying to think if there's any strain that just made me feel like super gross.
That's hard, you know, because they have their personality.
I smoked so many strains. I should like really write down like this thing drove me nuts.
I can't really answer that. I don't know. I've grown some strains that kind of sucked, but smoking it, what just sucks?
I don't know. I mean, maybe smoking hemp pawned off as buds in some foreign country.
Yep, you got me on that one. I cannot answer that. I don't even know. But as soon as I find something that really sucks, I will remember it and I will get it to you.
We'll have to do an update at that point.
That was like a stumper. It's like, okay.
All righty. Final question. I wanted to end it on a bit of a controversial one. Not really for you, but I think it'll be pretty funny.
So shout out to my friend Art from Roundtable Selections for submitting this one.
I think the best way to end it will be just to give a simple yes or no answer. Okay?
Oh, no. What is it?
Do you think the earth is flat?
Oh, you know, the universe is a really unique and special magical place that amazes me every day.
I personally don't think it's flat, but I don't know. I get amazed every day at some of the things I learned.
And I wouldn't put it past the earth to be some crazy thing. I like flat. I don't know where the water goes, but I'm down.
I'm just happy to be here alive on planet earth. I don't care if it's flat, if it's round, it's square.
I'm just so stoked that I won the lottery to be a human on this planet in this time with all these people doing all this crazy stuff.
It's the planet of the apes. Who cares? I'm just happy to be here. So it doesn't really matter what shape or form it is for me.
I guess that wasn't a yes or no, though. So I'm going to say if it was like a scantron and my life depended on it, I'm going to say no, it is not flat.
But I'm open to extreme possibilities and if it was flat, I don't really care because I kind of dig just being here.
Fantastic. What a fitting ending.
Okay.
It was very archetypal of Bodhi to just be exploding with happiness.
Yeah, I think it's rad. Sure, if it's flat, awesome. If it's round, yes. I just like being here. So give thanks.
Fantastic. So thank you so much for coming on the show and spending a whopping four hours with us.
Oh, wow. That's a long time. I just cruised past. I still even had more stuff to talk about.
Let's jam it in.
Oh, yeah, we can jam it in. I also want to encourage people, well, not everyone, but people, use your intelligence.
I would love everybody to definitely do more psychedelics. I think this is very important in a breeding philosophy to connect with the earth, the plants and yourself.
But do it responsibly and do it in nature.
And you think all forms of psychedelics, any particular ones? Like I've got friends who particularly advocate for mushrooms because they find it to be a little more au naturel.
Yeah, I would say, for me, I would say if you're interested in plants and plant breeding and cannabis, my thing is like spirit plants.
I'm going to say if you enjoy where cannabis takes you and what it does for you, there's many plants on planet earth that have been strategically planted here to open your mind and connect you into deeper places, spaces, healings.
It's, you know, cannabis isn't the only plant. I think it's our primordial. I think it's like our definitive ally plant.
But I think there's so many unique plants out there just waiting to teach you things.
And I think that we can develop a greater appreciation of nature, ourselves and the planet by going into these states.
I don't advocate recreational psychedelic use, but a responsible personal or group with a positive setting, I think, go for it. Please, everyone.
I mean, expand your mind, get in touch, you know, find that special place in your heart that opens up to all creation.
Yeah, without a doubt.
I just had a curiosity. Have you ever used salvia and what were your experiences on it?
You know, it's funny. I collect salvia strains, too. So I actually have about five now. But, you know, so, I mean, is it okay if I get, it's a little bit of a story. Is that okay?
Yeah, we love stories.
So, you know, back when I was young, I always wanted to be an ethnobotanist. And so our first big adventure, my friend was really into archaeology and I was really into ethnobotany.
So I brought my Plants of the Gods cards and he brought all of his archaeology books and we did our first big trip in our 20s.
We landed in Cancun and we hitchhiked in road buses because the infrastructure for tourism was a lot different back in the 1990s.
And we went all through the Yucatan, all through Belize, all through Guatemala, all through Mexico and all the way back, all the way to Tijuana.
And my big thing is he wanted to see the temples and I wanted to retrace the footsteps of Agarwen Wasan in his search for the mushrooms.
So after we did all the temples, we got to go up and we went to Huautla de Jimenez in the Sierra Mazatec to experience the, you know, the culture of mushroom shamanism and all the other plants they use.
And one of the things is we had our card and it was a rare mint type plant that no one quite knew about or how it worked.
And that was a salvia divinorum before people got kind of turned on to it.
And it was before they realized that it was a masticating plant, like it went through your mucous membranes.
So we found a woman that, you know, took her all day to hike to the place and got it.
And then she made us these like shamrock shakes where she just blended it in water.
And that was  and, you know, we drank those.
And since you don't really  it gets destroyed in your gut.
We got these really light effects from it and it was so beautiful and so feminine and so special.
But it didn't really hit us and it always kind of had a special part.
So when it became kind of a thing and people started smoking it, I kind of started collecting the strains.
And people don't realize like that plant spirit is so  it's so moist and so feminine.
Like it despises heat and fire.
So all these people are smoking it and going cuckoo and running through walls.
I mean it's kind of fun on YouTube to watch the salvia freak out, I got to admit.
In a kind of weird way.
But the key to salvia is you make a quid and you just put it in your lip and you find some quiet place.
And she will take you deep into her healing garden and it is so special and so magical.
But I mean I have smoked it and I have had some very intense and unimaginable things happening.
But really the key to that plant is it's very feminine.
It's very moist and it really loves just to, you know, be stuck in your lip in a quid.
And it's sad that it's been outlawed.
Yeah, I mean interesting that you mentioned that.
Intense is another word that I would use to describe my own experience with it.
But I didn't know that yeah, you could just kind of sit it in your mouth.
That's an interesting one.
Kind of just springing to mind from that same idea.
Have you toyed around with kratom at all?
You know, I'm not a  I have tried kratom.
But you know, I'm not a big opiate person and I'm not a big stimulant.
And being a little bit  depending on its location and if it's the different stem colors and morphology, how they have alkaloids.
I think it's an amazing adjunct for people that are dealing with opiate dependence.
And I think it is a really amazing healing plant.
And I think it is a really amazing healing plant.
But for me, it was just  I don't like things that mess with my physiology so much that I have like body disturbances.
And I know it has kind of a strange dosage response curve like where if you take too much, you can be very uncomfortable.
So I never really connected to kratom.
Like I think my favorite, you know, if I had to pick stuff is  I like cannabis.
I like mushrooms.
Those are my faves.
I like cactus like San Pedro and Trichocereus.
I mean, I do  ayahuasca is another thing.
I mean, it definitely has a place but it is kind of kicks your ass.
But you know, just mushrooms and all we need is mushrooms and cannabis and we're ready to go.
But I do like  I like all plants.
Like I have a cop plant, a chukot or a chat or whatever you want to call it.
But you know, I'm open to try anything.
I just love all the plants and all the plant spirit allies are just  spirit plants just really  that's where my heart goes.
I'd love to try cot.
Yeah, cot is great.
It's easy to get seeds.
They're easy to sprout.
I mean, not really but I mean, you can do it.
Cot seeds are a little hard to sprout but I'll give it a go.
I'm a bit more green thumb nowadays than when I last tried many years ago as a kid.
Yeah, it's just about waiting.
The hardest ones ever are coca seeds.
Like I've never been able to do that.
They only have like a two-week germination period when they're fresh.
And it's literally like they mold out.
It's like it's super hard.
Cot, you just kind of get them moist and kind of don't look at them for a couple of weeks.
Yeah.
I mean, interesting you mentioned that I  through a friend of a friend.
He was someone who had like a single coca plant here in Australia actually.
And funnily enough, like what I had heard from the guy who had it was that like it just wasn't even worth pursuing because like it just 
kind of akin to the land racing.
It's just flipping out in the Australian environment and just not being productive at all.
Yeah.
Well, I think there's an Indonesian or Javanese variety of coca now that they're growing.
It might work better for your climate.
Yeah, most likely.
Wow.
And people are growing it indoors now.
And I know in our area, we had a coca plant that was kind of going around underground that was an imposter.
It was  somebody claimed it was a coca, but it really wasn't.
It had this caustic white sap.
So whenever you would chew it, your like lips would burst into flames.
Oh, wow.
But I love coca.
I've never tried cocaine yet.
I mean, maybe someday.
But I love chewing coca.
Like I probably chewed my weight in coca when I've been in like South America, especially up in the Andes.
But I just  I mean, definitely roast your mouth with all the lime.
But what a beautiful plant.
Like I can see up there where there's no oxygen and people are working hard.
It's just like angels come down and touch you.
Like you can breathe.
You feel vibrant.
Like it's got vitamins.
It's such a healing crop for those Andean people.
Maybe you should stay away from cocaine.
Yeah.
I mean, I don't know.
I like coca leaf.
You have the water leaf, huh?
You have a lot of DMT-containing like trees in Australia.
Oh, yes.
That takes me back to being a young boy doing the old acid base extraction.
Uh-huh.
It's a bit of a sad story actually because there's certain parts of Australia where it grows really well and you go there.
And the trees have just been absolutely stripped of all their bark.
Oh, God.
And so they're really struggling because people just go into town on it.
Oh, my gosh.
I know.
Now there's a big chaga craze.
Everybody wants it to make their chaga.
Yeah, it's a strange thing.
I wish people got more into Flaris, but I guess it's just not a viable plant for extraction.
You know what's interesting is kind of maybe a little peripheral, but it was actually in that extraction of the DMT from the Acacia probably about eight or nine years ago now
when I first learned about it, they were doing de-waxing, you know, like removing the lipids from the concentrates back then.
But they certainly haven't started doing that until much more recently with cannabis.
I think that's kind of interesting how they were like ahead of the curb in that respect at least.
Yeah, that's wild.
I mean, that kind of just goes back into your basic kind of biochemistry.
I think with us stoners, we never really had that science background, you know.
And it seems like when you're actually doing scientific extraction, you kind of have to involve those principles.
So I think as stoners, we just never got it.
But yeah, that's true.
They were de-waxing.
And then there was that kind of like that rough extract that was like the jungle spice that had that kind of yellow wax.
And they found that there was something actually constituents in it.
So they're kind of pulling out some of the good stuff.
Yeah, I actually only ever really came across the yellow stuff myself, at least when I didn't make it.
But yeah, it's certainly an interesting one if you were to look at the differences.
I've never tried ayahuasca personally.
And that's the one I'm most excited to try because a lot of people say, you know, it's quite different to smoking it, which is more, you know, like you're intense.
Kind of like getting into a bong hit versus an edible, you know.
Yeah, yeah.
And it's much longer.
I mean, there's so many ways now to do like you can do like an ayahuasca.
Analog, you know, like a Syrian rue mushroom mixture or, you know, or a mimosa hostilis Syrian rue.
I mean, there's so many ways to kind of emulate or even with research chemicals.
Now they're emulating like ayahuasca type compounds.
And they even think some of the most ancient Soma compounds were like or different.
You know, beta carbolins and like DMT sources.
I mean, it's such an ancient alchemical science.
But yeah, I think you would enjoy ayahuasca.
But I would say maybe do it in its natural environment.
Maybe get down into the jungles and really or that or do it in some place that is in nature.
Yeah, I've heard that above all other things, you know, like set and setting is the most important thing with ayahuasca because for a lot of reasons.
But it is very much a ritual.
It's not I don't think there's many people who would say that it's purely recreational.
Oh, yeah, it's not recreational at all.
It's very hard on your system.
I mean, you're vomiting a lot.
I mean, that's kind of what I did my research thesis on ayahuasca shamanism in the Amazon when I was in the university.
So it's like I had to do some grueling stuff.
And it's yeah, it's I always tell people it's like, you know, now we have a lot of this.
Well, if you do yoga and if you go to festivals, yeah, you got to try ayahuasca.
It's become like this kind of like, like cool person write a passage if you're like hip.
But really, the key to ayahuasca is like, it's there to you're either there to be healed, learn to be a healer.
I think those are really the only two things that people should be using for it is if you're learning to be a healer, an ayahuasca or if you're there to be healed.
I mean, I always tell people they should take like an interview with it like a first.
Everybody should interview with it.
Like at least do it once and so that it can impart its knowledge and kind of check you out and you can check it out.
But I don't it's not a recreational thing.
But I think it's something kind of like Burning Man.
You should all you know, you should everybody should do it once kind of like a eclipse.
You should see a total solar eclipse.
There's things in life that I think everybody should try.
That probably one of them.
So, my question I'm really interested to ask is out of all the countries you've been to, which one has left the most positive, you know, kind of impact on you, you know, in terms of both, you know, things you're doing in the country regarding to cannabis.
So, whether that be good stuff there or whether you're able to good sense good stuff back or just, you know, like a combination of that as well as you know, like just you enjoy the place, nice people, good food, you know, all that type of good stuff.
Yeah, I mean, number one, the Himalayas.
I just I can't get enough of it.
I love the people.
I love the place.
I love the culture.
I mean, the food, Nepali food isn't that great, but it's a stall but but it's very nutritious.
Just being up there like just walking those, you know, there's these I don't know.
It's hard to explain like for backpacking and trekking.
The beauty of the Himalayan trekking is you're basically walking along these trails or that have been there for thousands of years that have gone all through the Himalayas back when you know, and they all connect to town.
So, there's always like a little village about five hours.
Each village is about five hours from each other.
So, you can you can always you never have to stay out in the cold.
You never have to pack like a sleeping bag.
You never have to have food.
You can just smoke, enjoy the beauty and walk and then walk to the next town, drink some tea.
You can spend the night if you want or you can keep on walking like I just I just love the Himalayas.
But, you know, second runner up.
There's something about Guatemala that I love so much.
Maybe it was the first place I fell in love with or maybe it's that there's still such an indigenous presence like it still has such its beautiful culture and it has the ocean, you know, has a Pacific.
It has the Atlantic.
I mean, the Caribbean there.
It has mountains.
It has everything and people are friendly.
It's a beautiful place.
I mean, those are probably the top two.
Awesome.
So, like two places I need to go.
Yeah, you definitely need to go.
You know what?
I love to give people some information on things if they want to go deeper into kind of some of the things I've talked about, like maybe some books that are good starter books or people looking.
So I would highly recommend if anybody's interested in just more of a reading with your heart, look into any of Stephen Bruner's books or our interviews.
Like he is definitely connected to that style of interacting with plants with your heart.
A great book that's always fun, Plants of the Gods, Richard Devon Schultes, Albert Hoffman.
Awesome guys.
Excellent book.
If you want more of a lighter, more meditative approach to connecting with plants, I would say anything by Elliot Cohen, like Plant Spirit Medicine.
Definitely, if you Torrent or anything like that, find some place that has all the Terrence McKenna's interviews, like on one little thing.
It's probably like a million gigs and download every single Terrence McKenna interview you can ever get and just listen to those.
He is the most ultimate dude on earth.
Christian Ratch, Jonathan Ott.
I mean, Wade Davis, Mark Plotkin, Timothy Plowman, all these ethnobotanists.
These are kind of like, these are my heroes and I really think people would benefit from that.
I'm trying to think any other, you know, support Erowid, good sites.
Just I'm trying to think of things that are just so, oh, you know, it's a great book people.
I'm not, you know, my degree was in basically kind of like it was an anthropology of religion with an emphasis on plants and culture and religion.
So I always wanted to be an ethnobotanist, but I could never handle the botany and the science nor the, you know, the put you in a box thing.
So I kind of found a way around it and did ethnobotany without the botany.
But if there is one book that people, if people are kind of like a dummy like me and are more artistic and don't want to try and figure everything out.
There's a great book called, it's called like Practical Botany for Gardeners.
I think it's by Joff Hodge and it's got pictures and it talks.
And if you want to like kind of know what you're talking about, but not want to know, this is a great book for you.
It's all pictures. It's like, it's like botany for dummies.
It has great things about all the classical breeders.
Let me think. Anyone else that I think is super awesome? Definitely read Stephen Bruner's books, Plants of the Gods.
Oh, and Luther Burbank. If you want to know of a cool botanist that's still connected to its heart and to the spirit, definitely get into Luther Burbank.
One of the most amazing breeders on earth ever created, I think like 800 different kinds of fruits and vegetables.
Wow.
From Santa Rosa. He has amazing quotes.
I think one of his famous quotes is like the most important thing to a breeding program is love.
He's, what was another one of his things? Oh, I don't know.
But if you're into botany and you still want to be kind of groovy and esoteric, definitely Luther Burbank.
And travel, please travel, please collect seeds, please make seeds, please share seeds, please be nice to everyone.
Let's make this an awesome community and let's really push this thing into amazing directions. I think that's it.
Yeah, I mean, that sounds amazing and it's a very, very good, again, you know, very off the tip of the bowie, just spreading the love.
Yeah, I mean, that's what it's all about. I mean, I guess I always get shy and I get all paranoid about these conversations.
But really, if it's with good people, it's just you're just talking.
So I think, you know, Adam Denshow was different. It was live and there was a lot going on.
And I like live because it's raw.
But this is nice, too, because you get to really kind of like, get to talk more and really kind of come from where I want to talk about.
Yeah, for sure. I mean, that's one of the things we often hear about.
What people enjoy about this show is that people are able to kind of get a bit deeper into their thoughts on an issue and not just kind of maybe moving on to the next issue straight away.
Yeah, I mean, I definitely like the dynamic approach and I like how it's just it's different.
It's more one is more like it's more of a show and you're on the spot and you're really getting out.
And then this one's more of kind of like you're like having tea.
So they both are amazing. They both serve their purpose. But, you know, it's neat to have both sides of the coin.
I think, you know, you know, you're kind of like is the Nardwar of cannabis interviews. You know, Nardwar?
Yeah.
He's like the crazy interviewer. Like he comes up with all the wackiest questions and all the guys are like, where in the hell did you figure that out?
You could be like the Nardwar of cannabis podcasts.
I love it, you know, doing these. And honestly, what I say to everyone is I just I just make the show that I wish already existed.
Like I'm just making a show that I would sit down and enjoy.
Yeah. I hope this makes a lot of people happy because everybody's like, you know, it's I guess it's nice to hear someone's voice.
And just, you know, I hope I just got across some. My whole thing was I just wanted people to maybe see a different a different reality of how we can make this work.
I hope that it kind of comes through in the interview.
Yeah. And I think that people definitely will have that experience. And honestly, it's something that has kind of been necessary in a way, because a lot of the a lot of breeders do, including myself, you know, do approach this very much from that scientific point of view.
So it's really nice to have that contrast and kind of juxtaposition to see that it's not all just, you know, one way, so to speak.
Yeah, it's always. And that's why I always tell people it's like, I don't care how you breed. And it's the proof is in the pudding.
If you if you make something amazing, I don't. And as long as you put your heart and soul into it, it wasn't just like a one off thing. And you're like, oh, look at this. I made this. It doesn't matter. Proof's in the pudding. And that's all that counts. Science or quackery. It doesn't matter.
Yeah, for sure. So again, just in case my previous one got a bit interrupted, you know, thank you so much for coming on the show and for spreading all your knowledge and love with us.
Yeah, no, it was my pleasure. I feel good, really good to let my heart speak, you know, and so thank you. Yeah.
So there you have it, guys. Without a doubt, one of my favorite episodes so far.
I hope everyone was able to sponge up everything they were looking for. Big thank you to Bodhi.
His wife. 420 Australia. Organic Gardening Solutions. Bodhi. See you.
