Hello and welcome to the next episode of The Podcast, a cannabis podcast for budding enthusiasts.
As always, you're joined by your boy Heavy Days here from the Upside Down Library and
we are incredibly grateful to all of our sponsors.
And we're also joined by our sponsor, Copper Biological Systems.
They've got a great selection of cannabis varieties here now.
Number one seed bank in the industry, all the greatest breeders, the hottest drops,
the latest strains, anything you could want, they got it.
And they offer a guarantee on satisfaction, not just germination.
Check them out, guys.
They got what you need.
Firing on all cylinders and giving you the highest grade harvest to date, free of pests,
pathogens, with their wide range of beneficial predators, including the Acuparem and the
Spidex Vital, they'll keep your garden happy and healthy.
Huge shout out to our homies, Holden Down the Fort Down Under, top shelf seed bank and
organic gardening solutions.
For all the greatest breeders, for all the best organic gardening products, check them out.
It's the organic products I use and the seed bank that I sell my stuff through.
And last but not least, the Patreon gang.
Thank you, thank you, thank you.
The one and only.
We could not make episodes happen without you.
If you would like to get early access to upcoming episodes, exclusive unreleased content, bonus
episodes with Bob Hemphill, Mean Gene, Bodie, 707 Seed Bank, Track Home Jungles, the list goes on.
Please consider checking out the Patreon, www.patreon.com forward slash the podcast.
On this episode, we are incredibly grateful to be joined by both Sea Ray and Scabby from White Buffalo Seeds.
Legends of the Canadian scene, old school, land race preservers, hunters, appreciators.
And heck, if you've ever had the Roberts Creek Congo, you owe these guys a thanks.
Here to chat all things breeding, genetics, upcoming crosses, plans for the future, old
clone history, so much more.
Let's just get into it.
All righty, my friends, we're back for another one.
And today we are incredibly grateful to be joined by the crew behind White Buffalo Seeds,
land race legends in their own right, maintaining one of the most unique collections of cultivars I've seen.
Thank you so much to Sea Ray and Scabby of White Buffalo Seeds for joining us today.
Hey, guys.
Hey, everyone.
How's it going?
Nice to be here.
The first question we love to ask all our guests, what have you guys been smoking on today?
We're just generally smoking some stuff that we just grew.
We're just testing out some of our new hybrids.
One of them is Irene Cross Original Haze.
It's a really nice one.
And another one is the Congolese Cross Iraqi Pilgrim.
And some other stuff that we just harvested, like Angola Red.
What else have you been smoking on?
I just rolled up Angola Red and Irene Haze, and I was peaking a little bit there, but we're coming into the zone.
We're flying, going to land right in there.
I am thoroughly jealous right now, because as someone who loves sativas, but like most people, doesn't have a ton of them hanging around to smoke.
That sounds like exactly where I want to be.
I was interested, I mean, I'm probably going to ask you a bunch of questions about all those varieties because they all sound great.
But the first one would be the Irene Cushman Cross the Haze.
It sounds like it's more leaning to the haze side, is it?
That one's pretty balanced, I would say, because apparently the Irene is a self-progeny.
So self-progenies in crosses tend to be reasonably consistent in the offspring.
So yeah, that one actually turned out really well, as far as uniformity from plant to plant to plant.
We grew about 16 females, so a pretty good sample.
We ended up keeping about probably a dozen of them to check out again, to grow again.
Lovely. I'm going to have to ask you some more questions about your pheno hunting.
But just to confirm for everyone listening, are we talking about the Irene OG or a different Irene?
Well, I don't know if it's an OG per se, but it's an OG-ish plant, but it's like a Cush.
Yeah. Does it have the weird buds growing from the internode?
I've only grown it once, like twice, and I didn't experience that yet.
But you mean like little budlets that grow off the stems or something?
Yeah, I've just heard people saying that you get these weird little buds growing at the internodes on Irene.
I was just curious if you'd experienced that at all.
Not yet. I think that's like a phosphorus thing, if I remember.
No, like potassium.
Yeah.
You can grow buds right off the stalk if you hit them with the right type of potassium at the right time, apparently.
There you go. That's some cool info I wasn't aware of. I like that.
What was it about the Irene that drew it to you?
Because I think if we look at your work, there's often sort of an older world strain and sometimes a newer world strain.
And I'd be interested in hearing what sort of characteristics of the modern strain attract you?
I haven't seen you grow a cookies hybrid, but the Irene is pretty modern. What do you like about it?
Well, we've only grown it a couple of times. It's just one of those things you grow it and you taste it and it's like, this is the good shit.
The terps, yeah. Definitely the terp beans are what was most interesting.
And it's got a good high. We're kind of critical about more of the Indica, commercial Indica push type stuff.
Because we're really sativa connoisseurs, we expect all our plants to have some sort of profundity in the stone. That's what our goal is.
So the Irene's actually got a little bit of a decent heavy effect to it.
Yeah, it's like an easy man high, you know, after you get up a little rocket boost there for a minute or two and then it's nice and easy, right? You're grooving down the street.
Yeah, I love the sounds of that. And you know what? Just based on hearing that I'm confident it's the Irene cut I'm thinking of.
Because that's what everyone says. They were like above all, the high on this plant is exquisite. So that all makes sense.
I think the bud shape is not very alluring to most people. And I think the hayes kind of stepped that up a bit in that cross for sure.
Yeah, beautiful, beautiful stuff there. And I mean, while we're on the topic of hayes, I had a few different questions.
I guess I'd be interested in asking, I know that you guys have worked with many different hayes over the years, both, you know, some of Neville's work with like the Hayes A and Hayes C progeny.
And I think you guys have even worked with some of the original stuff from Sam himself. I'd be interested to hear, like, does that all check out?
And is there one sort of stock of hayes that you think is better to the other or it's all just like a family?
Well, as far as I'm concerned, it all came from Skunkman stock. Like, I mean, what everyone's growing, you know, there's obviously stuff that people say predates that.
But I mean, what everyone refers to as original hayes came through the seedsman. Well, not all of it, but I think he sold a bunch like privately.
Skunkman sold a bunch of seeds privately before that, but a lot of the stuff came through the seedsman company or whatever.
Like if you look, if you go on to archive.org and look up seedsman.com and go back to, it's like, I don't know, it's like a couple of years after the earliest entries, you'll see the original release of the Skunkman's breed that he did at that time, which is like a bunch of original hayes.
And there was a few land races and then there is a bunch of crosses and there's, I think, some Afghani.
South Indian, Afghani, Durban.
Yeah, that was the South Indian.
Yeah, I think that's about it.
Anyways, you'll find it on archive.org. It's pretty interesting to go back and look at that.
Yeah, nice. And when you say seedsman, are you talking about like the generic label that the seed bank offers or like Sam's?
No, I mean, I'm talking the original, like the seed bank, seedsman.
I believe, like, I don't know the story, but I've heard bits of the story that it was like a collab between, either it was a collab or it was started with, basically it was started with Skunkman seeds.
Like that's what got it going.
And he had like a kilo. He had like, that guy bought like a kilo of all the different varieties, I think is the story.
And I don't think it lasted very long because if you look at archive.org, you can kind of see where, like, it was like a couple of years of Skunkman stuff and then it kind of transitioned to a bunch of Dutch stuff.
Yeah, interesting stuff. I do think I remembered hearing that story from Todd, so that all sort of checks out.
I'd be interested to hear in terms of your experience with the hazes, have you seen stuff come out of it that is similar to some of the well-known stuff?
Like, you know, the black Cuban haze, you know, really famous NL5 haze cutting.
Do you ever see any of the characteristics in the haze you've worked with that seems similar to the other famous haze work or it all seems like quite unique?
Well, every, like we've grown the original haze stock from a few different sources now, like four or five different sources.
And every one you dip into is different. It all depends on, because everyone started with a little, a small sub, you know, a sub selection of original haze, you know, they got 10 seeds or whatever.
So, based on luck of the draw, you know, everyone got a little bit and then they selected, you know, certain things.
So there's quite a bit of variation in our experience.
And like most of them are, most of them are not worth growing in our opinion.
Like, you really have to find the right bag of seeds to get the really good ones that are worth growing.
Like most of them, like 99% of them, most people would not want to grow.
Okay. Yeah. That's, that's brilliant. Cause it sort of parlays into the next part of the question that I was going to ask, which was that the impression I always got from the work that came from Neville's haze stuff was that although he got like a small number of seeds or males or whatever it was from Sam, it seemed like the males he got ended up being pretty bloody good.
Is that like your perspective on it?
That's a good question. Like, I mean, I haven't grown, I've grown a few of Neville's things.
But I mean, obviously they were good because they stood the test of time and we're, and we grow, we grow some of that stuff.
Like we have some NL haze seeds that are good. So I don't know. I don't know if like, like, I don't really know the difference.
I mean, I can figure it out. The difference between the A and the C males is because we've grown a little bit of both. Like we haven't grown the C5 or the A5 cutting, but we've grown C5 F2s and we've grown the A5 BX from Karma, BX1, I guess it was.
Yeah.
So, you know, we have a rough idea. There's definitely, there are definitely very different males. Like the A5 is really savory and kind of charcoal-y. That's what I get out of it, like charcoal and like woody incense.
Whereas the C5 side is sweet, flowery, like perfumey.
Or pencil shavings along the C5.
Oh, pencil shavings on the C5.
Yeah.
Yeah, that checks out. I've been lucky enough to try both of those and your descriptions fairly perfectly fit it.
I've smoked, I smoked a bunch of the stuff of like a bunch of haze, like what they call haze in Amsterdam. So I probably have smoked both of those when I was there, because I was smoking stuff from like Neville's buddy, Steve. He had some, something, something. And a bunch of dispensaries at that time.
Like, I don't know. I assume some of them had the real deal, you know, like real deal, whatever. That they were just marketing as NL Haze at the time.
Sure.
So I don't know. I can't confirm without going back in a time machine.
I mean, out of curiosity, I've always found that people tend to fall on one side of the fence. They're either like, I love the haze C or I love the haze A. And notably, a lot of the breeders I speak to, they all say the haze A. They're like, yeah, that Colombian sort of vibe. Whereas I, myself, I love the haze C, that more Thai floral sort of thing. Do you have one you fall more preference wise?
I think I'm in the C side of things.
Yeah, I like both qualities, but yeah, C.
Yeah, that makes sense.
And actually, you know, the BC sweet skunk cutting, the Breeder Steve cut, that one is very C5 dominant. Very C5 dominant. Like after growing those C5 F2s and then like revisiting that cutting, it's really obvious that like originally when the sweet skunk was sold by Mark Henry, he marketed as SNCC's big skunk cross grapefruit.
But the original story was that Steve got a tray of cuttings and there was a male and they weren't sure.
Yeah, it ended up being males instead of females.
Yeah.
That's where that male came from.
Yeah, and they figured out later on it was an NL haze male.
That made the sweet skunk.
Yeah, that's definitely the story he told me and it checks out. I sadly haven't been able to try sweet skunk, but it looks like NL5 haze, doesn't it?
Oh yeah, it's very NL5 haze, Tom.
You'll like it. It's a good smoker. We have way better ones I think now as we've worked down the lines in terms of qualities that are better for growing like hardiness, powdery mildew, ease of growth, flowering time, stuff like that. But it's definitely a good one to cut your teeth on.
Another plant we grew that I would think would be like the A5 is the Bandaid haze number 7.
What was your thoughts on that one? It's pretty popular.
It's alright, but we have better stuff in our collection that we like personally more. It's a good plant. A lot of people like it.
There was a newer phenyl that I tried that I like way better to Bandaid haze.
Our friend down the road here got a pack of 10 original Bandaid haze, F1s I believe they were. He just threw them out. He must have got two packs. It must have been more than a pack there or something.
Anyways, the number 12 was really nice. For us, it was better than the number 7.
Was it two? I think it was two, wasn't it?
I can't remember. It doesn't matter.
I got it on a jar back there.
That makes sense, right? It must have been two packs if it was number 12. I think I've seen people posting. Did he give that out at all? That might be a cutting that gets passed around now.
No, he just popped those recently.
Yeah, it was more recent. The high on the new one is very immediate up. You're like, holy shit. Then it comes into a better relaxed high. I find it's a much better high than the 7 people.
I'd be interested to hear because you mentioned that you said, yeah, look, it's good, but we've got some better stuff. I was actually looking at some Bandaid haze crosses going, is this the sativa I've been searching for?
It sounds like you guys have got other ones that might be more up my lane if I'm looking for that racy sativa sort of thing. What might be some recommendations from your catalog for someone like me who wants that sort of effect?
Everything.
We really sample everything. We really go by the highs and the smells. Those are the things that we really go by. We smoke. We like to smoke. That's something that we really try to involve in everything we do.
Personally, I enjoy the Angola Red, Colombian Black Haze. Some of those were really awesome, but you find it in lots of different stuff that we have in various pictures.
Yeah, everything we have has been well tested. We've gone through and made sure that it was up to it. It's basically what we're looking for in a smoke.
Interesting. Look, I know our listeners are going to heckle me if I don't get some more sort of indoor friendly ones out of you. Because that's the complaint I hear. I'm like you guys, right? I'm trying to get people to grow sativas and they always say, I'm growing indoor, it's tough. Do you have something that's quite indoor friendly or manageable?
Oh yeah. We have Congolese Cross Iraqi is actually a sativa dom, but it's very manageable. Our Iraqi Pilgrim, we grew out three packs, so like 36 seeds.
There was two males in there that were semi-auto. There's a few more that were semi-auto, but there was two good semi-auto males that I specifically used in the pollination of those crosses. They're a lot faster.
Yeah, it kicked down on everything for sure. It passed on uber good qualities to everything it touches. That Congo clone is really easy for a sativa, nine or 10 weeks and you're good to go. It satisfies most of the guys who are looking for something newer to try that's not so long.
Crazy. Yeah, the Congolese is a very good commercial plant. Most of the guys that grow it commercially, they cut it at nine or 10 weeks. Even though there's a whole range of, you can cut it early or you can let it go a little bit later.
It's actually better terp wise in the early part. Most people would prefer it at nine or 10 weeks because it has more of the lemon peel terps at the beginning.
Yeah, lemon boot polish. Good shit.
We're going to get to the Congo later because I love that cutting. Thank you guys so much for that. I just want to loop back quickly to the Iraqi pilgrim stuff you were talking about. You mentioned that it was semi-auto flowering. Do you mean that in the way that some, I know that for example, blueberries a bit like that where it's like once it gets root bound, it just tries to flower. Is that what you're talking about or do you mean in a true sense it's a bit auto flowery?
I have a very basic definition of semi-auto. Semi-auto is something that triggers and that it'll start flowering but you can re-veg it. If it's auto, basically you can't re-veg it. You can re-veg auto stuff with a bunch of techniques but semi-auto you can re-veg with pretty normal techniques.
Yeah, time and size of bucket.
Yeah, or just take cuttings, re-veg cuttings.
Okay, cool. Yeah, that sounds like sort of what I was thinking. I guess some strains I'm familiar with fall under that category. I just call them a bit temperamental but worth keeping around.
The Iraqi pilgrim is what I would call a pseudo land race. Well, it's not even really a pseudo land race but it could be a pseudo land race because if you look at the description for it on Seed Heaven, the guy that collected the seeds, he went on a tour of Iraq and he just collected seeds from everywhere that were good and put them in a bag. So it's got a little bit of everything.
So yeah, when we grew them, most of them weren't... They were okay but most of them were not things we would grow again. Unfortunately, we found a good female and a good male and the rest is history. We made F2s out of those so we got what we needed.
That's awesome. I was going to specifically ask. I noticed on the website that you did F2 it and I was wondering, was that just to have like a bigger pool to select from or was there like a specific reason you did that?
Well, it was because it was good. That's the main reason to make more seeds, when you come across something good.
Sorry, maybe I should be more specific. Was there a reason you didn't just use like an F1 male and you went for the F2 male instead?
Well, the more inbred something is, the more you're able to predict what the outcome is. So I'm always trying to increase the predictability in the hybridization.
So my goal is always to... If I have a choice between an inbred male and a not inbred male, I'm always going to choose the inbred male, unless there's some specific reason that you want to choose the other one.
But yeah, it's always preferable to... The male side of your hybrid equation is always the one that has the most questions. So I like to use something that's inbred because then we have like we can...
If we have something that's inbred, we've grown it before and it's relatively consistent from plant to plant, then we have like an idea of what that male is going to be like. More of an idea, basically.
Yeah, phenomenal. And I guess one of the sentiments you hear commonly expressed when people are talking about using inbred males is that the more inbred a line is, the more it tends to dominate the cross.
Do you find that to be the case or is it more like what you just said before where it's just more predictable but not necessarily dominating?
I think it depends on what it is. It really depends on what it is. Some things that are like that are blueberry. Blueberry is super dominant in hybrids.
Yeah, definitely. The blueberry vision was very... When we grew that out, yeah, you could see the dominance like kicking down halfway or more all the time. Something I didn't like preferably, but yeah, definitely a dominant one.
But some things are non-dominant. And actually for breeding, sometimes you want a non-dominant male. Because let's say you're doing a shotgun breed where you have a male and you're loading your room up with everything that you can get your hands on.
Then by having a non-dominant male, then you're allowing all those other things to express themselves in the hybrids and you're not ending up with a bunch of stuff that's really similar or more similar.
I think that's such a valid and valuable point because I always try to say to people, I think probably upwards of 90% of the time when the average person buys a seed, they're buying it for the mother. Like they want that clone only sort of mother. Like most of the time.
Of course, there's some variation, but that's why what you just said is perfect, right? Like if you've got a father that just allows the mom to shine through, then you can give people sort of the clone only that they can't get their hands on.
That's a tricky question because clone only are often polyhybrids. They're just weird things that are not going to ever pop up again. Like sweet skunk, the plant we were talking about, for instance. We've tried breeding with that so many times and what comes out of it is never as good as the original cut. So we just eliminated that from our breeding program a long time ago.
Yeah, that's really interesting to hear. So I guess that ultimately you refine your females you work with over the years to be ones that work well in the breeding sense, not just like it's a popular cultivar?
Yeah, that's where we're always looking for stuff that works well as breeding, like in hybridization. Like a good trait in hybridization is a plant that the hybrids are better than the original. And one plant that is like that is very reliable like that for us is the grapefruit cutting, the BC grapefruit cutting.
Pretty much anything that you put onto it, if it's half decent, you'll end up with something cool that's going to be more fun to grow than the grapefruit.
And how do you find the grapefruit is in general? Because obviously it's like this popular strain, it's been around ages. Do you think that the smoke itself is good or it's more what you said that it's like it's a good tool for the next step?
It's all right. It's like it's not super potent or anything, but it's really nice. It's got a nice flavor. It's the kind of weed that a lot of people like to smoke because it's like savor weed, you know, weed that you just smoke to savor it. It's not like super potent.
So, you know, there's a lot of people that they don't want to get whacked out of their head. You know, they just want to smoke something that's really nice. It's got a bit of a relaxing high to it.
It yields well too.
Yeah, it's a really big yielder and it's fast. They used to harvest it at six weeks.
Wow. I remember I used to be skeptical of the 49 day Cindy 99, but you got that beat.
Well, it wasn't necessarily, you know, good.
Our South Asian brothers.
It's the same in Australia. Out of curiosity, I've spoken to Steve in the past and I said, what do you think grapefruit was? And he said, I think it's just an Afghani. What do you think? And are you friends with Steve? Because I noticed you had the grapefruit cut and I was like, I don't think even he has it anymore.
My opinion is it's an NL hybrid.
Okay.
Yeah, we've known Steve a long time. He's a real good guy. He's brought lots to the table over the years and he loves to talk. He's got that big booming voice and people like to listen to him.
That is the best description of his voice, isn't it? Very booming.
He's one of the grandfathers.
Yeah, he's like in the grandfather category for sure. You better respect.
So, I just want to link back for a moment. You were talking about the Iraqi pilgrim and you answered this in the question that I think you sort of said you got it off a website.
But our listeners are always curious to know where do you source your landrace seed from? Is it always sort of just haphazard or do you have like a go-to method of trying to get new stock or is it just sort of opportunistic?
A lot of it is just random.
Very random, yeah.
I actually like buying seeds personally. When I see landraces on The Real Seed Company, I like to buy a lot of stuff from them.
Everything I buy, I'll buy three packs minimum because there's so much variation in that stuff that you really need to dig through multiple packs to find stuff to get a really good idea of what's going on there and to figure out what you're looking for.
Either that or you're really lucky.
I like The Real Seed Company. I'm a big fan of those guys and like all the guys in India, the Indian landrace guys.
I was just going to ask. You beat me to it.
Yeah, we've got some stuff from them that other people have sent us that we're going to be dipping into at some point.
Yeah.
A lot of people, like random people, contact us and trade us stuff.
Yeah, people from Angola that have lived there just get a hold of us, see our stuff, send us a bunch of seeds to try.
Lots of sharing back in the CW days. Lots of sharing back then.
Yeah, and some of our friends have been traveling around and they'll bring back seeds.
One of our friends was in Kenya and he took the last plane out before they shut down.
For COVID.
Yeah, for COVID. And he had a bunch of seeds from... He said, yeah, I got some seeds from some Rasta in Kenya.
Yeah, that's great to hear. And I think that that's sort of the way most breeders I speak to get their seeds. It's sort of just like where you can...
You mentioned the Angola and we actually had a listener submitted question and they were just curious.
They said, what's the difference between the two different Angolas you use? I think one's the number 13, one's the number 18 from memory?
Yeah. Well, smell and height, for one, and varying rate of intersex traits.
You want to explain where they came from?
Yeah, they came from... They were sent to me from La Meno Negro's collection, his wife, Katerina.
And it was given to him from a guy who sailed ships up the coast to... What was the name of that island?
Capo Verde?
Capo Verde, I think. Yeah. So like a sea captain from Capo Verde, I guess, gave him the seeds and they were sent out to us after he passed.
And that guy was getting seeds at places where they were oil refineries.
Yeah, big oil refineries going up and down the coast and just collecting things that he had liked.
Yeah, he was just buying... He'd buy weed and get the seeds from coastal ports. So he wasn't in the bush sampling all the plants.
No, no. And most of it was garbage. A lot of it was garbage, very heavily intersex.
And the 13 was more earthy pee kind of smells I liked and very little intersex.
And the 18 was more of a citrus thing. It had a higher citrus. You get that citrus out of the 13 too, but it's muted a bit.
It stands out a little more in the 18. So yeah, I just decided to keep most of those smells around for future projects.
Yeah, nice. And is there a certain variety that the effect is similar to? Like, you know, if you were to say like, oh, if you like Super Silver Haze, you'll like this.
Obviously Super Silver Haze is a bad example, but you know what I mean?
Yeah, I put it in a category called the spiritual high, I guess. Not to get too wavy gravy or anything, but different people have different experiences with cannabis.
And one of them is definitely spiritual, I'd say, in the way you can connect to yourself, to that inner voice, right?
And I'd say that those Angolas and like the Malawis and the stuff like that, it seemed to have that really up high that's introspective and friendly, you know, not too racy.
Yeah, we're always we're looking for stuff that's not necessarily racy, but more like a creative high.
A creative and like positive, you know, opens up your heart chakra kind of stuff. Like your heart chakra and your throat chakra and your third eye chakra, etc.
Yeah, beautiful. I've always felt like they're really underrepresented sort of sativa, most often sativa.
And I think I probably haven't thought about this enough really, but I always sort of would tell my friends, like, I feel like there's two types of sativas.
There's like the one that annihilates you and makes you paranoid and just like, oh, what am I doing?
And then there's like the real clear headed one that's sort of more like what you're talking about, where it's like, you're not riddled with anxiety and you're like actually upbeat and having a good time and feeling like, hey, I'm really connecting with this actually.
Yeah, definitely an underserved strain in sort of a type of strain in our community, I think.
Take turns the music up in my head. Like those are the kinds of things I look forward to, you know, the beat that's going to kind of takes it.
Yeah, I like to count the number of different ringing sounds in my head.
More than two or three different sounds, you know, you're on to a good one.
That's interesting. I mean, I think Scabby just mentioned the Malawi.
I mean, I did want to ask you about that quickly, just because you don't really see people outside of say like yourself and maybe like Ace or Cano Baj and really playing around with the Malawi.
Where do you get yours from and how would you describe it to people? Is it like a haze or more like a different sort of sativa?
The earthy African.
Yeah, those Africans, they're not like long flowering sativa types. They're like in the shorter, like 10, 12 range, you know, so it's a bit more manageable in terms of the timely.
And yeah, you can find some really, really interesting things in there, but you've got to look through a bunch of seed and make some F2s.
But to further answer your question, we got the seed from.
Lomeno Negra.
Yeah, so the same stock as what those guys use.
Yeah, I would send a big package after he passed that his wife made up for me. And there still is a bunch of his old stuff in there.
We've gone through quite a bit of it, but yeah, he had a really good touch, you know, with plants. And yeah, I definitely respect his collection and I'm glad that we can share some things, you know, with the world.
Yeah, nice. Okay, so yeah, it's up there with that same proven sort of stock that the other guys have played with.
Yeah, there's a, what was that guy? The guy that was selling African seeds out of the UK that passed away like seven years ago. Afrochips.
Oh, yeah.
Afrochips. He had in Malawi as well, but I haven't experienced that. And it's like all things. When you get into those types of seeds, you have to grow a bunch of them or be lucky.
To get the really experience what it is you want to experience, you know, to get to find the really good Malawi or whatever.
Yeah, so if you're like a cash proper, that's not the kind of thing you're going to want to like enjoy at all. But you know, if you're someone who loves cannabis, these are important lessons to learn and important things to share and pass on, you know.
Yeah, definitely, definitely. All right, so take me back, guys. What was, we might have to get two independent stories here. What was your first experience with cannabis?
Well, my first experience of wondering what cannabis was, was in the late 80s. I was in something called the Navy League Cadets, which was like basically like Cub Scouts with a Navy theme.
And I was in the band and one of the officers one day, we're up there with the band and he's, for some reason, he's talking about hemp rope. And he said, yeah, this hemp rope is made from the same plant as marijuana.
And then he had this really goofy smile on his face when he said that. And I think I was like 10 or 11 years old. And just the way he said this is like, this is from the same plant as marijuana and had this big smile on my face.
I knew there was something about that. But it wasn't until I was in my, like I'm kind of late to the scene. Yeah, basically when I was around 19 or 20 is when I finally smoked it for the first time.
And actually the first few times I smoked it, it was probably just the particular type of weed that it just was not, you know, it wasn't, that wasn't for me. But once I found, like I made a new friend who was a big pothead and he properly introduced me to it when I was about 21 in the Navy League.
Yeah, in Vancouver, when I moved there for the second time. So yeah.
Yeah, okay. Well, when I was younger, I lived in a fishing village on the East Coast and we would get bricks of hash that would wash up on the shore or out from the fishing boats that were from runners that would go by. So we would go up in our little camps in the woods and get some hot knives going. And we do these saltwater hash dabs, right?
And they were pretty gross now that I look back on it. And they used to call us animals and stuff like that. But no, it was really fun. And one of the first weeds I ever really loved was a guy that was on my island had been growing for a long time and he had been inbreeding this Maui Waui that was finishing and it would just get you fucking licked, you know.
And unfortunately, he died in a car accident and I never got to, as I got older, I never got to get those seeds from him. But I grew with him a year or two and learned some things and he put me on my way. I think I was maybe 14 or 15. But yeah, I knew that weed would be a part of my life, you know. Like you have the drinkers and the weeders and as soon as you experience some of those awesome highs, yeah, I knew it would be a part of my life.
Wow, that's cool. You got that sort of mentoring so early on. And I think my new phrase is going to be like, don't tell me you're heady unless you've done a saltwater hot knife. That's great. That's cool. And it's one of those ones where it's like, people will hear that and find it funny, but it's like, it would have given you this type of high that you just don't experience anywhere else, you know, like as well as the set and setting, I'm sure.
Yeah, definitely.
And we were really close to Montreal too. So you'd have a lot of different hashes coming like the east coast of Canada, it was all hash, right? So guys would go to work in the factories and they buy their quarter ounce or half ounce of hash for the week and mix it with their tobacco or whatever. You know, weed wasn't really a big thing on the east coast like it was on the west coast when I came to the west coast, you know. And that's changed over the years now, but that's just the smuggling roots, I suppose.
Yeah. Yeah. Like hash was traditionally not very popular in western Canada, except for places that you couldn't get good weed. Like I grew up in the prairies and there was like, I never saw weed when I grew up. I only saw people doing hot knives. That was my only experience of like, or I would sometimes I would smell people smoking really rough joints on the street.
And wondering what, you know, I would smell that stuff and wondering what the heck was going on there because I didn't quite smell like a cigarette, but I never really like where I grew up. I grew up with the motor, like the muscle car crowd. We weren't really big into smoking weed. We were into heavy metal and drinking booze, more or less.
And so I'd be interested to hear, Sire, what was the moment that you realized cannabis? Because it sounds like it wasn't until a bit later on. So what was the Eureka light bulb turning on moment for you where you were like, this is what I got to do?
Um, well, initially, it was just, I was working as a machinist. So, um, it was for me, initially, it was just the curiosity. And I just started growing, like my first grow was under some step under some stair, like a stairwell.
And I made my own fluorescent fixture with like, six little two foot long fluorescent bulbs. And it was like two foot by two foot square and maybe like two foot tall, you know, just hardly any space.
So yeah, I was just more, I was more curious with like, I come from a line of farmers on my mom's side of the family. So I'm kind of like a gardener farmer by nature. So I was just curious about growing it. And the fact that you can grow your own was pretty cool.
But it wasn't really until until maybe like 90 1998. I met a friend of mine who was I was going to school learning machine like tool and die as learning tool and die the trade. And I ran like I was at the school and they had this environmental kind of like one day.
Environmental Conference. And this one guy was there talking about hemp. And he just said, like, you know, he had all sorts of different things that you could make out of hemp and things that were made out of him.
And this kind of blew my mind. At that point, I was like, Whoa, this is pretty wild. Like that was that was that was the point where I was, I started, you know, thinking about how it could be a part of my life, basically.
Wow, that's like, that's like quite a unique one. Like I think most people including myself, it's like after a really good hit, but you're at like a fair or something. That's pretty cool. Okay, okay, cool, cool.
We were getting we were getting high the whole time too, but.
Yeah, super sativa seed club, like lots of that was around. Yeah. Freeze land. The old old freeze land was some of the first stuff some of my buddies Maui wowie. And like we would just order whatever we could off Mark Emery site or whoever's you know, the Dutch scene the gray area wherever you know, yeah grew everything.
Just lots of different stuff but that freeze land really finished outdoor in the East Coast so you'd see that a lot around. Yeah, yes Gabby grew up on the East Coast and I grew up on the West Coast so our experiences are a little different.
I got I actually got to be I actually got to go into Mark Emery's little growth shop and buy seeds so
I was a bit of a seed nerd at that time.
But the first seeds that I grew were sweet skunk from readers see if see the spice of life, see company and they were very different from the select cutting.
They were very similar to a lot more similar to grapefruit, they were like indica hybrids, more or less.
So I think that I think the male that got used in that cross looking back was probably enough, possibly enough one, or it had variation in it.
And it was probably selected for indica traits but it's spat out a little sativa fennel every so often, because like what I experienced what I got out of it was very
kind of an all like an all flavors mixed with like savory thick and all flavors mixed with very citrusy grapefruit flavors, which is pretty different than what the the readers see if kind of like.
And did you get the cutting like around that time or it was much later you got it and you were like oh this is pretty different.
Yeah I didn't grow it until the cutting until the early 2000s.
Okay.
I don't think that that cutting didn't merge till later right?
No, yeah it was a later thing.
Like I think the, I don't know if you told the story, but I think something along the lines of, they, they, it's like they older, like it was some leftover stock that they mark and we had that they grew and found that particular cutting in.
Is there a story like one in 500 or something but I don't know I've heard a couple things that's best for Steve to like fill you in on that.
Yeah look I can't remember specifically but I'm sure it was a special plant.
Yeah yeah that's it right?
Yeah yeah the cowboy maybe something like that if I remember correctly I don't know it's been a long time.
Yeah okay and as a follow-up for you Scabby I'd be interested to hear out of all the SSSC you grew which was the one you missed the most?
Oh Jesus fuck.
Honestly that Freesland was some of my favorite stuff ever because there was fennels like I've tried fennels now in the future like and they just hit harder there was like something I don't know what the fuck happened but something happened in their genetics like the stuff I'm getting nowadays the pink, pink freeze and stuff the all the other cuts that are around.
They don't hit quite as hard as that old Freesland like it was a very narcotic buzz right and the weed was so potent like it'd be drying in your house and you'd like I'm out of here you know you can't even stay in the house it would make you sick right.
So yeah and I don't know why it changed but something definitely happened.
And you grew a bunch of that right?
Oh yeah yeah for sure and we grew it in the future too like in the future like around 2003 and stuff we got a bunch of M39, M36, M38 and it was reproduction stuff I bet but it was all very uniform and the same but no real punch.
Yeah the original was probably an F1.
Yeah that's probably what was happening and like yeah that same time when we first grew the what was that one by Steve that was so nice the first seedlot yeah no Shishkeberry yeah yeah that first seeds of Shishkeberry that we grew it was just really powerful and beautiful and everything I ever tried after that it just didn't stand up to it.
Now that I look back that's probably what it was the F1.
Yeah it made some incredible stuff it was like that first Shishkeberry as well as the other stuff when they were doing that when DJ and Steve were doing that work together it's kind of impressive I guess that like your palate picked up on that on its own.
Well yeah that's one of the fun things about weed is we're bio-essaying all this stuff and we're building a little computer in our brains you know and that's the real fun thing to me like we have all this THC limits and you know this terpene and that terpene but to me and I think the funnest thing is just building your own library in your brain you know and the smells the memories that the smells kick out you know it take you back.
In your etheric brain.
In my etheric brain yeah definitely.
So moving forward what was the first cross you guys made individually or together but I also want to know tell me about the cross was it intentional or was it like a happy accident?
My original seeds that I ever made were actually just sweet skunk capped twos just the only reason I did it was to see if I could do it and I actually I don't and I grew I grew actually grew some out but I like I don't even I don't even know because I was so inexperienced at the time like some of the stuff I was doing I would just I would laugh I would laugh my ass off but some of the shit I was doing back then.
But I mean I was only 20 years old or whatever 21 or whatever and I I was I kept to myself so I wasn't like I wasn't in the scene learning cannabis cultivation techniques from other guys that could have taught me some good shit I was like just reading gardening books.
Because I wasn't I wasn't that serious about it at that point but I was um yeah it was just a curiosity for me.
Some of the first ones for me excuse me yeah would be like unintentional stuff almost we were doing a lot of gorilla growing at the time I was in the wilderness and like it was very cold back there so I would come back in the springtime and oh my god I had some seeds that were growing up you know from the old holes or whatever right those were some of the first crosses so they were like inbred Maui things that had been inbred for shortness over and over and over again in the in the early days.
To get something to work yeah.
Nice nice and as a follow-up what was the first cross you did where as like I guess it's what was the cross you did where you looked at the end results and you were like this is really good like I need to sell this and like was that the first cross you brought to market or was it just what it was?
It was right as we came through a weird time like with prohibition and stuff you know we it was like a war zone right like people were getting arrested everywhere and going to jail and it was just fun to make seeds and share seeds and get it out there and you know stick one up to the man kind of thing but I think it just grows into a lifestyle the more you do it and your aptitude for it like you know he's really into gardening and stuff like that.
So it just it's kind of a natural thing that comes about I think for both of us really.
Yeah I don't even remember like I can't even honestly answer that question to be honest because I was young and I was just so so stoned like when anything anything that I can think about related to cannabis I was just so stoned at that time.
There's such a difference between the reasons I was smoking weed for back then and like my experiences of it back then and now or you know in the present era.
So, yeah I was just doing like this making a bunch of random stuff.
But yeah when I started working with when I worked with Reeferman that's when I like I made a whole bunch of crosses and invariably some of that stuff worked out even though I was you know still not really fully understanding what I was doing learning on the job kind of thing.
We've heard many people get such work experience and I'd be interested to delve into that a little more like I know that you got your start with a sort of the Prairie Fire and Reeferman days.
What sort of genetics were you working with and as you sort of just alluded to were you aware of sort of the popularity the work was going to go on to receive or was it all quite a surprise to you?
Well I didn't like I didn't really know like Reeferman or of Reeferman.
I just met him randomly.
I was living on the Sunshine Coast.
Yeah and I just met him one day and we clicked and he said come work with me and the rest is history.
And I just I was just a guy and I knew a little bit about growing weed and making seeds enough to get by.
And he basically set the agenda like I you know I hadn't I was not part of that world of making seeds and selling seeds.
So yeah I just learned about all that stuff on the job and you know figured things out just through trial and error.
And eventually I'm you know we would get feedback like from the seeds and I'm somewhat somewhat of a good idea of what worked and what didn't work.
But I didn't get to grow out you know all that stuff so I don't know exactly what worked and what didn't.
But you can like get an idea of some stuff that works because people are still growing it so you know some things I know are good.
So what sort of parents were you working with and did any of them leave a lasting impression on you where you were like oh you know that Ty was really good.
He had his own seeds and he had some seeds from Steve Tuck.
The heroin guy.
Yeah.
He traded a bunch of seeds with Steve Tuck so he had some cool things from him.
He got like nepalese and a bunch of random he had a bunch of random IBLs he had like hash plants Steve Tuck that he traded with us.
The Djekistani, Uzbekistan.
There's like four of those Middle Eastern hash plants so I got to grow some of those.
I mean a lot of it was he was more commercially oriented like like hash plants and stuff.
So like that era for me the like the early BC days was it was all about commercial plants like wood plants look good in a bag smell good in a bag and yield really big.
That was that was basically the like a lot of the plants that were mass produced at that time.
There was a plant called Romulan that are like Joe Romulan that people are familiar with that.
That it it's not around anymore because it was not a fun plant to grow and it was it made a lot of small buds.
Like it was like a like a sativa frame with little indica buds on it so it probably was pain in the ass to trim.
And probably not.
Probably just not a good sea of green plant. I imagine based on the description.
But yeah it wasn't like like you see a lot of Romulan stuff around and our friends I grew Romulan say that like none of that stuff looks like the original Romulan.
The original Romulan that they grew back then was little rock hard buds that didn't get any bigger than a than a like a jawbreaker like really small round buds.
And I remember getting the like we bought some jars from Joe when he was bringing them into Vancouver.
And they came in half size jars what we call salmon jars.
The ounces came in half size jars.
So it was super dense.
It's like a form form cookies you can get it pretty dense to like it'll fit in a smaller jar.
So yeah it was really rock hard stuff but um where am I going with this?
Smell like pine?
Yeah pine and and meat really meaty.
And kind of like curry lemon curry.
Sounds delicious.
Yeah it was really nice really nice weed.
Yeah I never got to try it so I'm a little bit jealous right?
I'm there with you man I didn't get to try it either but there's so many things we're gonna have to loop back on but seeing as we're talking about Romulan let's let's smash a few out of the park.
Do you have any idea or just any general guesses as to what the genetics are?
You know it's one that's so up in the air and I just I don't think like there's a lot of things we don't know about right like chem dog and OG.
But like a lot of those things we have an idea but with Romulan I'm like I just don't know.
I think that's one that the story went to bed with the last like the people that have passed away.
Yeah kind of I think so too.
Because it seems like there's a lot of like we've seen a lot of weird stories come out of stuff that we know the real story of.
So it's one of those things where the story is so ridiculous that I just don't believe it you know like I don't I'm highly skeptical of the different stories out there.
I think what is it Leafly says that Romulan is derived from a Korean land race.
Yeah it could be but like.
Big skunk? Big Korean skunk?
No no it's like Korean and then they added in Colombian.
Yeah yeah that's right way back in the 60s yeah okay.
And then they added in well that's the story they started off with Korean and Thai and Colombian or something like that.
And every so often they would add in some stuff that was coming around that was good right and make it seed.
Yeah and then they added in Afghani in the story.
And then they didn't no no that's not the end.
No they didn't like the direction.
Oh yeah that's right yeah yeah.
So they added in more Colombian or something like that.
But yeah apparently it came from Romulan according to the story we heard.
Brace yourself.
Came from a hydro store.
Yeah.
It came from the original hydro store on Vancouver Island.
Well it was one of the original early hydro stores in Port Alberni.
And so I don't know who called it Romulan but it was a plant that was circulating in that community.
Which is on the west coast of Vancouver Island.
So most of the population of Vancouver Island lives on the east coast.
So I guess it's a little bit off the beaten track.
Joe would have been working at this hydro shop at that time.
Is that right?
Yeah.
Oh yeah.
So do you think the people who had Romulan back in the day did have the real Romulan?
Oh yeah yeah yeah yeah definitely.
I talked to Robbie about it.
A vision creator.
He grew lots of it when he was living down there in the city in the early days you know.
He had a couple houses of it.
They had cut houses.
It was one of the major cuts at that time.
It was circulating.
And it just kind of disappeared.
It's like the era of pink cush.
It's disappearing in front of our feet right now.
It just happens.
People get bored and move on with stuff right?
Better stuff.
Yeah like there was in back in those days there was eras based on the predominant cuttings that were circulating.
It was the cuttings that the cutting houses were choosing to propagate and sell that determined what was ultimately ending up in the market.
Those cutting houses were rocking up.
That's interesting.
And like I mean you often hear a lot of people talk about the cuts in circulation at the moment not being real.
And I guess let's put that aside for the moment and instead talk about how there's like these alternative lines.
Like I think famously there was Federation Seeds which crossed like White Rhino and then did like this whole BX thing on it.
Have you ever tried those alternative Romulan cuts that like aren't the real ones but are still out there?
Oh yeah.
Do you think they're good or it's not the same?
They're okay but it's totally not the same.
Yeah they're okay but totally not the same for sure.
Yeah like the Romulan.
I mean what I could believe about the Romulan story is that there was a crew of guys that had seeds.
Back in those days you know you got to imagine that just to be able to get seeds that were like worth something worth you know possibly worth growing.
Those would have been like hugely valuable at the time.
So yeah there were seeds that would have come from Oregon and California and made it up to Vancouver Island.
There was a lot of Americans in BC back in those days.
Draft Dodgers?
Yeah so I could see that part of the story where there was guys mixing up genetics trying to find some stuff that would work.
But yeah I don't know about the validity of but yeah okay to elaborate more on those new Romulans.
There's a cutting that's circulating as a 79 Romulan.
We've kind of figured out just by looking back and you can look at on archive.org at emoryseeds.com.
If you go back into next generation in whatever year like 2000 early 2000s.
They had a Romulan seven of nine so that was I think it was like I can't remember the description but it was like a seven times back cross or something.
Yeah something like that yeah.
So that's just an example of how like stories can kind of get out of whack you know like there is a cutting being circulated as a 79 Romulan but it's actually.
Seven of nine see how it got misplayed right all of a sudden now it's pre 98 right but it's just it was seven of nine just the word play and telephone how it works right.
Yeah definitely look it sounds quite plausible.
I'd be interested to hear have you tried any of the other related cuts to sort of Romulan like these are just some fan submitted ones.
Like the Albany pine bud or the Romulan.
Yep.
Do they stand up to Romulan or not really?
No.
No it's like we're always like looking for that fucking whacker and yeah.
There's a cutting I got from an old timer friend of mine that came from Salt Spring Island, but it turns out it was one of those next generation or Federation seed line cuttings that they just selected out that they'd been growing for years and years, but it wasn't the same.
Like this, the cutting I, the Salt Spring Romulan cut that I grew.
It was very single cola dominant whereas like the original plant is supposedly.
Lots of buds like.
Yeah like a big mess of branches and buds little buds.
Popcorny maybe what's that a word?
Well they're not really popcorn because they're.
Yeah yeah.
Hard.
Yeah.
Yeah okay and I just want to loop back.
You were talking earlier about some hash plants and we got a number of really good questions from some of our listeners and one of them sort of asked that specifically there's like a number of the BC hash plants and cushers that were associated with facilities on the Vancouver Island back in like the late 90s.
Sorry late 80s early 90s and the rumor was that like they came from seed that was brought in with hash like maybe like King hash or Queen or champagne or something.
Notably white buffalo has worked with most of if not all of them.
Do you know the backstory on any of these cushers or hash plants and do you think they stand up to the stuff we see today?
Yeah they're good.
Do I know the story about them? No I don't know the story about them I just know that they came out of the motorcycle club breeding collective.
Like Nanaimo with the Nanaimo motorcycle club. They were the predominant importers of Central Asian hash in Canada, probably in like possibly in North America at that time.
So, yeah, there's probably more Afghani coming through the West Coast and the East Coast right?
Yeah, definitely. Yeah. In that way.
So those, I mean I could believe it, like apparently they pulled seeds out of blocks of hash was the story but I don't know about that.
Like I don't know if I believe those stories, just because I, some of those seem like polyhybrids to me, so I don't, I don't know if I believe the story.
They're just, they're pretty nice so I would tend to like my, in my mind, if I didn't know anything about it I would say they're probably like a lot of stuff in like that early Canadian stuff was that early Canadian stuff came out of was from Holland seeds.
I think my favorite like cushy thing from back then is like the Special K. That's probably one of my favorites that stood the test of time.
But that's, that's even later than that. Yeah, that's even later than that stuff. Definitely. Yeah.
But yeah, so those. When I was working with Reeferman he got three hash plant cuts.
And two of them are related one was called. It was called Purple King.
And then he like renamed it to Pink Kush because it had nice pink stigmas.
And the other one was called, they just called it the King. And like at that time I just knew they're, you know, they're related, possibly related because they're both named King.
But then we've done a bunch of breeding with them over the years so we get them with all sorts of things, and growing out the progeny.
And actually just by like growing out the stuff, I would tend to think that they're not land racy things because the stuff that comes out of them is really like, it seemed like they're polyhybrids.
Yeah, they're less than of the whole, some of the whole a lot of the time right and yeah.
But they're really the thing about them is they make really awesome bubble hash.
There's something special about those two plants that they make a type of hash that you very rarely see in commercial or like in any weed plants that when you go to push the hash together.
It doesn't stick together it pushes apart.
Yeah, weird trickle.
Yeah, almost like there's like static when you apply pressure and it just pushes it apart or something. That's really interesting.
Yeah, it's like they're really hard to push into when they're when they're really fresh like when you're, you know, not cured or anything.
They kind of like just the turps I guess or whatever compounds are in there, but they're really, it's really, really nice hash.
Yeah, like the, the flower is not like super potent or anything, but the hash is really nice.
Candy.
Yeah, those two particular plants the King and the pink cush.
Yeah.
Look, that's great because as you might have imagined we got a number of questions from the fans about the pink cush because you know like it's so prevalent and popular over the past you know decade or two and yet there also is so much sort of mystery around it.
Just to confirm, are you saying that pink cush comes from a cutting that was originally called King and then he renamed it to pink cush and then there was another cutting and he called that King thereafter?
Well no it's what they were. They were called they were already called purple King, and the King.
But my friend, I haven't like I met another friend later on, who was growing those.
And he called them purple King. And he said the other one was white King or green King.
But, I mean it was just, you know, they were I think they're probably selling most of it as King, you know, whether it's purple or green you know you'd be like, Oh, I got a bag of King.
And it's like, Oh, did you get the purple King or the green King.
I think that's how it went down. If I had to guess.
Okay.
But yeah, those particular, those particular cuttings were really tightly held for the longest time.
And so when Reeferman got him, he was probably one of the first guys outside of the circle to actually get them.
And like my friend that I met later, he was also one of those guys that he said he would have gotten in trouble if somebody, you know, the wrong person found out that he was growing it.
Wow, very tightly held.
Yeah.
Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, this is like tight, tighter than tight.
There you go.
And like, if you had to guess the genetics, you said you think it's a polyhybrid of some sort.
Do you think it's hash plant cross something or?
It's probably like if I had to guess.
And like I said before, I have no idea.
But in my mind, it would be a cross of maybe it could be an old world hash plant that they pull out of bricks that they were hitting it with seeds that they were getting from Holland.
That would be my guess that they got something like Afghani or like they may have gotten some hash plant seeds from Holland and mixed it with, you know, what they were getting out of bricks.
Or maybe they got a bunch of different plants out of bricks, seeds out of bricks and were hitting, like mixing them up.
So I mean, I just can't say I, but I do think that it was a polyhybrid.
That's basically all I'm trying to say is I think it's a polyhybrid or both of them are.
But yeah, after doing a number of different hybrids with those king cuttings, it would seem to us that the green king is the mother of the pink cush.
Yeah.
Because when you hit the pink cush, you get way more bannows out of it and they're like way all over, like all over the place.
It's like a really good, it's a really good plant for finding wild stuff.
Because like it spits out stuff that you wouldn't predict would come out of there.
Yeah.
But on the other, on the other side of things, I would think it would be a really hard plant to inbreed to try and like capture, you know, what it did, what the cuttings like.
Unless you like feminized it.
To try and make a seed line out of it, I think would be fairly challenging.
Very.
Okay.
And out of curiosity, do you think it stands up to the stuff today?
And if so, why do you think it's sort of falling off in popularity?
Well, this is stuff for today.
Yeah, it is big and it's hard to grow too.
I mean, it's not the easiest shit to grow.
Yeah.
Pinkush is the number one plant grown in Canada right now, I would say.
Yep, definitely.
I can't think of anything else.
Maybe GMO is probably.
But yeah, Pinkush seems to be like, at least here where we are.
Where we are, it rules the market.
Where we are, it's just, it's all Pinkush.
Like literally nine out of 10 people are growing Pinkush in the whole West Coast of BC.
Seriously.
So just to clarify, you think like it's sort of still on the uptrend or like, or at least it's not falling off at all?
Oh no, it's falling off the cliff and it's like doing a 9,000 foot freefall into hell right now as we speak.
Yeah, it's error is done.
It's over.
It's like stick a fork in it.
Hopefully this fall we'll see something pop up and we'll see this kind of.
Yeah, there's definitely like, I think the next trend is going to be some flavor, a bunch of flavor weed.
But I think we're going to see a bunch of different stuff instead of one, you know, instead of Pinkush dominating.
I think we're going to see a bunch of weird stuff because like all the guys that are growing it, they now have Pinkush PTSD.
Yeah, for sure.
The blue dream of Canada.
Well, it's just been overgrown and the combination between the last six months, in the last six months, the Canadian legal flower market, like the Canadian legal cannabis market has flatlined.
The sales have not increased.
So those guys are dropping all their prices.
So there's like a huge war basically between commercial legal weed and commercial black market weed.
So basically, at the end of the day, there's too much Pinkush and the price has to drop down to nothing basically because no one's buying it.
Like they're like, yeah, I got like, you know, the guys that are buying it already have what they have.
You know, they don't need anymore.
And the guys that, and farmers being farmers, when the price of a crop goes down.
Double down.
Yeah, you got to double your production.
And so we're seeing that.
Yeah, we're going to have, obviously that's not, that situation is not going to work out too well.
And out of curiosity, do you think the, you mentioned like, you know, the next big push will be like fruity, flavorful strains.
Any predictions at all?
Do you think it'll be something that jumps over from California or maybe something unique will come out of the woodworks?
Well, in Canada, a lot of guys pull stuff out of random seeds, stocks.
And a lot of it is just like, you know, BX or whatever.
It's just, you know, a lot of it is name cross name kind of stuff.
You know, that's just, it's got the right names.
And they'll pull stuff out of that.
But definitely there's a ton of stuff coming up from the States.
Like we actually have the amount of elite cuttings in Canada is pretty huge.
Like it's pretty impressive actually.
So I'm just saying like, I think the fruity thing is going to be the next thing just because that's, you know, that's the big trend down South.
And we're already seeing what guys are asking for.
And it's, you know, it's stuff that has, you know, like fruity.
I call it like flavor weed.
I don't know how else to describe it.
Yeah, no, that works.
That works.
I understand.
Let me take us back for a little bit to those earlier days.
And we've got some really cool fan submitted questions here again.
And they just sort of asked, you know, in the earlier days, there was like a number of seed companies that were all operating out of the same post office on Nanaimo.
Nanaimo.
Is that how you say it?
Nanaimo.
Vancouver Island.
Yeah.
Was there like much collegiality, like cooperation between the different groups or was everyone just like keeping their head down doing their own thing?
I would say everyone was fairly independent.
Back in those days.
And the fact they were using the same mailbox just means that that was a tolerant mailbox.
The same thing in Vancouver.
There's a mailbox by Emery Seeds that when the seed market in Vancouver opened up, like they all got mailboxes at that money mart by Emery Seeds.
Yeah.
Okay.
So I was thinking, did the mail staff ever say anything?
Because you're getting these hordes of mail from all over the world and the volume of packages you're sending.
I don't know.
To be honest, I just know they tolerated it.
I mean, I don't know.
There's so much privacy with mail laws that I don't think it's really up to the staff to determine.
Yeah.
I think that's the jurisdiction of the postal service to determine if there's something not right going on.
Yeah.
No, that makes sense.
Yeah.
Another question we got sort of around that time was, did any of the DEA raids on Mark Emery or the general crackdown around that time ever affect you or get you sort of concerned?
And as a follow up, did it affect seed sales, either going up or down?
Well, it definitely affected the seed sales that he was generating.
Well, you know, by the time he was getting busted, there was a ton of other seed companies.
The seed sales were just exploding at that time.
Whether you bought from Mark Emery or Kind Seeds or a bunch of the other ones, there was a bunch of them.
I can't remember them all.
But yeah, at that time, there was a place called the Pot Block in Vancouver.
And there were some buildings there that landlords that were tolerant landlords and they would rent out to various seed guys.
Like Smoking Sean was one of them.
Kind Seeds, Legend Seeds, Emery Seeds, of course.
The guy down around the corner.
Kind Seeds.
Kind, yeah.
There's a few others.
Canada Seed Bank of Canada, which was super sketch.
But yeah, those were the original Canadian seed bank pioneers.
And there was a few in the East Coast.
There was the London Seed Bank, Chris Clay.
Quebec Seed Bank.
Of course, Heaven's Stairway.
Heaven's Stairway, yeah.
Who else would be in there?
Well, those were the main.
Those were the main guys.
So yeah.
Yeah, interesting.
Those guys.
Did it spook you at all?
Oh, no.
I mean, like the main concern is just being raided at your personal level.
Yeah, I've been raided like three times and through the whole rigmarole.
Right.
So luckily we had excellent lawyers like Kirk Toussaint, who stood up for lots of growers around the West Coast and helped pave the way for the MMAR program and then the ACMPR.
On and on we go.
Interesting.
Interesting.
Just to chuck things over to an older strain, I'd love to grab some perspective on the Texada Time Warp.
It's probably one of the most widely dispersed outdoor genetics in Canada, and it originates from the V.C. Island.
Do you think this is probably the oldest Canadian clone going around?
Because I think it comes from the 70s or something, doesn't it?
Well, there's some.
I mean, there's questions about anything that's that old.
There's questions about.
But I mean, I've grown it since the early 2000s, so it's at least 20 years old.
You know, it's hard to say, like some of these cuttings that people think.
I think people's memory, you know, there's a little bit of memory loss involved, you know, with a lot of these cuttings.
People think that they're a lot older than they actually are.
Like just because, you know, maybe, you know, people weren't they weren't there and they, you know, they weren't they weren't there when it emerged onto the scene.
And you don't really know, you know, like just we'll go back a little bit.
The guys at that time on Texada, they were getting seeds sent up from Humboldt County as well, all over the hippie hash trail, you know.
And you had a lot of people that were, you know, they weren't rich.
They barely had electricity or if they had electricity, it was the house down the road that they used once a week or something, you know.
So when that in that time frame, I think a lot of those things were mixing and there was a fellow on the island that made some seeds, Mr. Lambert, and passed them out to the community.
And they kept looking for the fastest finishers, right, every year.
And I think in four or five years, something like the Time Warp came up is the story I've heard.
In the late 70s.
In the late 70s, around 79.
And those guys didn't even have electricity.
They went to their parents' house and put a fluorescent light, you know, in the closet and took a cutting and re-vegged it kind of thing.
And yeah, they had to learn about re-vegging and cloning.
Yeah, that was like all new.
And like light, like what's the kind of light you use to grow a plant indoors to keep it alive over the winter?
And over the years, you know, we've seen it really take a beating in terms of like how it grows.
You know, it's become powdery mildew susceptible.
That thing, powdery mildew, wasn't even the thing when we were like young, you know, you never saw it ever around.
So how the fuck would that plant even know?
Right. But yeah, it's an interesting story.
Personally, I assume it's an old plant just because back in the day, the old timers held it with quite a bit of reverence.
So I assume it was, I assume it's like maybe 30 years old, at least maybe.
I know the guy that I got it from, his son, he had had it the whole time his son was alive and his son died at the age of 20.
So, I mean, it's at least 20 years tagged on to what we've got.
Yeah. So, I mean, theoretically, it could be from 1978, but, you know, like maybe there's something added on in the early 80s or whatever that we don't know about.
Yeah, there was like a lot of Camaro driving people back then.
And like one thing they like to do is they'll like, I've been around here a long time and they'll take genetics like Time Warp, Indica, A3, but they'll just call it Time Warp and they'll give you a cut.
This is my Time Warp cut, you know, but when you go and sit down and smoke with them, they're like, no, that's the Mighty Might Afghan Time Warp Indica, A5, A3, blah, blah, blah.
You know, it's got all this shit in it that they frost together every year to get something out of the season.
Right. So I think, you know, there's could be a little bit of that play too.
Yeah, there's so many cuts over the years that people have called Time Warp that have been handed around that weren't Time Warp.
It's the same thing with Romulan. I bet you there's like 50 Romulan cuts out there.
But the one we have is the original one that all the old people grew and yeah, verifies.
And it's good.
It's good weed, yeah.
Yeah. So we think it's, you know, it's good enough to keep around for however long it's been around for.
I mean, it's got really cool qualities too, like the way it flowers and passes on those flowering genetics to other plants.
Yeah, it's got autoflower in it. So it has autoflower in its genetics, but as a plant, it's a semi-autoplant.
So when it gets root bound, it starts flowering, generally.
What do you think the genetics are? Because it's obviously a sativa, right?
You know, the closest thing I've seen is something called Nigerian Nightmare.
It kind of reminds me of it, which is like a Nigerian hybrid.
It kind of seems like it could be something like there's some African or Southeast Asian or who knows, like some sativa that's reasonably fast, you know, in there.
That would be my guess that it's a mix of something semi, like something autoflowering that they mixed with something with maybe a little bit of Afghani, but maybe not.
Not a whole lot, yeah.
Because in those days Afghani wasn't even really like...
Not a thing, yeah.
Yeah, it wasn't even really a thing until the 80s.
And when I grow it inside, I see a plant that's Southeast Asian and Thai-like, you know?
And when it gets into the sun, it gets more of the hashiness of something you find in the Middle East come out, kind of a little bit.
But we sent it into, what the fuck was that company called?
Phylos.
Phylos. Nothing banged up on the family meter, I don't think, did it?
No, there's nothing related to it.
Nothing related to it.
I mean, you hear the guys who were running around the hash trail, you hear...
Yeah, it could be like a Nepalese cross or something like that.
Yeah, yeah, something weird like that, right?
One of the cuts that came out of Texada was A3 Indica, and it came out of hemp seed.
You know, people were throwing hemp seed in their yard, and it was a plant that came up that ended up getting grown for years and years.
So, had a really nice grape smell, big buds, but the weather was better back then, I think, too.
We had longer summers.
We've gotten more rain in the falls these years.
So, I think you've got to keep up with the breeding, right?
Well, I think also plants are used to a specific time period, as crazy as this sounds.
They're used to the environment they were born in.
And obviously, the Earth is more than slightly different.
The Earth is different.
The climate is different from when it was back then.
So, there's a lot of different things that have changed since those days.
So, I don't think a plant has evolved for a specific time period.
And we're way past that time period.
So, it would make sense that that plant is not adapted for the conditions right now.
Yeah, I can get down with that.
And just as one final question to sort of wrap up on the Time Warp questions.
I noticed you guys work with a plant called Pine Warp.
Is that one that's just, in your opinion, sort of like an all-round improvement on the Time Warp?
Or is it different and sort of its own thing?
It's a commercial plant.
Yeah, it was during the time when there was a lot of outdoor growing going on on the coast.
And they were looking for something that was like...
And just harder nugs that would...
Bigger nugs.
Bigger nugs that would fill a bag.
Faster.
Faster.
Faster finishing.
The market was changing.
Easier trimming.
Easier trimming, for sure.
More weight, totally.
And it was across...
The tree frog was its sister, I think.
It was possibly a Cream Sotica cross.
Yeah, it reminds me of the Cream Sotica times the Time Warp.
Yeah, that would be my guess too.
For sure, that's what it is.
Nobody will tell you that, but that's what it is.
Yeah, Cream Sotica was one of the original building blocks back in the day.
Ah, okay.
Okay, yeah.
There you go.
Yeah, a friend of ours on the island grew some of the mix that came from Tex-Aida.
Like from the Tex-Aida crew.
And it was...
Definitely had some Cream Sotica in there.
In my guess.
I mean, my theory or whatever.
But yeah, the Cream Sotica, it has like every...
When you cross it with something, it'll give you every single colour combination possible.
So that's kind of why some of the stuff like Pine Warp and Tree Frog has got some cool colours going on.
And the original ones were like baseball bats, you know, you could knock your friend out with them.
Boom, you know, super thick and hardy.
And yeah, the Pine Warp was definitely an improvement on that.
But the thing that sucks about the Pine Warp is it has those terpenes that don't hang around a long time.
So when you get into a bag of it, you know, two months down the road, you're like, oh, what is this?
You know, it's got to go first, right?
And that's the way thing, you know, it was early.
So you get a higher price for your weed.
If it was in like that three weeks earlier than the market, you know, you get a little bit of a bump.
So people were always chasing that over the years.
Yeah, because there'd be a drought in August.
Yeah, there wouldn't be any weed around, right?
We'd be out and those days don't exist anymore.
Yeah, so that was part of like how the indoor thing evolved is because there was this drought in August.
And to take advantage of that, you know, you'd want to run an indoor crop.
Because like the price was you could sell everything at the highest price and it could be wet and you'd get like 3,600 a pound wet.
American back then.
Exactly.
Interesting.
And another variety I wanted to quickly ask a question about was I noticed that you guys use a plant you call the special cush in the special cush haze.
What's the backstory on that cush?
That one is actually related to the Kings.
The mother of special cush is a plant called Queen, which is somehow related to the Kings and crossed with an Afghani.
Yeah, it's called Queen Afghani and by Vision Creator.
Yeah, and it's a really good cush.
I mean, we smoke all the American things that come up and it really is complex.
It hits hard and it always has.
Yeah, it stands up to most anything in the kind of that you can grow.
Yeah, for sure.
I noticed on your site you've also worked with an X18 plant.
And I wanted to hear your thoughts on some of the various Tom Hill lines you might have worked with.
I think you see a lot of DC, like Deep Chunk stuff around, but you really don't see much X18 or like Pine Tar Cush stuff.
What's your thoughts on his lines?
They're very consistent.
Yeah, definitely.
I think the Pine Tar and the X18 came from his father.
Those were his father's, the chemist.
And the Deep Chunk was from Tom Hill, if I recall.
The Deep Chunk, I mean the X18, out of those three, like I've grown all three, the X18 seems to have the most, the best flavors.
And it seems to be the most commercial, like the better yield out of all of them.
And more vigorous, the most vigorous.
Like that was the problem with the Deep Chunk is it's, the ones I grew anyways were very, they're highly inbred.
So they're very slow, very slow vegging.
I think the Pink, I don't, I can't really, like I can't remember the Pine Tar Cush, but it was very inbred too.
And you know, interestingly enough, the Pine Tar Cush, if you've ever grown it, it's one of the few plants that reminds me of Pink Cush.
Your listeners that have grown Pine Tar Cush, it's fairly similar.
But I haven't grown it for a long time, so I don't really, I can't really say much about it.
But I can say that the X18 is really nice.
It's got a nice high, it's not like super potent, but it's really like, it's got pretty good potency.
That's cool.
And did you ever see the, I always read about this fabled Green Apple Pheno.
Have you ever come across that in the X18?
Oh yeah.
Yeah, there's lots of those, Green Apple and like Gin, there's like Gin in there.
Yeah, they're pretty common actually, those Phenos.
Oh, yum. I got to get into it.
Yeah.
Here's a random curveball question I've got for you guys.
What are some of the more rarer narrowleaf varieties that you think the general public are not particularly aware of in terms of like the quality of the effect or maybe the unique nature of the effect?
Are there any things that you think are a bit underrepresented?
Well, I think first to preface that question, we need to look at the various land races.
What they are is they've taken regional seed stock and applied a generic name to it.
So in truth, there's like, each one of those has infinite variations of it within a general theme.
But as far as answering the question, what are some things that I think everything, like except for the real old timers, I think everything's been missing for a long time.
Like, I mean, all that's, you can find good stuff anywhere in the tropics.
It's just a matter of finding the guys that kept the, you know, that knew how to select the good shit from the bad shit.
The good flower from the hemp.
Yeah, so like, the good shit can come from anywhere in my mind.
Yeah, it's more like a land rave than a land race in my mind, right?
Yeah, that's the word I like to use in my brain.
Yeah, land race is kind of a controversial term to use.
Sure is, yeah.
Do you mean like in the sense that it's just like so widely misused?
Well, to me, the word land race means plants that are selected by the land, without, really without human intervention.
Because when they're like the breeders, the old school breeders, when they're breeding wheat or whatever, they would go out into the land and they would do their selections from the land races.
Yeah, interesting. So what would you call like a strain from like, that a certain Afghan village has worked for, you know, however many years historically?
I would call that a heirloom or a regional cultivar.
Yeah.
Cultivars meaning something that's cultivated, and they're like intentionally selecting seed.
Yeah, okay.
It could have aspects of a land race, like the palms coming over from the land.
So, yeah, it's basically heirloom.
I guess, I mean, yeah, in my mind right now, I'm thinking maybe that is a land race, you know, if it's got a palm coming over from the land, it's got the influence of a land race.
But if they're like somehow managing not to get cross pollinated from the outside.
Like if you're, let's say there's an area of Afghanistan or Pakistan or whatever, where it's only just farms, where it's like so dry that you can only grow your weed plants in certain spots and it's all being farmed.
Yeah, then that could be a bunch of different heirlooms with some slight cross pollination, or maybe extreme amounts of cross pollination.
Pretty interesting to talk about, though. I mean, to think about.
Yeah, how far do you go? I mean, it's really funny though, right?
Yeah.
Like I find it interesting how the terminology is constantly changing.
Like, you know, is this cannabis sativa? Is this a narrow leaf drug cultivar?
There's a lot of, you know, different changes in the nomenclature that have happened in the recent history.
Yeah, definitely. And I was gonna even say, like, I agree with many of the sort of ideas you just put forward.
What I've noticed is that people like to use the term heirloom to, I mean, in all honesty, if I'm going to be very reductive, it's probably just ultimately a sales thing.
But people will use it to describe like a clone that's been in a certain area for a long time.
Like, and I think when I asked someone about it, I can't remember who they said, oh, you know, if you've been growing it in that area for 10 plus years, it's acclimatized to that environment and it's an heirloom.
Heirloom is just means something that's passed, passed along. Like it came from the heirs. It's a loom that came from the heirs. The thread was woven by the loom that came from the heirs.
I like it. I like it.
So, I mean, you can call it whatever you want. Heirloom, if it came from someone else that was hanging on to it because it was good, you know, I mean, in my mind, anyways.
That's what matters is that the people are doing the things that they like and keeping them from generation to generation and year to year, you know.
Yeah. And I do believe that clones can acclimatize because every time you grow it, the plant is always adapting and where you select the actual, the particular part of the plant where you select your cuttings from will actually have slight variations in genetics.
So, if you take a cut from the top of the plant, it will be more, it'll have more silica dominance to the top and the outside of the branches is more silica dominant to the bottom and the inside of the branches is more calcium dominant.
So, like the north side of the plant will be different from the south side of the plant, for instance. Yeah, there's slight, very slight differences in the genetics.
That's really interesting stuff. You don't hear that talked about very much. While we're talking about slight variations in genetics, I forgot to bring it up earlier. When we were talking about the Iraqi F2s you did, did you see anything come out in the F2s that was like recessive and not in the F1s? Or were they like, quote, land race enough that it was like, largely speaking, homogenous because the line was sort of pure?
No, it wasn't pure at all. It was just, we only did, it was a one-to-one selection. So, it would have been those two individual plants. So, you got to think about as the F2s were kind of like a hybrid. They're probably, it's like, probably more like a hybrid, like a F1.
Yeah.
Because it's just a shit mix, you know, of Iraqi genetics. So, you know, we're still, it's going to take, like, there is all sorts of variations of stuff in there. So, it's going to take a few more generations to, you know, get it stabilized, looking consistent.
Like, some interesting terms that are used in breeding terminology are stability and consistency. And I like to think about these things sometimes. And to me, stability means a plant that you can use for breeding that the progeny are not all over the place.
Yeah.
But a lot of people use the word stability to mean plants that don't get, like, term flowers.
What would you call a plant that doesn't produce hermaphrodite flowers?
A true female?
True straight, yeah.
True female?
An arrow, I don't know.
It's interesting, isn't it? Because, like, I have this discussion in one form or another with lots of guests, because there's, it's not just in this particular example, it's replete throughout all of our nomenclature. People misuse it. And I guess it sort of all boils down to this issue of, like, you know, because some people like to be like, oh, an Indica is actually meant to mean Indian, which is sativa. And, you know, like, they go through that whole sort of thing.
What does it do?
And I guess it sort of boils down to this idea of, well, do I use the technically incorrect term because we both know what we're talking about? And it's like, we're trying to represent that we're talking about the same idea. It's interesting. Or do we, like, draw a line in the sand and say, like, we have to, like, you know, really get on top of it?
In my mind, one of those terms is an academic term and the other one's like just a regular day language.
Yeah.
Like, most donors, they don't really care about, like, narrow leaf drug cultivar, you know, broadleaf drug cultivar. They just want to know, does it have a cerebral effect or does it have more of a relaxing body effect? You know, so, so I think that, I mean, that's ultimately the question.
Yeah, that's definitely a hard question. Like, how do you amplify those qualities that are important enough to, you know, give it a name or give it a category, I guess? It's interesting. We'll see what we come up with. Lots of people smoking weed now.
Definitely. And it's definitely something that evolves over time.
Yeah, but eventually, it's probably those terms are probably going to be thrown up, like, completely. They're going to just be extinct at some point. Just because, like, it just, it won't make any sense at some point. Because everything's, you know, everything's hybridized. And there's just so many variations that you can't just, like, slap a label. Like, this one's Indica, this one's Sativa.
I think you can definitely say, like, this one's got more cerebral qualities.
That's the way I like to do it when I'm bioessaying is like, you know, the qualities that you like as a person, how does that reflect out in a plant, you know? And it depends what kind of person you are, if you're creative, you're mathematic, you're whatever, you know. So, like, it's just, yeah, it'll be interesting to see. I've fucking lost myself.
I give up.
But yeah, another thing about it is, sorry, you fucked me up.
Another thing about it is, with the new, all these, like, we bred out, not us per se, but the community has bred out all the alternative cannabinoids. So as we rediscover all those alternative cannabinoids, we're going to have to come up with new definitions for things like, you know, what does CBC bring to the table? What is THCV?
When we start having more complex combinations like THCV mixed with high THC, if you had, like, the relaxing, the non-cerebral terpenes mixed with THCV and high THC, what's going to happen, you know? And then throw in some CBC, like a big shot of CBC or something like that, you know? We're going to be moving into uncharted territory.
Uncharted territory.
Like, we're only dealing with two cannabinoids right now, or, you know, for the most part.
I just wanted to quickly bring us back, though, to the past for a moment. Well, it's the present, but it's also the past. I know that in the past, you guys had ran some ads in high times. And I was interested to hear, like, what's your thoughts on high times now versus in the past? And specifically, do you think it has any sort of real value at this point?
I don't think it had much value. You know, other than it was something for people to, you know.
Get stoned and look at, right?
Or just, it was just something in culture to bring the cannabis culture.
Bringing that question into the mind of more people.
To me, it's like National, no, it's National Enquirer. The newspapers you see at the grocery store in the lineup, you know, like, Kanye West did this and etc. It was a delivery vehicle for advertising. Like, let's be straight.
Yeah.
Yeah, sure. Okay.
And I think it was started by law types or something like that. They knew the laws and shit. So, they knew what they could get away with. But it's cool. It's cool for what it did. Like, break ground and get the cannabis in the general consciousness.
As far as the quality of what it was. Maybe not.
And there you have it, gang. What a killer part one. Huge shout out to C-Ray and Scabby for joining us. And a huge shout out to you for getting to the end of this episode.
Make sure you check back in for part two. It'll be up shortly.
And make sure you also check out our sponsors. Seeds here now. Best seed bank in the industry. You know, you love them. They got the best breeders. Check them out.
Copper Biological Systems, all the best predators in the game. Beneficial Feeds to keep the good mites happy who will in turn take care of the bad mites. Get on top of it, guys. Afipariam, Spidex Vital, two killer products from a killer company.
Top Shelf Seed Bank, Organic Gardening Solutions, Homies Down Under. Check them out, guys. I promise you'll get killer results if you use their products.
And one final word for the Patreon. You guys know I love you. Please check it out. We're now doing monthly giveaways on genetics. We give away seeds every month. How crazy is that?
Crickets and Cicada, Track Home Jungles, Heavy Days Genetics. Plenty more to come. www.patreon.com. The podcast.
I'll see you for the next one.
We'll see you.
