Hello and welcome to the next episode of The Podcast, a cannabis podcast for budding enthusiasts.
This episode as always was brought to you by our amazing sponsors.
See it's here now.
Guarantee not just on germination, also on satisfaction.
Hit them up.
Best in the game, best breeders.
We love them.
You'll love them.
Go check it out.
Likewise, go check out our friends at Radio Ridge Nursery for all the best cuts in the
game.
Exclusive breeder cuts you can't get anywhere else.
Why waste your time pheno hunting?
Just kidding.
You should do pheno hunting, but if you can't, go check out their cuts.
Big big shout out to our friends at Organic Gardening Solutions, Top Shelf Seed Bank,
and of course, Dragonfly Earth Medicine.
As always guys, if you want to help support the show, go check out the Patreon.
Lots of additional content on there for you to check out.
Episode we are extremely grateful to have NorCal IC Mag here to lay down the history,
talk about some modern strains and what he's up to.
Let's get into it.
All righty.
So, a big thank you and welcome to the one and only, the forum legend himself, NorCal
IC Mag.
Thanks so much for joining us today.
For sure.
Thanks for having me, Doug.
As always, I want to know, what are you smoking on my friend?
Pretty much right now, the newest thing is going to be the OGKBX2 and then I'm waiting
on these new apple fritter crosses to come out.
But I mean, they're still a little ways away.
But the OGKBX2 is basically the OGKB cross to a blueberry headband.
So, I mean, I definitely like it.
It has a lot more vigor and it's not as stony as the OGKB, the original one, but it's definitely
like more of a plant that you'd rather grow than the OGK because OGKB is kind of a pain
in the ass.
For sure.
I mean, just on a personal note, I'm curious, what's the flavor on that one like?
Because I hear a lot about it, but I've never been able to try it myself.
Yeah, I mean, I literally just finished flowering it out, which is when I saw you, I think,
at the Emerald Cup.
That was the first batch I had.
I mean, there's still some dialing in to be done.
But I mean, it's a very like blueberry dominant.
And so I kind of want to further like work the line, but it's just a matter of getting
the time to do it.
But me and Compound Genetics are actually, I gave him the cut, so he's going to be crossing
it.
I want to say it's like Jet Fuel Gelato or like some of his males that he has.
And so that's going to be very interesting to see as far as what comes about from that.
Yeah, for sure.
I've seen some really nice stuff come from that Jet Fuel Gelato, no questions.
But just to divert back, you mentioned some Apple Fritter crosses.
I'm always keen to hear about Apple Fritter.
What can you tell me about it?
I mean, it was just a cut that I got from my homies in LA.
I mean, it's definitely like, you know, it's Apple Fritter.
It's a very nice cut.
I like it a lot.
You know, I just happened to cross it because I hit it with like some pollen that I got
from my homie, like Always Be Flowering Genetics.
And like also my, like I had some purple pollen as well from like CSI, like Humboldt basically.
I had some males from one of the breedings that he did and, you know, like I utilize
that pollen.
So it's kind of like it was like an open pollination.
And so it's going to be interesting to see what comes out of that.
I'm like, I'm sexing all those seeds like right now.
So that's cool.
And are you looking to preserve the Apple flavor?
Because I often hear people debate about whether the Apple flavor really even is Apple.
Like it's kind of a roundabout, but it's not super on.
Do you want to keep that or refine it or what's your plan?
I mean, I'd like to cross it.
I have some blueberry F7s from DJ Short that I like once I get a chance to have like a
little bit of time to fully like focus myself on that work.
I'll crack them and germinate them and then utilize those to cross to that and see where
we get.
So besides that, also I want to hit it back to the OGKB as well.
So we'll see where it all ends up at.
But for the meantime, they're all just kind of in the vault as far as holding on to those
seeds.
Man, that's cool.
I'm definitely keen to see what pans out with that.
And I've got to ask the question, do you have any kind of fond memories of any of the older
DJ Short work?
Like everyone has one thing where like, you know, I used to get this really good flow
or I used to get this really good blueberry.
Do you have one of those stories?
Oh, I mean, it's the only time that I would have ever had access to like DJ Short's genetics.
I never bought me like, you know, like from overseas when we were buying stuff on like
Seed Bay or Breed Bay or whatever.
But like it would have been in Amsterdam.
I was in Amsterdam in like 2006.
They had like a couple different phenotypes of like his blueberry.
There was I think it's an LSD.
I can't think about the strains off the top of my head to be honest.
I actually have his book.
Was it Skywalker?
No, no.
It wasn't like Skywalker came way after after all of that.
Like there was an LSD, I want to say it was one of the strains he had.
The original blueberry is one thing.
I think there was a few other ones that he was pretty well known for.
Like I said, I have his book here, but I mean, well, actually, you know, somebody actually
took the guy's book.
So I don't have it for me, but the strain names would be in there.
But I remember going to like Barney's and I think that the Bulldog in Amsterdam and
they had a bunch of his stuff, but this is in 2006.
So a lot of those lines have probably been reworked or just are not even like around
anymore.
So yeah, yeah.
And I know that he kind of stopped formally working with him.
And then at that point, I think they started popping seeds to find new parents and stuff
like that.
Yeah.
I mean, now with like tissue culture, like being more prevalent, it's definitely a lot
easier to preserve like genetics for like longer periods of time.
But I mean, it's really hard to keep a plant alive for, like I said, like 15, 20 years.
So.
Yeah.
Okay.
Well, I love to ask people this question.
What's the oldest clone that you're aware of?
Oh man.
Honestly, like to me, like me still having the OG KB is pretty like, it's pretty impressive
just because like that plant is like when I got those, when I got that strain, it was,
it was, it was butchered.
It was in very bad condition.
So it's, it's, it's, it's very interesting to see how, like, you know, like how it does
now.
Like it's pretty healthy, but I've actually had it tissue cultured by my homie at DSG
labs.
And, and like, you know, like he's pretty much trying to figure out like what the issues
that it actually had, because I mean, we went through like sorium and all sorts of stuff.
So the fact that it's still even like has, has any vigor it's, it's, you know, kind of
impressive in a sense.
But beyond that I, man, like I, like it's hard, it's hard to put a, you know, to, to,
to basically tell you a strain that's been around for so long.
I mean, there's like most, most stuff has been lost and, you know, and, and unless they,
they backed everything up by seed or whatever.
But other than that, like most times, like back in the days that they didn't do it, like,
you know, any of that.
So I mean, even like if people tell you that they have a certain strain nowadays, like
if someone were to be like, like they have a, like train wreck or something, I mean,
more than likely I would, I would probably, I wouldn't say I wouldn't believe them, but
it's just more of, I think it's just more of that terpene profile.
And, and you know, like that's, you know, that's more of like where they would classify
it as far as like in a train wreck profile.
But you know, it's, yeah, it's, it's at this, at this, at this point, you know, like down
the road, it's keeping a plant alive for that long, like train wreck was from like, you
know, I mean, I remember hearing about that in the 90s.
It's going to be pretty impressive to find someone that actually has like access to those
genetics still.
Yeah, of course.
Shout out to the people who have that one.
I've met a few who I think do, but I get what you mean where like that profile became representative
of the strain in a way, didn't it?
But let's jump back on track for just a second.
I know everyone's keen to hear us talk about the OGKB because you just brought it up, but
let's put that to the side for just a minute.
What was your first experience with cannabis?
I mean, it was like, I mean, I didn't, I didn't smoke weed until like, basically I got out
of high school, I graduated and whatnot.
And I was just, I pretty much took like the semester off and I didn't go to college or
anything.
I was hanging out at my homie's house and we pretty much, we used to like literally
just throw down on like a dub every day and a 40 and go to his house and just chill.
And his parents were cool as fuck.
Unfortunately, like my homie's not with us anymore, but it was like we had like a tight
little crew and like that was like our daily ritual.
And that's when I started smoking weed.
And then pretty much I got into selling weed as a result of all that because I figured
it would be cheaper to just, you know, grab, you know, grab more, like, you know, like a
larger amount, like grab more quantity.
And it was because we were paying, like back then we were paying 20 bucks for a fucking,
for a dub, which is like, it's kind of like unheard of nowadays.
Yeah. Okay.
And so, do you remember any of like the notable name strains of that time?
I mean, back then people, I mean, people were just throwing names on whatever.
There was like Juicy Fruit.
I know there was M39.
I mean, a lot of the stuff was coming from, you know, from British Columbia, from, you
know, from Canada. So, like I said, like Juicy Fruit, M39, Critical Mass, I want to say.
Like, you know, like just very commercialized strains at this point that people normally
like if you had it to this day, you probably would not be able to get much money for.
And did you have a soft spot for any of those looking back, like kind of guilty soft spot?
I mean, not necessarily.
It's like, it's, I mean, a lot of that stuff was really, it was just like chemed out, you
know, phospholated, you know, like product that was just coming from, like I said, BC,
you know, more than likely.
Like the only stuff that was like actually was more notable would be probably the outdoor
that was coming out of like Mendocino and Humble.
But, you know, like back then, a lot of the stuff that was in the streets was all going to
be like Canada, like BC stuff.
So and it's, you know, like they were kind of like a lot of the times like they were
like what was coming in was stuff that was kind of bland and in the in the sense of like
like a nose as far as like the smell.
And it all kind of has to do with as far as like they didn't like when you're shipping
large quantities of anything, you're not going to want it to smell too bad.
And, you know, so all the skunky varieties were pretty much coming out of like Mendo
and Humble at the time.
But back then there was, I can't say there was anything that was that memorable.
No, understandable, understandable.
So, I guess my question is, did you have a Eureka or like a light bulb moment with
cannabis where it all kind of clicked for you and you realized this was something you
wanted to dedicate yourself to, so to speak?
Oh, yeah. No, when I started growing, it was like it was very like eye opening in a
sense where it just gave me a whole nother respect for the actual plant.
And, you know, it's like medical properties and how it can help people out.
And, you know, like when I went to Amsterdam, it was in 2006, I went with like Eddie
Lep and we went there and I met like Arion from Greenhouse Seeds.
And like that's kind of when I was able to actually, because we didn't like the clubs
here were very like minimal.
I want to say it was medical at the time.
And it just there wasn't that as much of a variety, like everything was coming from
Amsterdam actually. And there was a transitionary period where actually a lot of
the stuff started coming from here, like from Northern California.
And we started becoming the staple as far as like being known as the like basically
like the... Sorry, my dog is tripping.
Like basically like the staple for like a lot of the good strains here.
And also like the granddaddy when it came out, or the Urkel actually, that was one of
the bigger like, you know, game changers and whatnot.
And then after that, I would say it was like the OG and then Cookies, you know.
Yeah, of course.
It definitely fits with the general consensus that there was that paradigm shift and kind
of a changing of the world's superpowers in regards to weed from the Europeans to
Americans. So, I guess, was there anything notable about that trip?
What did you make of Arion when you met him?
I mean, it's pretty much...
I mean, he was nice.
He was cool.
But it gave me a big understanding as far as the game and how everything works, like
as far as seed companies.
Because back then, it was like if you were going to grow, you couldn't go on Craigslist
and get clones. I mean, like at some point, like Dark Heart Nursery, they started off
on Craigslist.
But back then, you know, you'd want to grow like the fire.
And what you would consider the fire would be the Cannabis Cup winners.
And so you'd open up like a High Times and there would be low mold greenhouse seeds.
And they would tout how many like Cannabis Cups they won and whatever.
And like when I actually went to Amsterdam, I realized like a lot of the Dutch genetics
were inferior to what we have here.
And actually like in California, you know, in California basically, because I was there
and I was like, I'm paying...
The euro was definitely, you know, the dollar was definitely weaker than the euro.
And so to pay, you know, like whatever, 18, 20 euros for a gram and like to realize that
it was actually not like it wasn't that good of weed.
It was very eye opening to me, you know.
Yeah. And that's a really pertinent issue we should talk about, like people buying cups
or rigging cups or however it is, you know.
Do you think that was something which was kind of limited to the European scene or do
you think that that's happened?
And like what might be some examples of it elsewhere?
Well, I mean, like I couldn't tell you to what extent it still exists, but I mean, I
definitely know that like back in the days, it definitely came off as like, you know,
Arjan, he, you know, he would basically...
I mean, they had so many cannabis cups and like I said at the end of the day, when
people are looking for, you know, they want to start growing, they're going to trust
like high times as judgment and they're going to think that whatever won the latest
cannabis cup is going to be, you know, the like the hot stuff.
And so, I mean, even like Eddie Lepp told me, he's like every time that he wins like
a cup, it equates to literally like over a million dollars in seed sales.
And back then that was, you know, like, you know, quite a bit amount of money.
And so, you know, it's just a matter of buying advertising space and high times.
There's no definitive evidence about all this, but it's kind of like you can, I mean,
you can put two and two together and, you know, realize that that's kind of what was
going on. So, you know, like I mean, I was there myself when I was kind of like, oh,
damn, like I want to...
When I started growing, I wanted to grow the like we didn't have access to clones.
So, I wanted to grow, you know, like the best weed ever.
And I assumed that it was pretty much whatever had won the cannabis cup that year.
And like that when I went to Amsterdam, it was kind of eye opening as far as like that
wasn't true.
Of course, of course.
So, tell us, do you remember about your first grow?
What were you growing? What was it like?
I want to say the strains that I like, what I was growing, the first ones that I did, I
was actually, I was growing in my mom's, in the closet of my mom's house.
And it was OG Kush.
I actually had gotten like some legit OG, like SFVOG.
And back then, like those pounds were going for like over $6,000.
It's crazy.
And I happened to meet one of my homies homies and he had these clones.
And I mean, it was legit OG Kush.
And so that's the first strain I grew.
And that was like, you know, one of the game changers as far as where people were, like
I guess, transitioning more from like the fruity stuff to more of the gassy stuff.
And, you know, like, yeah, I grew that in my mom's closet.
And I mean, it was definitely, it was pretty, you know, it was nice to have my own smoke
and whatnot. It was definitely better than most shit that I was getting on the streets.
Wow. And did you realize kind of what a baseline you had?
Because I often talk to growers and you realize very quickly that everything's so relative.
It's like, what's your best could be shit for me.
Did you realize at the time you just had the kill?
I mean, no, actually I did not.
Like I was, I think about it this like to this day, like it's actually I'm very surprised
that, you know, like my homie, he was kind of known.
He was more like a connoisseur and whatnot.
But back then they were like connoisseurs were definitely like the minority within the
industry and whatnot.
And like to even be giving those clones, it's like I'm very I'm still surprised to this
day that I actually got those cuts.
It's kind of like, you know, I like to get like legit OG clones back then was you normally
you would get some shit like, you know, somebody would just throw the OG name on it just
to sell it to you. So I was very, you know, I was very grateful for that.
But I was it was legit.
It was like SFVOG and then we got the Larry after that.
And, you know, like, you know, even to this day, like it's they're hard to come by.
So. Yeah, Larry is like a personal favorite of mine, but it's also one I find hard to
talk about because there's like that Lemon Larry and it's like most people don't know
which one they're getting and whatnot.
Have you tried both and which one do you prefer?
I mean, the original one was it was very like lime greenish and like I would say like,
yeah, lemony.
But at this point, like nowadays, it's I mean, it's it's really hard to find those same
exact genetics. Like I have not come across them ever like since, you know, so it's kind
of like even like like the Urkel, like like most I mean, that it's a pretty hard, hard
strain to come across nowadays, you know, like especially once it got watered down with
the granddaddy and, you know, people were trying to get more of like a yield out of
it. So.
But, yeah, I mean, I like, yeah, I like I OG was there was a reason why it was it was
a game changer. And at the time, like everything seemed to be like fruity and kind of
blandish. And OG was just like like like gassy.
So people, you know, people definitely took to that.
For sure. So what was it like when you were then, you know, starting to progress in kind
of your skills, you'd had a few harvest, you getting more clones, how did you kind of
develop?
Oh, I mean, like I pretty much I kept my closet at my mom's house for Hawking for for a
little while, like probably like at least like a year, year and a half.
I mean, at that point, too, I like the reality is like you didn't have to really grow that
good of weed. So, you know, there was like a more of like there was a higher margin for
like for error. You know, if I mean, I had shit that when I was started to do seeds
that had literally gotten seeded up and I was still getting rid of the pounds for like
four thousand dollars just because there was so much shitty weed on the market.
You know, so back then it was, you know, like I definitely made a little bit, you know, a
nice little chunk of change off of that.
There was like two six hundreds in the closet.
And and yeah, like it's like it was it was nice because everything else, like I said,
was coming from more than likely Canada.
And it was not it was incomparable to like what I was even growing when I was just
starting off. So it was and from then, like I got other spots and, you know, like save my
money up and whatever and pretty much, you know, moved on to like growing more and more
like basically like, you know, getting more lights going and all that, you know, all that
shit, getting a warehouse here in the city.
And then, you know, like I kind of regressed a little bit just because like the whole tech
boom that came in into play, like the prices for the rent on like the warehouses went
like through the roof and whatnot.
So we went back to residential stuff and, you know, like that's, you know, like that's
pretty much where we're at now in a sense.
You know, like it's like, yeah, I mean, getting into the market here in California is
pretty, pretty expensive, you know.
So that's kind of why I choose to do like more of my consulting and like like dabble in
like other states, because it's just it's it's cheaper and easier to get into.
Yeah, it's cutthroat in California.
I want to jump back, though, just for a second to how you talked about getting an
industrial space.
I feel like this is a topic we don't really delve into a lot on the show.
So I'm just wondering when you first did get your biggest space, no matter what, like the
context was, were you quite anxious about it or were you just overwhelmingly excited?
And what were kind of the factors that played into mind when you were selecting, say,
strains for it? Were you just thinking, well, I've got to get a good return.
So that's kind of the priority here.
Or was it like you were able to kind of just grow whatever you wanted that wasn't a
consideration?
Yeah, I mean, I mean, back then it's I mean, it's crazy because the market's completely,
completely changed.
I mean, back then I would I mean, I was just buying like, you know, strains from from
like seeds from from, you know, Dutch genetics and whatnot on like Breed Bay and like
Seed Bay and whatnot. And I just I just literally remember being up at like two, three in
the morning to like get in on these auctions, you know, for like certain like strains,
like like reservoirs stuff.
And, you know, back then, like honestly, like it's it like the market the way it was, it
allowed me actually to have a lot of my mistakes as far as like like like messing shit
up, like I said, as far as like missing males in in the room.
And then like when you're like, you know, when you're sorting through seeds and
whatnot, and and like having a like a seeded crop and still like being able to sell it
like nowadays, you wouldn't be able to do that.
So it was back then it was there was no there was no I mean, OG Kush was definitely like
the probably like the the you know, the top strain at the moment.
I just was never into like monocropping and that kind of I mean, that's that's actually
like my own like not only issue, but in a sense, I just always was looking for something
else. And so I ran some of that I ran some of, you know, whatever whatever else is
available. But, you know, like back then, you could pretty much grow whatever and most
of the time if you were growing like decently, you would be doing better than whatever's
coming was coming through like on the streets.
Yeah, for sure. So correct me if I'm wrong, but it sounds like probably the next big
thing that really caught your eye after you were running the OG was probably the first
cookies, right?
Oh, I mean, yeah, like I mean, oh, gee, kind of like I mean, it's it's still pretty
pivotal as far as like like, you know, like within the market, there's a huge market still
for it. People love like, you know, the gassiness of it.
But yeah, cookies, you know, there's a reason why cookies was a was a game changer as far
as you know, what like why it is so prominent, like as it is today.
And like, yeah, I mean, it's like I said, it's just a matter of like your market and
what you have and, you know, but like coming to see how like like like, you know, like
the first time I ever saw cookies and came across it, it was like there.
I mean, people were passing off Bubba's as cookies.
So I was like a lot of people were showing me stuff and I was like, this just smells
like bubbly, you know. And and when I finally actually got a hold of the real deal
cookies, I was like, oh, this is what everyone's talking about.
But like I said, people were trying to pass off shit left and right as far as, you know,
being cookies like like especially Bubba's.
And like, you know, it wasn't, you know, to me, I was like, it just smells like Bubba.
So when I finally got a hold of like the actual, you know, real deal cookies, it was I
was like, this is I understand why, you know, why it's a game changer at that point, you
know.
Yeah. So what was the first sample you got to try?
Was it like Forum?
Was it like ThinMint?
Do you have any idea?
Actually, I couldn't tell you what it was.
I know that like the like the first packs were coming through from from like Berner
to like, oh, like basically OG Kushbread, which is my homie.
And like that was like even like like Frost Boss, like he like I remember like, you know,
I was selling them packs like they they like they had fucked up a bunch of those
batches. Like there was a bunch of seeded packs that came through and we were still
fucking selling them like like nothing.
And this is in I want to say like like probably like 2010 ish, 2009, which actually was
like the the crash of the weed market in a sense where everyone kind of went balls to
the wall and grew a bunch of weed.
And the prices like plummeted, like went through the floor.
And so like, you know, like back then to be able to get rid of like seeded product and
you know, like people were like lining up to buy cookies.
But it was also more of the fact that that it was only coming out of like the cookie
fam, a little like the circle.
And so there was there's only so much to go around.
And I mean, luckily, I knew like like OG Kushbread was kind of tied in with all them.
So he was like showing me, you know, those packs and I remember going to his house and
I was like, yeah, I got you.
This is like pretty fire, you know.
And then when he told me the tickets, I was like, like, I don't know if I can get rid of
this sort of, you know, this stuff or this kind of a ticket.
But, you know, there's a certain market that definitely wanted it.
And like I said, like Frost Boss and my other homie ABF and like a non-profit, they
kind of had that market where people were actually like willing to pay for it.
It was, you know, pretty crazy.
So.
Yeah. Wow.
So when you said those first couple ones came through with seeds, you mean that the
first batches coming out of cookie fam when they were growing it, it was seeded with
like S1s or whatever?
Yeah, I mean, well, no, I mean, there was like a bunch of batches that came through
that were fine, but then there were some that definitely were seeded.
And so, you know, it was just kind of like beggars can't be choosers.
If you want cookies and you're, you know, you're gonna have to fucking buy it.
So I know like I'd probably like attribute that to actually all the different
phenotypes that we see today, just because like there were so many seeds.
And if you were smart at the time, you would have planted the seeds because, you
know, the strain was in high demand.
So. Yeah.
OK. And do you remember how long it was between then and when you first tried OGKB?
I mean, the OGKB just kind of like pretty much fell into my lap as far as
there, like we were already testing the animal in the forum because we already had
access to those. And then, like I said, like the OGKB kind of just fell into my lap as a
result of like an unfortunate incident in a sense where I, you know, I pretty much
I grabbed the clones and like those like out of OG Kush Red Spot.
And and, you know, like I we only knew the animal in the forum.
And at that point, you know, when I got the actual I mean, the OGKB clone was not
even it wasn't even named that it was just more of I named it after OG Kush Red because
that's my homie who gave it to me and that's pretty much it.
But, you know, like it's like a mutant cookies that actually is like
fucking like, you know, like really good, obviously.
Yeah, of course. So, a lot of people are really curious as to how you actually got your
hands on the OGKB.
Would you be able to tell us the backstory behind that one?
Yeah, so so basically, I mean, like OGKB is like like I've known him for a long time at
this point is, you know, looks like almost 20 years.
And I mean, he actually like brought me in the game and whatnot.
And and he's always he's always taken care of me.
But at that time, we only knew of the animal in the forum.
And there was an instance that basically like one of his his spots had gotten robbed.
Like like they it was like a home invasion.
And so he was in I think he was in Vegas and he called me.
It was like like three like three or four like four in the morning.
And he just he was like, yo, he's like, can you go clear this spot out for me?
Because like, you know, pretty much it was it got robbed.
And so I was all right, cool. So I hopped in my girlfriend's car.
I was saying, OK, you know, at the time I didn't have a license.
I grabbed my pistol and just, you know, pretty much took off.
And I had to make a bunch of trips back and forth.
It was pretty, pretty fucking pretty wild, really, like to think about it.
And and, you know, whatever it is, what it is, I got I cleared the place out.
There was a bunch of plants that were literally in like five gallon pots
that I had to put in contractor bags.
And and like luckily there was people there.
But like they, you know, well, once they were like some of them
were all tied up and whatever.
So I once I, you know, got them, you know, loose and whatnot,
they were able to help me out.
But I was like driving back and forth
with with these huge plants that were literally like five, six weeks in a flower
and in like five gallon pots and in my car.
Or and, you know, like basically what was there was the OGKB
is what we know is OGKB now.
And so it was it was it was it was pretty wild.
Like so I got, you know, I got it taken care of and whatnot.
But like like, you know, back then, it's it was a different times
as far as the legality of as far as what we're doing and stuff.
So, you know, like that was, you know, the cops could have came in
at any given moment.
I had no I had no idea what the hell was going on,
but I just want to get everything out of there and whatever.
And then when I brought that, like all the stuff back to my house,
I asked them what like, you know, this mutant ass plant, like what
like what it was.
And he said it was cookies.
And I was I was like, that's weird, because we've already
like been documenting the cookies
as you know, as far as like what we know.
And he's like, no.
So it was like a whole other phenotype of the cookies.
And once I finished everything up, it was definitely like a, you know,
a very, very good cookies cut.
And it wasn't that desirable to actually like grow
because of the fact that like a veg so damn slow.
But I mean, that's pretty much what came to be known as the OGKB.
And I mean, it wasn't even named that at the time.
It was pretty much I named it after my homie, like pretty much after him.
And that was pretty much it.
Just to like differentiate the clones that we had already.
Wow. What an amazing story.
I'm giving you a virtual clap for being a solid homie on that one.
So I guess the first question is, how does OGKB
himself feel about how the strain's going on to become so popular?
Because he really doesn't seem to be involved in the scene too much.
You don't really get to hear his perspective much.
Yeah, I mean, I mean, at the end of the day,
I mean, that's the reason why I was named after him.
At the end of the day, like the the the recognition will kind of always go back to him.
So whatever. But it is kind of crazy how everything has kind of like,
you know, snowballed into like what it actually is and how it's actually very,
very, you know, it's it's a basis of a lot of like, you know,
one of the some of the most famous strains, I guess, to date now, you know.
It's a it's a it's a very unique plant and whatnot.
But I mean, he's not really concerned with a lot of that stuff, to be honest.
He's like, I don't think he is. He is just more of it's just crazy how it all kind of like,
like I said, like, you know, just everything kind of came into this whole situation.
And I mean, it's a good plant.
It's it's it produces fucking fire.
The offspring is definitely like a lot of it's very promising.
And, you know, like, yeah, there's there's a it's, you know,
like it's doesn't it's hard.
It was a finicky plant to get basically dialed in and whatnot.
But like, you know, whatever.
Like I said, like at the end of the day to see where it's at now, as far as like if you saw like
the healthy plants that I have of the OGKB and that I even have it still alive is
pretty, pretty crazy considering the the the shape that it came to be in.
Yeah, of course, it's a great little turnaround story.
I definitely want to chat about the offspring of the OGKB, but just as a quick little
sidetrack, do you know much about or have you
tried the OGKB 2.0, the one that came from the bag seed?
I have not.
Is that like Dark Horse or?
I'm not sure who it is, but like someone bought some OGKB from a dispensary and they found
like some S1s and they popped it and it was like really good and they called it OGKB
2.0. And now there's even a few breeders who breed with it, like most notably
Inhouse has done a cross and he calls it OGKB 2.1.
Yeah, I mean, at that point, I don't know, like man, I was like people hit me up all day
and they want to like they want me to vouch for their for whatever their
clone or whatever it is.
I just like I said at the end of the day, I just tell people like, yo, if you're happy with what
you got, like, you know, and it's fire, then, you know, like, you know, that's that's great.
Just be happy with that. Like I can't I can't, you know, specifically vouch for
for your clones.
I have no idea like, you know, what what what the weed is.
People are very quick to attach a name to something that pretty much sell it.
So at the end of the day, like, like, you know, it's kind of hard to tell.
But if it's like I said at the end of the day, if it's good, then, you know, it is what it is.
Like, you know, like you got to give props to that.
But I have not tried any of those, you know, like the OGKB 2.0 and whatnot.
I mean, for me, it's just more of like I have the original like like why the hell would I
want to, you know, like experiment with like trying something else and whatnot.
Yeah, understandable.
So when you started growing it out, did you notice any similarities with the OGKB and any
other plants? And the reason why I ask this is because we've heard
CSI in the past say that some of the Urkel S1s come out
with that exact same morphology, that mutant kind of look that the OGKB has.
Have you ever grown the OGKB and just kind of thought, oh, man, I see a bit of this plant in it?
I mean, yeah, the Urkel is very- I mean, it's a short, stocky plant that was-
which is pretty similar to the OGKB.
And I mean, he definitely could be on to something.
Besides that, the only other one that I actually noticed, like the leaf structure was at the
time back then was the cherry pie that was going around.
And it was actually like the cherry pie tended to have hermaphroditic tendencies.
And back then it actually was- it was pretty similar
in structure and whatnot.
And I had to kind of like that- the leaf structure and it was kind of short and squat and it
also tended to make like, you know, pollen sacks.
But they were non-viable.
So like- but that's the thing is like it was kind of like the cherry pie came first and
then cookies started coming around after that.
And, you know, like it was- I mean, even- I wish I still had that cherry pie.
It was definitely- that cherry pie was nice.
It was just not very stable.
Yeah, of course.
So, you got the OGKB.
When did you first start to do some collaborations with it?
I mean, like back then I met Fletcher from
Archive Seed Bank through the forums.
And it was just kind of like a thing where I was like, yo, like, you know, he was working
with a face off OG male at the time.
And so that was kind of like the basis of a lot of his seeds.
And his seed company was kind of more like the infancy stages as far as like it was
kind of like just taking off but not quite.
And so I was like, yo, man, like if you want to, you know, hit- like people were asking
me left and right for the OGKB because we had the forum and the animal already.
But like the OGKB, once it became known as like a very like legit cookie
strain, people, you know, people were- everyone was interested in it.
So I hit him up and was just like, you know, if you want to pollinate it, you know, just,
you know, we'll split the seeds.
And pretty much that's about it.
And that's what became the Do-Si-Do's basically.
And, you know, like and from there, it's just- it's kind of progressed into like
everything else that it is nowadays too.
So.
Yeah.
Okay.
So the seeds were made.
Did you pop them immediately?
Were you really excited for it or you kind of didn't really suspect it would go on to
become what it's become?
Yeah, I mean, well, like a lot of the seeds were like- like the OGKB tends to produce
very like white pale seeds that are typically non- like non-viable.
Like they don't- it's really hard to get them to germinate.
So, I mean, I had like a jar full of seeds and, you know, I kind of- I actually held
on to like some of them and I gave them to- I think it was NP Kali actually.
My friend, my friend Ryan NP Kali, and he got actually the last of the Do-Si-Do's,
the original Do-Si-Do seeds.
And they were- it was really hard to germinate them and whatnot.
Like, but, you know, that's pretty much where the Do-Si-Do's came from.
I, you know, I got the jar, I started like doing the selections and then pretty much
like that, like Fletcher named it the Do-Si-Do's.
And, you know, that's pretty much like where it's at now.
You know, the Mendobred is another story as far as- that was done with Gage Green.
And, you know, like it's- it was like, you know, out of like a tray of seeds, I'd
probably get like less than a quarter, like 25 percent of them that like actually
germinate.
They're, you know, they're definitely- they require a little bit of work.
How did the Mendobred collab come about?
Oh, that was like- like I had a friend that was like- that was trimming for me.
It was like a friend of a friend.
And he actually mentioned to me that he had some neighbors that I guess had this seed
company. And like back then, same thing, Gage Green was kind of in their infancy
stages and in a sense that they weren't, you know, they weren't that big, but they
were definitely doing like breeding work.
And so I was like, yeah, you know, whatever.
Like I was- I'm always like, you know, about like, you know, if- if, you know, I'm
always about working with people and whatnot.
And so I was like, oh, that's cool.
You know, this and that. And then he had talked to them and then they were like, oh,
yeah, I know who you're talking about.
Like as far as like, you know, me having the OG Kush breath and whatever and being on
the forums. And- and so like I like we, you know, we made an agreement and I gave
them the clone and then they pollinated it.
And then there was the Mendo breath and the Grateful breath.
And then, you know, there was, you know, that was- those were probably the two most
prominent strains that they actually like produced and whatnot.
So like, you know, but like they- they, you know, they- like, you know, like what-
like a lot of the stuff that comes from the OG KB, it tends to be pretty, you know,
pretty- pretty impressive.
Without question.
So how do you feel that the majority of their work now is just really stemming off the
OG KB? And then even further, you know, Gromus now made his whole thing off their
whole thing. Like you've almost given birth to a brand that's given birth to a brand, if
you get what I mean.
Yeah, no, it's like the- the basis of the infrastructure for other people's fucking
companies. I don't know.
I mean, it's in a sense, it's kind of flattering, but I'm not ever really one to be
like a hater in a sense.
You know what I mean? Like- like at the end of the day, I like- like the way that this
industry is, like I'm not going to try to go and like shake people down for, you know,
whatever. I'm just happy for people if they're being successful with it.
And at the end of the day, if you really know what's up, you'll know that like the work
came from me, you know what I mean?
So there's always, you know, you know, there's always that sort of recognition in a
sense. But at the end of the day, like, you know, someone's, you know, doing well, like
I'm happy for them, you know what I mean?
Like as long as they're not a, you know, a punk fucking like dickhead to me, I don't
care, you know, like- like even like with Gromer, I literally hit him up and I was like,
yo, like I wanted to run, I think some like the peanut butter rep.
So I asked him for like a pack of the seeds and he sent me like 25 packs of seeds of
like all the shit, you know, like I respect that, you know what I mean?
And I'm sure he's made plenty of more money than whatever those are worth.
But at the end of the day, like it's, you know, it's I respect the fact that that, you
know, he kind of paid it forward, you know?
So.
Yeah, of course, that's always good karma stuff.
So a lot of people would know you because through name, because the fact that the
predominantly widespread cut of both the do-si-do and the Mendo Breath are the ones you
found. When you were doing those pheno hunts, did you realize that these were going to be
really good? Like I remember we just spoke about when they were in seeds, but when you
were actually flowering them out and you could smell them and get excited, were you
really excited or you just thought, oh, this is a nice cut, I'll give it to some friends?
No, I mean, I could tell they were game changers.
It's like as far as like how, you know, how it's, you know, they've taken off or
whatever. I mean, nowadays there's definitely a lot of like really good strains out.
But at the time, they were definitely like, you know, game changers.
You know, there was definitely very special as far as whatever I already had on deck.
And it kind of blew everything else out of the water, which is why I was like, if you
look at my Instagram or whatever, you realize like I wasn't I didn't never intended to
hype them up. I'm not like a like I call like a like like a used car salesman where
it's it's kind of like I'm not going to put my name on something that's not going to be
that good. And, you know, pretty much now like, you know, when like to nowadays, if
there's a reason why people utilize those strains for, you know, for for the basis of
their breeding products, you know.
Of course. So, at this time, I think it was kind of about the same time like cookies was
just going through the roof, you know, like you had like rappers starting to name drop it
and really the cultural side of weed started to really generate a lot of interest in
cookies as well. Did you ever think to yourself, I could try to like, you know, jump on
Dosido or Mendo Breath and try to launch it?
Or did you just feel like that was just kind of not in your lane?
I mean, it's it was I think like a lot of the hype that came along with it was very
organically fabricated, you know, like a lot of people like would hear about it and
they like it's one thing to hear about something.
It's another thing to like, you know, actually have it and, you know, like smell it and,
you know, just like, you know, smoke it, whatever, you know, like I but at the time it
was, you know, it wasn't it wasn't about like capitalizing on that all that hype really
like I'm actually very surprised as far as like how far even like, you know, like
cookies itself has like come along, you know, and so it's but but it was at the time it
was definitely like I can't deny that it was not I mean that it was a game changer,
you know, like it was just definitely like like like I said, back then people were
passing around Bubba as cookies and I'd be like, this ain't that fire, you know,
whatever. And then when I actually got a hold of the actual like real cookies, I was
like, oh, this is what people are talking about.
This is actually, yeah, like game changer shit, you know.
Yeah, okay. So, if we try to put personal attachments and whatnot to the side, if you
consider the fact that you can see that, you know, it's not a great breeding plant, the
OGKB and it's a bit slower.
Overall, do you still think that it's worthy of the title of like it's a good plant or
do you think that it's just like worth the hassle?
But overall, it's probably not really a great plant, so to speak.
No, I mean, when it when I mean the flowers are I mean, like whenever I have any of it,
I mean, there's plenty of people that like they want to run into ice, you know, like ice
wax or like, you know, as far as like making it into hash or even, you know, just it's I
mean, it's sold always.
It's just not necessarily the most lucrative plant to run when you're when you're when
you're running, you know, when you're growing.
But but I mean, I always love having it around.
It's it's it's definitely very much a really good a good plant.
But I feel like the offspring in itself, too, is actually it you know, that it holds a lot
of weight as far as against it as well, you know.
So I kind of prefer to work with the offspring as far as like, you know, just like the
do-si-dos or even the OGKB blueberry headband that like, you know, that I just did.
All those plants are going to be like definitively a lot more like have more vigor and
just be more like easier to work with, you know.
So.
Yeah, fantastic.
So I guess before we jump into the OGKB blueberry headband stuff a little more, I do
have one last question.
Do you have any other plants which kind of fit that category where, you know, it is a
little bit finicky and most people don't put in the effort, but you still keep it around
because it's the killer?
I mean, I not really like honestly, like that's the one plant that I will always make
space for in my bedroom.
I know that there's like I hear like the Mac one is like very similar and like it's a
like characteristics as far as like vegetative growth.
I don't have that plant.
I've never grown it.
So I couldn't say anything about that.
But as far as just the OGKB, just it's like I mean, it's clearly it's it's a
plant worth keeping around considering its notoriety at this point.
So.
Wow, you've never grown the Mac one.
I guess you're one of the few people to resist the overwhelming hype.
No, I mean, I know Cap.
Like if I'm sure if I wanted to go grab a cut, I could go down, you know, see him and
and, you know, grab it.
I run like like some of his seeds and all that stuff is just more of I'm not really
one like the type of person to go out and like like seek certain things.
I mean, I've seen flowers of the Mac one, but yeah, it's just I don't know, man.
I'm like I kind of just work with what I work with because I'm already sifting through so
much stuff as it is.
And it's it's kind of like it's I mean, it's a good thing and a bad thing because like
there's a lot of a lot of bullshit that you have to sit through.
But, you know, like I like I have so many seeds and things that I like crosses that
I've already made that I kind of like I kind of try to focus on that.
Yeah, for sure.
But I got to ask, did you end up getting into like GG4 or Skittles or any of the other
commonly hype ones of recent?
I mean, I literally just got a Skittles clone probably like a month ago.
But like I said, for me, you know, like Gorilla Glue 4 was like I want to say it was
that's Josie's like clone and whatnot.
And I've ran it before.
I like it. It just it wasn't it didn't it tended to get over like overproduced to the
sense where like it actually like the market got kind of saturated with like a lot of
Gorilla Glue as a result of that because it was a huge yielder and it was it wasn't that
tough to grow. So but Skittles, I mean, I like it.
But like I said, I kind of tend to focus on a lot of the stuff like that I'm already doing
myself as far as like, you know, my own work.
Of course. So let's jump back into the OGKBX2, which is the Blueberry Headband Cross.
What do you hope to pair with that?
Like, do you plan to find a male from that and then pair that with stuff or use that as
the mothers?
I mean, with that one, I mean, like it basically was a cross that I made an outdoor cross.
And so like I still have some seeds left of it.
I can which I can sort through.
Like I said, a lot of those seeds from the original OGKB are typically not like non
viable. I think I like I said, I I I planted like 72 in a tray and I probably got like
like, you know, 14 or something like out of that.
And so like, you know, for me, I still have I probably still got another like 20 or 30
seeds left that I can sort through and whatnot.
But that OGKB Blueberry Headband was definitely like, you know, as far as like what I
wanted out of the OGKB was it definitely like brought more vigor into it.
And also like it has more like the blueberry nose on it.
So it's like I said right now, like Compound's going to be working with it.
So I'm like I'm really more excited about that whole situation, you know, and like see
where that that that all goes.
That's cool. And so you plan to get a few females together and then he'll provide the
male or do you know how you plan to do the collab exactly?
I mean, I pretty much I made this selection and then I gave him the like he saw the
flowers and was like, oh, damn, like I like he liked it a lot.
So he was like, you know, whatever, like we should do like, you know, I guess
collaboration. And so, you know, that's pretty much like where we're at now.
So he's I was like, yeah, if you want to take it and like work with it, go like, you
know, go ahead, dude, you can do whatever you want with it.
And so that's like I said, I don't know exactly.
We haven't really discussed exactly what he's going to do with it as far as like what
males he's going to use to to pollinate it.
But I mean, I'm just excited that like, you know, that that work is getting, you know,
like it's progressing and whatnot, because I don't I don't I can't always be
pollinating things, you know, considering like, you know, my like, you know, like my
little spaces that I have and whatnot.
So do you think that you'll ever open your own seed company or do you prefer to do this
sort of collab type of creation?
No, I mean, honestly, like it's I mean, like you said, I really would I like I'd rather
work with people and, you know, like I like the idea of it, you know, like I think like
collaborative minds when they come together, they like a lot of like good stuff can come
from that. So, I mean, I'm not trying to be a jack of all trades.
And, you know, like I just like I like I appreciate the fact that certain people are
even willing to work with me and things like that.
But I'm like, you know, as far as like establishing a seed company, I mean, I'd
rather I'd rather work with somebody that I already know and, you know, let them do
their thing and then we can figure it out from there.
You know, but I'm not I'm not I just I don't really have the time for that at the
moment. And I don't really perceive myself having the time for that.
Yeah. OK, so I mean, with that being said, what do you perceive as your future within
the cannabis industry? Where do you see it going and what do you think your role will
be?
I mean, for me, like I like I'm pretty tied up with like a lot of my consulting work as
far as, you know, designing like certain facilities and and things like that.
We you know, right now we just had a similar application to Illinois.
And so once that goes through and if everything is good with that, then I'll
definitely be busy with that.
But I mean, I just I just like growing leaning like it's it's like I've always liked
that, you know, like the plants and, you know, as far as like working with them and
just just being around them, really, it's very like it's therapeutic in a sense, you
know. And then also the fact that like certain, you know, like I would like to do more
research as far as going into strains that are like more medically like, you know,
they have more like like medicinal benefits and things like that as as far as like
where, you know, where they tend to help people out with like certain ailments they
have and, you know, like things like that.
Like that's kind of what kind of drives me in a sense.
That's really cool. In terms of the medicinal stuff you just mentioned, do you think that
that will take you into the kind of CBD realm or are you talking more of like just a
regular THC dominant strain, but it just also happens to help with X or Y?
I mean, like I mean, I feel like the sky's kind of the limit.
It sounds kind of like weird, but like there's so much stuff we don't know about the
cannabis plant at this point, like certain compounds that we're just like discovering and
seeing how they like, you know, medicinally, like how they affect people and
stuff like that. So it's like I said, at the end of the day, I'm just happy to provide
like a service for people if like if they feel like, you know, these, you know, these
certain strains, you know, medicinally benefit them.
And are there any conditions that are maybe like close to heart, which you'd like to be
able to work on or anything which catches your eye?
Or it's just a general topic of interest?
I mean, like I feel like cannabis is so subjective that it's, you know, when you
smoke, like someone could smoke a sativa and tell you it's a sativa and then someone
else could be like, oh, that, you know, that same strain like kind of put me to sleep or
like they feel like it's more indica dominant.
It's I just feel like it's very subjective.
But at the end of the day, if you know, they're like, like I said, if any of my work or
whatever can help anybody out as far as, you know, like, like, you know, therapeutically
or like medically, I mean, that's just very, it's very, you know, like it's, it's, you
know, it makes, you know, it's feel good in a sense, you know?
Yeah, definitely.
Definitely.
So, you mentioned that you submitted an application in Illinois soon.
I mean, given we're dealing with kind of this current Corona uncertainty thing going on,
how do you perceive that's going to affect your work in general?
Do you think everything will come to a grinding halt or do you think the cannabis industry
will kind of keep doing its thing?
Oh, I mean, I mean, it's really hard to say.
Like, I know that the application deadline was extended by two weeks in Illinois because
of the whole Corona virus thing.
So that's one thing.
And then it's, I mean, yeah, well, they may extend it even further.
And also, like, as far as on the application process, they were requiring people to submit
the application itself in person to like the office, I guess it was in Springfield.
And now they don't even want you to do that.
So, like, I like I couldn't tell you to the extent that it actually is going to affect
everything, but it actually it has affected, you know, somewhat are already like they don't
they don't want to take any applications from anybody in person anymore.
You have to mail them in and things like that.
As far as like moving down the road.
I mean, who knows, man, with this with this whole situation, I wouldn't I wouldn't have
a forecast that it would even get to this point as far as like where we're at now or
literally like we can't, you know, can't leave our houses.
Yeah. Well, we've heard a general sentiment from a lot of notable Instagram figures
saying, you know, now's a great time to just spend some time with your plants.
Do you feel like that's a good idea?
Yeah, I mean, I got nothing better to do, really, you know.
So, it's like like literally like hang out with my dog and, you know, yeah, basically
yeah, like just put some more work in the garden.
There's nothing else to do.
You know, typically there's other stuff to like, I guess, attend to or whatnot.
But at this point, we're not supposed to leave our house.
So.
Yeah, definitely.
So, just to kind of jump back for a little bit, was there any certain point when you were on
the forums where you felt like you started to have like some kind of notoriety, so to
speak, or do you feel like that all came after that?
I mean, I mean, I still wouldn't tell you that I have any notoriety, man.
I'm just blessed to like be able to work with the people that I have and that, you
know, like we have mutual respect and some things don't always necessarily work out
with the, you know, there's like, you know, with the people that you deal with, but
you live and you learn.
But, you know, like I couldn't say so.
I just know that we were doing a bunch of like documenting as far as the, you know, as
far as the cuts that we had and, you know, everything just kind of, like I say, like
snowballed into where it's at now.
You know, like, but I wouldn't, I mean, I wouldn't, I wouldn't like to, you know, to
you know, to basically accept the fact that like, you know, like that there's notoriety
that comes along with like the territory that, you know, I'm in, I guess.
Yeah, ever humble, that's always nice.
So, what was your favourite forums or did you have like a favourite forum moment in
general?
Oh, I mean, like ICMAG was good at one point.
I think it's very convoluted and like watered down at this point just because you have so
many like newbie growers.
But it was like, it was, you know, ICMAG, Overgrow, THC Farmer.
Like, you know, it was, it was just a huge, like, like, like, you know, a huge, like a
library to basically learn like about growing at the time.
And so we were, you know, like I said, like, like me and like Ivan from the Jungle Boys,
like Lump Status, Frost Boss, like Unown Profit, like, like ABF Now, like, you know,
to have met those people and, and be able to have shared the knowledge that we had.
Like, it's kind of, you can't really, like, that's not gonna, like, I don't foresee that
coming about, like, again, like back then we were like, just super underground, you
know, just basically starting out and, you know, just sharing a bunch of information.
And, you know, like I said, I kind of stuck to ICMAG and that was about it.
But it was never about like gaining any notoriety or anything like that.
Like, really see when I jumped onto like Instagram was when I noticed that like
Instagram was a huge marketing tool.
And, you know, it was I was very surprised at how like everything from there to kind of
took off. You know, and so it was like when I when I set up my Instagram handle, people
were like recognizing me from the forums and I was like, how like how do you know about
about that? And, you know, people had basically had been following my work.
And so they were, you know, they were like kind of like, are you that person from, you
know, whatever ICMAG?
And yeah, it was that's kind of what surprised me a little bit and whatnot.
Yeah, OK. I mean, you mentioned the marketing of Instagram.
Do you look at Cookie Fam now and feel like they've done a pretty good job marketing?
And if you were to say that, who do you put the like the kudos to?
Who out of the Cookie Fam's the marketer?
I mean, I don't think Cookie Fam did anything really.
They like really see like Burner is the one that actually hiked the strain like at the
end of the day, like the strain actually kind of held its own weight because it was like
I said, Cookies was definitely a game changer.
But like I don't I don't you know, I don't see how they did anything to like fuel that
whole situation. Burner definitely, definitely did.
But at the end of the day, like it's I mean, it's kind of ironic, like a lot of people
assume like Burner's like a like a weed grower.
I'm like, hey, I mean, you might have grown weed back in the day or whatever, but he's
more of a hustler in a sense, which I mean, I totally respect.
But but like, you know, like he he he was the one that fueled the whole cookies hype.
It's it's it's you know, that's that's I would say that's really who's responsible for it
and not like a Scherbinski like but he's he kind of branched off and did his own thing.
But he also had like the the, you know, the the the momentum from like the whole cookies
thing as well. You read my mind.
That was going to be the next question was about Scherbinski and how he branched off.
So what I want to know is he's been name dropped a lot in a lot of pop culture, like even
in a Calvin Harris song, which is pretty good for him.
Do you feel like he's done a better job?
And furthermore, what do you think will happen to the Cookies brand if they continue to be
passive, as you said?
I mean, there's only so much that that that that I mean, they can actually do.
I think Scherbinski is definitely a lot more of like a marketing type of person.
And I know that's fucking great for him.
I like said, I'll never hate on anybody.
And I mean, but even like when he branched off from the actual cookie fam and all that
other shit, like like initially I was like, I like, you know, I didn't I couldn't foresee
how it was actually going to work out for him and whatnot.
But I met him. He's cool as dude.
I mean, you know, like he like, you know, I'm very happy for anybody that's fucking
making anything happen at this, you know, in this industry and whatnot.
But he's I mean, you know, he's he's definitely more of a of a marketing type of
person, you know, in in the mix as far as, you know, like branding and things like
that, which is actually like it's it's very surprising at how everything's come
together nowadays as far as branding within like the industry and all that.
It's like a lot like it goes a long ways, you know, I would've never thought that it
would've came to this.
Do you feel like it would be wrong to say that Cookies, in a sense, was the root of
where all this bloody branded Mylar bag comes from, if you like kind of really think
about it? I mean, I mean, not not at all.
Like, I mean, it's Cookies is the basis for pretty much I mean, even like the
like dosidos like like whatever at all.
It all kind of stems from from there.
I mean, we're just like a burner base.
I mean, he has a platform to basically promote this like that strain and he has a
huge following. And and as a result, it kind of it's like a trickle down effect.
So we're you know, anything associated with it can actually, you know, be very, you
know, worthy of recognition in a sense.
So like, you know, like like I said, like, you know, Shcherbinsky as far as like him
branching off and doing his own thing, like he does have, you know, very prominent
strains that are like pretty well known in the industry, like under under his belt
and whatnot. But it's a it's you know, like I like you can't deny the fact that
like Cookies literally is the basis for a lot of the stuff that's going on now in
the industry. That's the bottom line.
Of course, yeah. I think that you can reduce it all down to like Cookies and TK.
Yeah, I mean, I mean, I mean, I feel like the TK is more of a connoisseur like
market. Most people would not know what like what the TK is, you know.
So. Yeah, but I mean, like all the hybrids are like have those two components in
them mostly. Yeah, I mean, it's it's yeah, I mean, it's like, yeah, I
would not I would not argue with that that way.
But I guess at the end of the day, like I said, Cookies is I mean, there's a
reason why it was a game changer in a sense.
It was definitely like when I first saw the actual real deal Cookies, I was like,
oh, this shit is actually fire.
Like the only other strain that I could attribute that to would be like the OG
Kush, like the like the original SFV or the Larry that that was around.
And then and also like the Urkel, like back then, like nobody had like purple
strains. It was kind of crazy to see.
So.
What did you make of the Sherbets and the Gelatos when they first came out?
Did they impress you at all?
I mean, honestly, like I didn't I didn't I'm not I'm not the person to like go go
and seek out these strains and if it comes across me like like then, you know, I'll
check it out. And usually like the people that I deal with, they they're they're
they they're you know, they they hold some weight in the industry in a sense where
like I would trust that whatever they had was legit because like at some point
everyone wants to kind of pass whatever they have off as the Sherbet or like
Gelato. But I mean, it's you know, they're good strains.
I'm wrong. Like but like, you know, like I was I didn't even have any idea that the
Gelato like there was the different different types are basically just different
phenotypes of the same, you know, I guess like seeds.
And so I was like, yeah, I had no idea.
I can know that I saw he and the like whatever other like, you know,
phenotypes there are. They're all kind of all based off the same seeds.
But, you know, like I mean, they're good.
I can't I can't deny that for sure.
Yeah, for sure. I'm a fan of the old 41.
But have you seen what the Cookie Fam are doing now with their like their
collab with J Beezy and the Mintz thing?
I mean, I have seen that like in there, I mean, like there is definitely like a lot
of good strains coming out of that out of that camp in a sense, like, you know,
like I said at the end of the day, like I wish nothing but the best.
I'm in the same boat where I'm always looking for something better.
I just hope that everything works out, you know, like for them.
And, you know, there's there's when money comes into play, a lot of bridges get
burned sometimes. And so, you know, like that's but I mean, they're doing good
work. So I hope everybody's getting compensated and everyone's getting paid and
making money and, you know, be able to take care of their family.
Of course. So a sentiment we've heard echoed by many different people over the
past few years is that everyone's so hyped over like these new school things, but
people don't really give enough credit to how some of the old school strains were
really awesome. Do you kind of feel like you're into that mentality or are you not
really subscribing to that?
I mean, I'm like I love old school strains, man.
Like the problem is they're just not like necessarily available anymore.
So and like a lot of the new stuff is definitely like very, you know, like there's
a lot of nice stuff that's out like nowadays.
But, you know, like to be able to have like some land race genetics that are, you
know, you know, from back in the days, it's just not really it's it's it's very few
and far between to like to actually come across them, especially like the legit ones.
You know, there's there's a yeah, I mean, there's like there's certain like there
was like the pepper Fino Romulan that I like is very like for me, like very
nostalgic. Like probably a couple of those.
I can't even think about them right now off the top of my head.
But but like things like that, you're probably not not going to come across them
again. Yeah.
Wow. Pepper Fino Romulan.
I've only really heard of a berry one.
Yeah, there was a grape one, but there was also a pepper one.
I mean, I actually brought it back from Amsterdam when I when I came back, you know,
from the cannabis cup. Like I think it was like 2006.
And and yeah, like I brought back the seeds and and there was I know the grape, you
know, was that was one of the one of the more prominent ones as far as like that was
went around. But there was also the pepper, you know, that was very like kind of like
spicy. And it was like, yeah, like like I said, at the end of the day, like if I had
it today, there's you're probably not you're going to get more money for things that
are a lot more hyped up like like JVC stuff or, you know, gelatos or, you know,
sherberts and all that, you know, all that stuff.
So it's it's more of a personal preference to run them and, you know, keep them in the
stable. So when you pop new seeds, do you like to delve into some old, some new or you
find it's fairly much the new?
I mean, like as far as like like as far as what I'm looking for.
Yeah. Like if you're going to do like a Fino hunt, just kind of, you know, look through
some new stuff.
Yeah. I mean, it's it's for me like it's I mean, there's a lot of stuff that gets
that ends up, you know, you have to sit through a lot of the bullshit to get the good
stuff. And that's just kind of like the reality of it.
You know, but like when I'm selecting like males or, you know, like crossing into
certain females, you know, it's all like a matter of selection and you never know
exactly what what's going to come about.
But for the most part, if you put your best foot forward, you usually will get
something, you know, like, you know, something worthy of keeping around.
But at the end of the day, too, everyone gets tired of shit.
Like after, you know, you run the same strain for like a year, year and a half, people
are going to get tired of it no matter what.
Do you think that popping new seeds is really kind of a vital thing to the scene?
I mean, yeah, it is.
It's honestly like as far as like like like I mean, the longer you keep a plant alive,
the more of an instance it has to actually become, you know, diseased or like have
like a like like some sort of like pest infection.
You know, I guess if that's what you want to call it.
And so like seeds are, you know, definitely, you know, like if you constantly are are
popping seeds and looking through stuff, which like I said at the end of the day, you
have like you have to sit through a lot of bullshit to get to some good stuff
sometimes, depending on the stability of like a like a lot of the genetics.
Like, you know, like you're going to always have like new stuff.
I love the idea of always having something new to like look forward to, even though like
it's not always going to be like not everything's a winner, you know.
Yeah, OK. I definitely feel like we've all had our fair share of junk seeds.
But in that kind of same vein of thought, when you are popping seeds, do you subscribe
to this idea of like maybe popping a certain amount?
Like, for example, if I gave you five seeds, would you be like, man, it's not really
enough to do a good hunt or do you just whatever's there is there?
I mean, I mean, if someone gave me five seeds, I'd just plant the five seeds like it's
you know, beggars can't be choosers in a sense.
But like I mean, it's definitely nice to have like more of a like like a broader
spectrum to like select from and whatnot.
But, you know, like you can also you know, you can't find some some winners within five
seeds. Like I said, it's definitely nicer to have like like, you know, a lot more to
choose from. But, you know, at the end of the day, you know, it is what it is like.
It's you know, like I'm at the end of the day, I'm probably going to narrow it down to
probably like a few phenotypes and that's it and then toss everything else.
Like it's it's it's easy to get like attached to wanting to keep certain things around.
But at the end of the day, it's just like you have to realise like there's always going to be
something better. You just got to keep looking, you know.
Definitely. So, when you do a pheno hunt, do you like to run the keeper, so to speak, as
a clone a few times before you rule it the keeper or do you feel like you've got a good idea
from the first run? Because I find people differing opinions on this.
I mean, I mean, you have to like like like I mean, it takes a little while to dial the
strains in because they all have like different, you know, like nutritional requirements in a
sense as far as like like like, you know, nutrients and whatnot.
And like so your first round may not be like you're not going to hit it out, you know, out
the park. But like, you know, you'll get a decent idea of what you know, what it can
produce and what you know, whatnot.
If you get a pheno that's super, you know, larfy and like has like a like, you know, like
a blank smell, you're probably I mean, I probably am not going to run it again.
But like there's you can definitely see the potential in certain strains as like, you know,
like when you grow them.
But at the end of the day, you know, most of the time, like I can tell within like the first
round, like what's going to be worthy of like keeping around and and running it again and
trying to dial it in better as opposed to just like wasting my time on keeping the mothers
for, you know, certain genetics that are not going to be, you know, that like, you know,
worthy of keeping around in a sense.
Yeah. Okay. So, a bit of a hard question to answer, I understand.
But what to you makes you want to keep a plant?
Like, do you have like a certain baseline and you think if it doesn't meet the standard, maybe
like a common plant you just refer everything to and you're like, if it's not better than
that, I'm just not keeping it.
Like, how do you try to define what's going to stay and what's going to go?
Is it just a hunch?
Well, really, I mean, it comes down to a matter of space and after like most of the stuff
that I'm going to select is going to be stuff that I kind of like I'd like to keep.
But then as I'm sorting through new stuff, then things have to go.
And that's just the bottom line, you know.
And so like, you know, like there's if I have unlimited space and things like that, it's
one thing. But at the end of the day, too, it's like it's always nice to start from new
seed stock and have like new genetics and like, you know, everything gets old no matter
what. That's the bottom line.
It's like it's ironic how like now certain strains like are literally like vintage
strains in a sense, if you call like, you know, things like like like the the trends
are cyclical in a sense, even with the weed, it's crazy.
And so it's it's it's, you know, like like said, some people like nowadays, they'd want
they're like, oh, man, I wish I had like this train wreck or something.
And it's just kind of like that was, you know, around a long time ago.
And it's really hard to come by nowadays.
But, you know, like I said, it's just it's ironic how things are very like I said, like
the trends are very cyclical, even within like the cannabis market and whatnot.
Of course, it is very cyclical, like with a lot of things.
I haven't asked you yet.
What's your thoughts on Femseeds?
Would you ever make them?
I mean, I like I personally wouldn't.
I'm actually running some first time right now.
And and I got like that's that's going to basically be the basis for my opinion on that.
I typically wouldn't.
I know that like back in the days, like like there was a lot of hermaphroditic like
tendencies that could come about from like the feminized seeds.
But I like from what I know now, like I'm running some of like like like like from
ABF genetics, some of his are like feminized and, you know, I trust his judgment.
So that's why I'm running them.
And like I like I probably wouldn't keep mothers for longer than maybe like a few
rounds as far as taking clones off of them.
But that's just me, you know, erring on the side of caution as far as traditionally like
back in the days, hearing that like they tend to have hermaphroditic
tendencies after a while.
So, I mean, I could be completely wrong, though.
So.
OK, sorry. So just to clarify, you're saying if you found one you'd like, you'd run it a
few times, but you'd probably give it up after a while because it probably start to
harm. Well, that I mean, I can't say that that's that's what would happen, but more than
likely, like in my experience back, like back in the days before things were like a
little more dialed in.
That's that's kind of what was the consensus at the time.
Things I mean, people I mean, even like auto flower genetics and like feminized auto
flower, like like like everything's gotten, you know, people have definitely dialed in
things a little bit better. And so, you know, like it's like I couldn't.
I don't know. In my experience, I've always like like back in the days, there was always
kind of her rapid her rapid tendencies as far as like back then people would typically
run them and I seeds and for like one round and then, you know, move on to the next
round of like like new seeds.
But, you know, like I said, like this is literally like the first time I'm running
feminized seeds and we'll see how it all goes.
But I trust, like I said, my my like my homie Brian's judgment.
And, you know, if he tells me there shouldn't be a problem, then then that's you know,
that's why I'm running.
Yeah, that's exciting to hear.
I'll keep my eyes on your Instagram to see the updates.
Just as a quick follow up.
Are there any other packs of seeds or breeders that you're kind of excited to run?
Oh, I mean, I mean, there's there's tons of stuff out like, you know, like on the market
right now, like I mean, I like I'm very fortunate to know like a lot of, you know, like,
you know, very like good breeders.
And and when I see them, they they'll throw me down seeds and, you know, things like
that. And I'm always very, like, very grateful for that.
And and like I mean, I already know, like they do really like really good work.
So, you know, like there is, you know, there's a lot of prominent breeders like
Canerado, Swamp Boys, like Seed Junkie, you know, like like OBS.
I mean, I'm going to forget certain people at this point, so I don't want to like offend
nobody. But, you know, there's there's, you know, I'm very fortunate.
So like, you know, like no, you know, no good amount of these people.
And and, you know, like like I said, be able to run some of their gear like it's you
know, they all do good work.
Some really big heavy hitters in the list there.
Another heavy hitter you mentioned early on was MP Carly.
I think I can guess what type of grow style you use.
And my question is, do you use MP Carly pro nutrient mix?
No, actually, I do not at the moment.
Like I I use Perfect Grower and like I like, you know, they take care of me like they
they you know, like the nutrients are dope.
Like, you know, we have very good success with them, you know, but like, you know, Ryan
is is is my homie.
And so like I wouldn't, you know, like I would not shy away from utilizing his stuff,
but it's also more of at this point, I'm kind of like, you know, we were already used to
running the Perfect Grower stuff.
And and like Ryan's he's a brilliant person.
Like he's his product, I'm sure is like really well.
So like me, like, you know, maybe like further down the line, unfortunately, at the time
when I was making the transition from like my like my old form formula, like which is
based off I think was like a cutting edge.
Like he he hadn't he hadn't gotten his nutrients like like, you know, on deck yet.
So so, yeah, that's why I went with the Perfect Grower.
And, you know, like everything as far as for me, it's just more of like if it's not broke,
don't fix it. And we have really good success with that.
So but, you know, I got nothing but respect for Ryan.
Like he's a really good friend of mine.
Yeah, yeah, of course.
And I didn't didn't mean that in, you know, kind of throw you under the busway at all.
That's awesome to hear that there's some other good brands out there.
And I guess kind of on that topic, are there any other products which you think are really
solid products just lifted your game?
Happy to kind of throw a shout out to them.
Oh, I mean, like like everyone that like pretty much messes with us, like as far as like
like from the lighting is as far as like Lux lighting, like, you know, from my homie Ivan
that, you know, Jungle Boys, like the DLI lights as well.
We utilize both of those.
You know, the Floraflex, like Aaron at Floraflex, you know, they he definitely takes care of
us at Trollmaster, you know, like Miami Mango.
Like, you know, that's like, you know, that's they like I just appreciate everybody, you
know, coming together, you know, like the camaraderie that comes along with like like,
you know, like as far as people taking care of each other or not, they all they all
definitively, you know, they like I'm very fortunate to to be in the position to where
like I have their phone numbers and all that stuff.
So, there's any issues I can always call them.
But yeah, like I mean, it's you know, they they're all like, you know, I'm very grateful
for all of that.
Yeah. Wow.
A lot of big hitting names just mentioned there.
I definitely want to get into some of the nitty gritty of that.
So, first of all, people are going to be super interested in this.
What's like tell us about your relationship with Ivan of the Jungle Boys.
Oh, I mean, we just we came up from the from the forums and whatnot, like, you know, like
he was one of the pioneers as far as like like I mean, he he taught me how to literally
like set up a pump start relay and irrigation controller for a drip system.
And, you know, when we didn't have access to any of this information, you know, and so
it's it's just crazy to see how everything's kind of progressed as far as to where we're at
now and, you know, and whatnot.
But he's he's definitively like a pioneer within this industry.
And he's a he's he's a smart guy.
He's not fucking he's a you know, he's he's definitely he's definitely not not I mean,
I'll say not stupid, but like I'm saying, like he's a fucking smart guy.
I respect the shit out of him.
But it was more of just like a like a relationship with the forums that we had.
And like that's you know, that's kind of where we all came up from.
Like as far as I said, like maybe if Frost Boss, which was actually yes for Prop 215
on IC Mag on Profit, like, you know, like like all of our homies, like it's it's crazy to
see how we've all kind of came up and and we're at like where we're at now, you know.
Yeah, definitely.
It definitely seems that when you talk to all the kind of more notable names in the
scene, there is a common thread, especially in the early days, which is nice to see that,
you know, the people who are associated together in the early days putting in the work,
it's kind of translated on.
You know, I mean, it's it's a it's like I said, it's really crazy to realize, like how
everything's fabricated as far as like our success and and, you know, whatever.
Like it's kind of like like we all kind of took up a trade that was, you know, we're very
underground at the time.
And then it's like it's like a trade that literally is in very high demand.
And we are like, you know, we're getting paid for our experience as far as like how many
fuckups we had. So.
So, you also mentioned the Troll automated system.
Do you feel that that's going to be the future of growing with these really tightly
regulated automated censoring, which helps keeps things in control?
Oh, I mean, I like the idea of it, but like you also always like eat like like like I
remember when like there's there's a thread I want to say it's on I think it's on THC
Farmer. And it's like it's weird how I actually remember this because it's so long ago.
But Ivan from Jungle Boys, he had mentioned that like he had it was like one of the
threads as far as I think he was setting like an irrigation controller up.
And he was like, you can automate this.
But like, I still like to go there and push the buttons and literally like make sure
everything's getting watered appropriately.
So, I mean, it's good, but it's also, you know, you have to be there.
There's certain things like mechanically that like that can definitely like fail on you.
And if they do, like depending on how big of a setup you have, like it could be
catastrophic as far as, you know, like like, you know, things don't get watered or
there's certain clogs and like certain irrigation lines.
You know, you always want to be there.
But automation is definitely nice.
It's nice to have the ability to to to like, you know, have access to these products
because back then we didn't like we had to pretty much kind of like come up with the
ways to to do what we needed to do with what you know, in our industry, because the
products weren't readily available.
They had to like you had to incorporate other products from other industries to actually,
you know, like like get what we wanted to get done.
So, with that in mind, what do you see as the future of more large scale cultivation?
I mean, it just it really depends on like what what you're going for.
I feel like there's you're going to have like your Budweiser's where, you know, you know
that like people still buy Budweiser, but there's always also a market for like craft
beer and like the same thing with like with weed.
Like I think for me, I'm very much into like exclusivity and having that like like, you
know, not not, you know, not necessarily having whatever whatever everybody else has
access to or has.
But at the end of the day, too, I mean, I like, you know, people love to clown on Purple
Punch or Blue Dream or Green Crack.
But I do know that I got homies that have dispensaries and they like people love to
buy those drinks, you know.
So it's it's you know, it's just a matter of like what what people want, you know, like
what like what the market dictates.
Yeah. So kind of something I've been thinking about for a long time is the Budweiser
analogy. It's a good one because I think people understand it.
Would you on a personal level be a little bit bummed out about if we use that same
analogy, you know, Budweiser makes a lot more money than a lot of say craft breweries
that are making a really high quality product.
If that same analogy holds true in cannabis, is it a bit disheartening or is it just a
whatever thing to you?
I mean, at the end of the day, I mean, I like like like it's I mean, it's it's
commercial growing versus like I guess more like craft growing.
But at the end of the day, like once you commercialize something like especially
agriculture and whatnot, it usually always is going to lead to like a degradation of
quality. And so I mean, but most people are like like I always say that there's like a
consumer market and the connoisseur market.
And most of them, it's a very thin line as far as like discerning like whether or not
this weed was grown commercially or like, you know, like or someone grew it like, you
know, 10 lights or versus like 100 lights.
So I mean, it's it's like I said at the end of the day, it's it's pretty subjective.
And most of the time, like the majority of the market is going to be like consumers, not
necessarily connoisseurs.
Like a lot of people, it's crazy to me that they will literally like buy stuff without
even looking at it or like, you know, like like I just I can't I can't I can't buy
something like that. Yeah, certainly.
Yeah. So I was like going to a store and, you know, like like not being able to look at
the product. Like that's why I like even like delivery services.
I'm like I like I don't you know, it never really like like, you know, like struck me
as far as like a lucrative business in a sense, because I'm like, who the fuck would
want to buy something that they can't necessarily like see or smell or whatever.
But I mean, it's I mean, clearly I was wrong.
So.
So let's get down to some of the neat gritties of growing itself.
What type of medium do you like to grow in and what's your how would you describe your
general style?
Oh, I mean, I just try to keep things as sterile as possible.
Like I like using I mean, Rockwell is just kind of like a generic term in a sense because
there's so many other like brands.
It's but like, you know, I like to just keep it simple.
I've I've done pretty much everything like that.
You know, I've ran every single medium you possibly could.
Deepwater culture.
I've done like water cooled lights at one point, which was a disaster, which is not a
medium. But I'm just saying like, you know, I I tried everything on it, like, you know,
everything that is pretty much like like is is tribal.
And and I kind of settled on the Rockwell because I had my most consistent yields and
and, you know, like product to come from that.
And it's it's it's it's it's it's sterile.
And, you know, like I said, I've done cocoa, I've done beds.
You know, at the end of the day, like Rockwell was just kind of like what I did best with.
Great. And so is there any little tips or tricks you might have for our growers in
regards to how they can produce a better quality N-Bud?
Just general ideas or product recommendations?
It's like there's a very negative connotation that comes along with Rockwell, especially
Rockwell with salt based nutrients.
People will always, you know, the soil growers, it's like a never ending argument where
they're going to they're going to, you know, tell you that like it's it's going to taste
this way or whatever.
But at the end of the day, I feel like a lot of that is somewhat subjective, you know,
and I mean, it's it's definitively subjective.
But like, you know, at the end of the day, I I've I've smoked organic, you know, soil,
which I like. I definitely like.
But on a commercial scale, it's not necessarily like feasible.
I mean, it is somewhat, but it's it's like when you're talking about like minimizing
you're not necessarily like just your cost, but as far as like like labor intensity and
things like that, you know, like Rockwell's like if you you know, it can be it's a lot
easier to work with and it's it's sterile.
So like every time you buy it, it's going to be sterile.
There's no pots you have to sterilize like after every round and, you know, dirt and all
that stuff can become very like, you know, labor intense.
It's not about being lazy either.
It's just more of like, you know, I I like the idea of having everything kind of, you
know, like like just like streamlined and, you know, that's it.
Like it's a it's like I like I said, I've done cocoa, I've done dirt and I like the
product. But at the end of the day, like I couldn't there's very few times that I've
actually been able to discern the difference between, you know, like something that was
grown in Rockwell with salts that's flushed properly as opposed to like, you know, like
soil that's organic soil.
So you mentioned earlier that you like Lux lighting.
Are they the ceramic metal highlights?
The ones that we have are actually we use the CMHs for our mother room in Oklahoma.
Like like everything else is like dual and like HVS is so like but you know, we're
basically we run DLI and we also run Red Lux.
So like they're both, you know, they're both good brands.
They both take care of us.
Like, you know, I appreciate the shit out of all like, you know, both those companies.
So.
And so what type of temperatures and humidities do you like to run your flower rooms at?
I mean, the flower room is typically like I like to keep right around like 80, maybe
like the low 80s as far as we're running like like CO2.
There's a lot of people that are going to like they want to follow like the VPD charts,
which they I mean, it's not a not a bad idea, but like those charts, they're
not necessarily tailored for like cannabis growing.
They're like they're kind of a generalization for like like I like I have cultural
crops, but cannabis like you can't run that high of a humidity like according to the
VPD charts like that later in a flower.
And so like, you know, it's kind of like you kind of take it with, you know, you
know, take what you want from it and whatnot.
But I usually run everything at like 80 and like the humidity is always going to be like
between 50 and 60 and that's it.
Cool. And what's your kind of basic outline for your dry and cure process?
Because I find this is an area people are always kind of looking to learn more about.
Like, honestly, it's not it's really not that not that difficult in a sense where we
pretty much we cut we cut at the base of the stock, hang it on a hanger and have it in
a climate controlled room like a drying room that's like going to be about 60
degrees. You know, you want to keep a little colder just because you like the cold
tends to to inhibit the growth of like mold and whatnot.
And and like the humidity just like right around like, you know, 50, you know,
basically like 50 percent, like 60 degrees and just let it do its thing for two weeks.
And then from there, everything gets trimmed up.
And then from there, like we like I designed this, this we call like a can of cellar and
and for our place in Oklahoma with where we have like the cure tubes.
So from, you know, we're not throwing them in like turkey bags directly after we like
like after everything gets trimmed, we're literally we're throwing them in the tubes.
And from there, they can kind of cure like, you know, as long as we want until the
product actually gets gets gets gets gets bought by the by the distributors.
And do you feel that'll be the future for a lot of brands getting out of the old turkey
bags?
I mean, I don't like the idea of like, you know, just trimming your buds and just
throwing them in a turkey bag like that.
You're going to I mean, you can literally see the tricos getting, you know, like like
sticking to the actual turkey bag.
If you if you've opened open up a turkey bag like, you know, like after everything's
been trimmed and, you know, like thrown thrown in the bag.
So, you know, I just I just don't like the idea that, you know, you're going to smash
tricones and things like that.
I mean, it's at the end of the day, it's just, you know, like it's just a matter of
doing things like as best we can.
So, you know, like I like I love the idea of having that that that kind of seller, you
know, like pretty much taking everything from being trimmed and not throwing it in a
bunch of turkey bags and, you know, throwing them into the cure tubes and letting them
cure in there from there, you know?
Yeah, definitely.
So just to kind of jump to a different topic, I forgot to ask you earlier between the
Dosey Doe and the Mendo Breath, which one do you like more?
Honestly, like I like them both.
They it's I would say the Dosey Doe is probably going to be like a little more
Indica dominant. But the Mendo Breath is like, you know, like if you're going to run
it outdoors, like the Dosey Doe is very I feel like like it's very reminiscent of like
more of an OG. The Mendo Breath, though, just like stacks like if you I mean, I have
homies that they'll pull down like 10, 12 pounds off of like one single plant outdoors.
And with the Dosey Doe, it's going to be pretty tough to do that.
I mean, it's like it's probably doable, but that gets it takes less effort to do with
the Mendo Breath. And like, I mean, I like they both have their own like, you know,
place in as far as like what I you know, what I like them for and whatnot.
But I think, you know, the Mendo Breath definitely will yield a lot more for you.
I just think that the you're looking more for Indica effect.
You're the Dosey Doe is probably going to be your best bet.
Yeah, okay. So, often when we talk about OGs and chem dogs and things
breeding, I often talk to guests about what pairs well, generally speaking.
In your mind, do you feel as though there's something which generally speaking pairs well
with cookies?
There's nothing that I like necessarily prefer.
There's certain like cookies crosses that I definitely have like been impressed by and
whatnot. But I mean, like, you know, when you take two things, it's I mean, for me, it's
just very interesting to like pretty much see what comes about from, you know, from the
cookies. Like, I mean, the Dosey Doe is basically like a remade cookies, which is,
you know, like a, you know, like as far as that, when it's the Dosey Doe's cross the
Skittles, I forget what the actual name of the of the strain was that I want to say
Fletcher made.
Moonbow.
Yeah, Moonbow. Exactly.
That's so yeah, like it's it's it's definitely I mean, you know, like when you take
two like really good things, you usually will come out with something pretty damn good.
So but they're like, you know, like I'm still like experimenting with that as far as
like the, you know, breeding like things with the OG KB especially and like stuff like
that. I have like certain projects that I'm looking forward to like down the line, but
it's going to be a little while before we before I get there.
OK, well, yeah, let's talk a little more collaborative stuff.
What's your affiliation with Cult Classics?
They seem to use a lot of your stuff.
I mean, I like I mean, Marcus is basically like someone that was introduced to me and,
you know, like we like I like say it's kind of the same thing as far as like everything
else that I like that I've done.
I gave him the cut and and, you know, like he bred it to like a like, you know, a bunch
of like whatever like males that he had and whatnot.
I just kind of let him do his thing.
And it's like whatever, like I unfortunately like I don't I don't really hear too much
about his company at this point.
But but, you know, like I like there was certain things that came out of like those
breeding projects that were like pretty like very, like very promising.
So, yeah, I remember that ultraviolence thing he did was pretty popular.
Yeah, that the cement shoes, you know, like there was definitely a lot of promising stuff
that came out of out of those breeding projects.
And, you know, like I was like for me at the end of the day, it's just it's it's very
like it's exciting to see what comes out of these crosses and these pollinations and
whatnot. Definitely.
So, someone we've spoken about a few times already, always be flowering.
You mentioned he's a good friend.
I guess the question is, do you have any collaborations in mind or do you think that it
will happen in the future?
Oh, yeah. I mean, I'm always like eager to work with him regardless.
Like I respect the shit out of him.
Like, yeah, I mean, yeah, he has OGKB.
I gave him the cut.
He, you know, he's free to pretty much work with it like however he wants.
So, like I said at the end of the day, like I trust his judgment as far as what he's going
to do with it. And same thing, I'm excited to see what would come
about from that whole, you know, that whole situation.
So.
If someone wanted to get their hands on some of your work, what would be the way to do
it, even if it's in the future, you know, what do you think would be the best way for him
to get it through a seed bank or maybe through a clone bank?
I mean, like I said, that's why I kind of let other people handle that whole situation.
Like I couldn't tell you, honestly, I've had multiple offers for like all sorts of stuff
where people are, you know, they want to carry like, you know, like whatever,
like, you know, the crosses I make and whatever.
But at the end of the day, that's not really like, I won't say it's not my specialty, but it's
just more of like I'd rather leave that up to like somebody else and have them take care of
that, you know, just like, you know, work with somebody else and, you know, do like the
collaborations and have them, you know, take care of all that, you know, as far as like
facilitate like, you know, the liquidation of all of like the seeds and all that other stuff.
What I'm sensing here is that you're actually giving a message to all the pollen chuckers out
there being like, guys, making the seeds isn't the hard part.
It's the other bit I don't want to be involved with.
Yeah, I mean, it's I mean, it's I mean, it's I mean, selection goes a long ways.
That's what takes the longest time, you know.
But like, yeah, for me, it's just more of like I like working with people and
and like like, you know, like seeing what like like said, it's exciting at the end of the day
to see what can come about from from the work and the collaborations that can be done.
That's really like like, you know, a lot of people are very they want to keep everything in
house and not work with other people like this.
Industry is very ego driven.
And and I think that's kind of what will hold some people back at the end of the day.
And so, like I said, I'm like, you know, like I just I at the end of the day, like I think
just kind of everybody eats.
So, whatever, if we can all help each other out, let's make it happen.
Certainly. So, you mentioned people contacting you about stocking your things.
And even earlier in this episode, you mentioned Dark Heart Nursery.
They're a notable nursery that definitely sells a lot of the Mendo Breath clones.
Do you feel like honoured by that?
How do you feel when there's places stocking kind of your work directly or indirectly?
Oh, I mean, at the end of the day, like like I said, if you know, you know, like not
necessarily like the lineage of like of the genetics, but, you know, a lot of the times all
that stuff is kind of associated with me anyways.
So, I mean, in a sense, yeah, like kind of honoured.
But at the end of the day, too, like they like I said, when I released the the clones, the
Dosidos and the Mendo Breath, they were some of the first people to literally line up to
like grab them. They paid for them.
They can do whatever they want with it at that point.
You know, I'm not it's like, you know, I can't hate on them.
At the end of the day, like it's like all the all the, you know, the notoriety that comes
along with those strings kind of if you know where they came from, it's going to come back
to me anyway. So at the end of the day, like I said before, like I'm more than happy for
them doing their thing. They actually just identified like the hop, I think it was like a
hop latent viroid issue with like plants and whatnot.
Like, you know, like they.
Yeah, exactly. Like when we, yeah, years ago when we were when we were growing, it was
that that's pretty sure we called it was done.
But they actually were able to lock it down and, you know, like identify it.
So, you know, I respect that.
That's cool as fuck because it probably didn't cost them.
It probably cost them a lot of money to retain the people to actually, you know, do the
work to figure that out.
So, whatever.
Yeah, no, that's cool.
So, I'd love to get your opinion on this situation then.
How do you feel when people like, I guess, kind of do what Gromer did, you know, grab
someone's strains and like just F to it and sell it or just run with it?
Does that fit into your same philosophy where like, you know, you're not really going to
hate just whatever? Or do you feel like at a certain point you draw a line?
I mean, there's nothing you can do.
So, like, why?
Like, why lose sleep over it?
You know, like it's at the end of the day, it's like if I get in a sense, I
feel like I helped somebody out.
You know, and if you want to utilize my work to further yourself, that's great.
When people want to, you know, like, I mean, if someone wants to mouth off and
like, you know, like I said, like with him, I literally hit him up and I was like, yo, I
wanted to get a packet of peanut butter bread and he sent me like 25 packs of seeds.
Like, I respect that, you know, he doesn't owe me shit.
So at the end of the day, like I respect his work.
He's done good work based off of my stuff.
But that's kind of just like that's kind of what, you know, par for the course as far as
what comes with the territory.
And you can't you can't control that.
So, you know, like at the end of the day, I mean, if he was a dick and was like, you
know, like, like, you know, like wanted to like, you know, like talk shit to me about,
you know, whatever, I want to ask him for some seeds.
Then that's a different story.
But he was cool.
You know, I respect that.
So.
Great. So I just realized, yeah, I just realized I hadn't actually asked you what was the
story with Gage Green?
How did that end?
It was just so I mean, it was just more of like, like that was like I said, like me and
Fletcher, like people want to think that like, you know, like I got rich off of the whole
do-si-dos like situation or whatever.
But like our original agreement was basically to make the cross and split the seeds and
that that was it.
Like, so, you know, I respect the shit out of Fletcher.
And, you know, like he's a good friend of mine.
And I'm very like, you know, I'm very happy for him and like his success as far as like
like the you know, the the the the seed lines that he's running like now or not based off
the do-si-dos like all that shit.
With them, I actually had a contract where there was like a like, you know, like I was
supposed to get compensated for, you know, the seeds that were sold and things just got
kind of like convoluted and didn't necessarily work out the way they were supposed to.
I mean, I like I I know, I guess like he play and Mike and and like, you know, like
we're cool. I'm not like there's no bad blood.
It's just more of like they, you know, like I mean, they definitively like defaulted on
the R agreement, put it that way.
So, but at the end of the day, there's not much, you know, else you can do.
This is not an industry where like I could have my lawyer contact you and and sue you
for, you know, whatever.
So.
Yeah. Okay.
And do you think that more contract based collaborative project will be the way going
forward or do you hope not?
Oh, yeah. I mean, I like it, like everything I do, like even like with with compound, like
like, you know, our agreement was like almost like 30 pages or something, you know, like
my lawyer put it all together.
And, you know, that's I mean, at the end of the day, it's it's having it's it's it's like
it's it's just it's just tough.
The industry is very it's not very like mature in the sense where you can actually like
exercise these rights.
But at the end of the day, too, it's like I just I just feel like it like I'm over the
whole like handshake shit and, you know, like like those sort of agreements, like if
everything's written down on paper and at the end of the day, like someone defaults on
it, you know, then it's like, you know, like it's like it's it's it's clear as day as far
as like it's it's you know, it's all written down there.
This is what we agreed on and that's pretty much it.
So.
Yeah. Okay.
So, you mentioned earlier that we bumped into each other at the Emerald Cup.
What's your feelings on the Emerald Cup and on the Cups in general?
How do you feel the general vibe of them is going?
Oh, I mean, what's ironic is actually like a lot of people, they they they consider the
Emerald Cup as like being like a very like, I guess, like a like a custody expo or
whatever. And and like this year was actually the first year where people were actually
kind of more they responded to to like going to the Emerald Cup and because like
everything else actually like High Times, all those all those other shows are just like,
you know, they're they're they're garbage, you know.
So I mean, you know, like I like it.
I don't like the idea that it's only for outdoor growers and like, you know, things like
that. But whatever.
I mean, like I have fun, you know, attending those things, seeing meeting people like you
and, you know, like conversing with people that that, you know, like that are like very
prominent with the industry, you know, so it's it's it's yeah, it's like I just at the
end of the day, I like having like even like MJ BizCon, like I don't go there for the
like actual conference.
It's like I go there to have, you know, see every like all of our homies under one roof
and literally just, you know, like converse with them.
You know, it's nice to have everybody under one roof and and be able to, you know,
converse with them and, you know, talk business.
Yeah, of course.
And I was also lucky enough to bump into at the Canna Illuminati party.
The thing to me which stands out about the Canna Illuminati party and also things like
the Ego Clash is that we're seeing the rise of these kind of more smaller boutique events
because some people are losing a bit of faith in the bigger ones.
Do you like that or what do you how do you feel about the smaller, more boutique ones?
Oh, I mean, at the end of the day, like it's I mean, if there's I always
I like I always like to see like what people have to offer at these sort of events and
whatnot. You know, like there's a you know, so like the I mean, the bigger ones are
you know, I would say they're definitely a little bit more like watered down.
And so it's nice to have like see the up and coming people that are like, you know,
literally like trying to like make moves in the industry and that are like, you know,
doing like really good work because that's really where you're going to see it at most
of time, you know, as far as like the up and comers, like, you know, at the I like the
bigger events, you're going to see the people that are probably a little bit more
established, which is is dope as well.
But, you know, it's like, you know, there's always like I said, something new coming up
and like, you know, like it's it's always interesting to see what other people have to
offer, you know, especially the underdogs.
So one of the last things I want to ask you about before we get into the quickfire
questions is the Concentrate Takeover.
We haven't heard so much news about it recently, but for the longest time, you know,
the rise of the vape pens, the issues with them, the way it's, you know, kind of taking
over the market, the casual consumer just totally just having an insatiable appetite for
it. Where do you sit on the concentrates taking over the market debate?
I mean, it's like I don't mind like a
nice dab, especially if it's like, you know, like if it's ice wax or,
you know, like like sauce or rosin, you know, if it's a good product, like, you know,
I'd like I definitely like enjoy it and whatnot.
But, you know, as far as like the pens and all that stuff, it's I just feel like it's more
of a matter of accessibility and like like being
very like inconspicuous as far as you know, that's why there it's a lot of it's very
popular in like other other states that may not be so so privy to like,
you know, like legalization and like things like that.
So it's but at the end of the day, like it does suck that there was a whole issue
with the vape cartridges that, you know, we're all tainted and
and, you know, like people were getting sick from them and things like that.
So it's like, you know, but I like good concentrates are like, you know,
they're good. Like at the end of the day, like really like it's it's it's I think it's a lot more
healthier, you know, than actually like smoking like like
flowers or whatnot, because you're smoking, you know, at least you're smoking, you know, THC
like the majority of it's going to be THC as opposed to like a bunch of foliage that, you know,
like you roll up and you smoke.
But I still like smoking like weed, you know, that's that I'm just kind of old school like that.
Yeah, 100%.
So let's jump into our last quickfire questions.
So first one, Indica or Sativa, which one for you?
Oh, I mean, it's it's like it's like everything has its place.
I feel like it's like I can't I can't necessarily tell you I prefer one over the other.
There's certain Sativas that are going to be like panic attack inducing.
And there's also like a like, you know, certain things are good if you're going to try to go
sleep. But but like, you know, especially at this point to like nowadays,
I mean, everything's been hybridized. So it's it's kind of tough to say exactly like what
I would prefer in a sense. But everything has its time and its place.
As far as if I wake up, I'm not going to want to take a dab or or
or smoke a joint of like some heavy Indica.
You know, obviously, like a Sativa would probably be better to get my day going.
But at the end of the day, if I'm trying to go to sleep or something, yeah, like an Indica is
probably going to be your, you know, your, you know, your best bet.
But at the end of the day, like I say to a lot of it's very, just very subjective.
You know, it's all like everything has a time and a place and you just got to figure out what
works for you. Yeah, I agree.
So flour or concentrate?
I honestly like I like flour.
Like I feel like the concentrate game is is so new that like we don't
we don't know the negative repercussions of like like, you know,
the whole thing with the cartridges as far as like smoking concentrates and stuff.
There are certain there's certain ones that are definitely more pure than others.
But but like, yeah, I mean, I'm just I'm super old school in a sense that I like I like
smoking flour. I've had a conversation with a few people before where it's
like I said, it's just everything like certain things are just so new that we don't know
what's going to, you know, like we won't know exactly how it affects people and as far as
their health until probably like 20 or 30 years down the road.
You know, so if you're smoking cartridges like all day and
and, you know, like like, you know, people are still going to weed flowers for forever at
this point. But like we'll know more or less, you know, the the consequences
of smoking, you know, other other things like it's like, you know, butane extracted
concentrates, cartridges, all that stuff.
It's like I said, we won't know until, you know, like I said, it's going to be years
before we figure out like what exactly what like how like how it affects people and like
their immune systems and whatnot.
Yeah, for sure.
So out of the following three strains, you have to pick one to smoke.
Which one is it? Mac, GMO or Skittles?
Oh, I mean, I mean, you can't really go wrong with either of those.
I mean, I would I would probably say the Skittles really like the Mac to be
to be honest, like reminds me a lot like of like kind of like a Bubba.
But it's it's it's a very good strain if I'm not wrong.
And I tend to like more of the fruity stuff, to be honest.
So like, yeah, like Skittles is definitely, you know, probably the GMO
is good. It's it's definitely super gassy.
I think I just have like some sort of affinity as far as like not wanting to smoke
it just because really like it takes so long to finish because it's a longer like
flowering strain.
Yeah, definitely.
That's just a personal thing, you know, but I get like Skittles, I like I like, yeah,
I like I definitely like I was definitely impressed with the Skittles when I when I
saw it for the first time.
When you saw it or when you tasted it?
I mean, both. But I'm saying as far as like when it like literally when I when I
actually saw the real deal, you know.
So yeah. OK, cool.
So out of all the weed you've smoked ever, what's been the most memorable?
Oh, I mean, like like I said, there's that that pepper Fino of the Romulan and
then there's a the like the blueberry headband that I like that I crossed the
OGKB like there's like a certain actually like I saw like a what was like I think
was like a blue diesel when I was actually in Illinois and I was actually pretty
impressed with it. Like it was like super frosty and I didn't get to smoke it,
though. But as far as like, you know, looks wise and like like, you know, like
the like terpenes and all that, it was definitely it was I was pretty impressed
with it. So but but for me, like it like the one of the most memorable memorable
strains realistically is going to be like so there's like the DJ like I'm just
very, very like like very I like a lot of the blueberry strains for that.
So like like the DJ short blueberry that I had in like Amsterdam like was it's
very nostalgic to me.
Like the blueberry headband that I had it like I've only had like a few times.
It was very like, yeah, like it was it was it definitely stood out.
So.
So on the other hand, what was a strain which really kind of took off with other
people, but you were just like, man, I don't get it.
This is trash.
Like I said, like everything kind of has its place as far as like like for smoking,
there's people that are going to talk shit about like said Blue Dream, Burble
Punch, you know, Green Crack.
Like I at the end of the day, I'm actually like pretty grateful to have the
selection we have nowadays because what you know what I smoke, you know, 15 years
ago or whatever was, you know, a lot of the stuff was just garbage.
So it's like, you know, like there's I mean, like, yeah, I've definitely I mean,
I've I've I've smoked out of fucking out of like aluminum cans and stuff like that
where it's it's kind of like, you know, like a taste is kind of irrelevant at that
point. But like, you know, like I've definitely had my fair share of smoking,
like a lot, you know, a lot of bullshit, really like that's that's, you know, most
people that used to smoke back in the days like, you know, they they like, yeah,
there was definitely a lot of stuff that was going around that was, you know, just
like not like what we have the selection of today.
Yeah, thank God we are where we're at now.
So, lucky last question, if you could go back in time, any place, anywhere in history,
presumably to grab seeds or maybe a clone, where would you want to go and what would you
grab?
I mean, there's I mean, it's always nice to have land-raised genetics.
It's I mean, but at the end of the day, it just depends on what you want.
Like I know that like, you know, like like like to go to Africa and get like some
like, you know, some German poison seeds, you know, like any of those land races like
that, like the Hindu Kush, things like that, that are, you know, like you don't you
don't see that anymore. But like to be able to go like go and like acquire those
genetics would be pretty dope.
I like, you know, at the end of the day, though, we actually have a really good
selection here in California, just not like it's like obviously not everything's
going to be like a land-raised genetics coming from like, you know, like South
America or like Africa or, you know, like the Middle East and whatnot.
So it's it's hard to say actually like what I would actually want to like what's on
my on my my hit list as far as like what I want to like what I want to acquire.
Yeah, there's certainly a lot of choices in there.
Well, with that being said, do you have any shout outs or comments you'd like to
make?
I mean, I mean, not really, man, just, you know, I'm grateful for like everybody
that, you know, like that, you know, has worked with me, like I got a lot of like
you got to weed through the bullshit to get to the real people sometimes and, you
know, very grateful to have access to like, you know, like knowing a lot of people
that are very prominent with the industry and and that like I respect a lot like, you
know, I have my crew out like Oklahoma City that they, you know, they stay crushing
it. You know, like I said, like like I'm from Jungle Boys, Lump Status, my boy
Frost Boss, Brian, Unknown Prophet, my homie like Garris that helps me out over
here is my homie.
He holds it down when I'm gone all the goddamn time.
He watches my dog and stuff for me.
You know, and, you know, like, you know, I'm just I'm just very grateful and blessed
to be able to be associated with like a lot of these people and be able to like
absorb their knowledge and, you know, share like share what we've learned within the
industry with it over the course of the last like 15, 20 years.
Yeah. What a lovely sentiment.
So, you know, thank you so much NorCal IcMag for coming on the show, setting the
record straight and laying down all the cookie knowledge.
We're really excited to see your future projects.
Yeah, I know. I mean, I'm excited for you guys to, you know, like see like, you
know, all the...
Unfortunately, last sentence got cut off there, guys.
Sorry about that.
So there you have it.
That was a good episode.
Some really, really, really good knowledge about some strains I love in that one.
As always, big shout out to our sponsors, Seeds here now.
Radio Ridge.
Organic Gardening Solutions.
Top Shelf Seed Bank.
And of course, the Patreon gang.
We love you, the lifeblood of the show.
Thank you so much, guys.
Please go check out the Patreon if you want to help support the show and get some
additional content and access to early episodes.
As always, my friends.
I will see you in the next one.
Thanks for stopping by.
We'll see you.
