Hello and welcome to the 2019 Breeder Awards for the podcast.
You're joined by your boy Heb Days as always here to run down the 2019 awards.
I have with me Mr. James Bean himself to discuss why certain breeders, certain strains and
certain trends have taken the scene by storm in the past year.
Big shout out as always to Seeds here now, your number one seed bank in the game.
And a big, big shout out to our friends in the Patreon gang as always helping make the
show happen, lifeblood of the show, getting early access to episodes, unreleased contents,
interview with 707 Seed Bank, Bodhi part 2, Mean Gene and Mr. Bob Hemphill part 2.
You know how to get that here to Google Patreon the podcast.
And a big shout out to Top Shelf Seed Bank, Dragonfly Earth Medicine and Organic Gardening
Solutions, our homies helping to spread the love and make the show happen.
So are you ready for the awards for the past year?
I hope so.
Let's get into it.
All right.
So, hello and welcome to the inaugural 2019 Podcast Cannabis Awards.
These awards have been decided largely based on the activities and occurrences over the
November 2018 to November 2019 period.
And so what this means is that anything gets released at say Emerald Cup or at the end
of the year, that'll go into next year's running.
So we're largely looking back seeing what's come out over the last years.
So the awards categories for this year are the following Breeder of the Year, Most Impactful
Seed Drop of the Year, Hall of Fame Strain, Hottest Newcomer Breeder to the Scene, Most
Anticipated Seed Drop of 2020, Most Commercially Popular Strain and Clone of the Year.
So for the most part, these awards were decided by myself.
However, I decided to take into account the opinions of several other notable people and
I'm lucky enough to be joined here today by the one and only James Bean.
Thank you so much for joining us.
Hello.
Hello.
How are you?
So I'm here with my friend and the final component for these awards was decided by some polls
I put up.
So some fans got some input.
So we're going to try to provide some logic and kind of some rationale behind each of
the decisions and just kind of accompany the decision as to why we chose them or what we
think is good about each pick.
Just as a personal note, a lot of these picks are not necessarily my personal winners.
So, you know, the clarity and the rationale will hopefully back up why we're picking these
people and it's not just a case of, oh, that's my friend.
So we pick them.
So jumping into it, the first award we're going to discuss is the Most Commercially
Popular Strain of the Year.
So without any further ado, the winner for this was Gelato and all of the extensions.
What do you think, Mr. Bean?
I think I nailed it on the head.
I think I called it last year.
Of course, I knew everything.
But no, definitely we saw the most crosses, the most breeders using it.
You know, it's become sort of, I don't know, cool or uncool how it is, but it's sort of
common these days for a new clone to hit the scene and then just everybody get it and then
the breeders work with it because it's a clone.
They're all essentially working with the same branch of a branch of a branch.
They just each have a different branch.
But then each breeder hits it.
And definitely Gelato was the girl that got passed around the most this year, so to say.
No questions there.
I mean, at the Emerald Cup, we saw Ridgeline win with their Runts.
And you know, for this discussion, I consider Runts, White Runts, Grunts, you know, all
of those derivatives.
It's just Gelato, you know.
So in essence, we saw it win the Emerald Cup.
We saw it was an entry in basically every High Times, every competition of all varieties
you saw this year.
And I think most notably is we saw that it pretty much wiped the hype market out for
any other strain that didn't have Gelato or cookies in it.
Yeah, no, that's definitely fair to say.
And there wasn't any, yeah, there wasn't any, nothing else really gained as much traction
or as much steam, so to say, as Gelato.
And if you didn't come with a lot of heat, like, you know, years past, we'd had Tropicana
Cookies and other things that have come through.
But yeah, this year was pretty much the one that was common across all the breeders was
Gelato Cross.
Too right, too right.
So on to our next award.
Next I want to do Clone of the Year 2019.
I'm going to give you a guess because I don't think it takes much imagination to guess this
one.
It's a long shot.
I'm going to say the Mac.
Oh, how did you know?
I don't know.
You're not supposed to sell the Mac.
I know that.
Ah, only the coolest of the cool.
Yeah.
That's an interesting one, you know, because this one, it's kind of been in the work for
like three years now, hasn't it?
Yeah, I was going to say it's got, it's had enough steam behind it for the last couple
of years to be definitely, you know, I'm not sure how it, how it all has worked out or
if everybody's happy or not happy about the Mac being in circulation and sold and available
to most people.
But initially it was a harder strain to get for sure.
Yeah.
I mean, 2019, we really saw it in full force.
You know, dispensaries were selling it.
The rappers are talking about it.
Every cup has several Mac One entries in it.
Every Instagram has photos of it.
It's just the clone of the year without question.
But the question is, will it continue on?
Do you feel like we've reached peak Mac One status yet?
I've heard, of course, I hear a bit from everybody, but I've heard mixed reviews on the Mac.
I hear it's, you know, great and frosty and all that wonderful thing.
But I also hear it doesn't have a lot of flavor.
It kind of smells like my arm.
But, you know, the stuff I've gotten has been frosty for sure.
So, as a breeding component from a breeder's side, I would think that that would be, that
would make anything that it would touch, you know, it would enhance it if you could.
Of course.
So, I wanted to give some honorable shout outs for Clone of the Year 2019.
And the first one that jumped to mind for me, and I'm thinking you might agree with
me, is Lemon Peel from our buddy Archive.
Yeah, Lemon Peel or is it, what's he calling it?
One Star.
One Star, as it was known.
And so, I got to take credit again on this.
Maybe the first podcast I'm on or you check on my Facebook in 2000, a year and a half
ago or two years ago, I was freaking out about that stream.
He had given me some on a drop.
And I actually, I went out to the car like three times as I end at my hotel just so I
could get high and smoke that weed.
When it was gone, I made a song about it, you know, because my jar was empty and I was
so sad.
It was definitely something special.
I hit him back up that night and I was like, dude, that's amazing.
And then the next week I saw that he had renamed it One Star.
So, on that and just to throw a monkey wrench in the sorts, you know that's from T.I.
Rojo, right?
Really?
Correct.
Archive popped it, but credit goes to T.I.
Rojo as far as creating the stream.
There you go.
I know that it's, you can only really get crosses of it, you know.
I think he said he doesn't have F2s or anything like that.
So, that's why I think it's a good entry for clone of the year because it is truly a clone,
you know, like it's just the female.
That's all there is of it.
Yep.
It's the great thing about seeds is you're pheno hunting.
You're looking for that one.
And so, T.I.
Rojo released it, which he gives credit to, but it was Archive that selected it.
And found that particular phenotype that everybody is in love with.
But, yeah, I was rather surprised as well when I hit up Archive.
I was like, when is that going to be released?
And yada, yada, yada.
He's like, oh yeah, I didn't do that.
Which is Fletcher.
I mean, that's to his credit.
That's what he would do.
You know what I mean?
He would be like, no, that's not mine.
That's this dude's because that's what he does.
He's a predator, you know.
He doesn't want to get called out on anything.
So, but yeah, it's a great strain.
I love it to death.
The few times I've had the rosin, it's been amazing.
I love the flower itself.
I know Obsolete's in love with it as well.
So.
Perfect.
Well, moving on to our next category.
Next, we have the Hall of Fame.
And this one was an interesting one because there's really just a few contenders.
And I kind of think that the obvious choice in people's mind might be something like OG.
I mean, of course, these strains have been honored in the past.
It's not as like this is the first time recognizing how good some of these strains are.
But for me, I thought OG is a little before us.
And I thought that it's kind of undeniable at this point that Girl Scout Cookies is really
the Hall of Fame pick for 2019.
You know, everything it's given rise to the gelato, the sherb, the do-si-do, the Menderbeth.
It's basically countless at this point.
You know, it's the modern version of the OG and the popularity and it's got the youth
market in its grips.
That's undeniable.
What do you think, Mr. Bean?
Is it Hall of Fame status?
It definitely is from a strains perspective.
From a breeders perspective, I've, you know, we'll have to throw that crib completely
out of the ring.
And I just I'm just going to take a like a breeding point of view here.
I just, you know, I'd like to know maybe and maybe it goes back to the OG.
Well, as far as who made it, there's a story behind it.
There's a myth.
There's a legend behind it.
But whoever's whoever actually created the strain are meant to meant to do it.
Or if they meant to at all, hasn't come forward, so to say.
Like it's, you know, I know who I believe it is, but and it wasn't Berner.
So from a breeder standpoint, no way.
But from a strain standpoint all day, like it's been just used in so many things.
And it's one definitely of this time period that's taken the scene by storm and is undeniable
whether you like it or not.
You know, you can't deny the popularity of cookies that it's that and the markets
made on the industry.
So 100% and I think you pointed to one of the most important parts about it, you know,
like most big things.
It was bag seed.
Yeah, it wasn't it wasn't meant to be done.
If they if whoever meant to do it, they would have extras.
They'd have a mother.
They'd have a father.
They'd have pieces to put the puzzle again.
But if there's never a male, then that means that that was never meant to be.
And bag seed strains aren't bad.
If you want to talk about bag seed, we're talking about, you know, maybe some headband.
We're talking about some OG Kush.
We're talking, you know, some great strains, maybe seven out of the top ten are going to
be bag seed never meant to be.
But I just did.
But definitely cookies has made its mark.
But as it was like I say, as it came from bag seed, bag seed it shall have.
And so it keeps throwing seeds to this day.
I'm sure everybody out there has a female girl scout cookie plant.
A motto to live your life by.
Uh-huh.
Alrighty.
So next category is hottest new breeder to the scene.
So for this one, we had quite a lot of entries, but the overwhelming answer was our buddy
from Alaska, aka Bean Brains.
So, you know, sporting a huge wave of just old school genetics, you know, things like
Northern Lights.
This year he's had a lot of success with his some Mac crosses with a male Mac he found
and selected.
And just the most important thing to mention is his new TK NL Hayes, which is taking the
scene by storm.
You know, it's got the potency.
It's the unique pairing of the old school Cush versus the old school Sativa.
It's a really beautiful hybrid and it's a fantastic way to kind of start off his breeding
platform and it's exciting to see what's on the horizon.
It sounds like some great building blocks for sure.
I'm not admittedly as familiar with him as you are.
I love Alaska.
I've been there five times and the cannabis scene was just coming out of the woodwork
so to say.
It's a great place.
But yeah, he definitely has some good building blocks and TK NL Hayes definitely sounds,
if you can bring the flowering time down on it to where it's reasonable from a breeder's
standpoint, definitely sounds interesting.
Hell yeah.
Alrighty, AK Beanbrains, thanks so much for coming on the show and congratulations on
winning the Hottest New Breeder on the Block Award for 2019.
Well, thanks a lot for getting me another shout out here and I'm really shocked and
humbled by the fact that I was given an award like that.
So I appreciate that.
Yeah, no, well deserved, well deserved.
So give us a bit of a rundown.
What has 2019 been like for you?
How would you describe it?
Well, I avoid the crowds like normal and kind of stick to my own thing.
So I just enjoy solidifying some lines and getting them basically back out and shouting
their names out a little bit and letting some of the inexperienced people get a better taste
of what is available in the old heirloom lines.
So I've just been working on that and thinking about that a lot.
Fantastic.
And are there any specific heirloom lines you have in store for 2020?
Well, you struck a hawk chord with me when we were speaking about the old tie and chocolate
ties and I did kind of, I had some seed stock from different various sources and then went
and grabbed a bunch up and I'm going to run pretty good searches on that.
Plus the chocolope I have is in the F4 and I like chocolope a lot.
And then I got Conorado's chocolate tie and NL2 by 5.
He was giving that out as freebies and if anybody slept on that, they're crazy because
it's outstanding.
Good, good chocolate tie, but the NL side is real great too.
But a lot of little things like that and a little bit of 80s chocolate tie that was crossed
to Boggs, Strawberry Kush and I can't imagine some of the flavors.
Excited about crossing the top of the chocolate ties.
I'm going to put it on Lemon Tree and some of the old standby mothers that I have.
Fantastic.
So, how about any collabs for 2020 on the horizon?
You know, I've been playing around a little bit with Professor P from Dynasty.
Me and him get along real good and we both benefit each other on anything that we work on.
So, there's a little bit going on there and he's been good enough to gift me his medical
cuts since I'm really in need of some good medical herb.
And he passed me his Grapefruit Web, which is a 7.5 to 7.5.
It's 4% propane every time and it's like really good smoke.
So, that's one of the things I kind of think is cool that he's done me some favors there.
Kind of working a little bit on an NL revival that is coming up and that's with Mr. Bob
Hemphill and I.
And we have quite a few sources of NL1, NL2.
I don't have much NL2, but a lot of NL5 sources.
A couple NL1 sources.
So, we're going to do a big run out on that.
He's got a bunch of mine and I've got a bunch of his.
So, within the next year, probably this time next year, we'll have some pretty exciting
original old heirloom NL that used to stand in the mid-80s.
Wow.
Sounds like 2020 has got some really exciting releases in store.
Let's wind back though one year.
2019 just wrapped up.
What are you most happy with?
What would you recommend to people?
I've always been big on things that are just super durable, heirloom-ish.
But I love the Freesland that I've worked with.
I love the Durban that I've worked with.
The vintage blueberry.
They'll hold their own against almost any strains, but they'll weather the worst summers
and they'll handle heats and droughts and they're bug resistant.
They're mold and mildew resistant.
So, I really like those and I push those a lot.
But people request them and really want them anyway.
They hit me up and I'm usually not able to keep it made up.
So, that's one thing.
But I'm always loving the TK crosses that I've been working with.
The TK G13, Hashplant, F4 and F5.
I've gotten some really cool phenos out of that.
Loving the old funky G13 that comes out of that.
Even thinking about crossing the airborne G13 from Tommy onto some of these.
And I love that TK N05 Hayes.
It's got a thousand grow reports and people are...
It's not me, but everybody's saying it'll hold its own with the very best real OG
and the top end hitters like Chem B, Chem 91 and Chem 4.
I constantly get a lot of people telling me it's about the best thing they have had.
It's just the fact they haven't had a lot of that in circulation for 20 years
and it's the first time they're coming across it.
So, it's good to hear it and continue with that a little bit.
I've got a bulldog chewing on their Christmas toy.
I kind of figured that was what was happening.
And tugging off a storm too.
I'm not good.
Love it. Okay.
Well, some really good answers in there.
I guess just onto the final part.
Do you have any comments or shout outs you wanted to make just in regards to 2019?
Yeah, I had quite a few people I really wanted to catch at Emerald and I missed the harvest cap.
I didn't get around.
I missed a lot of people.
Friends flew in from all over the place.
I feel bad I never did hook up with about 20 guys.
I did, on the other hand, get a hook up with a lot of friends.
It's great to see them every single year.
It's great to see you.
It's great to see all my West Coast buddies.
I really enjoy getting around.
I just would like to thank everybody that's given me a hand over the year.
A ton of support.
Love the people shouting me out and meeting with me and thanking me for what I've done.
It's just something I've really enjoyed the whole time.
It's really cool to see it come to fruition that people are putting the work out and showing me back the results.
Shout out to my customers and general public.
I really do appreciate it.
Yeah, fantastic.
So again, congratulations on winning Hottest New Breeder on the Block Award.
Thanks so much for coming on the show, aka Bean Brains.
I appreciate it.
Maybe this year you'll be up here and I'll show you around this place.
Love it. Can't wait to go hunting.
Fishing. We can't kill all the stuff.
We can just fish a little bit.
Okay, sounds good.
Up next we're going to do the most anticipated seed drop of 2020.
We actually had a tied first because we had both a tie within the fan selection as well as within my own mind.
I found it very hard to discern the clear winner.
For tied first we have the upcoming Blue Bonnet Lines from Riot Seeds, which sports the Blue Bonnet Male from Texas Resin Company.
This one is essentially a blueberry offering that was more refined by Lone Star to generally attempt to lock down more of the blueberry flavors than DJ's previous work had done.
All of the crosses are looking really nice and exciting.
I'm particularly looking forward to the Blueberry Cross Bubblegum, which is meant to have that really nice blueberry syrup flavor to it.
However, this was tied for equal first place with the one and only Karma, whose new A5 Haze work is looking to take the Haze lovers to the next level.
This is essentially a Northern Lights 5 Haze Cross that comes from original Neville stock from when he was releasing under the seed bank.
As such, it's just the pure old school, super strong, super sativa.
There's going to be crosses with it as well as S1s.
Mr. Beam, what do you think? Blue Bonnet versus A5 Haze, which one are you more excited for?
You locked me in a corner. I got to pick Riot.
Riot is a great breeder and he's always one to give credit.
Like we talked about earlier about Archive being a guy not to take undue credit.
He gives credit to Lone Star, kicks back to Texas for us and company.
It should be really good. I've had a lot of guys hit me up on Instagram and in my chats.
They're like, hey, when are you going to get it?
I definitely think that's a hard choice.
On the other side with Karma, we also carry Karma. Karma is a great guy.
The Hazes, I don't think that this current smoking generation has really had much interaction with the Hazes.
Or as much because they've been, like we discussed with the hype strains.
There's not a hype strain that's a Haze. Not currently.
At least there hasn't been in the hype term that we go to mention.
Hazes could really come and knock people out and it could be very interesting.
For me, it's just getting that flower time down.
I don't know that some of those strains are 12, 14, 13, 15 weeks really are going to make it.
Yeah, it's a really valid point.
I think it's interesting because a lot of the diehard fans who populate places like Instagram
create this environment where it seems like this huge demand and everyone will buy it when it comes out.
And then you hear these breeders talk about how when they invest the time and the energy,
sometimes it doesn't translate in sales.
Yeah, it's true.
And a catchy name and a great picture sell a thousand packs of seeds.
But some guys do put a lot of work into it.
And there's a lot of failure before there is success.
There's a lot of stuff that you don't want to release.
Once you build up your rep, if you release something that's shady, all you're going to do is just kill your rep.
And like I've told my guys, it takes five years to build your rep, five minutes to lose it.
And so they're extra careful as far as testing and putting stuff out.
There are some home runs, but at the same time, every home run, there's a couple strikeouts for sure.
Yeah, of course.
So, I wanted to give some honorable mentions because in this section, we had a large number of people
who started giving some suggestions, basically not for, say, a seed drop of 2020,
but kind of a whole line from a breeder.
And essentially, we got an overwhelming number of mentions for the launch of Crickets and Cicadas,
which is the new seed company from Mr. Bob Hemphill and Hannibal.
And yeah, I definitely want to give them a shout out.
There's a huge number of people who are really excited for these lines to drop.
And they're working with a range of really old school exotic genetics like skunk tangerine.
And I'm not talking about tangerine skunk from Barney's Farm, which is bullshit.
I'm talking about skunk tangerine, which comes from Oregon kids.
And as well as things like Northern Lights and the nice land races from when they were working at Coastal.
So, all of these cool old school stuff getting crossed in new ways to the more modern stuff like Thin Mints
and Urogy Cushes.
And yeah, I think these guys are going to make some really good waves next year.
So, keep an eye out for them.
I think that's a really excellent selection.
Our shout out for sure.
Because I know that they were with Coastal.
I knew that they had moved up west and they had split from Coastal.
You know, cool, everything was good with them.
So, it's nice to hear that they're back out and ready to release some really good stuff.
And shout out again to Oregon Kid.
It's nice to see them breeders give respect to where it comes from and not just trying to rename things and say,
I made this.
Well, no, everybody worked with something.
And so, to hear him give a shout out to Oregon Kid, Ken, that really good dude, did a lot for the scene.
And that's something a lot of people don't see is we'll say shout out to Oregon Kid.
People think, oh, that's a cool guy.
Well, these were guys who did things when they didn't need to do things.
Like who would meet people off the internet.
Like I have a hard time meeting people off the internet to date, you know what I mean?
To do illegal felonies with.
Like I'm going to meet you, I'm going to give you a clone, and if you're a cop, you're going to arrest me.
And so, these guys were out doing the dirty when nobody else would.
And so, it's kind of, you know, they were rebels or looked at poorly in their time period.
But now, you know, shout outs were really counting.
And I think Oregon Kid's got some stuff working in Washington.
But that's nice to see that they're working with his stock.
Yeah, that'll be cool to see some stuff from Oregon Kid as well.
Yeah, Oregon Kid's great.
Like I said, really nice guy.
We've met up with him.
We've had him on a couple shows.
He's a good dude.
He's done a lot for the scene.
You know, he goes unmentioned and isn't making.
You know, a lot of, this green rush.
A lot of people will get, you know, oh, everybody's making thousands and millions of dollars.
Well, these guys didn't.
You know, they didn't.
They're lucky they didn't get five to ten years, you know.
So, it's nice to see if he would be able to capitalize somehow on that and make,
you know, come out with some seeds or some come out with something.
Yeah, of course.
He definitely put the Pacific Northwest on the map for sure.
Oh, yeah.
So, on to the next category.
We have the most impactful seed drop of 2019.
So, this one might have a bit of a surprising answer for some people,
but I'm really confident in it.
I think that the most impactful seed drop 2019 was the Australian Bastard Cannabis from CSI.
What do you think?
Wow.
I think Caleb's a great breeder.
I definitely have enjoyed listening to your podcast with him.
Caleb, the lead breeder for CSI.
I know he has his pirate to the triangle line as well,
but that Australian Bastard Cannabis, of course, it was a shoe-in.
I mean, you're an Australian bastard.
I set you up for that, didn't I?
Yeah, you kind of did.
I think Caleb has been in the scene and a vital part of the scene for a great many years.
He has a great, great library.
So, that's a big award and that's pretty cool.
Yeah.
What did you find familiar with the Australian Bastard, so to say?
Well, I think that's part of what plays into why he won it, is that it's so rare.
Even people in Australia as well-versed with things as like myself or others even more well-versed,
they've never seen it.
So, the fact that he got it successfully, did a repopulation, has got the seeds out to market,
I think that's one of the aspects of why it's so impressive.
But I think the biggest thing for me is that it's not really the seeds themselves, the ABC,
it's the potential that it has to affect future morphology.
Imagine like a cookies BX3 that is everything you want in cookies,
but looks like the ABC and you can grow it in your front yard and no one would ever know.
I think that's where the real value in it lies down the track
and I think he's working towards that type of thing already.
Cool. So, just the whole fact that it was something that could have just gone off
and been lost forever, but instead it was taken by a quality breeder,
repopulated as you say, remixed, fixed, brought back to life and then redistributed to the masses.
So, that's a big circle of life, so to say.
That's really cool.
I definitely see some things in it because I'm not familiar with the Australian Bastard myself,
I know a few, but I'm not familiar with the strain.
So, that'll be very interesting. I'll definitely have to go pick that one up when we leave here.
That sounds interesting for sure.
Yeah, well I mean, to me it kind of tied into the work you guys are doing with Humboldt Seed Co.
and Nate with the Freak Show project.
The Freak Show just went on pre-sale today.
Okay, the Freak Show, it's a different plant, isn't it?
Very, but it's similar to the ABC and it's got that same potential to really disguise things.
And I think that that may be the cool new thing that we're going for,
is how do I put it in plain sight without getting nailed?
Because everybody's doing it these time of days, you know what I mean?
Everybody's growing.
But yeah, the Freak Show is definitely something, it looks like it could be very interesting.
Eric Nugshots did a video of that, and that guy's amazing.
I love that video.
So, we'll see what the Freak Show entails, and I'll definitely go pick up the ABC for sure.
Yeah, lovely.
So, I just want to give a few quick honorable mentions for strain of the year.
These are probably the more conventional ones.
On a technical side, a congrats to, again, Caleb from CSI for doing the TKS1s,
a feat that's never really commercially been done due to how hard the triangle is to actually reverse.
So, congrats.
And we've also got the Sour BX2 from Karma.
A lot of people were really hyped on that.
However, the biggest talking point and the one I want you to talk a little bit about for me is,
we had an overwhelming response from people who said that the most impactful seed drop of this year was Candy Rain.
And I think that really, it just indicated how fresh this is still in people's mind for all the wrong reasons.
800 bucks for breeders that you don't know who didn't do the thing that they told you they did, first of all.
That's like buying a bag of, like, here, smell this bag of weed and buy these seeds for that.
Well, this bag of weed has nothing to do with that box of seeds.
Like, are you selling me the seeds of that weed?
Because it's the classic bait and switch, but on a luxury edition, if you will.
So, what I know about the Candy Rain, I guess one of the sad things is,
last year we did a little cup, kind of, me and Dunn did it in Massachusetts.
People stopped by the booth, they allegedly gave us a gram, we gave them 10% off.
We sampled them all.
One of those samples we got was Candy Rain.
And it was, like, of all the things, it was probably definitely the smallest and maybe not the worst, but it was definitely down there.
It was just so bad.
And what I got notoriously from it was, like, I heard 5 out of 30, like 2 out of 30.
Those were the numbers coming back as far as germination rates.
When anything is that bad.
And then I was talking to Jay Beazy about the whole thing.
And Beazy was like, I had to go and fix it, I had to go do these things.
And he tried to go contact all the people that had bought it and just send them free gear because he felt bad for the Cookies fam.
But, you know, it's hilarious.
It's good that the public got it.
That they understand that, you know, just because it's 800 bucks doesn't make it good.
You know what I mean?
Don't get taken by the hype.
I'm glad I dodged that one with a bullet.
You know, Cookies moving forward, you know, they have a little bit different of a game plan and we'll see how that works out for them.
But, yeah, that's kind of Breeders just proving that they didn't do what they did.
Like how that London Bound gate go.
Yeah, right.
I think the interesting thing about this one is that it technically actually happened in 2018, but it's still so fresh in the mind.
And I think the other thing which leaves it fresh in the mind is the fact that people were waiting for something to be done about the situation in 2019 and that failed to happen.
So, I think that's where it's really kind of rubbed a bit of salt in the wounds.
And, of course, this poll was done before the current drama Cookies are facing which was at the recent Emerald Cup, the prevalence of bud rot or botrytis in the outdoor flower they were selling.
So, it seems like they go from drama to drama.
I didn't hear about this one.
Oh, the tea, I tell you what.
That's very interesting.
That's horrible.
Like as a Breeder or as a solid grower, you would know that and you would see it by trimming and you'd never let that touch your table.
And so that just goes back to the point that they didn't make the cookies because if they did that or they were responsible for that, they never would have let that hit their table.
They would have spotted it way before that and pulled it and seen it before anybody saw it and blasted it in some high-priced oil that they sold you because nobody had mold or botrytis anymore.
We just have a lot of oil these days.
So, that's horrible.
Being on the West Coast, I'm very familiar with that and that is horrible that whatever they were selling had that on it.
Not only did they have it tested but to have let that go and let them sell that, especially at their prices, oh, my gosh.
They've got great marketing people.
I'll give them that.
That's one thing they've got down pat.
But on that same topic, you fit that category in my opinion.
So, from your point of view, from CT&L's point of view, what was the most impactful seed drop for you guys?
I can't pick my favorite child.
You know what I mean?
I have a lot of good children.
They all do different work and unique work.
I'm just happy to get the gear that I get from them and be able to make it to the public.
Any honorable shout-outs?
I know that you mentioned earlier in the year to me that you were thinking about maybe the strawberry and cream drop from Exotic as one contender.
So, that's comparing apples to oranges, so to say.
Exotic is in a different category, so to say.
I don't know.
He's crushing it.
He just crushes it for now.
For people who are looking for that, for what…
So, if each breeder did this, if this stuff that we're talking about, if this was just done out of a book that you could read, I wouldn't need 50 different breeders.
I'd have one because you would be doing it by the numbers and it would be science.
Each breeder is unique and different.
They all look for different things.
Exotic, what he goes for and his clientele that they go for and what they're excited about are rock-hard, frosty nugs.
He hits it out of the park every single time, it seems, as far as his releases go.
He doesn't hit it out of the park every single time.
Some of these strains never make it to market.
He'll dispose of them before they even see the light of day.
But the stuff he's been releasing just crushes it.
He's doing a fem line right now.
We'll have that drop on New Year's Eve.
He's got six different strains of the Grease Monkey Femmes.
Those should…
Those crushed at Emerald Cup, he said he sold out of most of his regular stock, 80% of his regular stock in the first hour at Emerald Cup.
I told him, I said, what are you doing?
I said, you left gear at home?
He's like, I didn't expect it.
But no, Exotic, he's a different world.
Some of the newer guys we had, we released this year, the Irie Genetics, Jeff, we started working with him.
His drops was really good.
We added him to the bank.
He's had a really good uptake this year.
We added him to Muerta at the end of the year.
He's got a really good following and really good gear.
He's definitely worked these lines and has had some good strains.
Dunloud, they released their recent collab.
Microtech had a good release.
DJ Short released his Breeder series.
So there's just a lot.
I can't pick one over the other.
Each Breeder is releasing just about two or three times a year now.
They've gotten it so up to a point.
When a Breeder really holds back and does something out of the ordinary, I think that's when it'll get truly to that unique area.
But right now, everybody's doing two or three times a year.
Depending on the customer, what you're looking for, you're going to have a different Breeder that did it for you this year.
If you're a guy that likes Sativas or Line Races, then so-and-so did it for you this year.
And he wouldn't be going for Xotic because that would be the opposite of what you want.
It's like when you put Xotic and DJ Short on the same panel, it's just so night and day.
DJ Short wants big, leafy, larvated buds because that's what makes the best hash, which it does.
Xotic wants frosty, hard nugs because that's what flowers the best.
He likes to smoke because he does.
So depending on their viewpoint, you're going to have a different guy that's your Breeder.
Nice try, but I'm not picking one.
Brilliant, brilliant diplomatic answer.
So that brings us to the big final category for this year, the Breeder of the Year Award.
So for 2019, Breeder of the Year, not too surprising, goes to Caleb of CSI.
He's had an absolutely huge year with...
I'm about to just start rattling off a list that's going to sound endless, but the Skittles S1s, the TKS1s, Trainwreck S1s, and Cheese S1s in the works.
All the hybrids with all of those to things like Girl Scouts to OG Kush.
He does huge 80 to 100 plant pheno hunts of his own work, finds the keepers and then breeds with those keepers.
He's done Durban Poison S1s, Cali Orange S1s, Bubblegum S1s, Old Family Purple S2s, as well as his Pirates of the Emerald Triangle, which is a lot more regular based work.
So he's done an extremely large amount of preservation work.
He's done some technical feats, which was the Triangle Kush S1s, as well as taking out the most impactful strain with the ABC.
It's fairly undeniable he's been on fire this year.
Well, I'll say you can't cut me with my pants down, to be honest, buddy.
But we have Caleb on the bank.
Like I said earlier, I think he's an awesome breeder.
And I think I've been sleeping on him, unfortunately.
I've been doing my customers maybe a little disservice.
I don't know that we had or we got most of those drops, unfortunately.
And so I think I'll be giving a call to Caleb as soon as we get CSI, as soon as we're done with his chat and restocking all those items.
Yeah, that's a list.
I mean, you just named them all.
You riled them all off.
And I was just like, I don't think I got that one.
I don't think I got that one.
So he was right underneath my nose.
I didn't even see it.
Sometimes when you're looking, it goes the same with seeds.
Sometimes when you're looking for the Babe Ruth, you had the one you wanted right underneath your nose the whole time.
So that's really awesome.
And that's because, yeah, that's a technical thing, that TK S1 is a pain, I've heard, if not impossible.
So, yeah, I will definitely have to go check out all of his work.
And that's pretty awesome to hear.
Yeah, it's a big, big shout out to Caleb and Props for all the work this year.
But, you know, obviously, there's a lot of honorable mentions for some other breeders we should give shout outs to.
And so, the kind of the other two who I think have had really big years I wanted to give a shout out to was obviously Capulator.
He's come out with his Caps Frozen Lemons, the Freezer Burn Crosses, and the New Miracle Crosses in the works.
So he's had a pretty big year, both in terms of what he's been doing and commercially.
He's been crushing it as well as the Mac 1 doing very well for itself.
The other big shout out we want to give to is to Duke.
You know, we've seen a lot of the Granny Skunk lines really come to fruition within public gardens.
And we're seeing some incredible keepers come out of the work.
Most notably, I've seen some extremely fine examples of the 6 Million and the Stash Plant.
So, yeah, two really big notable shout outs.
And in terms of the fan polls, we got a lot of people chiming in saying that they really thought Tricomb Jungle's had a good year.
So, shout out to him.
He had some nice work with his Lilt as well as his Cherry Spice lines.
And finally, an honorable mention to Karma for his Sour BX2s as well as some collabs and some future work which people are excited for.
That's really awesome.
That sounds like a very, very diverse list of definitely some big hitters.
To our buddy Duke Diminion, or Duke Diamond.
Diminion may be not breeding anymore.
So if you can pick up his packs, definitely lock those packs down.
I don't know that he said in his Insta's what not, and he told me that he might be putting some stuff in retirement after the first of the year.
So, that being said, great pick.
And definitely, Caleb winning and being in that field of breeders that you just mentioned.
You thanked Caleb for everything that he's done this past year.
I thank him for it.
We go back and thank Caleb for everything he's done over the past years.
You don't just come out of the closet, unfortunately, or don't just come out of the grow room, so to say, and become Breeder of the Year, have Release of the Year.
That's a lot of work there which people don't realize.
We say a lot of this stuff is bag seed, and a lot of it is.
There's also a lot of good work being done.
I think that Caleb, over the years, has preserved these items, has kept these things, worked these things, had a passion for it.
A little weird curiosity that he's put, that he's obviously made very popular and very good.
I'm definitely excited to pick up those new lines, and I'll have to go check those out.
That says a lot for CSI Humboldt, though.
Yeah, he's had a killer year.
Yeah, and was he Inspector? What was his online handle?
Yeah, Inspector.
Yeah, so he's Inspector.
That guy's been on the forums for years and years and years, and you don't just do that stuff overnight.
So, that's obviously a great 2019 for him.
Perfect, yeah.
So, a big congratulations to everyone who won an award or got a shout-out this year.
For sure.
We had a come-on?
Yeah, you had a come-on.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So, let's skip. So, how was your, speaking of Mr. Bob Hemphill and moving up north, how was your trip to Emerald Cup?
Yeah, it was an interesting one.
Yeah, I think it's on the way out.
There was far less big marquee tents holding stalls.
There was a really small number of familiar faces.
I felt like I didn't recognize any of the people running the booths.
There were big corporate companies.
I actually saw one of the girls who was working one of the booths on a Greyhound bus a week earlier.
I was catching a Greyhound down.
And so, it just all clicked for me.
It's like, wow, they're shipping trimmers in from Northern Humboldt to run these corporate booth stands.
And it's just trash.
It's just fucking trash.
There was a few companies who were trying to do good stuff.
I don't want to name names because...
But basically, yeah, it was weird.
There was the Cookies tent.
There was probably about 10 breeders in total at the whole venue.
It was crazy.
And some of them weren't even selling seeds.
The big names were selling seeds like Capulet, Swamp Boys, Exotic Mike.
Those guys are always going to draw a big crowd and do well.
But a lot of smaller guys just weren't represented at all.
And it just didn't feel like the normal Emerald Cup.
Have you heard anything about it?
That's hard to hear from you.
Because definitely you've been there a couple of times.
But to hear that it's gotten so corporate from a guy who's been, I don't know how many times you've been, three, four times?
Four times.
It's got to break your heart seeing it go downhill so quick.
Because I'm sure I can feel it.
When I first met you, I believe, you turn around, there was Bodhi.
You turn around, there was Homegrown Natural Wonders.
Or there was Abedan or Mojave.
Or somebody, Bubba or Josh D.
I had a feeling last year it was getting there.
And this year they were not wonderful to me either.
I should always watch what I say.
But they kind of left us hanging last year.
And this year we didn't give them the chance.
We decided we're going to sit it out.
We didn't want the corporate feeling.
So instead we did what was called the Digital Cup.
All the breeders that couldn't go to the Emerald Cup, they did their release with us on the Digital Cup.
And so we had a Fishing Auto do a release.
Seattle Chronic Seeds do a release.
A couple other.
Duke Diamond.
Duke Diamond did a release, yep.
And then we did panels as well.
So we had panels on our forum where they called in.
Dunn was the moderator.
Had Kaia from Pacific Northwest Roots, Bog, Duke called in, J.D. Short, Chris from Seattle Chronic.
So those are all in the forums on Seacher now.
It was kind of cool.
You could just sit from the comfort of your couch and order the gear, get the drop, watch a panel, not have to wait in line, not pay $150, not get rained on.
So.
Yeah.
Do you think the Digital Cups are going to be something going forward or do you just think people will just find other events that have got more applicable kind of rules and regulations that are, you know, a good environment?
On that, honestly, I don't know.
Our Digital Cup, we had three categories.
We had the best picture, you know, grow out our gear, send us the best picture, and we'll choose and you'll get a nice pack.
You win a very nice prize.
Second thing we had, you know, pimp the merchandise category where, you know, pick your – you send us images or logos or something.
Think of Seacher now, what comes to mind.
If we pick your design and use it on T-shirts, it'll give you a nice prize.
Then we had another category as well.
You have to edit that because I'm stoned.
I forgot what the last category was.
So we had three categories, which you could enter in and then people would win different prizes and whatnot.
But I definitely think it will have – we're going to keep doing it.
We had a great success with it.
We did great in sales.
And so not every breeder can afford $5,000 to $10,000 or is licensed and can't get a booth at Thermo Cup.
But yet they all have their strains that they've been working on all summer.
And so we're just giving them an outlet to sell it on the website.
Yeah, okay.
That's exciting.
Yeah, I was pretty thrilled.
We had over 5,000 photos submitted in three days.
So it's pretty awesome.
Yeah, I'm excited to see that and especially because that's one of the incentives about getting down to these events is good sales.
There's a lot of good information to pick up.
And I think that that's really what draws people to the events more than maybe the music or the other things, which the Emerald Cup seems to think is the draw card.
And that's an excellent observation because I've thought that as well.
I mean you guys are putting way too much emphasis on your music draw and you should be putting it on your information and your education and your people draw.
But they do what they do and they'll come with it.
As far as your last question goes, as far as what we'll see and what the new thing will be, I don't know.
What I do know is that it seems that rec kills shows.
That's it.
Washington used to have shows, had High Times Cups, had this, had that.
Rec passed, no public consumption, killed Washington for shows.
Portland passed, rec.
Had used to have shows there, High Times there, same thing.
Rec passed, killed shows.
Once rec passes, if you consume in public or you sell things without paying your taxes on it, the state is right there to watch you and they'll shut you down.
And so I'll bet there's probably at least 50 to 100 regulators there at Emerald Cup probably watching.
That's why you didn't see a lot of seed companies selling because they didn't have the correct permits or licenses needed.
And so I don't know that California will, California in whole, not just Emerald Cup, but I don't know that California in whole will come back and have what we saw as festivals back in the day.
And I don't know moving forward that the rest of the country that unfortunately the West Coast hasn't killed it for you.
Because it seems like these states as they pass, they go quicker.
Like they're quicker with the regulations.
Right out of the gate, they're doing this, they're doing this, they're regulating how much electricity you can use and how much square footage.
And it's like, wait a minute, it took Oregon like three years to figure that out and you guys are coming out the gate with it.
And so I think that just to the bigger thing, I think what festivals are left and cannabis events that there are that are consumption, that have public consumption are definitely numbered.
And I think their days are numbered, they're on the way out.
But we still don't see a public consumption bill in the states where people can go and consume in public.
Like even the states that have been passed the longest, five and seven years, still do not have public consumption.
You can drink alcohol and do it at a bar, but you can't smoke in public.
Yeah, it's interesting the kind of inequity of it all.
Yeah, rec kills parties, it's always true.
They say rec won't kill medical, they're lying.
Yeah.
I say rec won't kill parties, they're lying.
Yeah, definitely a clear observation from California's experiment.
Yeah, and I know their taxes were insane.
When I was there last year, I paid like almost 30% tax on everything.
And so I'm sure it wasn't much less.
Yeah.
But so what else did you do while you were at the Emerald Cup?
I did some recordings, got some cool content recorded, which will hopefully be able to air soon.
I got a cool one hour video recording of Mean Gene, myself and Mr. Bob Hemphill, just talking about some old school strains at Mean Gene's place.
And it's a pretty wild video.
I think the real strain heads will really get a kick out of it.
So that one will be a CTNL exclusive.
Wow.
So you can tell me about that.
You got me super excited.
I mean, those guys are, Hemphill has some knowledge.
Mean Gene is, you know, I think that guy pops more seeds than anybody I know.
So that would be definitely very, very interesting.
And yourself, you've got to be one of the most educated guys I know in cannabis as far as histories and stories and know what comes from where and access to things.
And so that would be very, very interesting.
I'm waiting to hear that.
So what can we expect out of the podcast in 2020?
Yeah, good question.
I think I'm going to focus on trying to do a bit more video content where possible.
Obviously, geography can make that hard at times.
But for a long time, we've been trying to line up some big names together, you and I.
And I think that we're at that point of being able to clinch a lot of them.
So I'm hoping for 2020 to be the year where we kind of take things overboard.
And I think we've been making some good progress on that.
Hopefully, the fans can have something to look forward to and get a bit more of a behind-the-scene look at some of the really big-name breeders who have really put a lot of effort and contributed a lot to the scene.
Definitely.
And I think that with that just comes, you know, with time.
I think that I know that a lot of these breeders have maybe mentioned to me, you know, how long that Laos can stand for.
And they don't want to – and I'm not going to be public.
I've been doing this thing for the last seven years.
I was doing this for five years ago.
It's like – so far, statute of limitations.
As far as – I know that statute of limitations is running out.
And I know that some people have expressed concerns about I am not going to go up there and admit who I am when they still have the statute of limitations on me.
They can still convict me for shit I did five years ago.
So I think that now we're so far in the legalization that these guys can start to come out and they believe that we're legal a little bit more.
They're not just – you know, they're not so quick to jump on the train of belief that everybody else is.
And so they might be coming to light more and say, yeah, I did this and I was the guy responsible for this and that.
So hopefully we can definitely see more of that next year.
Yeah, God.
If some of these people want to come out of the shadows and kind of let us know what they're responsible for, that would be amazing.
Yeah.
And I think that goes to – you know, a lot of the guys are still in the shadows because they're still in the shadows.
You know, they had to be.
Like if you were the guy who was making the most noise on the block and driving a shiny car and wearing too much gold, you're the guy going down.
You know, you're the guy the cops are going to look at.
And so they made it to where they are believing that that's how they had to operate.
And so now they're not going to be the quickest ones to switch over and say, okay, sure, it's legal.
I'm going to come out and say I did that just so I can get busted.
Jerks, idiots, you know.
So they're smart and they're not quick to jump on things.
And I think I see more and more of them believing that, hey, it's a real thing and it's people else.
Other people are making money on it.
I might as well come out and get some too.
Yeah, and so they should.
Yeah, definitely.
Definitely some of these guys deserve it.
But yeah, it should be definitely interesting for 2020.
And how are the laws in Australia coming along?
How are we this year compared to last year, speaking of awards?
Anybody in Australia doing good things for good people?
You know what?
I heard a good analogy when I was in the States, which is that Australia is about 40 years behind the States.
So if you think about what things were like in the late 80s in the States, that's about where it's like.
So we don't have a real medical scene.
It's medical by name, but it's essentially a system designed to keep you from actually getting any medical cannabis.
It was introduced by the conservative government.
So of course there was going to be something up about it.
Like, why are they legalizing cannabis?
That's not their card.
It was their jangle.
Yeah, so what they did was they figured it out.
Like, they thought, well, legalize cannabis, we'll win over all the young voters who aren't conservative.
But in reality, we're not actually going to legalize cannabis.
It's just going to be legal in name.
So they didn't actually piss the older conservatives off, but they won over the young vote until the next election when people realized what it was.
So to be honest, I'm not holding my breath for anything legally groundbreaking to change.
But hopefully if the Labor government, which is a lot more progressive, if they get in power, hopefully something will happen.
But in terms of who's doing good things, like the states, like we were talking about with Oregon Kid, there are some people who are just doing things at their own risk and just trying to help progress the scene in little ways.
And shout out to all the homies around Australia who are doing their best to phenohunt and to keep cuts and to share cuts around with their mates and whatnot.
Because to me, that's what is driving the scene at the moment, because it feels like we're at a bit of a political standstill.
So while politically things are a little slow, we can still progress the scene ourselves and do what you guys did.
Find good strands, grow good weed, get it out to the people.
I think a lot of what pushed the states over as far as that goes, and I hate to say it, but we passed cannabis on the backs of children, essentially.
I think that CBD and the discovery of it, but the science of it all, and the medical benefits clearly from CBD, although it's still a Schedule 1 narcotic.
Cannabis has this weird component called CBD that has made it medically viable.
I think the belief of that and just the science behind it and how it's used.
I can't go into a store these days without seeing hemp infused, CBD infused, da da da da da da da.
And so I think that really helped push the whole cannabis as a plant over the top.
That there was a medical viability behind it, and maybe the government did lie to you for a long time.
So hopefully, I'm not saying hopefully, but maybe that may come to Australia to help them pass it quicker.
Because there's some serious, you know, CBG we know works as a great component.
CBN we now know is like the night night as far as hemp goes.
And so hemp and CBD and whatnot have a big value as a whole industry on their own and millions of dollars.
And so maybe that help Australia see the light of day or so to say.
Yeah, fingers crossed.
We already see a little bit of it, but yeah, hopefully it gets over the line.
Cool.
I appreciate you having me on.
It was interesting to listen to your selection.
Of course, I had nothing to do with them.
You already picked them all.
But I think they definitely hit the nail on the head.
And once again, I applaud your podcast.
I love listening to it.
Thank you for letting me be a sponsor of it.
You definitely go out of the way to ask the questions that nobody asks.
And you just did a podcast with True Cannibalists.
We're going to be adding him next year.
I love that guy.
Thank you for doing that.
Great year, great shows.
And all you listeners, I really appreciate it.
Yeah, no, thank you for supporting us.
You guys are number one in the game, and that's why we love having you on board the team.
And really appreciate everything you do and everything you do for the wider community.
There's a lot of people who take for granted how wide your shipping service is.
And I know that there's some people who wish you ship to where they live.
And I think that maybe there's some things in the back end of that happening.
So soon enough, we can have everyone pleased.
So as far as I know, we have a whole new website that I've spoken about in the past that's been designed, finished, and up and running.
So definitely go check out the whole new website.
We've got a whole new shipping methods.
We now offer a discreet shipping method.
We also offer a flying monkeys option.
So I believe we've got six total shipping options, international, next day, overnight, all those good things.
We also have a 100% guarantee.
We've also added free shipping for all orders over 300 bucks, as well as a rewards program.
So everything you buy, you get 10% back on to use on a purchase.
So all those are all new for the upcoming year.
But here's to 2020, and thanks for letting us be a part of it.
And here's to a lot of good mortgage shows.
Touche.
There you have it, my friends.
The Breeder Awards 2019, the podcast.
What did you think?
Do you agree?
Do you disagree?
If so, tell me why.
I'll tell you why you're wrong.
I'm just kidding.
I won't tell you.
You'll just have to know inside I don't agree.
There's definitely some close calls though, right?
However, only the cream rises to the top.
Big shout out to everyone who got an honorable mention, and of course, the winners.
Likewise, a big, big thank you to Mr. James Bean for taking the time to join us to run down the list of the best in the biz for the past year.
And a big shout out to Mr. AK Beanbrains for stopping by and giving us his thoughts on his award.
As always, big thank you to our sponsors, CT&R, Radio Ridge, Best in the Business.
Likewise, Patreon Gang, we appreciate you so much.
We couldn't do this without you.
Finally, Top Shelf Seedbank, Dragonflower Earth Medicine, Organic Gardening Solutions.
We love you guys.
Hope you're all ready for some more content.
I'll see you in the next one.
I'll see you.
Outro Music
