Hello and welcome to the next episode of the podcast, a cannabis podcast for budding enthusiasts.
Big shout outs to our sponsors, 420 Australia, your number one store for lifestyle and apparel,
Organic Gardening Solutions, the one pit stop for all your organic needs, and finally Seeds
Here Now.
You know them, you love them, guarantee on satisfaction, not just germination.
On this episode, we're joined by one of the biggest names for me.
I've been gunning this one down forever, you know.
DJ Short.
Prepare for three hours of some serious knowledge.
Let's get into it.
Alrighty, so a big thank you and welcome to a man who needs little introduction, the blue
strain himself, DJ Short.
Thank you so much for joining us.
Thank you for having me.
Hello.
So, first question we've been starting the show off with recently.
What have you been smoking on recently?
Oh goodness.
I've had some R&D things.
Their labels to me are FX1, FX3, FX4, and there's a new variety tentatively named Happy
Pussy.
That's actually its name, the mother, and it's the offspring of that, which I think
I'll be calling New Dawn.
I like it a lot.
The reason I'm calling it, it's called Happy Pussy, the mother, is because it makes you
purr.
It's definitely a feline reference, and I know that there are other connotations to
the term, and it's a bit controversial, and I just decided to go forward with it anyhow.
The release, the first release, will have a different name, but in the lineage will
be the mother is Happy Pussy and the father is the F4 Blueberry Dad.
So she'll get introduced that way, but that's her story.
The label I have in mind is the Cheshire Cat grinning, Happy Pussy on top.
It makes you purr underneath, and then what were you thinking?
It gets a lot of reaction, so why not?
P.T.
Barnum knew about advertising.
Yeah, the marketing twist.
I think what's most interesting about all that is, I think your son JD maybe posted
a photo of that FX1 not just even an hour or two ago I was looking at it.
That's an interesting one, because we've got a lot of people who are really interested
in your new coming lines.
What made you use that terminology?
Like the FX1, what does that stand for exactly?
Is it just kind of arbitrary or does it mean something?
Yeah, it was from a past labeling, much of which was experimental and works in progress.
F was usually floral, X referred to high resin content, and it just happened to be part of
its label.
There was more to it than that, but for simplicity's sake, that's what these particular plants
got labeled.
For example, the Happy Pussies label was 1-7.
There's two more numbers on that, but 1-7 is the main envelope I keep going to.
That was their initial labeling and name as they produce, as I'm able to sample the various
things then they develop a name.
For example, the FX1 I'm wanting to call Newberry.
I like this strain a lot too.
It's very anti-anxiety.
The mother on that one is Blue Heaven, or a new version, same parent stock that the
original Blue Heaven came from.
Just found another one, and it's wonderful.
Anti-anxiety, it's very pleasant, comfortable, functional smoke, very potent, but clear-headed.
Certain med people that have very serious debilitations are really liking this strain
because it makes them feel more comfortable in their bodies.
That's what I was shooting for, and success so far so good.
That's exciting to hear because I think Blue Heaven and the offspring of that have been
some of the most sought-after things from the research I've done.
Before we get into that, I'd love for you to take me back.
What was your first experience with cannabis?
Oh, God.
We're going way back.
Very early 70s, 1971, basically.
The first few times I smoked, nothing happened.
That was kind of the case for most people back in the day.
It took me six tries before I finally had my experience.
That was with a variety, I remember it well, it was called Mexican Flower Top.
It was basic commercial sativa running around at the time.
Decent quality, more buds.
One of the myths about the great sativa of yore, well, not myths, but truth in advertising
and just to get the whole story, most of it was bunk.
The huge loads of it that came in, in hundred-ton loads, we called it dirt weed.
Then the smaller loads that came from smaller importers, people like the Brotherhood of
Eternal Love and similar organizations, focused by far more on quality.
Smaller quantities, maybe 10 tons at the most, whereas the larger sativa loads back in the
day were 100 tons.
The attention to detail and quality wasn't always up to par on most of that variety.
Once you had your connections established, it was relatively simple at certain times
to find much better quality over others.
That Mexican Flower Top, it was just very interesting, very visual, quite dissociative,
time distorting, colorful, and most enjoyable.
Again, I was all of 14 years old at the time, but had many revelations, epiphany on that
particular day.
Wow.
I think that's kind of the experience all of us are hoping for.
In regards to the bowl stock, the Brotherhood of Eternal Love, it's interesting you mention
that because it seems as though as we've done more and more shows, they keep coming up as
a constant reference.
A lot of people say that if they could pick any stock from throughout history, if they
could get their hands on some bowl stock, that's kind of what they'd be thinking.
Did you ever, I think you kind of alluded that that Mexican stuff came possibly through
those links, did you ever find any seeds or was it not like that?
Because I think a lot of people think that the weed would have had seeds in it.
Sure, sure.
Going way back, it's kind of hard to decipher that far back.
Once, in 72, 73, and I was really purchasing herb on a regular basis, establishing my own
networks, yeah, I mean, you go with what you appreciate the most, and working with some
of these groups back in the day, that was just the overall feeling.
And if your appreciation was sensed, that kind of put your place in the network of things.
One of the things I used to do way back when was whenever I would get a hold of something
that was, in my opinion, quite superior, I would practice extreme discipline and always
hold on to some.
And for whatever occasion in the future, be it a party, at a festival or something,
and meet someone else who has something of equal interest, it was very beneficial to
then go, oh, well, hey, I've got some of this.
And that connection right there, I think, did more to further my place in that food
chain than probably anything else, because then you have a rapport.
And then when that person, and particularly if they're a dealer, runs into something of
quality, they want to impress you because you impress them.
So you're on the list then, so to speak.
And it worked out well.
And I should mention, too, there's a lot of talk, the Brotherhood of Eternal Love, yes,
they were a group that was more out there.
They were outspoken as to who they were.
But there were many such organizations.
And many were loosely affiliated to one another.
That whole distribution chain, just like any, is a fascinating subject in and of itself.
Yeah, wow.
So I think the thing which grabs my curiosity the most out of all of what you said is, I
think a lot of people, off the top of their head, would say that, you know, in their minds,
you climbed that hierarchy, that food chain pretty quickly, because a lot of people can
think back to hearing you as kind of like a leader figure in the very early days.
And so I guess what I'm interested in is, in your opinion, how long did it take before
you felt like you were starting to get somewhere in the community and you could start to kind
of pull some strings and have a bit of influence?
Yeah, given the political climate here in the States, you know, I mean, I love to brag,
I survived Nixon, Reagan, Bush 1, Bush 2.
We should start an organization, we have a veteran of foreign wars, VFW, I've always
thought, let's start a veteran of domestic wars that many of us endured as well.
It was laying low all the way up until the early 90s.
I went to Amsterdam for my first time in 93 in an attempt to connect there, kind of haphazardly
did, didn't get a ball rolling there until the mid-90s, late 90s, really, things started
to take off for me.
I can say in retrospect that I knew these days were coming back in the early 80s.
I began my breeding work in earnest about 1978, 79 after moving to Eugene, Oregon from
the Detroit, Michigan area.
And it just blossomed from there.
So you know, as far as breed work, that would have been 78, 79, as far as really introducing
into the community, not really until the late 90s.
I did an article for High Times, I think the first reference to the name DJ Short, I think
it was 98, 1998, that article came out.
Wow.
But, I mean, I certainly think I've found some references before that just from people,
for example, in the Oregon area who you'd given clones to, because...
Oh.
Yeah, so that's an interesting one I wanted to talk about, because, you know, I mean,
we're probably gonna end up having to go back here, but something I really always admired
about you specifically was that there seemed to be, at least from what I could gather,
you were willing to give out, you know, some cuts to people.
And the more I trace it back, the more I think that really helped progress the scene in a
lot of ways.
Did you give out your early blueberry cuts knowing that it would be so beneficial and
have the effects it has, or was it more of just like you're just helping people out?
Yeah, again, it's the family mentality, the brotherhood, the Grateful Dead, really.
I mean, the mantra is share the love and spread the love.
And I had no problem ever doing that, because by the time I had something in clone form,
I already had seed stock that was, you know, the next level to work on.
And to me, it was a benefit to get those things out there, but then I didn't have to worry
about that anymore.
And I did, I sold a lot of clones, gave away clones, traded and sold many from 1978 until
1987.
I know a lot of those went down to Northern California, too.
That early version of blueberry, incidentally, it was an auto flower, but it majorly produced,
and people really liked it.
Its name wasn't blueberry back in the 80s.
Its name back in the 80s, the primary name was The Kind.
And the way that worked is, you know, all of us in the industry were working on various
things and those various things, of course, you know, to pay the bills, you have to sell
a lot of these things, some being better than others.
You learn from your clientele when they come back and they go, no, no, no, man, what you
had last week, The Kind, man, The Kind.
And it was easy to dial in from that point, getting feedback from people.
I did a lot of interesting things.
There was a band in Eugene I used to go see on a regular basis called The Outtakes.
The lead guy in it, his name is Steve Eibach, he's still playing today in Eugene.
Don't miss this.
Every Tuesday at Mulligan's Pub, if you are in Eugene, Oregon, go see Steve Eibach.
It's free.
He's a one-man psychedelic jam band.
At any rate, I would go to these shows in the 80s and I'd have these various types of
pot with me or bring one at a time, but try different ones.
And during the break, during the, you know, in between sets, take the band out and get
them stoned and then come back and see.
The second set, you know, it was always better.
I rarely, you know, experimented with things.
I only did that type of experimentation with things that I was pretty certain would, you
know, fit the bill.
And they did.
And Steve remembers this.
I've known him for almost 40 years now and he's in his mid-60s.
Like I said, if you're in Eugene, Mulligan's Pub, Tuesdays, Steve Eibach, you won't regret
it.
I remember that too, I-B-A-C-H and a treasure, an absolute musical treasure.
So yeah, it was those kinds of things, seeing how you can influence a party, show up at
a party, break something out.
The party's kind of dead when you get there and an hour or two later, it's like, whoa,
that did something.
But always it's the, you know, people ask me how do I judge herb or I should say, yeah,
how do I judge herb?
Primarily by the effect of the finished product.
So many people I see, one of the big mistakes that I witness contemporary breeders today
and growers is they fall in love with the plant and the structure of it and the smell
of it and you've got to wait and see how that thing performs, how it smokes, how it
feels in my body and over a period of time.
So yeah, it takes a bit of time to determine the burnout factor and those types of things.
But that to me is how I, the primary means I judge herb is by smoking the finished product
and paying attention and taking notes.
Yeah, hey man, the amount of people who I've spoken to who say that that's their opinion
and they got it straight from you, it's like, it's kind of a bit mind blowing.
But let's just take a step back.
So you mentioned you started growing.
What I would love to know is when did you decide to start breeding and how did you acquire
the initial stock to do so?
From the get go, I mean, I wanted to grow and breed from the time I was a teenager.
And there were seeds and everything back then, those major, those big boatloads of the Colombian
bunkweed and various Mexican bunkweeds that were in such mass quantity, for some reason,
I don't know if it was pressure, heat, steam, whatever they did to it, they wouldn't sprout.
Either that or we were completely inept, couldn't figure it out.
Things like where we would smoke out by the patio, you would notice one spring that a
plant came up between the cracks in the patio blocks and you'd get a little spoon and dig
it up and put it in a cup and stick it somewhere and try to get it going.
It was then from there, a desk lamp, one of those, just a lamp on the desk, put the little
plant in the cup.
I finally, it was in 1977, I have photos of these plants actually that were finally
getting to sprout as well.
I had a story in my book about not being able to sprout.
It was finally some Hawaiian and this little toy that came within a cereal box that was
a seed sprouter, a little plastic dome with a piece of sponge in the bottom of it.
I wet that thing and put a whole bud in there and a whole bunch of roots shot out and it's,
oh, here we go.
Planted a bunch of those, put them under the desk lamp.
I finally got a four foot set of fluorescent lights, hung them at the foot of my bed.
Mind you, in this day, there wasn't any place you could go and buy pots and dirt.
It just wasn't there, you know, it didn't exist back in the day.
And I had to modify waste baskets.
I got metal waste baskets, used an old pop can opener along the bottom to do drainage,
got gravel out of my driveway for the drainage in the bottom and dirt from the backyard.
That's how that went.
Put these plants under these lights, no timing on it, had no idea what flowering cycle was.
They grew six feet tall, lanky sativa.
And it wasn't until that I moved to Oregon and it was in that interim that I had learned,
you know, read Mel Frank's books and Ed Rosenthal and a few others of the time and had it figured
out, oh, dark cycle, light cycle, okay.
Had a little duplex I lived at in Eugene, set up a bathroom and a bedroom, fluorescent
lights again, this was before metal highlights, and just went nutty.
By then, there were places in Eugene to get soil, but it was bulk.
It was like from Rexius.
So I'd have to line the trunk of my old Chevy with plastic and go down to the Rexius place
and they would load it in with a front loader in the back of my car.
Shortly thereafter though, I mean, it started picking up.
This is 78, the highlights, metal highlights, HID lighting showed up.
79, they were really commercially available.
And then there was soils and fertilizers and pots and those various things that agribusiness
already had, which then got distributed to our community and things started taking off.
It was very successful for a lot of people throughout the 80s due to, you know, the political
climate was so oppressive.
The risk was very great if you got caught.
But it was relatively simple to circumvent those problems and be successful.
Luck had something to do with it, I'm sure.
But yeah, so it was about 80, 81, things really went boom.
You know, High Times was advertising the various grow systems and things, and the Indica genes
had shown up.
Okay.
And so, one of the questions that was sent in a few times by the guests was, they were
wondering if you could give us a little information on how you initially came by the Oregon Purple
Tide.
Yeah, well, I was growing out these sativa, doing selections from them.
Had my hands in a number of projects.
I was helping various people set up their grows, doing some outdoor things in the woods.
Had a nice selection to witness.
Made my selections, one of which was the Highland Tide, which was the Juicy Fruit.
The other two were the Chocolate Tide and the Oaxacan, both of which I liked a lot,
even when I was growing in Oregon.
You know, I'm not talking even about the land-raised stock that it came from, but the grown-out
stock in Oregon.
The both, well, no, the Oaxacan was well-behaved.
It was a very symmetric plant.
She didn't misbehave too terribly in terms of hermaphroditism.
And the Chocolate Tide on the other was the exact opposite.
It was just a different meristem every week.
She grew all over the place.
Totally hermaphroditic.
In clusters, though, that were somewhat easy to deal with.
And it just so happened that I had a whole bunch of Oaxacan pollen.
Had done an indoor harvest on that while the outdoor was flowering and applied that to
this Chocolate Tide plant, which then became the Oregon Purple Tide.
That was 1979 that that was done.
It was 1980 that the Oregon Purple Tide was first grown out.
A lot of clones of that went out as well.
And it was working with the Indica at that time, too, is when that showed up.
But yeah, that's the Purple Tide.
When I grew her out, most of the phenotype from her were workable.
They passed the muster.
And so I got a good clone stock of her going.
I have a picture of her as well, but only in vegetative state outdoors.
Again, there's not many photos.
There wasn't digital photography back in that day.
Most of my photos are from Polaroids that a friend of mine would have a Polaroid and
I'd have enough money to buy a pack of film and have them come over and still have that
evidence.
Yeah, those Polaroids are seriously some of the most cool little strain history stuff
we can get.
So, something I did want to ask, you kind of answered it, is I've seen a few people,
very limited.
I think Snow High is the one who comes to mind.
And he breeds with the Oregon Purple Tide.
So yeah, I wanted to ask, is it still out there?
You kind of answered that.
You know, good question.
The name got its place, has its hype.
It remains to be seen.
I can say this, I can attest to this.
It was a while ago now, my goodness, almost 10 years.
I was at Hempfest in Seattle and someone had showed up.
I was hanging out at the cannabis culture booth and someone had stopped by.
He said, oh, I'm from Oregon and I have what I think is your original blueberry, that thing
that we called the kind back in the day.
And he had dropped some names in some places and made me go, huh.
And then he gave a description and I go, yeah, you know, that really sounds like it.
He says, oh, well, he says, I have some.
I didn't bring it with me today.
He says, but I get it.
You know, Hempfest was two days.
He came the next day and he had some and sure enough, that was it.
I got his contact info.
He was in Portland.
He was in Portland, Oregon.
Never reconnected with him.
I think we shared emails a few times, but it just went, it's passing away.
I know this is the case, though.
I know that there are people out there that still have these things, especially people
that kept it quiet, you know, and were really low key.
And I think the same can be said for the land races, for places like Oaxaca and Thailand
and Burma and India, Nepal, that there are still, I like to think in my mind of a grandmother,
you know, and she's got her garden.
She's growing not just vegetables, but she's got her herb in there and her goal, growing
her herb, it's not really for money.
She might trade some of it for something or, you know, sell a little bit of it.
But her primary goal is to grow what her grandmother grew.
And the way that went since antiquity is, you know, you spread your seed in the garden
and the plants come up and then come fall, you harvest.
And out of one, you know, one of those plants is your favorite.
And that plant that was the favorite, that's the seeds you use for next year and on and
on and on.
And after thousands of years, I mean, you know, people in these antiquity areas, these
land race areas, have thousands of years on us in terms of experience with this plant.
I think we still have a lot to learn from them as well.
And getting, they're still there.
Not the Arian method of strain hunters, but Arian's all right.
He's an upfront guy and I'm okay with what he does, but you're not going to get to the
quality.
You're going to get to the quantity through the strain hunters method.
If you want the quality, you've got to learn the language, learn the culture, devote some
time of your life, go to that area, gain the trust of those people.
Like the Brotherhood said, spread the love, which in the case of the people there is money
or the things that they need in that area and establish your contacts.
I know they're still there.
I know they're still there.
Yeah, wow.
That's kind of inspiring.
So just to loop back onto something you mentioned a while ago, something I really enjoy about
your mindset is a lot of breeders these days will look at a project, especially after they've
grown out the testers, and they'll say it's either good or bad.
But just when you referenced the Purple Tie, you said it's workable.
And it made me realize you see things in more of like shades of gray than black and white.
Do you feel like that's something that's missing where people are just going to go, it's good
or it's bad?
Or should people look to work things a bit more in the way you have?
Yeah, definitely.
You know, we could use some improvement in that capacity.
Again, bearing in mind to go...
And it's hard to do because we fall in love with the plants, right?
You got a plant, you got a garden going, you got 20 different varieties in there.
And some are just, they stand out.
That's as a plant.
And whatever relationship you have as a grower with that plant, that's great.
How that carries over into the commercial world and how other people are going to appreciate
that plant, I don't think can be fully ascertained until we at least subjectively test it.
Test that herb.
Now I do have five objective criterion that I'll make notes of.
I can go over them real quickly.
It's onset.
How long does it take to fully feel the effect of the product?
Is it a quick onset or a long onset?
Does it take an hour?
Does it take five minutes?
Duration, how long does the effect last?
Sealing.
If I continue to smoke more and more, does my experience expand more or do I just get
stuck in this one heavy hitting indica, you just sink more into the couch?
The fourth one, and this is an important one and this takes time.
I call it tolerance threshold or burnout.
You know, after a week of smoking this continually, is this something I want to return to?
And does it still have the same effect?
And then finally, this is another time issue, is shelf life.
When it sits in a jar for a year, for two years, or for three years, does it improve
in quality?
So with those five objective analyses, the sixth one being, and this is just an overall
would be potency, just the general potency of a, but for me it's more desirability.
I think, you know, a lot of people are, if it messes you up a whole bunch, they feel
that's a success, whereas for me, I'm more into a clarity, clear, and that's harder to
dial in.
Messing yourself up on something super potent, that's easy.
So kind of a common reference we've had in the show is how some of the strains from years
gone by seem to lack, kind of what you referred to as like a sealing, whereby, you know, you
can smoke more and the experience gets greater, you kind of go to a new place.
And recently it's said that a lot of our modern hybrids don't have this, they do have
a sealing and you're kind of very limited in the feeling.
Where do you think this comes from?
Because I've been thinking about it a lot and it's like, do you think that it's just
something about being a land race that it, or like, you know, being more closer to that
end of the spectrum, it allows you to have a more interesting experience or, because
it's just, yeah, I'm trying to figure out where does this sealing come from?
Yeah, definitely related to a land race phenomenon.
I mean, I release, my seed stock is pretty much F5s, that's five generations from the
land race, which are the P1s, then we have our F1s, F2s, so on.
And I did that for a reason and I wanted to establish enough of the characteristics to,
you know, market it as whatever it's called, blueberry flow, whatever.
But also to leave enough of that land race variance in there so that people have a few
generations left to play with it.
I did an article in O'Shaughnessy's not long ago and it was calling for a new classification
of cannabis, where we have indica and sativa and ruderalis.
And if we're going to use those criterion, I said, why not let's use cannabis indoor
in the indoor environment, which is primarily high intensity discharge lights, relatively
limited soil space, although that's, you know, growing more.
But the plants tend to acclimate to that environment.
They acclimate to whatever environment they are in.
So that indoor environment, I think, you know, we can't replicate the tropical environment.
There are too many variables or just are too many variables just going on in that environment
that we're limiting in that indoor environment.
And in my opinion, it's about the eighth generation out, 10th for sure.
By the 10th generation, you are seeing this very likeness between strains.
I noticed this for the first time when I was in Europe back in the 90s.
Back in Europe in the 90s, pretty much all they had were sodium lights, high intensity
sodium lights.
They didn't have many metal highlights.
So it was more the orange spectrum.
And it was there that I noted, because I use mainly highlights, I really like that blue
spectrum a lot more.
And it allowed me to differentiate that the sodiums were bringing out the sour and the
highlights were bringing out the sweet.
That seemed to me, and I experimented several times to my satisfaction, that, yeah, that's
pretty much the case.
Right now, I'm really liking these ceramic metal highlights, the 315 and the 630s.
And on the blue end, 4,000, 4,200 Kelvin in that range.
Really in the bud room, especially the last few weeks, they bring out the sweet.
Yeah, wow.
It's interesting because I've always used metal highlights based on the recommendation
of a few kind of people.
And I always noticed that, yeah, my harvests do tend to be quite sweet.
So there you go.
I can attest to that one myself.
Something we got a few questions from the fans for was they were interested in the Afghani
that you used to cross to the Purple Tide to create the initial flow line.
Because I think a lot of people maybe assume that it was like a very pure Afghani and maybe
very desirable.
What were your recollections of it?
Yes, it was.
And when it showed up, it came to me late 1979.
I don't think I started growing it until early 1980 in bag seed form.
Was grown in Northern California, so just one generation, but they kept it strictly
indica.
I had a connection with the dealer and the manicurist who, again, we were sharing genetics,
so they didn't have a problem with me getting seeds.
They were trying to keep those off the market.
Point being is I had a small number of these seeds, about 50 of them, and I was able to
procure a male.
So first and foremost, they were unlike anything we had at the time.
They were stout, very symmetric, very uniform, looked like little Christmas trees, very large
leaves, green.
They didn't go purple at all.
Thick stems, and they smelled like a dead skunk under the house.
Very musky odor, large bulbous calyx, or not calyx, I'm sorry, trichome.
It's really where we started to see trichomes.
Sativa don't have a lot of glandular stalk trichomes.
Sativa do have more systolithic hairs that secrete oils directly onto the surface of
the leaf.
They're not in a sheath like our trichome is in a sheath, and that's the indica genetics.
I then was fortunate enough to have indica pollen that I took both to the purple tie
that I had going at the time and the Highland Oaxacan or juicy fruit tie.
I did the cross both ways because I had female indicas as well, but I wasn't as interested
in that line, the sativa pollen to the indica.
I was much more interested in the indica pollen to the sativa.
So yeah, that indica was very unique, but it was also god awfully boring.
We fell in love with it initially because it was novel and unique, and it made manicuring
easy.
Oh, and it was done in eight weeks, right?
I mean, I was dealing with sativas that never finished sometimes, 18, 20, 22 week sativa,
and manicuring was just a nightmare.
It had no bag appeal, whereas the indica was something different.
It put you on the couch.
It was very sedate, which was unlike the things of the times, and that novelty was its hype,
and it became very popular, and in my opinion, overly popular.
There was an article in High Times, I think it was in 83, maybe 82, the cover of the magazine
is a picture of an indica bud, a great big indica finished bud, black background with
a large red circle slash over the bud, and the words, ban the bud, and it was written
by an author, went by the name of R. I always thought it was Robert Clark, but I asked him
about it, and he denies that it was him.
At any rate, the article went on to say that these indica genetics were polluting the gene
pools in the land-raised sativa areas, because those people then, the farmers in those regions
thought that's what we wanted, and to this day, you're seeing ramifications of that in
Jamaica when you see pictures of those squat little indica bushes on the mountainsides
in Jamaica.
To me, that's just sad.
That's just sad.
Indica was making 18-foot, wispy, willow, wonderful sativa, still can, and I'm sure
they still do, but it's what the market bears.
So yeah, that was the indica.
I don't have seeds of that.
Replicating it, I think could be done.
I just ask myself why, and I look at the list of things I have to do and say, no, things
I'd rather do than resurrect the indica.
I'm sure it's still in Afghanistan with all the soldiers going back and forth, the states
here.
I hear rumor of a lot of kandahar and various things that are supposed to be around, but
I haven't personally smelled that dead skunk under the house indica yet.
Yeah, that's interesting, because you referenced it perfectly.
The kandahar is around, and we've been talking a lot on the show about how the roadkill skunk,
as people refer to it, is most likely actually an Afghani and not really a skunk.
But what I'm really interested in about that is when you first created the flowline, did
you pop some of those seeds immediately, or did they kind of sit on the shelf for a minute
and you had some other things to do?
Oh yeah, they sat on the shelf for a minute and had many other things to do.
Again, politically, it was a wretched era.
I mean, just surviving those days was an effort.
And so as I glummed along place to place, one of the terrible things in the 80s for
me was I would get my act together, have a place, find a rental, establish my growth,
get it going, get some R&D going, get some nice revenue generation potential going, and
then you get an eviction notice.
And this was just ongoing and ongoing and ongoing, and it was terrible.
It was manipulated.
I kind of witnessed this firsthand, in my opinion.
The whole housing bubble on the West Coast was primarily fueled by pot growers.
And I saw this firsthand.
When I moved in 78, it was a breeze.
There were rentals everywhere.
The place was just in economic shambles in that capacity, but it was very easy to rent
anywhere.
I think real estate industry realized who we were and capitalized on us in that it wasn't
too difficult to figure out who's growing what where.
You just kind of go by the property and can figure that out.
And then it starts with inspections.
Oh, we need to do an inspection.
Well, there's one.
And again, during Reagan and Bush I, these were very trying times.
You did not mess with any of this.
So then the house goes up for sale, and of course you can't qualify to buy it.
So here you are out on the rental market again.
And so the rentals are drying up.
There's none.
They're going down to very few.
And I'm showing up to this one where there's an appointment, and there's 200 people there.
You know, and as they have a specific time on a weekend to show up.
And here's 200 people.
50 of us are growers.
And I recognize us all in the crowd, and we're vying for the house.
One of us will get it because we always pay on time.
We always pay in cash.
And starting in those days, we paid 15 to 25% more.
That inflates the value of the property.
That justifies mortgage rates, you know, and mortgages.
And that's just how that whole thing went.
Finally, I got out of the Eugene area.
It was just impossible.
Went out to drier climes, the east side of the state where things were a lot cheaper.
And I think that's still the case today.
There are certain places, eastern California, eastern Oregon, eastern Washington, Nevada.
And who knows what's going to be opening up next.
I mean, Idaho would be nice, Utah.
But stranger things have happened.
Yeah.
So, at what point did you kind of feel a bit more comfortable in Oregon?
Like I guess it was after those turbulent years with Nixon and Bush one and whatnot?
Yeah, you know, I mean, Clinton got in, things backed down a little.
I was traveling a lot.
And it was just very apparent and very obvious.
You could see, I would take a trip, you know, five, six hours on the freeway, and you would
see five or six cars pulled over on the side of the road, everyone out of the car, all
the contents out, police digging through.
This was just constant.
And that finally abated.
It backed off about 92.
91, 92, in my opinion, were the worst years.
Those were the driest years.
Everybody had difficulties surviving that era.
It was rough.
And, you know, I think the whole country was ready for a change, which is why things happened.
Things lightened up.
California began to lighten up the whole medical scene there.
It was 96, I think, Prop 215.
It was 94 that Dennis Perrone was making waves and people were talking about it anyhow.
So, you know, we kind of were coming out of the closet at that time.
And yeah, I did feel more comfortable then, especially after going to Europe and Amsterdam.
Europe was miles ahead of us at the time.
So was Canada for a brief spell there.
And I took advantage of both those places as much as I could.
Yeah.
Before we jump into that, because we do have a few questions, I just wanted to loop back.
When we, you mentioned you made those flow seeds initially when you crossed, you know,
the Afghani to the Purple Tie.
Was that the point when you could kind of sense that, you know, the blueberry line was
locked in it or was it still further yet?
Yeah, still further yet.
So those, the Purple Tie, the Juicy Fruit Tie and those Afghan, those would be considered
the P1s.
The seeds from those ties in Oaxacan, those are the F1 seeds.
Those seeds were uniform.
They were identical.
They all looked alike.
From what I've seen of pictures, I always related them to Lebanese plants because Lebanese
are kind of in between Indica and Sativa, long spear-shaped buds, complete cacophony
of odor.
They had every smell in the book, a little color variation, but I think that may have
had something more to do with placement in the room.
I was using various colored bulbs at the time, so that might have had something to
do with it.
And I, just for, you know, honesty sake here, truth in the whole advertised Hoosin story,
I did not know what I was doing at the time.
It was just unfolding and I was witnessing.
So I grew out these F1s.
Again, they were all quite similar.
They had incredible potency, liked them a great deal, and then crossed a few of those.
And it was in and around this time, I think it was about 1983, that I finally got a hold
of Robert Clark's book, Marijuana Botany.
I think it might even have been published in 83.
And then I was able to go, oh, oh, that's what I'm doing.
And it was then, okay, so you have these F1s.
You take any two of the F1s, male, female, cross them, grow those seeds out in the F2
line, that's where the variance shows up.
So then it's in that F2 line that I start to see, say for blueberry, it's a berry mother,
a berry father.
You cross them out to F3.
You should see at least 50%, hopefully 25 to 50% of the progeny sporting that phenotype.
You then take the best example, male, female, of a berry in the F3 out to an F4.
And what I do then is those F4s, the seeds I make from them, which are the F5s are the
ones that I sell.
Now when I'm playing around, it's when I started sprouting the F2s was when I went, oh my God.
And that was my great epiphany time.
And that would have been early 80s, 80, 81, 82 on, just all the way on from there.
Every crop I grew from that point, every time I sprouted seeds, I saw something new.
As an example, when I give my class, I didn't know this at the time.
Again, I've since researched and what I was witnessing, I think, is something referred
to in biology called transgressive segregation.
And transgressive segregation refers to two very different P1s, very different, crossing
them to make F1s of a uniform.
I use an example of dogs.
It's easier for us to wrap our head around dogs and say, if you could cross a Chihuahua
to a Great Dane, the smallest dog to the biggest dog.
And the joke goes, hopefully the Great Dane is the mother.
But then those would represent your P1s.
Your F1s from that crossing would be something right in between them, like a pit bull boxer,
very uniform in structure.
And any two of those F1 dogs, those boxer-like dogs that you cross, will then give you puppies
that if transgressive segregation comes into play, you will see examples larger than the
Great Dane and smaller than the Chihuahua.
So you see things beyond what the original land race, and that's what I witnessed.
That's exactly what I witnessed.
Hello presented herself.
Again, I go by the effect of the finished product.
When I smoked that plant, it was just like, whoa, hello, you're a day brightener.
Really focused, very motivational, but unique.
She is extremely unique.
Smokes like a sativa, looks like a sativa, grows like a sativa, but is done in seven
and a half weeks.
And in my opinion, the only real difference between indica and sativa is flowering time.
That's going to ruffle some feathers.
No, I like that.
And so, because this is something I've spoken to a few people about, especially Bodhi, because
he's got a lot of experience with land races.
And he said to me, I found a Hindu Kush with the exact same terpene profile as a haze.
And when I got them tested, they had similar numbers for THC and whatnot.
And yet the highs are obviously totally different.
And so we're kind of sitting there going, what is it?
We've got this plant that smells the same.
The numbers are about the same.
The only difference is the flowering time.
And so, yeah, what do you think is ultimately the cause of the perceptual feeling of a sativa
versus an indica?
That's a big, big question, a big, big subject.
And it is something that is so big, I think we are going to set the tenets of science
on its ears.
Because what we're talking about here are the subtleties of a nonlinear dynamic.
And I've discussed this with a number of people.
All right, we know about THC.
You've got your graph.
Here's your THC, right?
There's your CBD right there and your other minor cannabinoids.
In between and all along are all these other little things going toot-a-loo-loo-loo.
We're going to find that it's one of these little toots that it's up here and this other
little toot is right over there.
Oh, that does this regardless of what the big ones are doing up here.
It's those little ones and those ratios between them.
How the complexity to map that is unfathomable.
We got to start somewhere, right?
Now I have some ideas, one of which has to do with a cup.
We came up with an idea for a cup that would only utilize one strain.
One strain, one clone, particularly.
I mean, you could expand it out to be seed as well.
Really to dial this in and to use this both as a cup and an experiment, one mother clone.
Give the growers a year, two years.
Give them two years.
They all come back to this cup and we analyze then what each and every one of them did.
We've already heard the story.
You take a mother plant, you can take 12 cuts off of it, give it to 12 different people
and get 12 different things back.
Well, let's do that.
Let's analyze the things that come back and then ask the growers, what did you do different?
And maybe then we can start parsing out some of the cause and effect as to what this is.
Now myself, my goal is to replicate the experiences I had from those original land races.
Not the seeds I grew here, but those products that came from the Brotherhood of Eternal
Love and those other groups from Oaxaca and Thailand and India and Nepal, Kashmir, Afghanistan,
Morocco, Lebanon.
We haven't got to that magic yet.
And I hate to burst people's bubbles when I talk about this, but where we're at now,
you're in Australia, you said, it's a little different.
We have a better opportunity in Australia, I think, in terms of replicating a sativa
environment than we do here in the States.
But I always tell people domestically here in the States, we will never equal that equatorial
sativa.
We can't.
However, we're getting very close to making A-grade hash.
And I think that's what we need to be focusing on in areas like this, which is what the Afghans
did, which is what the Moroccans did and the Lebanese did for thousands of years.
And they have a product that when you smoke it and it's done right by the people of sincere
interest there, you will see the difference.
I can only talk about it now.
You have to experience it.
It's like a psychedelic.
You can only talk about it so much.
But there is a difference.
And these differences, I think, are very subtle things.
My favorite herb was the Highland Oaxacan, like I said.
And it, I think, tested out back in the day at 7% THC, which all the stuff was maxing
out at.
The most potent stuff they tested in the day was Maui Waui at 10%.
So there's something else going on there.
And it's in these subtle ratios of these various minor elements that we need to parse
out and figure this out.
But you know, hey, we got our work cut out for us.
Plenty to do there.
It's a wild open frontier.
I find it fascinating.
Yeah.
Okay.
So do you really dabble much in the whole concentrate scene outside of hash or are you
primarily just a hash guy?
What do you mean by that?
Like, are you into like BHOs and the distillates and all that?
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
Okay.
Yeah.
I think people in Afghanistan and Morocco were as well.
They use various solvents and pressure cookers and things for some of their products and
they have for a long, long time.
Yeah.
Anyway, we can make this stuff in a pure form.
I know a lot of people are uptight about solvents and various things like that, but
it is done right if people pay attention to detail.
And you can tell by testing the finished product whether or not there's anything harmful in
there or not.
By all means, separate out and let's start isolating.
Right now, the isolation of individual terpenes is another just fascinating subject.
And we have here a substance that can provide so many of these on a commercial basis if
need be once we're left alone and can do what we want in that regard.
So just to loop back to Flo, one of the questions that got submitted by a few different guests
and I was a bit interested in this one myself.
What is the exact definitional difference between Flo and Temple Flo?
Is Temple Flo just your Keeper Flo?
No, it was just a name I was bandying about at the time.
Temple was a reference to Nepalese Temple Hash.
The Flo mother, the same one that incidentally is still alive today, she sprouted in 1991,
so 27 years old.
That was her appeal.
Again, this sativa-looking plant finishes in seven and a half weeks.
And the resin from her and her overall appeal, it was in the line of the best smoke I've
ever smoked was Nepalese Temple Ball.
Right up there, followed closely by Kashmiri Cheris, followed closely by some of the Afghan
from the late 70s and early 80s, the Brotherhood Afghan.
And those herbs meant to be consumed as hash, I think, as concentrate.
Very rare occasions for doing flower, smoking flower, and only sativa flower, I think, in
that capacity.
Obviously something to mix with the concentrate other than tobacco.
But yeah, I think it's concentrates is what we're shooting for.
Now, the Flo, she just had that appeal.
She reminded me the most of the Temple Ball.
That's where the name Temple Flo came from.
Flo also has two connotations, floral and fluorescent.
She possessed both characteristics.
Fluorescent was a look to the plant and kind of in the feeling.
That sharpness that, say, a fluorescent bulb has, that type of light.
And floral, very floral, flowery appeal to her in her terpenes.
They're all testing, most of my things test high in beta-caraphylene and myrcene.
And I have some test results somewhere from these latest ones.
Some odd things in there.
I'm still parsing this out myself and learning about various terpenes.
Terpenes too are, when you have a pure terpene and you mix it with another terpene, depending
on the amount, the ratio between the two terpenes, you can create an entire array of
flavors.
Adding a little oxygen here, hydrogen there, just changes things a lot.
I think they all start with the rose smell, geraninol, and it's built on from there to
make lemons and oranges and fruits and woods.
And again, a fascinating subject, which I think is a great place for us, for human beings
to begin learning about nonlinear dynamic will be in these terpenes and the sense of
smell.
Sense of smell in the brain just is another fascinating subject.
It's very closely associated with memory, widely dispersed throughout the central nervous
system, and also very highly associated with cannabinoid receptors.
Yeah, yeah, a hundred percent.
So something I've said to people in the past is that it's exactly what you just said with
the terpenes, is that terpenes, even at different concentrations, can have different smells.
So like the possible array you can get is almost exponential.
But the question I have is, do you think it's possible, given the right genetics being aligned
and whatnot, that cannabis can create any smell?
Possibly.
I've wondered about this for a long time, and I think about other species of plant that
have as wide an array cacophony of odor as cannabis.
And the only other family I can think of is mint.
There's a wide variety in mint.
And I would think that through selective breeding, and just in my own experience, I have, my
God, and hazes, you know, these, and I have so many hazes that I've had to put on the
shelf because their commercial potential is low, especially through the eras we've been
through.
We needed the bag of peel.
But I have them labeled.
I know what they are.
Every flavor of haze, every imaginable flavor, it's boggled my mind.
There was a smell, I think I refer to it either in my book or in an article since
then, I called it ethnic holiday.
There was ethnic holiday, and then there was funeral parlor.
Both of which, I mean, ethnic holiday for me, I came from an East European family, so
when I would go to, say, Christmas, the smells in that household, between the foods and the
tobaccos and the colognes and the alcohols and the Christmas tree and just everything
going on, and then the memory.
And it's great because when I start playing around with these herbs, squeeze a bud and
smell it, I remember my grandma's house.
Oh, ethnic holiday, yee-haw.
Funeral parlor is heavy on the lily and formaldehyde.
That's good, I like that.
Funeral parlor.
Some names just are appropriate.
So, last little step in this whole journey, can you take us from flow to blueberry?
How did that little transition happen?
Well, it wasn't really a transition, they were parallel, you know, along.
They developed side by side, yes.
I have notes, my notes are wretchedly, I understand them.
They were a work in progress, you know, different experiments with different things.
Initially, like when I started seeing these things in my F2s, I started labeling them,
I would assign each plant two capital letters.
That's where the FX came from.
There were W, W was for wide leaf, B was for berry or blueberry.
It had O for orange, things like that.
A lot of them were flavors, others were structural phenomenon or how much resin they were putting
out.
So, I would take the two most prominent traits, assign those two letters and that would be
the label to that plant.
The next generation then would be two capital letters by two capital letters, whatever the
cross happened to be.
I always got in the habit of doing the female first and the male second just to have consistency
throughout.
And then, you know, when you go to the next generation, of course, you have two letters
by two letters by two letters by two letters.
It starts getting complicated.
And so, I experimented with a bunch of these different numeric labeling systems.
I have one, it works for me, but I can go back in and kind of identify certain things.
This will be put to the test in the not too distant future when I go back and search for
certain things like a cherry variety or say a very sweet orange or a sweet cedar haze
and see if I can actually go back in the catalog through my notes and find.
I'm pretty confident I can, getting them to sprout, growing them out the whole nine yards
then looking forward to doing that in the not too distant.
I think everyone's looking forward to you doing that.
At this point when you had, you know, the flow and the blueberry running parallel, you're
developing them, was this the point when you realized you were really onto something and
did you have to kind of make a choice between the two in terms of which one you want to
put forward more or did it just work itself out like that in the end?
No, it just worked out like that.
Blueberry of course, she was the one that has the most commercial appeal out of the
two.
Flow was almost a counterpart to blueberry.
Now, mind you again, my primary focus is on satisfying my own head and through those years,
the combination of smoking blueberry and flow to me was the closest I would get to smoking
the Highland Oaxacan.
So it was a blending of those two herbs and just for my own satisfaction, I kept those
plants that I most enjoyed smoking and that just turned out to be what other people enjoyed
as well.
I get asked, how did you come up with the blueberry?
How did you do this?
I always go to this one term.
The term is healing.
Healing.
Blueberry is the one that best helped me heal, to feel right in my body, right?
And over time.
And flow did the same thing.
And they both had equal merit in my mind.
To be perfectly honest, flow I think had a little bit more merit for me personally, but
blueberry had more commercial potential.
So that saved her place in the veg room, so to speak, in the mother room to keep her going.
And it's always been that.
What do you have the space for and whatnot?
Yeah, it's really interesting you mention that because I've, you know, like many people
grown out a pack of blueberry before.
Unfortunately, I didn't find my keeper.
But what I did really find was that a lot of the feeling of the high very much encompassed
that healing aspect you said.
And it really caught me off guard.
You know, I wasn't expecting that, especially of plants that finished so early.
And that was another thing I wanted to mention.
Did you purposely keep that in mind?
Because I've noticed blueberry finishes so stably early.
It's really good trait.
Yeah, it is.
It was intentional.
It was very utilitarian for the era.
If I do it over again, it won't be as much as a factor.
As a matter of fact, you know, I'm beginning now seeing how commercial acceptance of auto
flowers.
And I think that there are certain subtle quality traits that may only be present in
an auto flower line.
So things like that.
And again, that's our job to be looking for this.
It just fascinates me to no end that I can go online, I go and look to other growers,
look to other people, see what other people are doing.
When I released blueberry and flow seeds initially, not so much the flow seeds, the
flow seeds came from one mother, but the blueberry, the blue heaven and the blue moonshine, initially
those seeds that I'd sent to Europe and that I had gone to Mark Emery, had several mothers
and several different male contributors.
They weren't from a single line.
There was variance in there.
I did that intentionally.
Now the finished product was going to be blueberry or blue moonshine, but some leaned more sativa,
some leaned more indica.
What I wanted to see was to utilize the grow reports from the community before it was in
1998 then that I decided on a stretch indica female and that F4 blueberry dad.
And that was by, again, the number of responses that people were posting online in terms of,
oh, this is what I prefer, had my best luck here.
But there was a lot of variance in those seeds.
I think that might have something to do with this phenomenon when you hear pre-98.
Pre-98 this, pre-98 that is I released a wide variance of genetics up to 98.
And then beginning in 98, it was one mother, one father, and since that time, it's been
one mother and one father of blueberry from my stables.
Now as far as what other people, Dutch passion, Sagra Mata, whomever is doing with blueberry,
I have no idea.
I'm not involved with those at all.
Who knows?
I don't know if it's anybody's guess there.
Wow.
So many avenues in which we could jump into from there.
Yeah, yeah.
It's a lot of information.
All right.
I'll try to not miss them all.
Let's go to the first one.
What I've noticed is some of these lines you referenced, you know, the blue moonshine,
blue haven, these more variant lines, some of them to me seems like they have amassed
the biggest cult following of them all.
Do you ever notice that and do you ever kind of get pressured to bow into it and maybe
re-release them yourself or it's just not on your horizon, so to speak?
Yeah, yeah.
And I could.
I do have another version of blue moonshine right now.
I have this blue haven going.
She completely satisfies that.
I need to smoke the offspring.
I haven't tested her fully yet.
The seed might qualify to be called blue haven if it smokes, you know, the bud from that
seed smokes such.
I haven't been able to test it yet.
It has the smell.
It has the appeal.
And I like the name Newberry, so I might just go that route.
But again, space and time, and as it presents itself and as we're able to lock some of these
in, yes, by all means.
And I have copies of everything, absolutely everything I've ever released, and the parent
stock and the parent stock to that.
And so I'll be back to the P1s.
I've been holding off specifically for a number of reasons, the main one being that
the industry, in my opinion right now, is just far too unstable.
It's you know, the moneyed interests are playing their hand right now.
That adds a lot of confusion.
The price, just the price of herb, what it ends up being.
These things run through all sorts of cycles and phases.
So I'm kind of sitting that out until, in essence, you know, what will happen in the
future is a lot of these growth spaces and all their equipment are going to become available
from some of these companies that go bankrupt pennies on the dollar.
And so I'm just waiting for a nice little space to show itself.
You don't want to do this in the midst of the legalization frenzy.
You can't.
When things go up to, you know, hundreds of dollars a square foot for warehouse space
that used to go for pennies a square foot because people are trying to capitalize on
this, it's impossible to work in that environment.
And then the legal, you know, situation that once I get established somewhere, how do I
protect myself?
How do I, you know, these things remain to be seen.
Once that happens, though, I'm looking forward.
I put out this thing.
I just sort of wrote it not too long ago.
I just shared it among a certain few people.
I had to do the GoFundMe.
And it was raising a bunch of money to do a GoFundMe for me to grow out.
I had a bunch of, I was going to do everything under one of them, all the way back to my
P1s.
But then I whittled that down.
I said, no, just F4s and F5s, everything I've released.
Absolutely everything I have released, you know, including the parent stock, all the
way back and grow it all out.
It would be a few thousand plants.
And then do an open pollination.
Every male, every female in there, just boom, hit them all up, make a few million seeds,
sell them for two bucks a piece to the people that invested in the GoFundMe.
And then give people the opportunity to, you know, we would have verification.
You got these genetics from this.
Here's all my notes going all the way back.
We can verify these genetics.
And then we establish sort of like an AKC for dogs, for pedigree, for establishing standards
for lines, all these types of things.
But also to allow the community access to all these genetics I have on an equal basis.
When I planned it out, it was like you couldn't invest more than 4% of whatever the GoFundMe
would be.
You can only buy as much seed as you invested in.
You can either trade in your investment or keep your investment stable and purchase the
seed at $2 a piece.
In doing so, just the production of the seed would fund the entire operation.
And it would take maybe two years.
Three at the most.
We want to really be thorough.
It would be three years.
I guarantee to be able to make enough seed to satisfy the world market on this.
And then go to one of these failing grow ops and say, well, here, let us lease your space
for a couple hundred thousand dollars a year instead of having to go in and invest millions
of dollars buying something.
That's kind of lining up.
I see it happening.
I'm waiting.
It's just waiting.
Yeah.
No, I agree.
I agree.
It seems like some of the people who jump in too early get punished, especially financially.
So just to clarify, the Blue Heaven line, that is essentially just like a very anti-anxiety
phenotype of the blueberry?
Correct.
Correct.
Fantastic.
Yeah.
Because I think that's the one that which, from what I've been able to research, has
the biggest kind of following and push for it to come back.
I think, as you'd be aware, already people think of blueberry as a very anti-anxiety
line.
So to have what you would consider to be the pinnacle of that, it's just kind of the next
level, right?
Yep.
Exactly.
Exactly.
And it's subtle.
That's the thing about it.
There are subtleties.
The analogy I like to use with the cannabis industry, where it's at right now, is it's
like cooking and it's like chefs.
And all of our contemporary breeders of today are like chefs who have just discovered the
spice rack.
And then what is the, oh, put a bunch of this in and put a bunch of this in and put it in.
They get all of these, again, cacophonies of things together.
And what I found in my experience is that when we then isolate those special flavors,
then again, their ratio to other flavors is what makes a true delicacy in that analogy.
Yes, I agree.
Certainly sometimes less is more as well.
So just to loop back on what you mentioned a minute ago, you said you're not too sure
what Dutch Passion or Saga Martha are doing with the blueberry.
We did get some inquiry.
What was, you know, without going into any details you don't want to, what was the situation
with Dutch Passion?
Because obviously they released some of your lines for a while and then that kind of split.
What's kind of your recount of generally what happened there?
Yeah, I can't, I don't know, I guess I could say they ripped me off, but not really because
he paid me the minimum amount I think he could have.
I was, again, due to political circumstances, I was under a barrel.
There was nothing I could do.
I had to take whatever I could get.
I had just left Saga Martha who didn't really, I got ripped off by Saga Martha, that I can
say very, very plainly and clearly.
I did get my seed collection back, took that over to Dutch Passion, had a deal going with
them, which should have gone on in perpetuity forever, but Hank, being a Dutch businessman
he is, just decided one day that, oh, you know, let's not, don't take this personally,
it's only business, but I don't feel I should have to pay you anymore.
And then, you know, gave me, we spread it out, it was kind of a large payment.
The deal I had, I don't mind sharing this, it was I think 30 cents a seed, I was getting
a euro on, but he was producing, what, 100,000 seeds a year.
So from my perspective, that's kind of what I want.
I set up a few of those in different places and then I'm all set, but that has to go on
for a while.
I did visit some lawyers in Amsterdam at the time and they all just gave me the shrugged
shoulder and, sorry, you're a little too early for this and there's nothing we can do for
you.
And I know that Hank has made a considerable amount of money, I, maybe 60,000 euros is
what I got totally from the whole deal over the course of, what, seven, eight years.
No, not even that long.
And the main thing I wanted when I left, what was important to me, see, Hank was registering
the names of blueberry with the Benelux Market Bureau and that's where he needed my help,
proving this was my intellectual property.
And I have all of this paperwork, I have every letter, so if push ever comes to shove, I
mean, I've got all this evidence here to go, but litigation to me is, it's a big waste
of energy, you know, to avoid it as much as possible.
He wanted this because of Sagarmatha at the time when he was registering blueberry, you
know, the Benelux Market Bureau solicits anyone that's using that trademark and says, oh,
is this okay?
Tony's lawyer said, no.
Hank wrote to me, says, hey, send me all the information you've got proving this is your
intellectual property.
It was a stack of papers, I don't know, almost an inch thick.
Hank gets that, a few months later I get an email, oh, excellent, my attorney says, with
the information you said, this is proof positive and we have 999 to 1 chance of winning the
case.
That information got submitted to Tony's lawyer at Sagarmatha, who then quit on Tony, because
I think it was apparent in that paperwork that, no, old buddy, this isn't yours.
And so, when I then left Dutch Passion, my primary concern was, well, Hank, well, getting
my seed collection back, which I did, and number two, to have the rights to those names
in the European market, and I have that in writing.
So, you know, I got the important thing.
To me, the losses are nowhere near as important as staying focused on what's in the future,
because that's by far more valuable.
Yeah.
And so, I guess the one kind of question I have remaining on that topic is, a lot of
people will commonly say that over the years, it's common for Dutch companies to lose parents
and to not even say anything, and still offer seeds and quality deteriorates.
Do you think that a similar thing may have occurred with the stuff they're offering,
you know, in the blueberry lines and whatnot?
Yeah, I'm almost positive.
I don't have first-hand knowledge, but I did hear from a number of people, I've connected
well enough in the community there, people that did work for growing in some of these
communities.
Like, Dutch Passion, I think, was contracting Soma to grow some of their things, and various
other people in that Amsterdam grow scene.
But yes, they lose their things all the time, and then just try to replicate them.
I think with mine, they probably just bought a pack of seeds and took it from there.
I don't have first-hand knowledge.
Okay.
So, just as a little change of scenery, I wanted to ask you, do you really keep track
on any of the strains that are made with blueberry that start to gain a lot of traction?
And do you view that as like just a positive thing for blueberry?
Like, so I guess the two poster childs would be Blue Dream, for one, obviously, and you
know, you kind of address that with your version of it.
But the other one for me, a personal note, my favorite strain is the Blue Magoo.
And I don't know if you really know much about that, but there's actually a bit of
a rumor that you made that.
I don't think it's true, but I'd love to hear, you know, your kind of thoughts on how do
you view the strains that, you know, are kind of half blueberry and really take off?
And do you follow that at all?
No.
You know, it's like a car wreck.
When you go by, you got to kind of look at it.
As far as the Blue Magoo in particular, I don't know about that one.
Blue Dream, it's great hype, you know, I mean, that doesn't hurt at all.
I tried replicating the Blue Dream with Azure Haze.
It was kind of the same cross, but so much of this is based on hype, right?
Something new comes along, it catches people's fancy, and for whatever reason, it has that
marketing aspect to it that people just glom on to.
Blue Dream, the name, you know, and the name game is so prevalent in the industry.
I'd hope that we would be able to progress beyond that, keep it as sort of a, you know,
a fun little entertainment thing.
But yeah, I think that's a lot of what's going on.
If I did make the Blue Magoo, it's without my knowledge.
Someone else came up to me at a show one time.
I was selling clones out of a place in San Francisco, CMH or something.
I don't even remember the name of it.
They had a giant Buddha statue in their lobby.
They ended up closing early.
One of the nicer scenes, too, it had on-site consumption and it was right there in the
city, and they were selling clones, a bunch of them.
They closed then and that went on their way.
I'd never heard from anyone until one day I'm at a show, I think it was at Emerald Cup,
and a fella comes up and says, you know, I worked there, and I worked in their clone
room.
I just want you to know that they took that blueberry and they crossed it.
I forget what the heck they said they crossed it with, and I forget what he said it made,
but it was something like Bubba Kush or Big Kush or one of the big name brand strains.
Again, think Grateful Dead, Grateful Dead Family.
To me, it's a minor incidental having this competition out there compared to the prize
that yet awaits.
So that's what I'm going to focus on.
Now, what we're talking about is intellectual property rights, right?
There's a lot of law that's already established in that regard.
The same thing for me is this for tomatoes would be great.
I'm concerned, as we all should be, about major conglomerates, people with a little
too much control and influence trying to take over this.
One of my biggest concerns moving forward has been for a while now that I'm going to
be doing my work in a legal environment and to someday get a cease and desist order from
a major corporation.
Just so your listeners know, it used to be Monsanto, now it's Bayer, just for reference
sake in those regards.
But there are other corporations doing this as well, people within the cannabis industry.
How do I best go about protecting myself in this?
I'm open to many possibilities, so we'll see where that goes.
One possible solution to that problem I've heard is that if people get basically their
work within the public domain, it can restrict the ability for people to patent, to copyright
those things.
Specifically, I think we've heard that Phylos is one avenue in which this can happen.
Do you know much about Phylos and would you consider doing that if it was the case?
Yes, I do.
I met them a while ago, I think when they were getting going, Maugli and Nishan.
Years ago, this was presented to me at Hempfest in Seattle by Maugli that his intent was to
do what he was calling an open cannabis project.
It's like an open source software thing, but applied to cannabis genetics, which I wholeheartedly
agree with and I think is probably the best way to go.
If things have been released commercially, they are out there, how best to deal with
this, I think is to make this public domain.
And in that capacity, that protects me, I think, from getting that cease and desist
At least one way in which to do that.
Now, as far as where Phylos is right now, I know they're providing the service, as are
other companies, where you can have your genetics identified and then associated with your name
or company that at least gives you some legal foothold in this whole thing as it unfolds.
But I really don't know where these companies are now.
For example, Phylos was supposed to be doing the Cannabis Genome Project, which they're
not anymore.
And I don't know why.
I don't know why this went to a company in Colorado.
Once I start getting some answers to this, it'll become more clear.
In the meantime, I do trust what they're doing.
I do agree with this open cannabis project.
There's a woman, her name is Beth.
I was on a panel with her at HempFest.
I meant to have her card and contact information.
She's actually doing this right now, this open cannabis project.
I can find that information and send it to you.
But she is in earnest attempting to make this a reality.
So hopefully, with agreeance, people like myself, we can make that happen and then move
forward from that point.
Yep.
Yep.
So, just to jump off the whole legal downer, one of the questions I wanted to ask you is,
in your opinion, what differentiates Flow from F13?
Oh, yeah.
F13 was from the floral line, the Flow line.
F13 was simply the label of that plant.
I was doing, we were down to the final selections.
I had 12 jars.
I was up in Vancouver, BC.
They brought them over to me.
I'm going through those jars.
That one, it was F13.
Every time I went to it, I said, oh my, hello.
She had an immediate, very, very immediate effect with the long-term onset.
It was just special.
I could tell right away, you're a party waiting to happen.
I looked at it, I said, what am I going to call this?
I looked at the label.
It said F13.
I said, yeah, F, nice letter, 13, nice number.
Why not?
That's what got its label.
It is a more direct relative to Flow.
I can see how.
It's more psychedelic.
I love the description Jason King gave F13, the compliment Jason King gave F13 when he
said, smoking F13 is like smoking a Grateful Dead show.
In terms of psychedelia, that's a pretty high compliment.
It's what it does, though.
It's like Flow.
Like Flow, Flow is motivational and focused, whereas F13 is more psychedelic focused.
Yeah, wow.
This is maybe a bit of an odd question, but do you like Flow more than Blueberry?
Because what's weird is when I talk to people about this, especially the big name breeder
friends I talk to, all of them have this real memorable story about smoking Flow.
They're like, oh, there's something about Flow.
Do you think it's a little bit of the unsung hero?
It is.
It is.
She doesn't have a lot of bag appeal.
She's got a bit more of that musky, temple ball, hashy aroma to her.
She is nowhere near couch lock.
Couch lock people that smoke her, they're like, what is this shit?
Get it away from me.
They don't understand.
I can't enter her in cups because she's got one of the slowest come ons.
It's 45 minutes to an hour before you're fully appreciating what this herb does.
It has a four to five hour effect.
In terms of, yeah, I'm trapped on a desert island, I got to pick one strain to smoke
for the rest of my life, it would probably be Flow over Blueberry.
I think so.
There you go.
One question we had sent in by our good friend, Mass Medical Strains, he said, he actually
in one of the previous interviews, he recounted his little awesome story with Flow from when
he was younger.
He said it was really impactful, but he's packed a few pops of Flow and he said basically
he's had trouble finding the keeper he's looking for and he wanted to know, do you think it's
a little bit of a harder plant to wrangle indoors?
Does it do a bit better outdoors or do you think he should be able to do all right indoors
with it?
That's a good question.
I know she likes outdoors.
She likes to trail along.
You can bend her, God, 20, 30 feet sometimes.
She'll vine along, put out side branches too that you can put wherever you like.
It kind of depends on what people are looking for too.
You have to realize those seeds are the Flow, my Flow clone is the mother and it's the Blueberry
that's the father.
You're seeing a bit of Blueberry influence in that seed line.
I will say this, both the F4 Flow and the F4 Blueberry mother cuts are available.
They are out commercially available.
I've been trying to establish some place that I could tell you to go and get them, but that
hasn't happened yet.
They kind of floated out and sometimes a place succeeds, sometimes it doesn't, but they are
out there.
I'll say that much.
I do know JD has some and Eugene.
There's some in both Southern and Northern California right now as well.
Once they are well established where they're at, I believe they will be commercially available
and I can send you somewhere to get them.
They are the F4 mother, Flow, and Blueberry.
The reason I did that, people said, we're amazed.
Why did you release your mother's stock?
Oh my God.
I said, well, there's been enough seeds that a good representation of her should be out
there somewhere to begin with.
Mainly, this is the main thing.
I want people to know what my version, my idea of Blueberry and Flow are.
The best way to do that is through their mother plant and then here you go.
They've held Flow even though she's 27 years old, 98, so what, 20 years for the Blueberry
mother and father and hasn't lost anything in that time.
You just sprung a good question to mind for me.
In that time, they're very old cuts.
Have you noticed any deterioration at all?
People sometimes reference genetic drift.
Do you believe in that?
It might exist and if it does, it doesn't for these two.
20 years on now, they're not the same mother in the same pot.
I do have a rejuvenation method I like to suggest to people, recommend.
That's taking, you know, a mother I've been working with all winter and taking her in
April, May, whenever you can get her outside.
Take her outside, dump her out of the pot, cut those roots right off.
Take anything that is not a bright white root, even when you're transplanting small things.
Anything that's wrapped tight or discolored, pull right off.
The plant will love you for it.
She will immediately put out new roots and then you put that plant in the ground April,
May, she rejuvenates, comes back through one leaflet, three leaflets, five leaflets, seven, nine,
however many she's supposed to have.
Late July, early August, take that cut, take a bunch of cuts off of her and that's your mother plant through the winter again.
And then that tends to rejuvenate, bring these back.
I've also heard that tissue culturing, numerous times where you re-culture the culture like 13 times, is supposed to bring a plant back to an absolute state of health and vigor.
So a common theme that I've noticed within your breeding work is that you tend to do inbreeding within your own lines, mixing them together as opposed to bringing in external things,
especially bringing in, say, like hype of the month strains.
Do you ever consider bringing in more external things or are you just more content to work within your own creations?
Yeah, I have more in my library than I'm going to be able to get to in my lifetime.
Four or five hundred different varieties.
I have maybe a hundred things that I've never sprouted yet.
Again, a big enough space with time that that can happen pretty quickly.
One thing that's been happening for me is I've been acquiring some landrace genetics.
I've only sprouted one out to kind of test their authenticity in there.
They're definitely unique and real.
A character, a person that I met, and it's kind of a funny story.
I met him in Michigan at a High Times Cup.
He came up, I have some seeds.
I have some seeds from Kashmir.
And he showed them to me.
And I looked at the seeds and I was stunned and impressed.
I recognized them.
And I go, oh, these are quite very tiny.
They were tiny, dark, solid color, no striping, and various.
There were a couple.
He had four different things.
I gave him like $400 for those.
But we established a rapport.
And I've been seeing him at various shows and he's been giving me a number of different things.
I have maybe 50 different landraces now from way back in India, Nepal, Thailand, South America, Africa.
Just a lot of places.
I think he even has some things from Australia, Indonesia.
And they're all different.
Some of the seeds are huge.
Some of them are tiny.
I sprouted out some Turkish.
I didn't grow them long enough.
I was in an R&D project, had to take them down in eight weeks.
They probably should have gone 12.
Passed some on, though, to some friends who are growing those out.
Interesting aroma I gave it.
I called it new running shoes and cologne.
Kind of smelled like.
So, you know, unique things going on there.
I'm looking forward to sprouting those out and then kind of redoing.
I would also really like, I have a bunch of my F1s.
Now, I've never frozen them, never refrigerated either.
I've just kept them in a dark place.
On occasion in the past I've gotten them to pop and put a tail out, but that's as far as they went.
They'd succumb to mold or mildew.
I did not have the time or space to deal with them, but I have a couple hundred of them.
And if I can just get a small handful of those to sprout, which I'm sure given modern technology we can pull off,
all I need is a male and a female and I can do the whole thing all over again from scratch,
only this time knowing full well what I'm looking for and isolating in those ways.
In an environment that's, number one, big enough and safe enough to do this.
So that's what I would like to do.
But as far as any work, hybridized work, no.
Last time I did anybody else's hybrid work was back in, good God, the 80s.
And I regretted it every time.
I said, why did I do this?
No, I've got other things I need to focus on.
Again, people fall in love with plants, structure of the plant.
They like them to get big.
They like colors, flavors, but that finished product, how does it smoke?
How does it smoke?
And that takes some effort and some focus.
So just to touch on the land races for a moment, if you did, say, pop through them and you had a good germination rate,
which would be the one you'd be most wanting to work with first if you could only pick one?
Again, that would present itself with its smoke, with the flower, the concentrate, or the finished product.
How does that finished product make me feel?
And it could come from anywhere.
One thing I'd never gotten to that I was always interested was equatorial African.
And I have some from another person, a guy I met who is from Ghana.
He was born there and grew up there, and he's now here in the States.
And he had access to some Ghanese genetics that I have as well.
I also have some things from Togo.
I'd be interested in Kenya as well.
Anything equatorial, the black African land race, I think would have some interesting aspects to it.
Now, another thing going into the future is going to be testing, of course.
And that's how scientists do it.
That's how the lab or the grow in Mississippi, the government grow that's in Mississippi, they go strictly by, you know,
where the plant came from, crossing it to itself, and then testing the finished product.
And that's going to guide where a lot of things go.
I think also answer a lot of questions.
THCV, CBDV, CBG, I think, is another hot item right now.
I'm noticing it in a happy pussy has some 1% CBG.
And there's something about I was reading some article about CBG with beta-cariophyllene.
And that is some very unique recessive genotype.
So that's going to, I think, influence the way a lot of things are going to go, what's going to be in demand.
Again, when we're on a level playing field and when we can offer this as a legitimate, marketable, pharmaceutical, botanical,
things are going to change, right?
Say a terpene becomes popular and some company just needs bucket loads of this terpene.
Well, if you have the strain that's really putting out high in that terpene, it puts you ahead of the game and things like that.
And these things are going to unfold.
So as far as which area, Highland High, the area, Myanmar, used to be called Burma.
I think there's still a Burma, too.
But up there, that high northern Laos, the Golden Triangle, any place that poppies do well, wine, tobacco, cannabis seems to do well there, too.
Actually, there is one other thing I could add in regards to testing, the testing of cannabis, and how, in regards to the testing of cannabis,
what we lack in their industry right now is a standard, a standard for testing.
What's going on is people are, in essence, concentrating or isolating the most potent parts of their plant in order to determine its potency and overall chemical nature.
And I just wanted to pass on that what I plan to do when I do work in the future for my own analysis of these things is I want to take near maturity,
right near harvest, an entire live branch, stem, leaves, buds and all, get that bone dry and then test that, grind it up into a powder and test that powder randomly,
which will then let me know the exact specific potency and characteristic of what's in these whole plants as opposed to just these isolated, very resinous areas.
I mean, if you're going to test that way, then just test for concentrate, right?
If you're going to concentrate, then concentrate.
Other than that, I want to know what's in that whole plant, including shade leaves, stems, things like that.
Even roots, I mean, there's some interesting things going on in roots.
So, that's another thing to take into consideration and to look at in the future.
Yeah, certainly.
It raises an interesting question in my mind because I was reading the other day that one of the common reasons that samples in California had failed over the past year,
not the most common reason, but it was one of the common reasons, was that it said homogeneity among sample.
And I thought, is that like what I think it is where they're saying that they took samples from different parts of the tree or whatever and it was all homogenous and they were like,
there's something up here, there should be some variation.
Is that kind of what they were getting at, do you think?
I don't know.
But when you do isolate down to very specific parts of the flower, you're going to find similarities across samples.
It's, I don't know, it's another fascinating subject.
We need this standardization.
Back when the government used to test, you know, in the 60s and 70s, they would just take a random loop out of whatever they were dealing with,
which is part of the reason why I think, you know, the highest THC percentages we were seeing back then was about 7%, 10%, I think, on the Maui Waui,
was the highest back in the day.
But it's also indication that there's other things going on there, other things to look for, other cannabinoids, other terpenes, and, you know, got a lot of work cut out for us.
Yeah.
I think maybe a better way of phrasing what I was asking was, like, I commonly hear people say that, you know, buds at the top of the plant will have maybe a little bit lower levels of cannabinoids than ones that say the shoulders of the plants, because, you know, they're not copping.
And so I guess it does come down to like, yeah, where are people taking these samples from specifically?
And I guess your solution addresses that problem, or is that what you're trying to do?
Yeah, exactly.
And just for a side note, there back in the day, my favorite buds on the plant were those little popcorn things way deep inside that weren't getting upset or, you know, too much exposure to light or air.
They were the most interesting.
And there's all over the plant, there's interesting things going on.
But yeah, taking a whole branch, leave stems and all gives me a much better understanding of how that whole plant is reacting, especially to the plant next to it.
When I test them all in that way, then I can really begin to suss some of this stuff out.
So as far as, you know, which area, Highland Thai, the area, Myanmar used to be called Burma.
I think there's still a Burma too.
But up there that high northern Laos, the Golden Triangle, any place that poppies do well, wine, tobacco, cannabis seems to do well there too.
Yeah, that's an interesting analogy I never quite thought of.
I do know, however, and it was brought up, that you've got a neat little story about when you got to smoke some black African weed.
Would you mind telling us that one?
Yeah, that's probably the strongest herb I'd ever encountered.
And it was straight herb.
It was terrible. It tasted like, you know, the stuff you find in a gutter that dried up.
Just that vegetative, basic, rotten, molded, vegetative.
It was black, dry, crumbly, tasted like leaves.
Didn't have a particular flavor, so to speak.
Kind of sagey.
Pin joint. A pin joint is stuff between four adult-sized people, man.
And it was almost like DMT.
A cartoon. Points of reality.
It became different references.
Lasted a while.
I never possessed any other than in a rolled joint form.
I did get to roll the joints, you know, saw it from the bags on more than one occasion.
There was two occasions that I had access.
I think I smoked it three times.
Same thing every time.
We were doing PCP at the time.
It was one of the drugs that was available.
And we had to wonder, was there PCP in here?
But no, it was pot. It was straight pot.
Very dream, dream state.
Just, you, reality shifted.
And you just looked at life differently.
Completely differently for that whole time.
It was giddy, very goofy.
You couldn't help but laugh.
Real tight, you know, cheek muscles.
A bit overwhelming.
And what's dissociative in that regard where, you know, it could evoke paranoid thinking.
All the things associated with the heavy psychedelic dose.
But yeah, it was impressive herb.
And everything I've read about, all the people I've talked to that have had, you know, seen the similar thing, had the same experience.
People have had reports of levitation and just all kinds of silly things on this herb.
I'd love to get some more.
I saw a weird television thing years ago, Maz, in, I had to leave Michigan.
This was still in the 70s.
And it was some kind of a documentary thing.
It was in black and white.
Maybe I just had a black and white TV back in the day, I'm not sure.
And these guys were going around all these different hash places and just documenting it.
They showed Afghanistan where they had mules or donkeys up on the press.
And how they squeezed it out.
And this black goo was coming out the edges, shiny.
But they went to these pygmies in Kenya.
And the herb plants just looked like hedges, giant bushes out in the bush.
They were the bush.
And these pygmies, these little pygmy people were rubbing it, hand rubbing it and putting it in a big chillum and smoking it up.
But again, you could see on that video, the sheen to that hash, how sticky it was and how high they got.
And it wasn't like a pro, it was not a pro hash thing.
It was an anti-drug kind of documentary where they were just showing all this hash production.
But I know that's the stuff I'm after, put it that way.
Yeah, wow.
And out of curiosity, where were you when you were able to try it?
In the Detroit area, again.
Got it from a cousin, my cousin, the drummer.
Do you think it was import or grown in the States?
No, it was import.
It was African wheat.
He was a jazz musician.
He taught jazz drumming, as a matter of fact.
And he had those connections in the Detroit area.
In that regard, for history, I don't know if you're familiar with a book called Really the Blues by Mez Mesro.
M-E-Z-Z-R-O-W, I believe his name is spelled.
Fascinating read.
I don't know why it's not required reading in college.
I think it's even out of print.
He wrote this in the 40s.
He was a pot dealer in Harlem, a Jewish guy, played clarinet, jazz musician, selling what was called golden leaf.
Golden leaf came up from New Orleans.
It was grown in the Caribbean from African stock that came over with the slave trade.
And this was the herb of the jazz musicians, the golden leaf.
The book has a bunch of amazing, it's just a fascinating read.
They used to call Pop Mez in his honor.
But this African herb, it goes back quite a ways.
Burrows, the same thing.
It was growing in Mexico, and he went down to Mexico to grow some of it.
The gold, that Oaxacan was along those lines.
That had a very frankincense, cedar, candy cedar incense smell flavor, Catholic church incense.
Very much, and again, just enlightening.
Now that stuff was very pleasurable.
See, the African, that was more, it's like DMT.
It was more serious.
Whereas the golds were by far more pleasurable, powerful.
Another herb that would got uncomfortable at times was any of the islander, Jamaican, Hawaiian, could be far too potent sometimes.
Yeah, wow.
This is all just like I never would have thought.
Something we have heard before is that the golds, as you referenced, were very popular.
Do you think that at the time people were aware of what they were getting, or do you think they kind of took it a bit for granted?
My ilk, my crowd, we knew.
When you stumbled upon the good shit, when there was all that dirt weed going around, we would pool our resources and buy a quantity, try and get enough to get a pound.
Get a much more reasonable deal.
It was like $250 a pound.
Used to be, jeez, $90 a kilo in bricks.
Generally, I think I was paying about $200 to $300 per pound for the top shelf stuff, whereas the more commercial things were probably $150 a pound.
Yeah, we would pool our resources and buy the good shit and then have it for a while, sell however much.
We knew about it for sure.
I think it's like wine, right?
Good wine.
You don't have to be a connoisseur or a wine expert to just know what you like.
Generally speaking, when people are introduced to what is classified as good wine, they tend to smack their lips and go, oh, that's wonderful.
It's very similar with herb.
Yeah, you just kind of gravitate towards what you like.
It's not just the flavor.
It's then the accompanying feeling that goes with it.
Whereas wine generally tends to have, you drink enough of it, the same feeling.
So, old-time moonshine.
This is kind of an indica-dominant strain you released in the past, which didn't really have any apparent relationships to the blue family.
And the thing which strikes my interest about this is, obviously, not really related to a lot of other stocks.
So, the first thing I started to wonder is, how many of these types of projects or strains do you have in your library where they are actually just kind of unrelated?
That's a good question.
The old-time moonshine was part of what went on up in Canada in 2004, around then.
Someone with a nice big house set up, 600 plants, was able to dedicate the space to do an R&D and then a seed run from that R&D.
It was the biggest that I got to witness firsthand of my personal stock being grown out.
And these were things that presented themselves.
Old-time moonshine was one of them that was in, I think, a blue moonshine-designated stock.
I really wasn't that involved.
I mean, I put my hands on it, saw it, smoked it, but it wasn't that personally involved.
I'm trying to recall if she was strictly green, if she had the purples in her or not.
I do know that, in the final analysis, again, my primary concern was the smoke and how did things smoke.
And in that capacity, it passed the muster to be of the potency to qualify for a moonshine.
They actually came up with the name old-time moonshine, assigned that to it.
There was only one plant, all right?
It was a big plant that went to seed.
And I think there were about 1,600 seeds on that, and this was back when seeds were in 10-packs.
So it was only about 160 packs of those seeds.
And like any release, there's an initial sale because people are interested, and you've got to wait for smoke reports
and things to come in for sales to pick up after that initial.
Well, the old-time moonshine just kind of moved along, you know, as we sold our little bit.
Over time then, I think High Times did a piece on it, and Jason King did something on it that really set the hype again.
There was a surge in buying of those seeds, and they sold out, all right?
So there were no more of them, and that kind of adds to the hype in a big way.
Now, again, this was mid-late 2000s, right after the Mark Emery bust, in and around the time of the Heaven Stairway bust.
People were on edge. People were looking to, you know, seed hoarding was a big phenomenon right then.
And someone who had bought two packs of those old-time moonshine put them on one of the auction boards that was left,
probably on Gypsy Nirvana's site at that time, I forget where, on an auction, and they got $1,000 a pack.
Yeah, on a 10-seed pack.
And that then, I think, just fueled the hype a whole bunch more.
So from my perspective, that's what happened with old-time moonshine.
Now, re-releasing that, I passed some of that stock on again to both my son and some people in Michigan, growing that out now, and a great success.
They're loving it. It's passing the muster, so we might see that again.
But in terms, that's what happened with it, and that's how hype works.
Yeah, I get that.
And so, there's this kind of interesting prevailing mindset in the community whereby if someone stops offering a strain,
not because they think it's bad and it shouldn't be offered, but for whatever reason, they're no longer offering it,
generally speaking, if someone else begins to offer it, it's kind of considered okay.
How do you feel about the fact that Mosca does that with the old-time moonshine?
It should be the way it is for tomatoes.
Whatever laws there are for tomatoes and tomato seeds, what Burpee goes through.
And I mean, from my perspective, you look at it like this.
I use tomatoes as an analogy.
I go into public domain stock, and I work just heritage strains, and I come up with a tomato that is small, it's blue, and it tastes like a blueberry.
And they're blueberry tomatoes.
And I market them as both blueberry tomatoes, leasing that rights to whomever, or I sell seeds of blueberry tomatoes.
Now, if I lease that out to Burpee or whomever, and they're selling blueberry tomatoes, and they're doing it for a while,
and either for whatever reasons, crop failure, supply is much higher than demand, they cannot supply the market for a given period of time for whatever reason,
does that give the general public the right to buy a pack of blueberry tomato seeds and then offer them on the market?
Legally, no, from my understanding.
And all I care about is exactly whatever the hell it is for tomatoes, well, let's do that for herb.
And that's something for the lawyers to work out.
For me, it's an incidental, it's a distraction, really.
And, you know, I mean, I come from this kind of open source place where I do believe that even given intellectual property rights,
that all intellectual property is public domain.
Once it's published, once it's out there, and the analogy I like to use is like, it's a big pond, right?
And in that pond are these fish, and that fish is the information.
You could use Einstein, all right?
Einstein made the right fishing tackle, the right gear, and he caught E equals MC squared.
Now, Einstein caught it, all right?
But he gave it to the world.
And here you go, here's E equals MC squared.
I think in fairness that the way it would go forward is that, fine, everyone can take E equals MC squared and run with it.
But if you start making money off of it, you owe something to Einstein, right?
Or back to the pond, one or the other.
As long as that cycle is completed, hey, this is completely sustainable, right?
But when people then, you know, take, claim rights to things, then that gets murky, and then litigation gets complicated,
and it becomes a serious waste of time, energy, and money.
Yeah, I get you.
It brings up this interesting concept because there's currently this topic in the community of, you know,
what level of onus is there on people to reach out and maybe ask for permission before using a strain and a cross?
And that's kind of, to me, it's a bit of a no-brainer, especially if you're crossing two different strains.
I feel like it gets very confusing when, yeah, when you say you're doing an F2 of someone's work.
And that's why I prefaced it with that initial bit because, like, the thing I notice is, for example, Tom Hill,
he's not around anymore, and there are a lot of people who F2 his lines.
And if he was around, that would be, like, such a no-no.
But the fact he's not around, people almost view it as, like, you're doing a community service.
So I just, I'm so intrigued by how, you know, the mindset around this all works because it's, like,
under just these minor little tweaks in the situation, there's just, like, a total flip on whether people support the concept or not.
And then in your situation, yeah, like, you're still around.
So it kind of raises the question of did you stop releasing it because maybe you didn't want it out there?
Things like that are what I think about it at least.
What, old-time moonshine? No.
Like I said, there was one plant.
There were 1,600 seeds, 160 packs, which were enough to make that hype happen.
But to finish up on the pond and the fish analogy, the pond and the fish belong to everybody, right?
Even though Einstein caught E equals MC squared with his fishing thing, it still belongs to everybody.
And the only time it gets murky, the only thing that needs to be regulated, and I think this is a big-picture thing legally,
to me, the most dangerous substance on the face of the earth that needs to be regulated is money, period.
And once we get a grip on that, I think society will do fine.
But we're not controlling money and we're allowing that concept of the golden rule being that those with the gold make the rules.
And historically, that's never worked out well.
And it won't this time either.
It's unfortunate that the levels of suffering can happen as a result of that.
But again, the pond, the fish belong to everybody, but you have to give credit to whomever wrestled out that fish from the pond in the first place and take care of that.
And things work themselves out.
Yeah.
So, just as a quick little wrap-up, was the grape crush of kind of a similar nature to the old-time moonshine, where it was kind of something you offered for a bid and now it's kind of gone, or was there a little bit of a different backstory on that one?
It was a blueberry line, blueberry leaning, but had a much more grape flavor and was very productive, just 15, 20, sometimes 25% more on the plant with the same amount of quality.
It is re-released right now in what we call a throwback form, where we've taken a bunch of the grape crush seeds, grown them out, done a proper selection for the mother, and then just used the F4 blueberry dad, who's got merit all the way around.
And those seeds are doing the exact same thing in terms of production and the grape flavor.
So, they are around.
I don't know if my son is still continuing them.
He's got a lot on his plate right now, and once again, it's space and time.
I need to have a meeting with him here soon to see what he does have and doesn't have.
Anything I have released can be released again.
It will be seen again at some point in time.
Fantastic.
Just as a little curiosity point, this could be a silly question, excuse me if it is.
Were you the creator of Skywalker, or did Dutch Passion do that just with your work?
They just did that with my work, and that was kind of after the fact, after I had left being there.
I never got anything for that one.
Yeah, that was just a little one I needed to slot in.
I didn't know where to slot that one.
I'm glad you did, because that's one of those that few people really know about,
and that was my genetics, the things that I'd left up with Dutch Passion.
I don't know if he worked any other genetics in with that, but I do know that mine were responsible,
at least in the initial description of them.
Yeah, I was able to try some in the States, and it was incredible quality.
Of all I can assume, I think that this particular cutting was kind of tapping more into the flow side of things,
because everything people have ever told me about flow, it's just what this...
And it was given to me as Purple Skywalker, and I was like, what do you mean purple?
It just happens to be purple?
And they're like, no, this cut, it's like...
And it looked kind of like that stacked calyx, foxtail photo of flow.
So, yeah, again, I love that one, so I was always curious.
But something I wanted to ask you, though, is given your work is so extensively worked generation-wise,
how do you feel about the fact that a lot of the current breeders are releasing F1s these days?
Do you have any opinions on that, or where do you sit?
Again, it's not something I really have the time or energy to focus on.
My only contact with what other people are doing in the industries is when I attend shows,
and I happen to walk around and notice, I know that right now there is a huge surge of new genetics companies.
A lot of them seem to be banding together, sharing booth space and distribution in that way.
A lot, though.
It's genetics companies.
Basically, just pick up any recent issue of High Times and flip through who has the most full-page ads.
Kind of gives you an indication of who's spending money on what.
That also, and booth spaces at these events.
Some of those booths are hundreds of thousands of dollars worth of space and people.
But there's your indicator.
Just follow the money.
Yeah, okay.
And so, do you feel it's possible to remain relevant within the scene without engaging strongly in advertising and social media and stuff?
Because I think that for the most part, you could look at your own brand and say there's a little bit of that going on,
where it's still doing very well, yet you're not one of these people who's posting up stuff every day and trying to like everyone's comments and stuff.
Yeah, and I'm not.
I mean, this whole social media phenomenon, it's a new thing.
And it kind of boggles my mind.
I think the platforms themselves don't worry me so much as how quickly people embrace this as normal.
And it's not.
It's only just begun.
So, again, it remains to be seen.
I think it's far too early to tell.
I think now, right now, in this day and age and in this market, yes.
In the States especially, I would imagine so in Europe, Canada, probably Australia too, to be very active on these platforms.
For me, again, it's an incidental.
I need to focus on finding those things that make me feel good when I smoke them.
And so in that capacity, I've got my work cut out for me.
But for other people, yeah, I see it all the time.
The competition is fierce.
It really is.
And if it were fair, I mean, if people played fair, that'd be one thing.
But people don't.
And it's been going on for a long time, where people use certain bulletin boards or whatever to tout one brand.
And praise another, supposedly in this completely sincere way.
But that's not the case.
It's all marketing strategies and things.
It was the same when I was a kid.
Growing up, it was TV and commercials.
And we had to learn, oh, God, yes, this is how they're trying to affect us.
And hopefully, some of us will see through it and learn from it and be able to progress beyond.
I'm hoping at some point, some day, just the merit of the herb itself is going to be what guides its future.
The good smoke.
And that was it in the Brotherhood days.
I mean, when it was the good smoke.
Demand, supply and demand.
And people knowing what they like and wanting what they like.
And seeking it.
Yeah, for sure.
So, something I do want to ask you is, what was it that caused you to go back to the drawing board and to rework the Blueberry Sativa line?
And to ultimately kind of derive the Vanaluna and the Kokoa Kush from it?
Oh, sure.
The Blueberry Sativa, or what came to be known as Blue Satellite, that was work I did with Breeder Steve.
And Breeder Steve was another Canadian, originally, who then went to Europe, first to Switzerland.
Had quite a few successes there, but had a nasty habit of burning his bridges.
And ended up leaving Switzerland and going to Spain and kind of doing the same thing there.
Accomplishing a lot.
Quite a bit.
I went over there, took genetics with me, and that's where we came up with those.
At that point in time, it was my next... Blueberry was out, Flo was out.
This is what has to be next. This Blueberry Sativa.
Once that was out, then I came back. I was working on my own.
Things really didn't work out up in Canada.
So that was like 05, 06, that I did the Kokoa Kush and Vanaluna from similar lines.
Matter of fact, exactly the same lines as the Blue Satellite.
Interesting. And so, do you think that the Vanaluna has kind of gone on to get its own cult following in the way that Flo almost has?
Because I find the variegation is undeniably something which just really draws people to her.
Yeah, I would have to agree.
It's another one of my favorites, actually. Probably more so than Blueberry.
And it, I describe as being comfortable.
It's just plain comfortable. Makes you comfortable.
So for, again, pain management, it was wonderful in that capacity. Very clear-headed.
Koko Kush, the same thing. Although Koko Kush had a little bit more of a wild ride to it.
I called it a little bit more like a roller coaster.
So, what was the question in relation to that Vanaluna and Koko Kush?
Basically, I was just wondering, do you find that there is a bit of a cult following for Vanaluna?
Oh, I would hope so. I would hope so.
Same with, you know, Flo. It took a long time.
I was sitting there going, God, I really wish Flo.
Well, Flo, again, Breeder Steve. Breeder Steve recognized Flo in 1996.
It won the Cannabis Cup in Europe for Cannabis Culture Magazine
because Breeder Steve was sent over there to cover the Cannabis Cup.
He sampled all the varieties that were entered.
And at the time, I had been bringing my seed, getting my seed there in the bud.
Because to me, that was the way to ensure, number one, authenticity.
It's in vacuum sealed in bud.
And then number two, I have smoke.
And seeded smoke, it's got a special characteristic to it.
And it was some of that seeded Flo that when Breeder Steve was there, we broke it out, rolled up some joints.
He looks at me, he says, this is the best thing I've smoked here.
So, yeah, he recognized it in 1996.
But for anything connoisseur, you know, it takes a while, I think, for it to catch on.
Even if it's supposed to.
Because, I don't know, some things get too popular and it sort of waters them down sometimes, too.
Yeah, no, I agree.
Last little question about the Vanilluna and the leaf variegation I wanted to ask you is,
had you ever noticed anything about that?
And did it ever relate to the plant?
Because the reason I ask is two reasons.
One, I've bred a plant which is kind of near and dear to my heart and it does it.
And I haven't really noticed too much effect except for, you know, kind of an aesthetic appeal, which I think a lot of people like.
But on the other end of the spectrum, a really commonly highly regarded cut within the States, the Chemdog D, it does variegation.
And people kind of view it as like a negative thing.
And so I'm wondering, where do you sit?
Do you think it's purely aesthetic or does it play a role?
Well, I think I know where it comes from.
And it comes from mainly the Thai, both the Chocolate Thai and the Highland Thai,
which in my opinion were subjected at some time in their lineage to what is called a Colchicine regimen.
Colchicine is a toxic substance.
It's a medicine used to treat gout.
It is also, oh, what do you call it when you mix up genetics?
It's a modulator, I believe.
Yep.
And the theory goes you take many seeds, soak them in Colchicine, only a few of them will sprout and they'll be wretchedly deformed.
You breed further with them, they're supposed to be toxic, actually a few generations out.
But very specific phenotypic expressions can be isolated.
They said, well, seedless watermelons, a few other things came from Colchicine mutagenic regimen.
And evidence is the variegation in the leaf, the twisted curling and also albino patching.
And the albino patching is very geometric.
It happens in specific places and if you count things out, number of leaflets, what side of the leaf,
you will see the identical patterns on opposite sides of the plant.
And it may have been what made the Thai the Thai.
As well.
Yeah, wow, okay.
So, back to kind of one of the strains which no longer being offered, the Trueberry.
And that's what combines the Indica and the Sativa sides of the Blueberry.
A lot of people just when looking at that one, they might think that that would be kind of the masterpiece for you.
Do you view it like that?
Do you view it as kind of the ultimate expression of Blueberry or it's just more of like a cool merging of the Indica and the Sativa lines?
Yeah, more on the Sativa side.
You're talking about the True Blueberry.
Yes, sorry.
Yeah, and that was another one of the Canadian offerings.
And it was a little more sour on, you know, lemony citrus, piney side, more spear-shaped to the buds.
Whereas the domestic U.S. Blueberry is the Stretch Indica where you have the nice golf ball bud formations placed along long inner nodes.
And a bit sweeter.
But, you know, again, they both have their merit.
And there was a limited offering of those as well.
And now they're out floating around doing their thing.
Probably will re-release that in some kind of a throwback offering.
Again, I'm just looking forward to in the future being able to go back into my library without being limited so much by space and time.
Where I can grow out at least several hundred plants at a time again.
And search for these various expressions among others.
There have been things that I've lost that I want to go back and find.
I have notes where they are.
Cherry in particular.
Very, very distinct cherry.
Yeah, okay.
I mean, I don't think anyone has ever mentioned cherry as, you know, one of the possible variations from your work.
So, that's, I think that'll generate a lot of interest.
Yeah.
The woods as well.
Cedar in particular.
Incense type things have merit to me.
Yeah, okay.
So, one thing I wanted to ask about was Velvet Rush.
Is this just essentially like, well, on paper it looks like it's just the Highland Thai Afghani.
How does it differ to that?
And one of the things it says online about it is that it's quite hard to grow.
Where does that comment kind of come from?
Now, Velvet Rush, are you talking about Blue Velvet?
Well, it's just listed purely as Velvet Rush online.
It says it's just like an unknown F generation of the Highland Thai Afghani.
That could be totally incorrect, though.
Yeah, no, it's not.
And I don't think it's something that I offer.
So, it might be somebody else's.
Yeah, someone's doing something with that.
There you go.
So-
I did have a Blue Velvet.
Okay.
And you were mentioning the foxtail.
Is that the one in the book where there are leaves coming out and it's long, curled?
Yeah.
That was mislabeled as Flo.
That was actually Blue Velvet.
So, you know.
There you go.
Also, you're probably aware of this.
I think that photo is one of the most widely plagiarized photos.
I see that photo on so many strains, most notably on random European websites.
Interesting.
Yeah, it's a good one.
I've seen that one being labeled as Dr. Grinspoon.
You know, like that iconic Kalex stacking Dr. Grinspoon photo.
Anyway, so yeah, interesting one.
One thing I noticed is whenever I'm talking to someone about DJ Short's work,
I know how they're legit because they'll say something like,
yeah, do you know about Toe Jam or Red Eyed Bride?
And I'll be like, oh, this guy knows what he's talking about.
Can you give us a little bit of info on those ones and the whole collaboration process?
Yeah, Chimera.
Again, that was when I was up in Vancouver mid-2004, 2005,
and he was establishing his presence in the community as well and doing his thing.
A lot like Breeder Steve, but he is more scientific, disciplined, you know,
focused in that way.
I think he has a degree in genetics up there,
but he's still doing his thing still.
I haven't spoken with these people, been in contact in a long time since then, actually.
Wow, and so those projects, were they just kind of, you know, whatever for you,
or did you find anything you liked out of them?
Again, I have so many.
The grow we did, it was 600 plants, all right?
I forget, 18, 22,000 watts, something like that, old school HIDs.
So there was a lot to look at.
We had, I think, 12 resinous males, all from this one blueberry line when we picked the male.
The B, I forget his number.
There was a B133, and there's probably people online that know better than me right now
because that's legend and is going around.
I actually have copies of those seeds as well, and it was harried.
You know, there was a lot going on, so I was pretty much overwhelmed with doing my own things.
I was able to see other people's things, but I don't have enough real authority to comment one way or another.
Yeah.
Nagi, yeah.
What's interesting is when you mentioned that B133, I'm just looking through the fan submitted questions.
Someone actually submitted that exact question.
It's like, can you tell us more about the blueberry B133 male?
Yeah, I know Chimera, was it that one or there was another male?
It was a B something male.
He selfed the male, turned the male female.
It was another process, and made a bunch of those seeds.
I have some of those as well.
Yeah, Chimera is very focused.
I'm not sure what he's up to these days.
I wish him well.
I know he had some family issues when I was leaving there, and he was dealing with that a lot.
But I'm pretty sure he still has a pretty good presence in the community, I would hope anyhow.
If not, check him out.
Yeah, for sure.
Do you feel responsible for having converted a good proportion of the community to the 11-13 light cycle?
Because I think you should.
Oh, wow.
I don't know how much of the community has flipped.
Anyone who's switched on, I find, is doing it.
Oh, cool.
Yeah, and in all, again, honesty, that came to me from an old timer, mid-80s.
A guy named Sonny Becker, he passed away of cancer, I think, in 86.
He was this old biker guy that made lights.
I bought my first lights from him.
It was a company called AgriLight out of Junction City, Oregon.
And it was there with him, and he goes, oh, make your lights, in your night time, a little bit longer than your day time.
I'm telling you, it's the thing to do.
And, yeah, Sonny, these guys, they knew their shit.
They were wrapping their own ballasts, all right?
I mean, getting copper wire, and they knew you go so many loops this way, so many loops that way.
You hook it to this wire, onto this little bulb thing, put it with this little capacitor and thingy on there, and boom, you got light.
But, yeah, he was the one that passed it on to me, and I had done it ever since.
It made perfect sense.
Plants take in nourishment during the day, which is light primarily, and they put it on at night, so it can add to production.
The main thing is phenotypic reaction.
You will see phenotypes that you do not see on the 12-12 on certain strains, especially a lot of mine.
Things will present themselves that don't present themselves on a 12-12.
Yeah, I've certainly found that you get like a more kind of flavorful and potent expression.
It's so weird, but, yeah, I really do notice that.
Yeah.
So, something I wanted to run by, because we haven't touched on it yet.
What type of growth style do you like to use?
Are you organic?
Are you bottled nutrients?
How do you do it?
No, organic soil with as few nutrients as possible.
Right now, the mix I like, it comes out of Eugene, down to earth.
Their organic cocoa coir blend is really nice.
There's a company doing worm castings, Wonder Worm, out of British Columbia, that has organic worm castings.
Very pure, very nice.
Fortify the soil.
I had some people that were working.
I was going to do some branding thing for an organic soil they were doing.
It was water only, complete water only soil.
And they're waiting for certification.
They're up in Seattle.
And I need to test it myself.
I haven't yet.
But other than that, yeah, just fortifying the soil.
Plus outdoor.
I prefer outdoor over indoor, definitely.
It's such a waste, you know, just such a waste.
I forget what it was, 800 pounds of coal to make one pound of pot.
In terms of electricity, how accurate that is, you know, I don't know, but it's been bandied about a lot.
When you've got the big highlight in the sky, places like southern Nevada, especially California, just the opportunities there.
Michigan, where you have incredible soil.
Michigan has really unique soil composites in places that make unique cherries and apples.
And I know that the herb, you know, can find its sweet spots there as well.
Sweet spots outdoors.
So, yep, organic soil all the way.
If you're going to do hydro aquaponics, that is organic.
Hydroponics is the way to go.
Flavor is just great all the way around.
So, that's my preference.
For sure.
And then do you find that that's purely a preference thing or do you find that kind of like the medicinal properties and the more kind of complex and nuanced parts are more pronounced in organic?
Well, I haven't done it any other way, so I don't have the comparison to make.
I would just say it just makes common sense, you know.
Those things you're putting in the plant and the fiber of that plant, if you're smoking it in terms of a whole plant in a joint or a bowl, you're consuming those things in your lungs, through your lungs, all right?
Nobody studies that.
FDA doesn't study smoking fertilizers.
Eating, yeah, but eating is a completely different process.
So, where are the guinea pigs?
So far, so good, though.
I think that cannabis acts enough as a protectant that whatever nasty things ends up in there, it kind of gets compensated for somehow by the cannabinoids.
Yeah.
So, when you're at events, you know, the cups and whatnot, I'm sure plenty of people come up and maybe they want to show you some of your work they've grown out.
How often is it that you'll smoke something of that and you're really kind of blown away?
It happens.
It does.
And I do sample everything people give me.
I think the best compliment would be what I return to.
If I go to something a second or third time, it's like, okay, yeah, that's got my interest.
I will say this, that what I have done with these samples people give me is I've been saving them.
And I had been collecting them for about 10 years, and I had, I don't know, four or five pounds.
And I knew a processor, somebody I really liked, his method, it was butane, but he was very, very on his game.
And I said, here, do something with this.
And he made a shatter out of that.
And he named it.
And I thought it was very appropriate.
He called it the people's choice because it was everybody's stuff in there.
So now when people give me stuff, I let people know, hey, this is going to go in the next batch of the people's choice.
And we're about six years away from it, I think, right now.
And it was amazing.
It was some of the best stuff I had smoked in quite a while.
And it's gone, unfortunately.
I have some of it stuck to the paper, you know, for one of those, oh, I need to visit this again one more time.
But, yeah, the people's choice, it was dark.
It smelled like top shelf Moroccan hash and had that flavor, too, that kind of sandalwood flavor to it.
Very pleasant, very pleasant.
That's a good story.
I like that one.
There you go.
Now everyone knows what they're contributing to.
So this is a little personal one I wanted to ask you.
I grew out a pack of blueberry and I found that the keeper, so to speak, from that packet, it was kind of almost a bit skunky.
It might sound weird, right, but it was a bit skunky.
After smoking a lot of it, I had this kind of epiphany.
It clicked on me.
The blueberry profile to me is like skunk, like a cheesy skunk with an extra sweet component on the top.
It's almost if you broke blueberry down into, say, like a top end, a middle and a bottom, the cheesy skunk is the bottom, too, but it's missing the top.
Have you ever noticed anything like that?
I mean, it's probably just a really weird question to ask, but it just blew my mind.
And I was just like, wow.
At first I was like, how did I get this weird kind of skunky pheno, but it makes perfect sense and I adore it.
Yeah, no, it does.
And those things present themselves.
I refer to it as musky.
What I get is the skunk.
Like a parmesan.
Yeah.
Loamy, almost kind of loamy.
And the other side of that, when it doesn't quite get to blueberry, is anise or licorice.
And if you can get that licorice nice and sweet, the three-day dark before the chop helps a lot with those particular phenotypes.
And, yeah, so that's kind of what I look for.
But the sweet, getting that sweet in there is important.
Yeah, okay.
And so one thing I wanted to run by you basically was, I don't know if this is true, so you might be able to set the record straight,
but basically I was reading some kind of history blurb from Vic High, the breeder from British Columbia Seed Association, I believe.
Really famous breeder, sadly passed away not too long ago.
But in one of his strains, there's some blueberry genetics in there, and it has this little note.
It says, oh, please note, our blueberry derives from different origins to DJ Shortz.
And it made me think, are you aware of any blueberry that's derived from anything other than your work?
Like someone who's just happened to cross A and B, and they're like, oh, I got this really blueberry type of thing.
Because I'm not aware of anything like that.
Well, no, not specifically, but how many things are floating around out there through how many hands that can claim credit that can appear to be something unique?
Philos is where to look for that.
What's related to what?
And some of the initial findings from years ago when they did their first runs was that 80 to 85% of every hybrid out there had some marker of what I submitted in an inherited sense.
Do you think that's accurate? Because that does seem like a little high, to be honest.
It wouldn't surprise me for a number of reasons.
I mean, I entered the seed market in the mid-90s.
But you got to remember, I was doing clones out to the public since 79.
And I know a lot of those went to Northern California, Southern Oregon, all over the place.
I was giving seeds.
I was, at the time, supplementing by dealing whatever I had.
I had a lot of foreign student clientele who I would, you know, oh, hey, can you give me some seeds?
Yeah, sure, here, fine, whatever.
Or I would be doing R&D work, and there would be some seeds in whatever I was working with at the time that got passed on to other people.
They would say, oh, by the way, I sent that to my uncle in Morocco or Australia.
They would ask Japan.
I made a list one time.
It was almost 60 countries.
Whoa.
Yeah.
So, no, it wouldn't surprise me.
Yeah, okay.
That's a good answer.
So, one thing I wanted to ask you was, I have a feeling you would have to be one of the most ripped off slash, you know, replicated breeders out there.
Do you view that as a compliment, or is it more of like a challenge?
Because I think for a long time, a lot of people had issues getting, you know, quote unquote, your seeds from seed banks, and then only to find out that the reality is they probably weren't your seeds.
Yeah, you just gave me a new term, complimentary challenge.
Yeah, yeah, that's it.
Yeah, I like to, you know, cap that off with this and just say, hey, the best is yet to come.
All right, let's focus on the future.
Let's move forward.
I just need my space, my time, and to be left alone, and I'll do just fine.
And I'm looking forward to sharing that with whomever appreciates it.
So.
Fantastic.
So, I think we might jump into some of the fan submitted questions.
We've got a good bunch here.
We'll scroll down to one of the ones I wanted to ask first.
Our good friend Bodhi wanted to know if you could talk a little more about your experience and opinions on using psychedelics as a tool to assist with breathing.
Oh, yeah.
No, it's just a general life rule.
You know, for me, people, there's the concept of altering consciousness, first of all, which is what makes our detractors nervous.
That's what makes them uptight, that we alter our consciousness and somehow yet, you know, have control over it.
It's difficult for some people to grasp.
At any rate, utilizing, for me, the concept of an altered consciousness gives me what I like to refer to as a stereoscopic view of reality.
I have my baseline state, how I perceive life, anything, challenge or obstacle, any decision I have to make.
And then I have my altered state where I can consider the same things.
And you can bounce back and forth between the two and kind of get a little bit broader of a sense of, you know, at least what opportunities exist.
So utilizing it as a tool in that regard, it opens sensitivity.
All right. So it puts me more in a place of where, say, someone in a schizophrenic state may be or in any state of disease or distress.
And how how am I reacting to that when I consume this herb?
Does it help the situation or does it, you know, impede, make a little worse?
Make note of that because the herbs are generally tend to calm in a psychedelic situation, tend to bring that in baseline or non-psychedelic state.
But cannabis is a mild psychedelic in and of itself.
So.
And so what are some of your preferred psychedelics?
Oh, any, you know, all the indole range.
Providing they're pure.
Pure for fungal, like things that are naturally collected.
If not, then naturally grown by sincere people.
And yeah, they all work.
Yeah, great.
So one of the questions is, what were some of the original flavors, smells and structure of the ties that you're working with?
Obviously, you touched on this a little before, but I think they're most interested in the flavors.
Like what were the different flavor expressions you are getting?
In the Landrace tie?
Yeah.
The smell of the flower was just juicy fruit, old school, tutti fruity, juicy fruit, gum, sweet as can be.
And yet with that tropical sharpness to it.
In the smoke, it had the fruitiness, kind of more the mango.
So I would assume Mersenne would have been in there.
Piney, sweet cedars, more woody in the smoke.
But it was just juicy fruit, gum.
Very difficult to manicure.
I kind of had to just leave the bract leaves on and run them up the stem and sort of squish them into a bag and hope that they.
I think they were more fermenting than curing, but that finished product was pretty wonderful and it had no sealing.
That stuff was dangerous.
Yeah, I'm really just so incredibly grateful to have been able to try some Highland tie that Bodie grew out.
And that has got to be some of the absolute best herb I've ever had in my life.
It's easily the standout herb of the last trip I did to the States and I was trying to describe it to a friend and I was just like, it's like, you know, you're at a party and everyone's having a great time.
It just feels like it felt so good.
But yeah, it's interesting stuff and is very different to the super racy tie.
But yeah, right.
And you asked actually about the land race and I just asked answered about the P1s I grew from the land race.
The land race tie, the stick or the untied, that stuff was, again, just so unique.
Some of it, the curing process on the stick involved fermenting, which is a process that's used with tobacco.
And it's interesting. It involves water soaking and then pressure and very specific mold or yeast to the host plant has to be present and nothing else.
And it was like it was like Thai food.
All right. Sweet, savory.
It was just unique.
It was not, you know, the what I grew from it was close in a domestic sense, but nothing like what came from Thailand.
That stuff was just amazing.
Tropical fruit, Hawaiian punch only with a bit of a fermentation to it.
It was nice.
Yeah. Well, that sounds great.
It's bringing some memories.
I had a conversation with an old timer I met not long ago and he lives in Australia and he tries to grow those ties you talk about.
And he was talking about how he's trying to replicate that terroir and, you know, trying to get it as close to Thailand as possible.
And he said, just as a little side note, the biggest impactful thing he found was he put heating mats under his pots because he found that rooting the heat ball
to like 25 degrees, like basically he said it would never really get colder than that in Thailand or where the seed stock he was growing.
And he said it made a huge difference phenotypically.
And I was like, hmm, that's that's food for thought.
Yeah. Yeah.
What little tricks.
I was just reading something on the Thai stick.
I don't know if it was in the book Thai stick.
That the Thai people would let their babies, the infants sleep on the bales.
Wow. Good, sweet language.
Yeah. Yeah.
There was a lot of things were down with the Thai.
Some of it had opium in it, which was just soaked in the water left over from cooking out heroin from the opium.
And that that was potent.
You did not want to be out drinking and smoke any of that.
Yeah, that's I almost like wish I could have tried some of that, but not at the same time.
So the next question we have is that iconic photo of you in the sports coat holding the plant outside in your younger days with the long hair.
What year was that?
1979.
And what plants that one in your hand?
That plant in my hand.
Wow. I'm glad you asked that.
I wonder if you got a picture you can throw that out there.
That is the chocolate Thai and it is seeded.
It was the name of that plant at the time was patio door because it was the plant that was right outside my patio door in the ground.
It wasn't in a pot.
And yeah, that's chocolate Thai.
Wow. That's yeah, that's a real history photo.
So we definitely whack one of those up.
Next question, which I think is a great one.
Do you remember the first time you ever hit that weed, whether you know, whatever, bong joint, whatever, and you got that defined blueberry taste?
Do you remember that time?
Yeah, that would have been doing the F2s.
So that would have been 1980 or so.
And again, back then it was it was the kind it was just this, oh my open.
It was it was more of a dilator effect than anything constrictive.
It was the exact opposite of constrictive, which is, you know, kind of a fruit experience.
You know, your your body takes it in.
It's nourishing. It tastes good.
It's it's it just has this appeal.
Just just overall holistically.
Yeah. But yes, I not the you know, maybe the exact time in and around then.
It was such a whirlwind.
What I experienced in Oregon at that time coming from Detroit, just learning pot grew there.
You know how easily and how the quality compared to, you know, getting the usual dirt weed, even B grade dirt weed or stumbling upon some some A grade now and again when you're lucky.
But it was quite the eye opener.
Yeah. And so new things were constant, just constant.
I would have several jars of things.
Oh, my God. It was this is new and that is new and and always striving a little better to, you know, making it better here and picking the next.
Oh, yeah. You're a little better than your mom and going that route.
Yeah. Striving to do better than I like that.
So another really interesting question we got from our friend True Cannibalist is he says that he read a while ago that you liked, you know, maybe preferentially to kind of smoke buds that had been pollinated because you kind of enjoyed the changes that went on within the plant on the biology level.
Could you talk to us a little more about that?
Like, what kind of is it you enjoy about these seeded plants?
Like, do you find them to be more relaxing or what is it for you?
Yeah, relaxing is a good way.
One of the aspects. It's the term I like is broader.
It's just a broader experience.
That plant that seeded was able to complete its lifecycle instead of being stuck before completing his lifecycle and then being harvested.
And there's just something about that, a maturity to the resins.
And historically, all of the great herb that I've mentioned came, you know, they were all hermaphroditic and all at least somewhat seeded.
And all of the great hash came from field run hash or hand rubbed.
That was usually hermaphroditic and seeded as well.
So plus I've had, you know, I've had to smoke a lot of seeded herb in my day.
Yeah, that's a good point.
And the resins from them as well.
And you can tell there, it's subtle.
It's not a, you know, a real bold kind of difference, but it's subtle and it is my preference.
We've touched on a lot of the topics these questions are.
So I'm just going to kind of cut to the one bit that's not there.
Do you have a preferred lighting style?
I know you mentioned the CMHs.
Is that that's your preferred one for indoor?
Right now for having firsthand experience with it, my son has been working with the LEDs to great success and I'm reading great things.
He's the company he works with is Next Light out of Ohio.
And they're really focusing on dialing in full spectrum lighting.
And some of the pictures I've been seeing people have been bringing in my classes and things.
My son's been showing me bud sets, the canopy, the buds in the canopy are albino.
The plant just ceases producing so much chlorophyll because it's saturated with light.
Production is there, the terpene quantity and quality is very high because they tend not to dissipate so much with these cooler lights.
So yeah, the LEDs, the high-end LEDs are proving their merit and worth.
Yeah, fantastic. I'm looking at getting some myself.
So this next question is an interesting one.
I kind of like the angle of it.
Have you ever tried any of what would largely be considered hype strains like smoked it and you thought to yourself, I don't mind that?
Well, I also smoked it.
And you thought to yourself, I don't mind that.
Well, I always try to be as positive as possible.
And one of the things that people pride themselves on that is kind of a hindrance to me, I think a stumbling block is potency.
And it's not terribly difficult to dial in and people do do it and they are proud of it.
And so I will, you know, it'll be my first comment if I am past something and I hit it and it's a little overpowering.
I say, well, that certainly is potent, which, you know, I guess satisfies their ego to some extent.
But no, basically, is the answer to your question.
I think I avoid it.
It's hard for me anymore.
I judge cups now and again, but the only thing I'm judging are like resins, live resins and solventless and things like that.
Some of the rosin, it's pretty easy to deal with.
You can titrate, just do a little tiny bit and decide I like that or not.
And then I don't have to go there.
But what I'm trying to avoid are these, you know, got another two hours out of my life, I'll never get back, like a bad movie.
You know, so I've had enough of that.
So, this is a question I wish I came up with.
It's a really good one.
Have you noticed any negatives throughout the course of inbreeding your lines in any of them?
Not really.
Not really.
Vigor is still there.
Considering that, you know, in terms of commercial offerings, I'm working with F4s.
It still completely interests me.
And there are things, like I said, things I've lost I need to look for.
And I know that when I sprout a certain number of seeds, especially from a batch I haven't sprouted before, I'm going to see something new.
Both positive and negative.
Sometimes there's negative in there too.
So, I mean, well, that raises a good question.
Do you frequently find there's a few duds in each project or, you know, like is that...
Oh, yes.
And how often do you just completely shelve something?
Most of the time.
Yes, the keepers are, you know, a small percentage really when doing the inbreeding.
Certain lines, like, well, this happy pussy line presented a lot of stellar females.
I sent some to my son to find a male.
I gave him seven seeds and the end of it was seven females, which, all right, so it went that way.
But...
I think you almost referenced earlier on what you were saying about the seeds.
But...
I think you almost referenced earlier on where, you know, you'd be looking at F8, F10 before you'd really be inbreeding hard, right?
Exactly, exactly.
And I can go to any level, you know, if I get bored, I can sprout an F3 and look there and see because then there's branches, other branches can come off of that.
Whereas when I'm working with F4s, it's kind of more set, things are more defined.
Yeah.
So, would you ever consider working any feminized gear? Like, you know, making your own feminized lines?
I thought about it with Flo, simply because she's never sported one male flower in all the 27 years she's been alive.
Stressed many times, near death, and never shown a male flower.
And I let my son, I said, here, why don't you give it a whirl?
And he got male flowers present, I think some pollen, but we did not get seed.
And the reason for that project was mainly just for preservation.
But no, again, I don't have time.
Yeah.
I have too many other things, Fort Worth Filial Crosses are going to keep me busy and everybody happy.
So, I'll let other people do that.
So, this one, I'm not sure, you know, really the background on it, but it says, is it true that there was an original blueberry and it was lost?
Not lost per se.
Again, I gave you the story about the fellow that showed up.
So, yeah, it was out of my hands, but many, jeez, thousands of those were sent out to many people.
So, it's, I'm pretty sure it's still out there.
I could come up with it again as well.
Just waiting for, like I said, space and time.
Space and time.
So, do you ever smoke males?
And is it true that you once smoked males while on acid?
It's a bit of a ridiculous question.
Smoked what?
Smoked like male pollen.
Oh, male, male, male, male.
Yes.
Well, back in days of desperation, I remember trying stems once.
I remember trying pollen once.
It's like smoking hair with no merit, with no benefit.
Now, as far as smoking males to determine, yes, and that's tips.
You take the very tips that are flowering, enough of them to make whatever, used to be in a bowl or a joint.
I found the volcano vaporizer worked great for, if there is a terpene presence in that male,
that you can sense it more readily with the volcano vaporizer.
Yeah, that's a really good tip, actually.
So, there's been a little bit of like a discussion around males that hermaphrodite.
I think you were one of the initial people who kind of put a bit of a statement out there saying you didn't mind them.
I've toyed around with it myself and I know other people who have toyed around with it,
and there's kind of been a bit of mixed results.
What's kind of your opinion on the subject, now that we can get a proper?
Sure. I call them backwards males.
I think the reason that I have encountered them and been able to work with them is because whatever plant it was,
before I knew its sex, was very interesting looking.
It was sporting some fluorescence to it that I was like, yeah, okay, you're cool.
It turns out to be a male, and I would think, okay, I'm going to set you aside, see how you do.
I'm going to use you as a male.
And then after that, it put out one set or two set of male flowers and went totally female after that.
That plant also turned out to, oh, it was sterile.
It was completely sterile.
And sterile, I hit it with three different males because she was really stellar and terribly difficult to clone.
I don't think I cloned her.
I think I went to re-green her and I had to let her go because of space and time constraints.
But, yeah, she was male first and strictly female.
But I've seen them at other times.
And it's a phenomenon, again, I don't know if this is related to the culture scene as well or not,
where they put out pre-flowers or their first sex is one and they flip to the other.
And I haven't had a problem with those, using those as, well, females for flower, but not for breeding.
Yeah.
So, one comment I read a lot on the internet, and I wanted to get your opinion on it,
was that people seem to think that the current offering of blueberries are like a sweet,
kind of what I think of blueberry, I think.
But then they say that the earlier versions was more of like a blueberry muffin type of thing.
Do you agree with that?
Or do you think that's maybe just a bit of reminiscent looking back and thinking it was a little different to what it was?
No, I think two phenomenon are at play there.
One of which is that pre-98 phenomenon where I had released a quite broad variance.
And that someone may have stumbled upon what they referred to as a blueberry muffin phenotype.
But the other side of it, I think, has to do with additives, fertilizers, various nutrients are altering the flavor of herb.
Light frequencies as well.
I'm having my best luck again with the Blue Range ceramic metal highlights.
The LEDs also are bringing out the sweetness and a lot more flavor.
So, I think, you know, one of those two factors or both of them working together have built that legend.
Yeah, I think a lot of people would go into hybrids trying to create the fable blueberry muffin terpene profile, which is interesting.
No, it's there and I run across it. I see that phenotype.
I know what people are talking about.
It was more in the 80s, late 80s, early 90s.
Again, much different additive available back then.
It's simpler.
On the topic of additives, have you ever heard of people spraying blueberry with like the actual blueberry spray additives?
Yeah, you know, and that's...
It's a bummer.
Don't.
Yeah, or, you know, juice, blueberry juice, any colored thing, the roots will take it up and possibly transfer it up to the flowers.
Yeah, I just remember this one time I had this banana OG and it was almost too banana to be real.
And then in retrospect, I have a feeling that's exactly what happened.
Anyway, this is another really good question from one of our listeners.
Have you ever had like a mistake or a learning lesson during a breeding project that you've really, you know, taken with you and it was a good experience overall?
Mistake.
Well, yes.
When I was shooting for high potency and fast flowering, I went three generations.
It was increasing with each, but on that third one, I ran into like 75% of the crop.
Anyhow, it was this thing called, I called no high.
And it was actually worse than no high.
I called it grumpy dope because it had the opposite effect.
It was like anti-pot.
And it was terrible stuff.
It, unfortunately, funny story, I sold it to a friend of mine.
He was a bass player in a reggae band.
I didn't test it yet.
And I had let it go to him this one evening.
And it was like 830 in the morning.
There's a banging on my door.
And what is this?
What is this?
I was like, Oh God, Walter.
And Walter was pissed.
Walter never got pissed.
And Walter was never up at 830 in the morning.
I said, What's wrong?
He's, What's this shit you sold me?
I invited him in.
We sat down.
I took a bong hit of it.
And I said, Jesus, dude, I apologized right away.
And another friend of mine, I ended up passing it on to him.
And he did an experiment, kind of a rude experiment at the Oregon Country Fair.
He bagged a bunch of that up and then just left it in places.
And he watched people.
And he said, They did.
They started fighting.
And it was terrible.
So I said, Okay, be careful.
And make sure you test everything.
You know, what you're putting out there.
You've got to know that it performs.
That's awesome.
So this question, yeah, really intrigued me.
He said, I've heard a rumor that only around 20 to 30 percent of the work in your library has actually ever seen daylight.
Is that true?
Somewhere, I would say 40 to 60 percent in that range.
Or it has seen.
Has seen.
So 60 to 40 percent hasn't.
Wow.
So, yeah, you weren't kidding when the best is yet to come.
Yeah.
And I released what I've released.
I mean, I've been sitting on my thumbs for so long here, waiting for this decades now, knowing this time was coming and just kind of going, Oh, God, making sure everything is safe and scattered to the four winds and in trustworthy hands.
Just waiting, waiting for the day we'll get it going.
But realistically, it's going to be when we have worldwide importation.
Then, you know, maybe resurrect some of these genetics back in their sweet spots, which has been done.
There's this great article.
It's on IC Mag.
It's still on there.
It was the poster and it was Johnny Blaze, which was one of our Canadian offerings, was a Neville's Hayes hit with that beef.
One thirty three blueberry dad up there grown in Santa Marta, Colombia at ten thousand feet elevation.
And it was amazing and it was beautiful.
And the locals, they were posting in the in the grow and smoke reports that the locals were going.
She's back.
And they were referring to Punta Roya, the purple tip gold pot.
So, yeah, you know, this is not just domestically.
It's all over the world.
And again, in our area, focus on concentrates and resins and these wonderful terpenes and isolating them and breeding for those types of things.
But yeah, when the day comes, we've got worldwide importation.
Then people will know, you know, good herb.
Yeah.
On a regular basis.
So, do you have any tips for our listeners about how you go about selecting your males?
There's no shortcut, really.
You got to pollinate the female, mature the seed, cure it, sprout it and grow it.
To be sure, hollow stems is an indication of, you know, there's going to be some potency, drug cannabis.
Same with resin content.
If he's got any potency to him whatsoever, he'll more than likely carry that on.
And what's his terpene profile?
Those types of things to look for the stem rub, rubbing the leaves, smelling that.
If you have five of them next to each other, which one is the most appealing in that regard?
You know, those basic characteristics and that's the one I would lean toward in terms of using if, you know, space is an issue, numbers are an issue, which they are for some people still.
Yeah.
So, what are some of the things which go through your mind when you're thinking about starting a new cross?
Do you kind of really plan things out or are you just kind of more experimenting at first?
Yeah, it's pretty much experimental.
I have a list.
I have things kind of on deck that it's going to be one of these.
And yeah, there's a priority kind of set to looking for various things.
Right now, it's still in the resurrection stage.
Those things that have been stumbled upon and released and refinding them and getting them secured and stable somewhere.
And then going on from there.
Yeah.
So, one listener wants to know if you could give us your opinion on where the auto flower trait originates from, especially given it was in, you know, the kind.
I really don't know, to tell you the truth.
I kind of avoided it in the work I've been doing just simply because it tended to have more hermaphroditic characteristics.
And for the market I'm satisfying with seeds, you want low hermaphrodite or none.
It's relatively simple to do.
You just two, three generations.
You don't tolerate it in your parent stock and it tends to go away.
But I'm curious.
I am curious now.
I see a lot of people leaning that way and I do have memories of using it.
So, I don't know if that helps or answers, but.
Yeah, no, that does.
That's a good answer.
These are our last little quick five questions.
They're pretty, you know, yes, no type of stuff.
So, out of everything you've ever had, what's your favorite strain of all time?
Hash, Nepalese Temple Ball, right up there with the Kashmiri Cherris.
In terms of hash, in terms of herb, the Highland Oaxacan and the Highland Thai.
Probably I like the Highland Oaxacan a little better than the Thai.
The Thai had a good potency, but the Oaxacan had a pleasantness about it.
As did the Santa Marta, the Colombian Gold, the Acapulco Golds, all of those Frankincense, Cedar Leaning, Gold, South and Central American strains.
Those were probably my favorite.
Thai was right up there with them.
Yeah, perfect.
And so, what is your least favorite strain or just the one that's vibed with you least?
God, I have no idea.
I have no idea.
Ruteralis, hemp.
Speaking of which, driving across country, man, just so you know, I took Interstate 80.
There was a lot of feral hemp.
All right, we're talking about August, early August, and they were big plants, cornfields.
It was Indiana, Illinois, Iowa, and then into eastern Nebraska.
And on the sides of the cornfields, along the highway.
This was kind of strange.
I know, you know, I've heard rumor that they're back, but I know the highway patrol generally was yanking those things out.
But there were a lot of the big plants with big leaves.
So, if you're traveling Interstate 80 up in that area, be on the lookout for some nice looking hemp plants.
That's cool to hear.
I never thought I'd really see the roadside hemp like the old seed mags.
Yeah, I didn't either, but there it was.
And I had to keep doing a double take, and it sure enough was big leaf hemp.
That's cool.
So, final question for this one.
What is your hopes for the future of the cannabis scene?
Hey, just, you know, borrowing from the dead and the brotherhood, man, just share the love.
You know, that's what it's all about.
We can heal this planet.
We're healing cancer, curing cancer, for God's sake.
How do you need more serious than that?
Seriously?
All right.
No, no, that's it.
We're healing.
We're just, here we go.
We're finally stepping out of these, you know, if there's still people a thousand years from now, they're going to include, up to this point in time, in the Dark Ages,
we're almost there.
It's the dawning of the Information Age is about to happen.
And I think all information, once it becomes apparent and available, we'll work it out.
We'll work it out.
Fantastic.
So, did you have any comments or shout outs you wanted to make before we wrap it up?
No, just hello and thank you to my lovely partner, Dawn Anne, cured her cancer with cannabis, her breast cancer,
and is now four and a half years cancer free, just had the checkup.
And just, hey, you know, to the plant.
Always for the plant.
Keep her green, keep her growing.
Yeah, fantastic.
So, thanks again so much for coming on the show and for sharing all the knowledge and history.
It's been amazing.
Yeah, likewise, man.
Thank you.
Very professional.
There you have it.
Spending the time talking to us and for sharing all the stories.
Big, big, big thank you to Seeds Here Now, as always.
Your number one place to get DJ Shorts gear.
Organic Gardening Solutions, your number one place to grow that top shelf DJ Short gear.
And then finally, 420 Australia.
They'll probably have a DJ Short shirt come out at some point.
I don't know.
Big thank you to the Patreon sponsors.
Hit it up.
Don't know what to say other than that.
Check it out.
I'm not that big on trying to sell it, but you should check it out.
Thanks for hanging out, guys.
See you.
