Hello and welcome to the next episode of the podcast, a cannabis show for budding enthusiasts.
This episode was brought to you by 420 Australia, The Billy Shop, Organic Gardening Solutions
and All Things Peabod.
On this episode, we're joined by the man Peabod to talk all things Camp Dog.
So get comfy and enjoy.
All righty, so a big welcome and thank you for Peabod for coming on the show today.
Yeah, hello.
And for anyone who hasn't seen the earlier episodes, Peabod and Joe Brand were the two
guys who sold the weed to Mass G at the Grateful Dead show, which then went on to give birth
to the Camp Dog strains.
But with all that being said, my first question is, how did you meet Joe Brand?
I met Joe B at Western State College in Gunnison, Colorado in 1987.
I applied to a few schools out in Colorado.
It's the only one I got into, aka wasted state.
My parents were real proud.
But it was a great school.
I had a really fun time there.
And I met him in the cafeteria.
I was just going to get something to eat.
I didn't really know anyone there.
And I saw him sitting at a table with a couple other of his friends that he came out from
New Jersey with.
And they had tie-dye t-shirts on, Grateful Dead t-shirts.
So it kind of drew me over there.
And just went over there and just started talking to him.
And we've been friends ever since.
And so was it Joe who got you into the Grateful Dead or were you already into it before that?
I was already into it.
He was already into it.
We'd both gotten into it in high school.
I probably got into it my freshman year in high school.
My brother was a big Deadhead.
And we lived, I grew up in Connecticut.
So there were a lot of shows right around us within two, three hours.
Many places they used to play.
So I got to see many, many shows in high school.
So I was a pretty big Deadhead by the time I got out to Western State.
Okay, awesome.
And so before we get to that infamous show, what type of weed were you guys smoking growing
up?
In Connecticut, I lived about an hour outside New York City.
So we got a lot of strains from other countries like Vietnam and Afghan bud and a lot of real
Thai stick.
Just a lot of different flavors that I was smoking in high school.
When we got out to Western State, the infamous pea bud, we started smoking that, which is
an outdoor strain in Colorado.
Big huge like forearm sized colas or you get like a pound just full of little popcorn buds
that were just lime green and piney tasting and yeah, just really beautiful, beautiful
looking pod.
Awesome.
And so was this something that was around when you had access to the dog bud or was
it before or after that?
It was before the dog bud in Durin, but yeah, I moved there in 87 and the pea bud was around
for since at least the early 80s.
I would think my friend Rob would know a lot more about that than me, but it was definitely
before the dog bud.
Yeah.
Okay.
So, you know, just kind of segueing into the dog bud, what was that like for you guys?
Because you guys, I think if what I read was correct, was that you had access to that for
a while before, you know, that fateful encounter at Deer Creek.
Yeah, actually not like it was so long ago.
So I've talked to Joe and other people and got like the real, just a pound and a half
came into Crested Butte the summer of 91 and Joe Brand bought it.
I think he bought a pound of it or all of it.
I approached him and because he knew he, Joe and would, you know, had money and could get
rid of it.
And, you know, he was kind of the pea bud man too.
So Joe bought it, you know, he bought it all.
And I think, and so, and we're going on tour and I'm not sure in like a couple of weeks
or something.
But it was kind of, you know, perfect.
And, you know, we're, we kind of took it, took it all on dead tour, which kind of pissed
off a lot of people in town because they couldn't, they couldn't get it.
But it was just absolutely amazing.
We had never seen anything smell anything like it before.
We were smoking a lot of Pee-Bow, we were smoking some indoor hash plant, which is called
the Puck Skelly Hash Plant, a Puck, which is a pretty famous one here in Colorado.
I can tell you the story on that one too.
But we were smoking that M39, Big Buds, Skunk Number One, some good indoor strains, but
we had never seen anything like this or smelled anything like this before.
It was called, when Joe got it from what, it was called Dog Bud because it, after you
smoke it, it made you roll over like a dog.
That's what the meaning of the Dog Bud that I remember it was.
So we, we smelled it, we started calling it Chemweed because of just the, the odor
off it.
It smelled chemical, fuel, just insane terpenes as they say today.
It was just amazing, the smell of it.
And so we started calling it Chemweed, which kind of just as a joke.
So we kind of changed the name to Chemweed and, and then brought it, not sure exactly
how much we brought on tour, but probably close to a pound on dead tour.
And so these are kind of the days leading up to that show, am I correct?
Yep.
We, that was summer of 91.
So not sure where the tour started, but that happened at, I think there were two shows
in Deer Creek that happened at one of those shows in Deer Creek.
I think that was, I think we were just smoking it ourselves for the first shows.
And then we, we had split it up into eighths and, and just decided to bust it out at Deer
Creek.
And it was, it was amazing because it was summertime too.
So like I said before, it's pretty dry weed in the, in the, in the summer on dead tour.
So there were a lot of lucky people in that parking lot that day.
And so one really lucky one.
And so when G, Mass G came up to you guys, was it, you know, just, just any old moment
for you or did you have some inkling, you know, like Skunk VA mentions when he was first
approached with the guy who would give him the chem dog, like he knew that it was, you
know, as the guy walked towards him, he knew it was an important contact, you know, did
you feel the same way about Mass G or it was just kind of an everyday thing?
It was just kind of a, well, it was more friendly because it was so long ago, but we, we just
started selling it at our, at Joe's car, you know, the Joe Subaru, I remember a green Subaru.
And we started to just said kind bud.
And one guy came up and he was just like, holy shit, look at this stuff.
And he ran off and brought up two people and they ran off and brought up two people.
We had like a line at our car to buy eighth and G, Mass G was one of them.
I think he bought one or two and came back and bought some more.
But him and Joe exchanged numbers at the show there.
And then that's how they, they stayed in contact.
So no cell phones back then.
So it was more just, you know, on a piece of paper and I'll call you when I get back
to when I get back home.
So did you, were you aware of the kind of the exchange that took place after that when
you guys got back and then Joe sent him the stuff in the mail or you weren't fully aware
of that at the time?
I think he sent him some pee bud first and then sent him the dog bud.
And I'm sure we're all like, oh, I don't send it to him.
You know, very glad he did.
But you know, because that was, that was it.
There was, we never saw it again.
The dog bud, I've never seen it since.
So it's probably a little like, oh, don't send it to him.
But I think he sent him two ounces and I had never seen a seed in any of the stuff
that I smoked or anything.
If I did, I didn't save it for sure.
But you know, one of those, some of those buds were seeded.
So and Greg found in one of the ounces, I guess, I think.
Joe sent him two ounces and one of the ounces he found the 13 seeds.
So when he found those seeds, did he mention to you that he found them straight away or
was it more of just on the back burner thing?
You know what?
No cell phones back then.
So we kind of just lost touch with Mast G for years.
I didn't keep in touch with them at all.
And Joe probably did a little bit, but then, you know, just fell out of, fell out of touch
with them.
Yeah, he can, you know, Mast G, if you can get him on, he can definitely take it, the
story from there, finding the seeds and all that stuff.
We didn't really get back in touch with him until, you know, 05, something like that,
and then I got a call from, from just on the internet and seeing the sour diesel bud
and from Massachusetts.
And so Joe kind of put two and two together and was online for a couple years trying to
corroborate this story of meeting Mast G and sending him that and it being the dog bud.
And then I was back east and got a bag of a sour diesel in like 04 or something and
called Joe, Joe Brand in California, was like, this stuff smells just like the dog bud.
And he was telling me about this story online.
And finally, I guess, JJ from Top Dog got Mast G and Joe together and, and yeah, from
then on, they, they, they reconnected and G sent him Joe, you know, for the remaining
seeds that he had left.
So that's how they got back.
Yeah.
Okay.
So, I mean, I got two little questions.
So, I mean, that was the whole reunion thing that people talk about.
Exactly.
Yeah.
And then the second part is, does that mean that, you know, essentially you and Joe were
just doing your own thing for about 10 years and the chem dogs were in existence, so to
speak, but you weren't.
We didn't know about them.
No, we weren't smoking them or, or anything.
So it was nice to, you know, reconnect with Mast G and, and those guys and, and get those
things, get those genetics for sure.
So when you did kind of put the story together slash, you know, at whatever point you did
believe it all, were you just like kind of surprised by, you know, how many killer cuts
had come from those 13 seeds?
Like, was it all a bit overwhelming at first?
It's crazy how that one strain has changed the, you know, the face of the weed world
for sure.
It's, I mean, I knew, we knew it back then.
I'd never seen anything better than the dog until, you know, we hooked back up with Mast
G and got the, you know, the Chem 91 and the D and, you know, and then, you know, Joe popped
it for, and, but yeah, I mean, it just, never seen anything like it before in our lives.
Yeah.
Okay.
And so when you were first exposed to all the Chem dogs, what was your initial favorite?
I liked the 91 the best at first.
Maybe the question is how, in what order were you exposed to them?
In order, I was exposed 90.
So we hooked back up with Mast G and I was in Connecticut and I would meet him up at
the, uh, the basketball hall of fame in Springfield, Mass.
Such a nice, Mast G was just such a nice guy that, you know, he'd drive, you know, I don't
know how long it was for him, but we'd meet there and he'd have this package for me, you
know, of just all the Chems.
And so I got exposed to the 91 D, uh, let's see.
And then, you know, the, the Chem crosses that he did, uh, the bubble Chem and, uh,
then I got exposed to the Chem sister, but I liked the 91 at first the best.
Uh, I thought after years, it kind of got the taste kind of faded.
Uh, but I've smoked some recently, uh, the last few years from, from Duke and it's, you
know, it's, he brings the flavor out for sure.
Yeah.
It's funny you mentioned that because, um, I mean, when I first tried it, I was surprised
by how like, you know, weak or absent the flavor was, but at the same time, I was also
surprised by how it was more present than I thought it would be at the same time.
I know that sounds very paradoxical, but yeah.
It's the strength still there.
I mean, it's still just as strong as, but the D that is, you know, the smell is still
there.
The taste is still there.
Uh, it just reeks.
I mean, I know a lot of people love that just rotten smelling.
Yeah.
Um, funky, you know, yuck smelling.
My wife calls it yuck, yuck, but it just smells just nasty.
But a lot of people, I love it.
A lot of other people love it too.
And so do you find that the D is, I don't know, I refer to it as like more functional
than the 91 or do you think it's just still too crippling?
It's crippling.
It's closer than 91.
I think the 91 is probably the strongest of all of them.
It's got no ceiling.
I mean, you just get higher and higher and higher.
Uh, D is pretty close though.
Yeah.
Okay.
And so I think Skunk mentioned that your now favorite is the D.
Is that the truth?
Yeah.
Yeah.
I, I, that's taken over in the years, just the smell and the taste.
But that 91 is a close, close second.
And so I guess my question is, why do you think that the 81, sorry, the D, um, why do
you think that the D has been able to maintain those characteristics while the 91's faded off?
Uh, I, it's not as old.
Uh, he popped the, he popped Chem D in 2000, I believe.
So it's nine years, you know, younger.
Uh, probably the, you know, the biggest reason I would think.
Okay.
And so if we go back to the story slash our little timeline, so if we just jump back to
when G sent Joe those further beans, obviously you were in the loop at that point.
Were you really excited for what was going to come out of those beans?
Yeah, it was great.
Joe, uh, Joe Brown was in California.
I think I moved out there and moved in with them shortly after he got those.
And, uh, so the one Chem one, two, three, and four, uh, four was, you know, the best
Joe thought it was, it's definitely the biggest producer of all the chems.
Uh, the D is, you know, probably close second.
Uh, and so Joe kind of picked that one out as the best one and really was generous
with it and gave it to, you know, a lot of people gave the one, two, and three to a
few people that I think there's a couple people that have the three and maybe one
or two people that have the chem one and two.
Um, they were more from what I remember, more OG like, uh, not as big, not as a big
producer, smaller, smaller buds.
But, uh, the four was the one that, uh, called the reunion Fino.
Joe named it that, uh, and it's, it's, it's everywhere.
And it's, I love it.
A lot of the people in the chem family don't like it.
It's kind of funny.
It's, but, uh, it's, I like it.
It's, it's good.
It's the different smell from the rest for sure.
Um, which I think a lot of terms, a lot of people off, but I think it's, it's,
it's really strong for sure.
Yeah.
I mean, I wasn't the biggest fan of it, but, um, I think it's because it won that
one, Adam Dunn cup this year.
So, uh, it's saying something.
So for me, it was the taste, like it was like the, but just not as good in taste
wise.
It's different.
It's definitely a different taste than, than the others for sure.
But I think the strength is, is, is right there.
Yeah.
Yeah, for sure.
I think with all of the chem dogs that the strength is always there.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It really is.
So I've heard some rumours from some people that, uh, the, the Fino one that you
just mentioned that that may have been the plant which went on to be that infamous,
uh, Joe brand 91.
Would you be able to shed any light on that?
Or you got any opinions on that?
On the Joe brand, the, the Joe B 91.
Uh, yeah, I, I'm not really sure where that one came from.
And, uh, I mean, I kind of have an idea, but I kind of really don't want to, want to
get into that.
And it's kind of confusing, uh, a confusing issue that I really can't really
explain.
Okay.
Yeah.
Well, I mean, maybe it's good though.
It's, it's really good.
Uh, I know there's people here in Denver that have it.
Yeah.
I mean, there are people who still breed with it cause they think it's that good, you
know, obviously they name it correctly, but, um, but yeah, I mean, one of the
things I find so interesting about it is there seems to have been so many fake 91s.
And I don't just mean like outright fake as in some random person has it, but as in
like maybe someone close to the chem fam or even in the chem fam has a cut at one
point and they think it's the right one.
And then it turns out it's not.
And it just seems so like, there's so many of the 91 out of all the cuts, you know, it
was the one which there was seemed to be like the most replicas floating around.
Yeah.
It's, I would have to say it's the hardest one to get the original, you know, the real
besides the one and two, but, uh, of the ones that are out there, I think the 91 is
definitely the toughest one to get.
If you know, and I think a lot of people have, I've ruined, I've ruined a lot of
people's day when they send me pictures and I got to just tell them that it's definitely
not it, or they'll smoke me out on it.
And I have to tell them it's not it.
Uh, but yeah, it's definitely, I would have to say the hardest one, uh, to get.
And that's, you know, thank God that, you know, skunk VA has, has protected that
thing over these years for sure.
Cause it's a special one.
Just to kind of put this point to bed, cause I, I don't know how, but I get a lot of
messages, people telling me the same thing that they've got the real 91.
I don't know why they're messaging me, but I say this to you, like, it's probably not
it.
So my question is, have, has anyone, you know, like, and I don't mean to be rude to
the people, but like just a random person, not associated with you really in any way.
Has anyone ever like sent you a photo and you were like, Hey, that's the real deal.
Or is it always like, sorry, bro.
It's pretty much always cause it's, you know, it's mostly people I don't know.
So I know who kind of has that cut out there, but most of the time it's, it's no, I
mean, I'll see it on, on the internet, you know, and different, you know, different
media web, I'll see it and I'll be like, yeah, that's it.
But most of the people that send me pictures, it's not, it's not it.
Or smoke with me.
It's not it.
Yep.
And so what were your thoughts on the initial Chemdog hybrids?
You mentioned the bubble cam.
I think another one G made was the dog waltz.
How did you feel about those?
That's JJ's dog waltz.
Yes.
Fabulous.
Fabulous.
All the chem crosses are, are great.
Skunk VA or IC collective or skunk VA has that chem scout, which is, you know, one of
the best crosses that I've, one of the best chem crosses I've ever smoked.
Chem D by I-95 is a really, really good chem cross.
But yeah, they're, they're all good.
They really are.
If you have the real chem.
And so when you saw how good these were as breeding stock, essentially, did the
thought ever cross your mind to do a bit of breeding yourself?
No, I've never really been interested in breeding.
I let that to my buddies.
But I've always just been straight clone and kept mothers alive.
And it's kind of what I've done preservation and never really got
into interested in breeding.
I've always had, I was a golf course superintendent for, for years.
And so I always had a career and working, you know, 80 hours a week.
And so I never really had the, the time growing was always just a really part time
or growing marijuana was always a very part time thing for me.
Always did it, but just part time growing golf courses was my full time gig.
Yes.
Okay, cool.
How did you transition into the job you have now, which is at Incredible Edibles?
Sorry.
When my son was born, he's four now.
I, we didn't really want to put him in daycare at that young of age.
So my wife makes a lot of money.
So I decided to stay home and take care of Bobby for first few years of his life.
And so this past year he was old enough to go to, we wanted to get him into daycare
and nursery school and stuff, so time for me to get back to work.
I worked for Elite Cannabis for a little bit.
Great company in up in Longmont and they do CBD.
So I was working in their greenhouse and managing their, their garden supply store.
And then wanted something a little more closer to home and kind of put my name out there.
And Derek contacted me and it was really the company that I wanted to work for because they
just have such a good reputation.
They just put out such a good product.
They're, they're everywhere in the state.
And I just wanted to work for a good, good company and things worked out and, and yeah,
very happy.
And so if we were to kind of talk a bit more about the edibles, do you find that the chem
dog strains work specifically well for edibles or not really about potency?
There's a lot of other factors involved in what strains make for good edibles?
Not, we're going to get, we're working on getting the chem four first in and start growing
that and doing, I think it'll work better with the, the live resin and the, and the
dabbing and the, you know, the oil.
I think it'll make for fantastic.
I've smoked some chem four oil before and it's absolutely amazing.
So I think that's what we're going to do with the chem four.
Yeah. So I think it works better, better, better for oil.
And so, I mean, you know, this may be out of your kind of realm of scope, but do you
find or ever get any feedback of the strains that you're growing that they're
specifically good for edibles?
Yeah, that's something I wouldn't, I wouldn't know.
I just, I'm just locked in that warehouse and growing, growing the plants.
But yeah, I need to get to the other parts of the company, but it's just been
concentrating on the, on the garden.
So, yeah, that would be someone else's Incredibles you'd have to ask on, on the
what's good for, you know, candy bars and that.
Yeah.
Okay.
So when speaking to Skunk, there was a funny moment he described where, you know, he
got back on the forums and, you know, he was kind of unaware of how the community
perceived him in this sense.
It was, you know, as like, you know, a very well-respected figure.
Do you ever feel that way about yourself?
Like, do you ever have to pinch yourself and say like, Hey, like I'm a bit of a
figure in the cannabis scene or do you just not really view it that way?
I mean, I know I am, but I don't really view it that way.
I was just kind of just living my life and, and it, to me, it doesn't seem that
exciting, but, but we had, you know, we had good times, dead tour and met a lot of
people and smoked a lot of weed and saved a lot of strains and, you know, so we just
kind of live and live in our life.
That's it.
But it's just amazing that what I just get blown away on the weed that Dog Bud has
created.
I just, it amazes me that, you know, Mass G found those seeds and what became of
them.
Yeah.
So, I mean, this is an interesting point I always think about is I think G was, I
think he was 17 at the time of the concert and maybe he was 18 when he popped the
seeds, but he is a youngin', but the thing which always stands out in my mind was
that he was very young when he popped those seeds and regardless of if it was him or
friends close to him, like, you know, those clones have managed to live on.
Have you ever been like surprised or, you know, maybe more so impressed with how
someone that young was able to kind of hang on to things loosely for all that time?
Because I just think about...
Yeah, it's amazing the insight he had that I, like I said, I could have, we could
have had seeds, you know, and just thrown them away.
He was one of those guys that went around and was looking for seeds and at a young
age, which is, you know, pretty, pretty impressive.
And to do what he did with those seeds is very impressive in my mind.
Yeah. And so, have you ever really spoken to him about how many people he actually
gave it out to? Because, I mean, I've heard from a lot of people and you even
mentioned it earlier yourself that G is just a really nice guy and, you know, he
does a lot for a lot of people.
And I've always heard that he was never a hoarder per se.
But at the same time, I always hear that, you know, like no one has the real chem
dog. So, it seems almost like paradoxical, like the guy who's got the real one seems
to give it out, but no one has it at the same time.
I think they held him pretty tight in their circle.
I mean, I'm not totally sure you'd have to ask him on that one, but just because
it's just not, you know, it's just not out there.
After 25 years, you'd think it would be out there a lot more.
But yeah, it's just not.
It's just not.
One of the conclusions I thought might have been the case was that, like, the people who
was giving it to, they realized kind of the magnitude of the situation and they decided
not to give it out because that could kind of explain it.
That could be it, too.
You know, you get something, you're like, oh, my God, this is special.
I want to keep it for myself.
And a lot of people will take these and go make, try to make money off them.
And I don't really give them to anyone.
So, just out of respect for those guys and just I don't want people to go take it and
go make a ton of money off it.
So, I really don't give them out.
I get asked a lot, but I just can't.
I'd spend all my time at the post office mailing cuts to people.
So, how do you feel about people who are making money off it?
And more specifically, especially when you're pretty much 100% certain it's not even real?
That's the part I don't like when you're just using the name.
I mean, anyone can throw a name on something and trick people into buying their product.
The guys that put out a good product and have taken the chem dog strains and like JJ, for
instance, and made really good quality genetics with them.
And, you know, I think it's awesome.
I think it's great.
The people that are being deceitful and calling this chem 91 or calling this a chem whatever
and chem whatever and not having real chem genetics and that kind of rubs me wrong.
Yeah.
So, I mean, on that same note, do you think that just generally speaking, we will be able
to put the chem dog into seed form or do you think it's just one of those one in a millions?
And, you know, even if you could find the parents and do it, most of the seeds may not
come out as strong or, you know, as similar.
Personally, I don't think you're ever going to get that.
You're never going to get, you know, exactly what, you know, the clone is.
I just don't think that's possible.
I mean, you can get something close, but I think Skunk VA is working on something that's
lucky dog seeds.
That's what I'd be waiting for, his work.
But if you want something close, you know, like JJ's star dogs are really strong and
there's a lot of crosses out there that are really strong, but just you're not going to
get, you know, the real, the chem 91 or the chem D or the chem 4.
Yeah.
With that in mind, do you want to kind of see G get into doing some seeds of his own?
Because we've heard whispers of maybe him doing something like that.
Yeah, I would love it now that, you know, Massachusetts is legal.
He told me he wanted to do something, so I think that would be, you know, he deserves it
the most. He's really the one that...
If it wasn't for him, you know, no one would be smoking, no one would be smoking the chem.
So, yeah, anything he succeeds that makes me happy.
Yeah, yeah.
I think I speak for everyone when we say that.
So you mentioned earlier that Joe was online.
Were you ever really going online or not until the story kind of got pieced together and
you realized that there were people online who knew about you?
I was, I think I was online before that.
I think I started on the Overgrow and then the IC Mag and I just picked P-Bud as
as my handle.
And then on IC Mag, this guy with the name High and Lonesome from Virginia, I believe,
he kind of laid out the whole Chem Dog 101 story on there.
He's really, really good at pictures and the whole story.
Pretty, pretty accurate.
You know, he did research and talked to everyone.
And that's kind of how the whole...
And that was 15 years ago or something.
So, it's kind of how the whole P-Bud and Joe Brand and internet thing kind of blew up.
Yeah, I was going to say that's actually an amazing thread for anyone who hasn't looked
at it. Go check it out.
It's great. Chem Dog.
Yeah, you can search Chem Dog 101 and IC Mag and it's got pictures.
And yeah, Chem Dog 101.
Yeah, it's got all the photos.
It kind of lays out the whole story.
It's got the pictures, just killer.
Joe actually comments on it just under like one of the first comments.
He's like just under a guest profile, like he didn't even have an account at that point.
And it was like he's just like, hey, I'm that guy from the story.
No one believed him at first.
And then he basically post proof and it's like, whoa.
Yeah, that's...
And Joe did a lot of...
I mean, he was on the internet for a few years trying to sell the story, which was true.
And yeah, finally...
I mean, he must have said it so many, so many times on the internet, jumping into forums
and saying this is where it came from and just got shut down for years and then finally got
reconnected with Mass G and yeah, vindication.
Yeah. So after you did reconnect with Mass G through Joe B or whatever it may be, did you stay in contact with him?
Or was it still kind of a sporadic relationship?
No, I've stayed in contact with him since, you know, 06.
We saw him at the Dead Shows last year in Chicago and talk a bunch of text and stuff like that.
So, yeah, we keep in touch for sure.
And I buy a pipe from him every six months.
Yeah, yeah. I need to get a little one.
So basically when G went down due to that whole Rez business, were you just peripheral to that or were you kind of like...
I was pretty peripheral to that.
Yeah, that was...
And I guess they got the last couple of seeds, too.
The feds got the last two seeds, which was too bad.
But yeah, I was kind of not really around him then.
And so did you have any experience with Rez?
Because it's like, I mean, it's almost a taboo thing to talk about Rez.
But at the same time, what I find most interesting about it is for all the negative things he's done, there's almost just as many people who want to talk about how good his chem dog crosses were.
Yeah, people loved his chem dog crosses.
Just I only knew him just from the Internet.
He just had a big attitude and wasn't afraid to get into it with people.
And but yeah, he made some good crosses.
But yeah, just not bad.
Just a bad, yeah, bad...
Just don't like to talk about the guy.
Yeah, yeah. No, that's no worries.
When G was in jail, I mean, this might just be totally unrelated, but like, I mean, how did that affect chem family?
And also, like, is chem family just this loose term to you?
Or is it actually something more than that?
You know, like...
I think it's kind of loose term, but it's, you know, there's, you know, people that know the story and that are involved in it.
And, you know, friends of G's, friends of, you know, my JJ, those guys, but Joe's.
But yeah, it's kind of different groups of people, I guess, together that are associated with it.
And so have you guys ever thought about like maybe pushing is not the right word, but, you know, like creating a brand similar to the way Cookie Fam have done it?
And, you know, in my opinion, they've almost detached themselves from being 100% associated with cannabis and it's more just a brand now, you know, have you guys ever thought about that with the chem fam?
Or not really?
I think about it all the time.
Yeah, I would love to.
It's just we're kind of all in different areas of the country and doing different things.
And I've always had a career and just, you know, just the time.
But I would love to someday.
I would love to. I know Mass G has the copyright or sort of got the name Chem Dog or Chem Family or something.
So, yeah, who knows?
Yeah, that was funny.
Duke told us the story about how you ended up getting that.
Yeah, yeah.
That was pretty interesting.
So how do you feel about Chem Dog being put into feminized form, regardless of which cutting it is?
Because the reason why I ask that is because it's one of those strains where you really never find a real deal Chem 91 feminized or a real deal Chem D feminized.
Do you think that's something which the chem fam has thought about and thought like, we don't want that to happen?
Or it's just you guys thought they wouldn't like the seeds themselves wouldn't turn out very good?
Or what's your opinion on that?
I would love to see it happen.
But I would like to see, you know, Skunk VA or Mass G or, you know, one of those guys do it.
Not, you know, not anyone else.
So, yeah.
Well, I think that's what is a really good reason to be getting Skunk stuff, because as far as I'm concerned, like, I don't know if I'd really trust many people except for, like, you know, you and Tommy to have the legitimate 91.
Yeah, no, I would jump on the Skunk VA seeds.
I actually my friend got some for me in at the Emerald Cup, which you were out at, right?
Yeah, I was hanging out.
Yeah, cool.
So he's got those in Durango for me.
So next time I see him, I'm going to grab him.
And I'm after those Durangos.
So, yeah, I'm excited.
I'm excited for those.
And I'm not a seed guy at all.
So, yeah, but I'm excited for that.
So this is a question I've been asking everyone in the Chem Fam, and I think I might not actually get an answer until I can ask G himself.
But I remember reading this post online that said that, like, I think it was from, like, G's point of view, like he was writing it.
And he said that he always found that, like, it just said Chem Dog.
So I assume maybe it means the 91.
He said that that always came out best if you grew it organically.
But then in the later part of flower, it used like a synthetic PK booster and it really brought out the chem flavor.
Do you know if there's any truth to that?
Have you ever heard anyone say anything like that or not?
You couldn't really comment on it.
Yeah, I couldn't really comment on that.
Well, how do you know?
I'm not an organic.
I mean, I'm like 80 percent organic.
So and I take.
I guess taking it.
A lot of people take the 70 days and, you know, Duke likes to take it.
And I think Skunk VA, too, a lot shorter than that, like 60 days.
So they say that really brings out the flavor.
And let it go too long, gets more of a narcotic high and the taste kind of kind of fades.
So I got some now going in my basement that I'm going to take it 60 days this time.
I've always taken it at like 70.
So I'm going to give that a shot and see what happens.
Well, I mean, with that in mind, what was the strongest batch of 91 you've ever had and who grew it?
I would have to I mean, just the first time I really smoked it, you know, was from from G.
So I'm going to say from him just just, you know, memory is just like, wow, just.
So strong and just brought me back to smoking that dog bud and Crested Butte on Dead Tour in 1991.
So I'd have to say Mass G's the best 91 I've smoked with Tommy, Tommy a close second.
Yeah, yeah.
Have you ever have you ever tried Skunk's?
Because Tommy actually says that he thinks.
Yeah, I have. I've tried.
I've tried his and his is phenomenal, too.
Yeah. Yeah.
But I've had more Mass G's and Tommy's.
Yep. And so when you I mean, just going back to when you were first smoking the 91, for example, was it just like I mean, I try to describe to people what smoking the 91 is like.
And I all I can say is like, it's just a different beast, you know, like it's really just uncomparable to a lot of strains in many regards.
Did you feel that way at first?
Like, was there anything that could compare to it at all?
Or was it just so foreign at the time?
Just because I hadn't smoked, you know, we smoked the dog, but 91 that summer, that was it.
And then, you know, I smoked the 91 and not until like 05.
So, yeah, it was absolutely just amazing.
The narcotic high it has and the expand, that expandus in your lungs where you try to hold it in.
And it's just like it's just growing and expanding in your lungs and you got to just you got to blow it out.
And then just instantly, instantly high after it.
It's just just strong.
It's just strong, strong weed.
Yeah. I mean, the first time I had it, I think I almost kind of greened out.
So I totally understand what you're saying.
And it's you don't get immune to it.
There's no ceiling.
It's just it's great medicine.
I mean, if you have stomach problems or, you know, anything like that, it's great for that.
So, I mean, the dog bud, you know, that's often referenced as, you know, the parent or maybe just loosely as like the closest thing to the chem dog, at least back in the day.
But I mean, you also mentioned the Skelly hash plant, which is kind of a new cut that's come on the scene.
Where do you think the chem dog originates from?
You know, there's a lot of debate.
The dog bud from people that have over the years that have asked the guys that brought it into Crusted Butte, where it came from is like some valley in Oregon, where it came from.
I don't know if it was being grown there indoors there or not.
But that's where I heard it came from.
The Camas Camas Valley in Oregon, I think is what it was called.
But we still don't, you know, don't know for sure where it came from.
The Skelly hash plant is.
That was from 1987, I believe.
Friends of friends went over to Amsterdam and brought bought some seeds just labeled hash plant in a coffee shop in Amsterdam and brought them back to Leadville, Colorado.
And I think there were six seeds.
And this this one was the was the keeper.
And yeah, it went to Crested Butte and a guy named Skelly.
That was his nickname, was kind of the guy that grew it, was kind of the master of growing it.
And that's where it came.
Skelly hash plant, it was called.
And then kind of got renamed the Puck.
Because my friend would go over, my friend, Fadi, would go over to my friend Rob's house and always go, you have any of the puck, do you have any of the puck?
The father were like, what the heck are you talking about?
And Rob had kept his hash plant in this fly fishing container that holds flies.
It's like a plastic.
And it was black from the resin and it looked like a hockey puck.
So Fadi would just kind of named it the puck.
And so he must have spread that around.
I've lost contact with him, but he must have spread that around Colorado.
Pretty, pretty good.
And so when I got back, I moved up here to Denver with a friend and he's like, I got this string on this hash plant string.
It's really, really old.
He's like, oh, you mean the puck?
And I just put two and two together.
I was like, Fadi, you are just, he's just one of the funniest guys I ever met.
And he spread that word around Colorado, the puck.
So I kind of changed the name of it.
But it's just an old, strong, another really just strong, strong string.
Yeah.
I mean, it's another one that's in a league of its own.
Yeah, it's just, it's crazy.
Have you ever seen anything that maybe, you know, the third in that trifecta or do you think at the moment the 91 and the puck are in a league of their own?
Pretty much in a league of their own.
And then they always, you know, we smoke that, we're smoking T bud and then the hash plant, Skelly hash plant puck came around and that just was just insane.
And then we've really never compared anything to the hash plant except the dog bud.
So those two really are just the two strongest, most incredible strains that I've ever seen.
Yeah, without a doubt.
So how do you deal with people trying to give you, you know, quote, the real history of the chem dog?
Is it at the point now where you've had so many people try to tell you about your life and you just don't even care anymore or you just front face?
We just got into the guy on Instagram the other day about his uncle was, his uncle had the chem dog before mass G and it was always spelled D-A-W-G.
And so, yeah, it's a, you know, weekly, monthly thing at least.
But I've heard so many, so many stories and so many people's claims.
And it's just frustrating because we lived it.
And I know it's true.
And, you know, it was our life and, you know, mass G's life.
And, you know, there's a guy, there's mass G and, you know, there's the guys that should get credit for it.
And Joe Brand and, you know, those guys.
So when people try to take credit for it, it's pretty weak.
But I'm used to it now.
Yeah. And so, I mean, it's probably a question a lot of people are asking is that, or thinking in their mind is that Joe Brand's been seemingly absent from the scene for a while.
Do you think he'll ever pop his head back up or maybe he's not interested so much?
He's never really been a, you know, Internet and out there kind of guy.
You know, I hope someday he does.
But I tried to call him and see if he wanted to do this interview, but I didn't get in touch with him.
But, you know, hopefully someday, you know, he will.
I love the guy and hope for the best for him for sure.
Yeah. And so maybe a little left of the last question is you've been around long enough now that you've seen strains come and go.
And you've probably seen far more, quote, fad strains than just Blue Dream and Girl Scout cookies.
What do you think will stand the test of time?
And what do you think is hot right now that's going to pass?
I mean, I'm really starting to get into all the OGs like TK and the SNFV.
And, you know, I think those things will always be around.
You know, the headband and all those, you know, those good.
Like, I think TK and SNFV are just two of the best OGs out there.
And I think they'll stand the test of time.
And whatever people can, you know, that ChemScout is amazing.
You know, the J.J. stuff is amazing.
So there's a lot of people getting more and more ChemCrosses out there.
And I think, you know, if you have a good ChemCross, it'll stand the test of time for sure.
And so I was going to say, how does that Starkiller you've been raving about line up to those?
It's good. It's good.
You know, I'm not a big fan of the Scotts OG or the Rugbrow.
I mean, they're good, but this Starkiller is a step above.
It's right up there with some of the better OGs for sure.
And it's won, I think it's won multiple awards too.
So this is my first time growing it.
So I'm excited to see.
I got about 30 more days on that.
So we'll see.
So have you got a little seed library of your own?
I mean, you probably do. But the question is, what's the next thing you're excited to pop?
Because I'm always interested to know, you know, like what are you personally interested to get going soon?
People give me seeds all the time.
So I do have a pretty good selection.
What I do is just because I don't have really the space and the time as I give them to good, good friends
and have that are into, you know, popping seeds and then they'll find good stuff.
And then I can get clones of that or whatever.
But these Chemdelechem seeds I got, which is ChemD by I95.
My buddy just popped some of them.
And so, yeah, we'll see.
He actually harvested some of that and it turned out great.
So, but yeah, mostly I give seeds to a couple of good buddies and they pop them and we see what we get.
Yeah. And so in terms of your personal garden, are you like kind of like just a few strains and they're your staples and you just run them?
Or are you always experimenting or are you like, you know, me and Duke call it the lonely island weed where, you know, you just grow the one strain.
I like just I'm growing now just for, you know, personal use where before I grow for income.
So when I was growing for income, it was more one strain and, you know, the money strain, the big producer.
Now I grow a nice, you know, nice variety.
So I got, you know, SFETK, Starkiller, ChemD by I95, Chem91, ChemD.
So I got, you know, all those going right now.
So it's nice to have different flavors for sure.
Yeah. And have you ever had someone tell you that like a Chemdog cut was specifically good for a certain condition?
Because I remember when I asked Tommy this, he said that the Chem91 is great for people who want to gain weight because it gives you the munchies.
But yeah, you know, have you ever heard anyone say, you know, this is good for Crohn's or something like that?
Crohn's, like Chem4, I've got a couple of people that have Crohn's and love the Chem4.
Works great for them.
I guess stronger strains, I don't know, may work for that.
That disease, but yeah.
And then, you know, I know the Chem91 is good for any stomach issue for sure.
It got me through my stomach flu last year during 420.
So yeah, they're great medicinal strains for sure.
Yeah. And do you ever see Chemdog being explored more by the general public as a medicinal strain?
Or you think it's just not, it's, I mean, I guess the way I think about it is it seems like it's like a Band-Aid for a bullet in some ways, you know, like it's a very broad acting strain.
But I don't know if it seems specific in many ways, if you know what I mean.
Yeah, I'm not really sure on specifics.
I would love to see it, you know, used in medicine.
For sure, it's just so strong.
I don't know how, you know, the side effects or, you know, I'm just not sure on the medicinal part of the chems.
But I know for Crohn's, Chem4 and stomach issues, any chem.
Yeah, without a doubt.
I think it would be interesting to see like, you know, a 91 or a D cross to a really strong CDD strain.
Yeah, for sure.
So this is just a bit of a pot question here, but I think it's a good one.
The 91 show itself, right?
Despite everything that happened, you know, it's gone down as a legendary show.
Do you remember the show itself?
Like, was it actually a good show?
Because I thought, wouldn't it be so ironic if like, arguably the most important, you know, dead show in cannabis history was actually a mediocre one in terms of music?
Well, for me, the dead kind of started going downhill.
91, you know, after Brent died, he died in 90.
I wasn't a big Vince fan.
Bruce Tornsby played with him for a while, but he had stopped.
Show was good.
I just remember a Jack Strawbertha opener, which is like my favorite combination opener.
But I don't really remember the show too well.
The dead were kind of, you know, 91.
91 was a good year.
92, 93, 94, 95 were all kind of, the scene was getting bad and Jerry was just ill.
And the dead were good when they were healthy.
Yeah.
Straight up.
When they were healthy, they were good.
Jerry was all fucked up.
You know, it was sloppy and the shows were still good, but they weren't great.
When like 1990 was probably the last great, great year.
Spring tour 90 was probably the great last great year.
So, yeah.
Okay.
Wow.
But it was a good show.
It was a good show.
It was a good, cool venue.
Deer Creek is great.
It's out in the middle of nowhere.
Like farmland and cornfields and camping and fun times.
Yeah.
So, I mean, The Grateful Dead, you know, they kind of passed on the torch metaphorically to fish when they kind of finished up.
But I've never heard of there being, you know, that same impact on the cannabis scene as what the dead had.
You know, like I've never heard of there being like a car park scene at a fish show, for example.
Do you think that that was a Grateful Dead exclusive thing?
Like, do you think we'll ever get another, you know, I don't know how to say it, like cannabis revolution the way we did with The Grateful Dead or not necessarily?
I think it's people are getting them, getting it other places now.
Just, I think back then it was, I mean, like Skunk VA said, if he said this or someone said this, that, you know, Dead Tour was kind of like the first Facebook.
So it was a way of connecting with people and you knew they were going to be at that next venue.
And so it was kind of, I don't know if fish does that.
I don't really go, I've never been to a fish show before.
But, yeah, I'm not really sure if what the scene is like there.
So I probably couldn't comment on that.
But I know the dead was the first, the first Facebook really for social media.
And do you think that besides the chem dog, the quote car park scene of The Grateful Dead contributed a lot to cannabis in terms of like recognizable strains?
Like, had you ever heard of like, oh, someone got, you know, like a TK cut at a dead show?
Or like, it seems like chem dog is the big one that gets talked about in regards to The Grateful Dead.
Yeah, chem dog is definitely the big one.
I think more, it was more of, you know, selling flowers at the show, selling buds.
And, you know, I'm sure, you know, cuts and stuff like that were traded.
But the chem dog one is the big one that, you know, most people associate with that.
So, I mean, how do you feel about the OG in relation to the chem dog?
Because I mean, I realized just as I asked that question, there was a big major flaw in that.
I mean, in my mind, I feel like the chem dog is either the daughter or the sister or like some close relative to the chem dog.
So, I mean, you're probably not going to get an OG cut at a Grateful Dead show back in the day.
But how do you feel all of that relates together?
Are you of the same school of thought that it's probably some close relative?
I think they're related for sure.
I think OG is just, you know, an S1 from a bag of 91.
I mean, I can't prove it, but that's my thoughts.
I think now that I'm growing OGs, they remind me of the 91.
You know, I'm not as big of buds, but they definitely remind me of it.
So, that's what I think.
But the OG question is kind of a tough one to crack for sure.
Yeah. Yeah.
So, if you were in G's position back in that time when, you know, he was fresh 17 or 18,
do you think you would have been able to keep the cuts alive as well as he did?
Depending on my back at that young, probably not.
No, just because I wouldn't have had the spot to do it.
Just I was living just at my parents' house and I wouldn't have been able to do that sort of thing.
But thank God he did.
Yeah. I mean, the reason I'm just so amazed, like I just, I haven't met anyone who's truthfully said that,
like, yes, I could have been in that position and also kept those cuts alive for all those years.
It's just so mind blowing.
It's awesome.
And just, yeah, the work that he did to keep those alive and the crosses and all that.
Yeah, it's awesome.
Have you ever asked him why he waited such long periods of time in between popping the successive seeds?
Like, I've always wondered, why did he wait four years between popping the first and the next batch?
Like, surely-
Yeah, I'm not sure why he did that.
I think it was smart.
I think he knew he had something special and didn't want to blow it all, maybe.
Yeah.
And do it over time.
Which is nice because he sent those four seeds to Joe, which was pretty cool.
So, I'm glad he did that.
Yeah, a lot of people probably really kind of, I don't know how to phrase it,
you know, like, they're probably thinking, I wouldn't have done that if they were in his position,
you know, given that he knew what the seeds were at that point.
Yeah, no, I agree.
I think that was huge of him to do and just such a nice thing
because after Joe got back in touch with him, he could have just been like,
oh, yeah, nice to talk to you again.
Yeah, see that.
You know, you can have some cuts, but, you know, not for the seeds.
So, yeah, I think that was a great thing he did.
Yeah.
So, I mean, not necessarily in relation to giving the seeds to Joe,
because obviously that was a very nice thing to do.
But if you were in G's position, would you have ever done it differently?
Like, would you have popped them all at the start or just sat on them for longer or, you know,
what would you have done?
Tough question.
I would have probably popped them all and just, you know, gotten what we got and then saved those,
you know, kept all the keepers and saved them.
Yeah.
So, this is an interesting thing I've been told, which you've probably been told as well,
is that someone's told me before, they said, I think that the chem dog seeds were a result.
They're all S1s, basically.
And I said, yeah, but there was that male, you know, and that kind of ruins that theory.
Yeah.
And then they were like, yeah, but no one ever saw that male.
It's almost like that male is like conveniently inserted into the story so that people wouldn't think they were S1s.
And I thought about that and I thought, well, I see what you're saying, you know,
like the fact the male was there does show that they probably weren't S1s.
But at the same time, I don't see why G would lie about them, you know,
like what does he have to gain from that really?
Yeah, he has nothing to gain.
Yeah.
I mean, and he wasn't putting himself and he killed it.
So, he wasn't really putting himself in a good light.
But yeah, I told that he's telling the truth.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So, I guess what the question really was, was that given that there was males there,
what do you speculate the father was, you know?
I don't believe they're S1s.
I guess you've kind of said the same.
Yeah.
I'm not really sure what the father is.
Tommy would probably know that better than me being a breeder and knowing that sort of thing.
But yeah, I wouldn't know.
Yeah.
The reason I asked that is just because a lot of people have this, you know,
thought that the father is what passes on the potency more so.
And so, yeah, I'm always interested to know what the father of things is.
Yeah, for sure.
I think maybe the puck could be related to the dog bud some way.
Yeah.
Kind of always thought that, or very similar.
So, I mean, for you, given that you have been trying all of this, you know,
high quality weed from back in the early roots, so to speak,
do you think that the modern day hybrids are standing up to those old favorites?
Or, you know, do you still find yourself reminiscing about the past?
I think the past, yeah.
There's a few that can stand up to the chems, but most of them just don't.
They just don't.
And so, do you think that modern hybrids have mostly improved on flavor
and not so much potency per se?
Yeah.
I think a lot of people are out there for the flavor.
I've always been for the potency.
I don't really care too much what it tastes like.
It's got, you know, good weed tastes good.
I mean, it just does.
I like that expanding in your lungs and coughing and all that stuff.
I like the strong stuff.
That's why I've just, I smoke chems and OGs.
That's about it.
Yeah.
You don't ever dabble in any glassworks, do you?
No, no.
Just buy them.
Yeah.
It's just the reason I ask is it's like, it seems like there's so many people in the chem
firm who dabble in it, you know, whether it be, I'm not sure his real name is it Weasel?
I think he's also a glassblower.
Yeah.
He's, yeah, he blows glass.
He's got some JJ, has a couple of good pieces from him.
Oh, is he the one who did that fish one for JJ?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Oh, that's so nice.
Not the fish one.
No, it's a guy here in Colorado, but like old school, just old school pipes.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Nice work for sure.
But yeah, G does great.
He does great work.
I love his style.
Old school.
I just love it.
Yeah.
I need to get one of those like little mini chillum type things.
Tommy had one and I was using that and I just like fell in love with it.
Yeah.
That's a cool, the mini hammers are really cool.
And then, you know, his bubblers, they're all, it's all good stuff.
Yeah.
Yeah, for sure.
And that's the other thing I'm always telling, because people like in Australia are just
getting into glass really heavily now.
And I'm always telling people like, because they say, you know, like, I mean, I'm not
a glass expert or anything, but they always ask me, you know, who should I get my glass
from?
And it's like, well, there's only one name I'm going to tell you.
Kemdaw Glass.
Yeah.
He makes, I love his colors and the millies he puts in on there.
It's nice.
Yeah.
I remember Tommy was even saying like, some of those millies are like quite old and rare
even so like you truly are getting your money's worth.
Oh yeah.
And the time he puts into them and yeah.
All handmade.
They're great.
I've got a dead 50 piece that he made.
Oh wow.
For the dead shows last year and it's got like 10 dead millies in it.
And yeah, it's, it's, it's my favorite piece.
That's the one if I break, I'd be, I'd be crying.
Yeah.
It's funny.
I've got a few dead ones in mine.
It's like, I always have to tell people what they are.
So I think a good way to get back into this would be, you know, like Kemdaw is just the,
the epitome of indica, you know, you really can't get more indica than that.
How do you balance the sativa side out?
Because it's interesting when I was talking to Mr. Soul, the way he described was Kemdaw
was like, it was that perfect counterpoint to the really super sativa as he enjoys smoking,
you know, it could kind of bring you back to earth when you've blasted off too hard.
How do you view sativas in relation to Kemdaw or is it just like Kemdaw fills your need
and you don't venture to that side of the river, so to speak?
I don't really venture to sativas.
I mean, I think sativas are really good, like daytime, you know, gets you up and going and
good for like at work and stuff.
But I've just always liked the, you know, the, just the knock you dead high.
So I've always, I just want to smoke the pot that gets you the highest.
That's my personality.
So sativas really never really did it for me.
So yeah, I just, I just love the potent, really strong, strong stuff.
And so, how do you think the scene would have progressed if there was never any Kemdaw?
It seems like a bit of a weird question, but I always think about this.
I don't know.
It would be a sad world out there, I think.
Yeah, I don't know.
It's like, I'd have another favourite weed out there, I guess.
Yeah, I don't know.
Everything kind of, everything I like came from Kem, so.
Yeah, that's exactly it, isn't it?
Because it's an interesting kind of thought exercise to do with yourself where you think
of like all these big name strains and if they've got Kem in it or suspect you kind
of cross them off the list, you're not left with much, are you?
No, you're not.
Like, you know, Gorilla Glue's out and, you know, Sour Diesel's out and all those really
good strains wouldn't be here.
You just said the special word Gorilla Glue.
What do you think about it?
Yeah.
I like it.
I mean, I've grown it one time.
I liked it.
I kind of got sick of it, but it was strong.
I'm a fan.
I'm a fan of the Gorilla Glue.
Yeah.
Well, something about the Gorilla Glue which really reminds me of the Kem is, I mean, A,
a lot of people love Gorilla Glue, but no one really shows that same love to the Kem
sis.
And I think that a lot of the high or the enjoyment of the high from the Gorilla Glue
probably comes from Kem.
Yeah, it's from the Kem.
Yeah.
Definitely.
Definitely.
Yeah.
The taste is the chocolate.
It's kind of chocolatey in smell to me, but yeah, the high is definitely the sister for
sure.
I mean, that's where it gets its strength.
Yeah.
And the other interesting thing about the Gorilla Glue which I think it definitely has parallels
with the Kem Dog is that it seems now you're starting to get these fake Gorilla Glues going
around much like the fake Kem Dogs.
And so you get this situation, I think it was Tommy who said it, where it's like, you
know, everyone's had the Kem Dog, but no one's had the Kem Dog.
Right.
Yeah.
Exactly.
How do you feel about that per se?
Like, do you feel like that's a pretty accurate reflection?
Because yeah, like some people-
Yeah, I think a lot of people, you know, claim that they have it and smoked it or whatever,
but I think the percentage of that is pretty low.
I know that's the case on the 91.
You know, the 4 is out there and more available.
Joe is really generous and giving that out to a lot of people in 06 and it's kind of
made its way around.
Yeah.
And so, I mean, if we look at both JJ's and Rez's work, we see that they both chose to
work with the Kem D and we know that you like the Kem D more, but in many ways, I find it
an interesting choice because just the raw potency of the 91 seems like it would be just
an obvious one to work with.
Do you agree with this trade-off they've done, so to speak, where, you know, the presumption
is they've thought, well, it's not quite as strong, but it's got better flavor or maybe
better breeding properties.
Do you agree with that choice they made or would you have done it differently?
No, I agree with it.
I think the D is so close to as potent as the 91.
It's close.
It's just got that.
I think more people that have smoked the real 91 and the D like the D better overall, I
think.
Yeah.
And it's very close to being as strong as the 91, so I think that's probably the smell
and it's a better yielder than the 91, so it could be another reason.
Well, I mean, do you agree with, I think it was not Skunk himself, but his former friend
in the story he told where he was saying, you know, like he feels like there's something
about the chem dog where it's like it's tied to the stars where, you know, like it's this
real fickle plant that's hard to master, so to speak.
Do you think that's true or maybe it's just we didn't understand plants the way we do
now?
No, I think it's true.
I think you got to have experience growing the chems.
They got stuff they like and stuff they don't like, but in Skunk VA has been growing that
strain for, he's probably the, you know, number one expert on the 91 for sure.
So, yeah, I would, you know, whatever he says, I would believe it.
Yeah, that's the case.
Yeah.
So, if you had to pick the genetics which you think would best complement the 91, I
guess to put it in a realistic sense, if you had to pick a male, you know, which genetics
do you think would complement the 91 the best?
Because I think I asked Duke and he said that, yeah, he agreed that the Afghani land race
that both JJ and Rez picked was a good complement to the D. How do you feel about the 91?
Yeah, I don't know.
I don't know.
I agree with what those guys said.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So, you know, not trying to talk negatively about it, but what are some of the downsides
about the chem dogs which don't frequently get mentioned?
I mean, the flavor was brought up a few times by a few people, including us.
What are some things which people don't often consider which you regard?
The Chem D can, you know, throw out Nanners and could variegate and the Chem 91s, you
know, not the biggest producer.
But you know, those things really don't.
You know, the D is probably that's probably the biggest problem with that one is thrown
out those bananas.
But they're not really there's nothing in them and they don't really it's not like a
lot of them unless it gets stressed.
But those are probably the biggest problems with it.
Yeah.
So, it's interesting you bring that up because a lot of the best strains throughout history
have been created from the 91 throwing pollen on other things.
But as you just mentioned that the Nanners on the D, they're infertile, so to speak.
Yeah.
So, do you find that the 91 is easy to herm you, so to speak?
Because that's something I'm always thinking about, you know, given all these strains originate
from it, I would have thought it was easy to herm.
How do you find it?
No, I think they are all, yeah, easy to herm for sure.
Okay, interesting.
And so, I mean, you know, if it's not too much effort, give us a quick rundown of what
your growth style is.
I do soil or cocoa.
I just switched over to cocoa.
I'm running botanic care.
I got a friend that works for botanic care and he's hooked me up with their whole line,
their cocoa and this run and everything's looking good.
I just hand water and just out of a watering can.
I'm very, you know, nothing special at all.
Just in my basement and three lights and enough for me and my wife and some friends.
So, yeah, it's good and it's all legal, which is great.
So, very happy with my basement, my little basement grow.
That's my new motto in life.
Because at work, at work, I'm taking care of a thousand plants and so I come home and
take care of ten and it's pretty easy.
Yeah, okay.
Well, I mean, on that note, what's some tips for people who are looking to grow large numbers,
you know, like you must have to do things in, you must be looking for shortcuts all
the time given you look after so many plants.
Yeah, it's, and we're doing soil right now.
So we're hand watering everything, which takes quite a bit of time, but we're up close and
personal with the plants.
And it's, when you get into big things like that, you just have to be more just on top
of things, preventative and start when the, you know, the plant's small and, you know,
just make sure it's really, really healthy to fight off any bugs or diseases or mildew
or anything like that.
And just really start from the beginning and make sure the plant's healthy all the way
through.
It's hard in the warehouse, but staying on top of it, but it's just a lot of hours and
hard work and a good team for sure.
Yeah.
So, do you see yourself ever trying to turn Chemdog into like a full-on thing for yourself?
Like I just remember briefly chatting to Skunk and he just mentioned that, you know,
like he would love to be able to open like, you know, like the Chemdog Mecca, so to speak.
Is that something you would envision wanting to do or are you?
I would love to be a part of it for sure and help in any way I can.
Right now I'm just kind of focusing on, you know, my job and working at Incredibles and
stuff like that.
But I would love to be involved and help any of those guys out with whatever I could do.
As far as I know, you were, or people seem to tell me that you were the first person
to kind of get the Skelly back into, you know, the familiar crew's hands.
What was that process of tracking it down like?
Well, my good friend Rob lives in Crested Butte.
He's the one that won the, he won the Adam Dunn Cup.
Came in second place with the Hashplant two years ago and then won it this year with the
Chem 4.
He's been holding onto it since 87.
He's living in the same place in Crested Butte, so he's stable.
But he has kept it, you know, for all these years, him and a couple other people in Crested
Butte have been keeping it alive since 1987.
So you know, all the credit goes to Rob and those guys down in Crested Butte.
Yeah.
And have you ever made an attempt to try to track down the growers of the original dog
bud or do you think it was just, it'd just be too hard to do?
It'd be hard.
Like the guy that, I think they're all probably a lot older, you know, a lot older and, you
know, not on the internet and to find them would be hard.
The guy that brought it into Crested Butte still lives in Crested Butte and he's the
one that told my friend that it came from the Camas Valley in Oregon.
Not sure if he's in touch, I don't think he's in touch with the people that, you know,
he got it from.
So it's been 25 years of trying to find that strain again and it's, yeah, I haven't found
it or where it came from or what.
So maybe in the future.
Yeah.
Maybe they're still growing it, the dog bud in Oregon.
So who knows.
Just had his name changed.
Yeah, you never know.
So how do you feel about how the public has received the chem dog?
I mean, it's, I think I saw an interview with G in it where he said that he feels over the
past few years the public has really like warmed to it where in the past people used
to really write it off.
But I think just maybe due to exposure, more people have had the real thing and are like
really impressed by it.
How do you feel about that?
I think, yeah, if you smoked the real thing, I think, you know, I think more people have
smoked the real thing.
And once you smoke the real thing, it's, you won't forget it.
I mean, I've had so many people tell me in the last couple of years that it's their favorite
strain.
It's the best one that they've ever smoked and never will smoke.
Yeah.
And so, you know, at certain parts throughout the history, because obviously a lot of people,
you know, basically everyone excluding you and the people directly involved, they're
getting a lot of their information from online.
So there are periods where, for example, I think it was around that High Times article
that they did with G where certain cuts were just thought not to be around.
Like I think G thought he had lost the 91 and it was just gone.
Were you ever in that boat where there were times when you thought, oh, well, there goes
the Chem D forever.
And then like it turns out you get it back from a friend of a friend or something?
Or was it always pretty well controlled and you never really thought things were gone
forever?
Since we got them, it's pretty much, it's pretty controlled.
It's never been lost.
I think that happened, you know, earlier, back in the nineties and early two thousands.
But since we've and my friends have had it, pretty much, you know, if you lose it, I know
someone else, you know, reliable has it.
So like we got the Chem D back.
I got my Chem D back a couple of years ago and this guy's had it since we gave it to
him in, you know, it was six when we first got it and then got it back from him a few
years ago.
So he's kept it and he still has it and will have it for forever.
I think people don't want to lose it.
So they put in a lot of effort in trying to preserve it.
Yeah.
And I mean, Tommy mentioned that you can revitalize clones by vegging them out in the sun for
a season and letting them get really big and then taking some nice clones off them and
bringing them back inside.
Have you ever seen that done with any of the Chem Dogs?
And if so, did they come out any better than beforehand?
Never seen that done with the Chem Dogs.
It's always kind of been an indoor venture the last, since I've had them, access to them.
So it's always been, yeah, just keeping them alive indoors.
Yeah.
And so if you could only pick, say, two of all the Chem Dogs, which would you want to
keep?
291 in the D.
Is it an easy choice?
Yeah, that's easy.
If you give me two choices, that's easy.
And so I get, you know, what's three then?
What comes in third?
For me, it would be four.
It'd be the four.
A lot of people wouldn't say that, but I like the four.
I like the high of it.
I think it's very medicinal.
Instant high.
I guess this isn't the best, but yeah, probably four would be third.
Yeah.
Okay.
And then I guess the number one is the D?
Number one is D. 91 close second.
If you're taking everything, like smell, taste, high, everything, D is number one in my book.
And that means, like, you know, the only thing you, if you had to pick one strain you could
only have, that would be it?
Or that's just the favorite?
That's my island strain.
Yeah, that's my desert island strain, Chem D.
I might have thought you might have said, oh, it's my favorite, but it veggies too slow.
That's a good producer.
And the only thing is that banana issue, but I've got it pretty much under control.
Okay.
So I mean, if you could only...
And Tommy's got another, he's got another D cut that I got some flowers from the other
day I was up there.
And so I'm going to, I'm going to grow that one out and maybe replace Tommy's with, Tommy
got this one from, from G way, way back when.
So yeah.
And it's, it's phenomenal.
I don't know if you got to see any of that, but it's, it's, it's phenomenal.
And it doesn't, it doesn't throw out bananas and it's never variegated on them.
So I may replace, replace that.
I think that was the one I tried.
And then I tried the real one later on, but I think I kind of liked Tommy's one.
Yeah.
Tommy's is good.
It's it's the real, it's the real thing.
G was telling that he thinks it's the sister, but there's no way it's, it's Kim D. It's,
it is.
And that was a long time ago and he gave him that cut.
So mistakes happen.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Time.
So if you could only change one thing outside of the banana issue, because I think that's
probably the obvious choice.
If you could change one thing about the D and the 91, you know, it could be different
things about the cuts, but what would you change about them?
Nothing.
Not even like bigger yield?
I mean, bigger yields is the 91.
If you could get a bigger yield, that would be nice.
But I did, I've always thought bigger, it doesn't necessarily mean better.
You know, my parents live in Maine and you know, the big fat six, seven pound lobsters
don't taste nearly as good as a two, two and a half pound lobsters.
So, and I don't like, I'm more of a, the shoulders on the plants.
I like the buds like at the shoulders instead of the tops.
Yeah.
So the 91 not being that big, it really doesn't, doesn't bother me.
But if I had to pick, yeah, that would be it.
The bigger, bigger yielder is always good.
Yeah.
And so what's the most annoying thing about trying to talk to people about the chem dog?
Because obviously the history is maybe the obvious one, but like sometimes I find it's
even just like people get really lost up in all the names because you know, they've got
all the different cuts and people just lose track of things really quickly.
My probably biggest one is, and I've been, I'm a spell guy.
It's just the D-A-W-G.
It's chem dog, it's dog.
It's a combination of dog bud, which is what we got in Crested Butte.
We started calling it chem weed.
So I think when we saw Mass G in Indianapolis, we were calling it chem weed probably.
Probably told him it was dog bud and chem weed and he just combined the names chem and
dog and there you have it.
So it's, it's D-O-G.
It's not D-A-W-G.
It's never been D-A-W-G.
JJ uses star dog just out of respect for G and that's, you know, that's that.
But it's always been D-O-G.
Yeah.
And so, I mean, do you think in a way, you know, that by JJ using that naming nomenclature
that he's almost, you know, inadvertently made it a little harder to refer to things
Yeah, I know it made it a little more confusing, but I think the biggest culprit was another
company changed it before JJ changed actually chem dog D-O-G to D-A-W-G.
I forget what company it was, but they, they kind of started it off.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Dog.
I mean, that version of dog really didn't come out until like the later nineties.
I know there was David Grisman has dog music, D-A-W-G, but that's not what they're referring
to.
They're referring to like dog, like the urban way of saying dog.
Yeah.
No chance he's just smoking chem dog right now.
I've read online that AJ has actually taken credit for, or at least he said that at one
point in time he was selling or giving chem dog to people in New York, but calling it
diesel.
But at the same time, so many people say that diesel and chem dog are not the same thing.
How do you feel about that?
Because some of the older guys say like, oh no, like there is no such thing as diesel.
It's actually just chem dog.
No, I think they just, they changed.
They didn't, AJ didn't like, those guys didn't like the name chem associated with it.
The chemical, they didn't like that name.
They thought it brought it down.
So they changed it to diesel.
I don't know if it was the smell or the word diesel meant something in New York.
But yeah, it's the same thing.
Chem 91 is the diesel.
Because when I got a bag of the diesel, it was chem 91.
And then the sour diesel was more of a, that was an S1 of a chem 91 or something.
I'm not really sure on that story.
The whole sour diesel story, it's kind of been changed a bunch.
Those guys don't have the whole story, I think.
I'm not really sure they know what exactly happened.
But it's definitely from the 91.
I mean, it is.
I mean, the smell is similar.
Sour diesel is a little stronger.
Yeah, I'm not really sure on that.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So, I mean, I'm going to spring an idea on you here.
A lot of people give a lot of credit to Oregon and California for helping to kind of, you
know, establish the marijuana scene in America.
But the more I kind of delve into the history of things, the more I think New York is like
this unsung hero of the scene.
Because it's like, it seems like when you trace back a lot of the best breeders, in
my opinion, not just the chem dog ones, like obviously all the chem dog ones, but they
trace their roots to New York.
And it seems like that environment they had where people willing to pay for really expensive
weed like bred this environment where it was like productive to be a breeder and or just
even just a really good grower, you know.
Have you ever thought about that at all?
And do you agree?
I totally agree.
I think just the combination of just people in New York are just go getters, you know,
they just get things done.
The market for the weed was, I mean, just, you know, six thousand a pound or seven thousand
a pound.
So, you know, it was worth it for those guys to do what they did and to be able to make
that money.
So, yeah, I think it's a combination of those things.
But yeah, I think New York was a good and outdoor too up in Ithaca, the Finger Lakes
region and Ithaca College and a lot of Cornell and a lot of outdoor weed up there for sure.
Did you ever get to try any of the stuff that Duke talks about coming out of Virginia or
that never really got to you?
Never really got to us.
I smoked a lot of, growing up outside New York City, we smoked a lot of like, you know,
pot from Laos and Afghani pot and just really exotic, exotic weed that would come into New
York.
So I was pretty spoiled as a teenager.
Yeah.
And were you smoking weed before the introductions of Indica's to the scene or were you, they
had always been around?
They were kind of like right at the, kind of like right at the beginning when I was
smoking, you know, smoking a lot of Mexican and Mexican weed and stuff like that.
But yeah, a lot of it started kind of when I started smoking it, those things started
coming on the scene.
Yeah.
Okay.
It's interesting because I've kind of found anecdotally the people who were around, especially
growers before the advent of like commercial Indica seeds like Afghani's, you'll never
find one of them who says Indica's are their favorites, you know, because like they obviously
grew up on Sativas.
So I thought it'd be interesting if you fell into that category, but the Cam Dog had won
you over.
Oh, big time.
So with that in mind, throughout, you know, your whole history of smoking weed, what's
been the most enjoyable terpene or flavor profile for you?
I know you said you don't really care too much for flavor, but for a lot of people,
there's, you know, these really kind of exotic terpene profiles from when they were younger
because, you know, things were more landgracy.
What is it for you?
I'm really into these, the SFV and the TK, the OG's for taste, you know, I really love
that taste.
I think the chems get you, still get you a little higher, but yeah, I love these OG tastes.
I believe the hype for sure.
And so how do you think that the laws affected the scene as it progressed on?
Because I mean, the immediate assumption one might make is like, if the laws were more
loose, you know, maybe Cam Dog would have flourished even more.
Do you think that was necessarily the case?
Because at the same time, it was still very, you know, as you said, somewhat close guard,
you know, in the right circle type thing.
Yeah, I think back then was definitely, you know, there wasn't as much trading going on
and they were definitely held closer.
The reason I ask that is just because I kind of think that it was the perfect breeding
ground with the illegal environment in a sense, because it allowed there to be, you know,
if you look at the New York crew, for example, you know, like those guys who were selling
the Cam Dog for crazy prices in the park, you know, like if it was legal or more lax,
you know, like those prices wouldn't have been there.
And then maybe there wouldn't have been as much incentive to keep the Cam Dog around
because that's part of what I think has helped keep it around is because it is obviously
so valuable in so many regards.
It just ensured its survival.
Exactly.
And I think just the laws and people, it being worth so much money and people were, you know,
held it closer and protected it more, I would think, I would say.
Yeah.
And so, you mentioned earlier that you generally just grew from clones over the years.
But with that in mind, were there ever any breeders who you kind of thought their work
was pretty good?
And bonus points if it's besides JJ?
Yeah.
Guys from, oh God, what is their company called?
South Fork Seeds out in California are really good.
They got all the real, you know, chem genetics.
If you have the real chem genetics and you're a good breeder, then, you know, your shit's
going to be good.
I've seen a couple of pictures on Instagram.
Mr. Bob Hemfield is, you know, starting to breed now and he's going to be coming out
with lots of good crosses, chem and puck crosses.
JJ, of course, and then Skunk VA.
I would definitely check his stuff out when his comes out.
You just got to be careful.
You want to find someone that has the real deal and not just claiming they have it and
breeding with it and just putting out whatever.
Yeah, without a doubt, there's too much of that at the moment.
And so, at what point did you really notice that the chem dog was taking off in the mainstream?
And even an extension of that is like, you know, at what point were you kind of starting
to get recognized as the figure from the story that you are?
Oh, probably in ICMAG.
You know, from then, people have just been reading about it for the last, whatever, 10
years or so.
And it's just kind of taken on a life of its own.
But probably after that ICMAG, it started to really...
I really only got back into Facebook and Instagram and all this media stuff a few years ago.
So probably when I went on the Adam Dunn show is probably when it really kind of really
blew up.
Okay, fantastic.
Thank you, Adam.
I mean, you kind of partly answered this question, but is there...
Have you met many other people who did, you know, have claimed they got to experience
the dog bud and, you know, they're describing it correctly to you and it works out the time
frames about right or not really?
About the dog bud, I've never...
I've had a few people over the years tell me that they have it and this, that.
I've even had someone send it to me, send a sample and it, I mean, it was not it.
So I've never known anyone besides myself, Joe and Matt G that have smoked the dog bud.
I mean, I know there's people out there, but I have never heard of anyone getting it back
then or, I mean, it was just so incredible for 1991.
This pot was just so incredible for that time.
We just had never seen anything like it and to this day, 25 years later, I've never talked
to anyone that smoked the real dog bud before.
Was it outdoors?
Indoor.
Awesome.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So this is just a bit of a personal question I was thinking to myself while trying the
91 is, how functional do you think someone can be, you know, the average person in the
real world if they are smoking these chem dogs all day?
Have you met people who are still, you know, real go-getters or do you just find it still
takes its toll on you?
I think it's your personality.
I think if you're a go-getter, you can, you know, smoke it and no problem.
I mean, I smoke it all day and I'm motivated and it helps me.
So I wouldn't know what I'd do without it for sure.
Yeah.
And so I always like to ask people like what are their reasons for hanging on to cuts,
you know, like specifically not giving them out and when you're talking to breeders, it's
somewhat obvious.
But one of the interesting topics I had brought up was that not necessarily like you're looking
to keep it out of the hands of the masses but the reason I got told was that, you know,
people can not look after the plant well and, you know, they take poor clones of poor clones
and then eventually, you know, you've got like for example, let's say it's the chem
dog, you know, it's like it's just really degraded and then it's giving everyone a poor
representation of the chem dog even when it's done well just due to the clone.
Do you feel like that has somewhat happened to the chem dog?
Because when I heard that reasoning, the first thing that popped in my mind was like that
seems like that's kind of what has happened with the chem dog in some ways.
Like I mean, I've just been told from so many people that, you know, the biggest reason
why clones fade off so to speak is because sometimes, you know, you're not taking the
healthiest cuttings.
Yeah, that's, you got to take healthy cuttings.
It starts from the beginning.
You got to take them for a nice healthy mother and it'll just, that plant will be happy for
its, as long as you take care of it, it'll be happy for its life.
So I think people, I think people, I don't think that's the reason people kept them close.
I think people kept them close just because it was special and, you know, they wanted
to, I don't think people thought, you know, that if I give it to this person, they're
going to degrade the plant.
I think people just found something special and they wanted to, they wanted to hold onto
it.
Yeah.
Or they got conditions, someone gave it to them and said, don't give it out, stuff like
that.
Okay, awesome.
Well, I think we've only got some short answer questions left.
So these are just, you know, more far away.
But what's, this is a two-parter, you know, what's your least favorite strain, you know,
like the worst strain in your opinion?
And then the second part is, you know, without necessarily giving away the breeder, what's
the worst cross you've ever seen the chem in, you know, because obviously some strains
just don't work when you cross them to others.
It's just, you know, genetic.
What's the worst one you've seen?
What does it not agree with?
I don't like fruity strains.
I'm not a big fruity guy.
So you know, any of those purple grapey ones or tangeriney ones or, you know, all those,
I'm not, I'm not into those.
And the chem cross, I'm not really sure.
Most of the chem crosses I've smoked, if it's the real chem, it's, I like it.
Maybe chem cross to some fruity purple thing.
Yeah, maybe.
I've seen a couple people crossing them to some fruity stuff and I haven't tried them,
but maybe the chem will make it strong at least.
Yeah.
It's like the one silver lining.
Yeah.
So what, you know, obviously you've been around the scene for a long time.
What's been the worst thing to happen to it in your opinion?
The scene?
Just oh God.
Just some of the people getting in the business and in it for the wrong reasons and just,
seeing people 20 years ago or 15 years ago that would just look at me and thought I was
just the biggest piece of shit, you know, low grade person in the world and now they're,
you know, now they're all pro marijuana and it's just kind of weird.
People that would look at me differently 15 years ago and look at me differently now.
So that's kind of what bothers me the most I would think about this business.
Have you ever had someone, you know, like try to get back in contact and kind of like
get an in with you once they realized who you are and maybe they had previously written
you off?
Yeah, most people from high school, you know, mostly, but they're getting back in touch
maybe because they know they have a sick, you know, relative or something and they're
looking for answers, stuff like that.
Yeah, you're not looking to help them out.
But no, they're not looking for strains and stuff like that.
I get people asking me for the chems all the time and I just have to just say no all the
time.
So yeah, that's kind of hard.
Yeah, I can imagine.
And so, what do you think is like a big mistake people make when they're growing the chem
dog?
Because for me it's, you know, a lot of people say it's so finicky.
So, you know, what's something about it that it likes or something it doesn't like?
Well, chem 91 doesn't like a lot of light.
I usually put them kind of on the outskirts of the light.
They seem to do a lot better.
But if you follow your program and tender love and care, they like a lot of cow mag.
D likes cow mag up until week seven.
So just a couple of things like that.
But it's not a very hard plant to grow.
Yeah.
So, I mean, I've thought about the scene that the Grateful Dead created and it seems like,
you know, it was like that perfect storm for progressing the scene.
Do you think that trying to create something similar to that in a modern sense would work
out or you think just the climate is too different and it's just, yeah, it wouldn't work in the
same way?
Yeah, I think it's just different.
I think people are just more out in the open and trading things.
Just you know, you can buy cuts on Craigslist now.
So it's just it's a different time we live in.
So, yeah, I don't think it would.
I think it was just that time that we were in.
Well, do you think that given like so much of the masses are now newly jumping into cannabis
cultivation, at least in America, do you think that that could be harmful anyway?
Because it seems like there's a lot of growers who don't necessarily know how to deal with
a lot of problems that could have flow on effects like, you know, the cloning ones.
Yeah, I think, yeah, the cloning ones one and, you know, pests for sure.
You know, you get more people and but yeah, definitely problems for sure the more people
grow on.
And how do you feel about what's, you know, widely regarded as somewhat over the top rules
in you know, you might not be fully involved in it but, you know, in the Oregon, I believe
it is, I've got, you know, some pretty insane testing requirements.
How do you feel about those?
Testing is, I'm kind of up in the air on testing until they, you know, have like a
standardized test, I guess.
Like a, you know, machine that's, this is the way it's done.
I think they're kind of different machines and so I really don't, you know, the testing,
I don't really believe in the testing too much and if you have, you know, 27% THC crystals
on your whatever flow bud and, you know, you have in the chem tests at 20% or 18%, I think
the chem crystals, the makeup of those 18% are better than the, you know, the 27% on
the other bud.
I think the crystals, the makeup of those crystals are stronger and better so I don't,
you know, so a 17 could get you higher than a 27.
Yeah, so I mean, what do you think, you know, it's obviously probably going to be a guess
but if you did have to guess, what do you think that, you know, the average sample of
well-grown chem 91 does sit at because, you know, like if that is the strongest weed then
we shouldn't, you know, and it's not testing high then, you know, who cares about numbers?
Yeah, I think that 91 and the 4 and those, they all, they test like mid-20s, I think.
So it's never, you know, like 30% or anything like that but yet they're the strongest strains
that I've ever smoked so I'm not a big believer in testing yet.
And so, our final question, if you could go back to any time and get any seeds from anywhere
whether it be, you know, seeds you could buy from early in the day or just land-raised seeds
and, you know, you're allowed to just obtain them, what would it be?
Man, I think I would have to go back to 1991 and take that ounce from G and take those 13 seeds from him.
No, I, you know, those are special seeds but like a nice, you know, a nice African land-raised
strain seeds from Africa would be nice.
Have you been one of those?
Go back to Amsterdam in the 70s or, you know, early 80s and see what they had.
Some of that old Sensi seed stock or something like that but I think I'd go after those 13 seeds that G found.
I was trying to bite you into the skelly seeds but you gave a better answer.
Oh, yeah.
Have you tried JJ's Nigerian?
Yeah, yeah.
That's one of the better sativas I like.
It kind of reminds me of, you know, like all that wheat I used to get in high school
from different countries and stuff but it's good.
The Nigerian's great.
Yeah, it's great.
Yeah, I just thought maybe that was where the African comment came from.
Yeah, yeah.
Awesome.
So I think that brings us to the end.
Thanks so much for coming on P-Bud.
Is there any questions or shout-outs you wanted to do?
Shout-out to Incredibles and everyone down there.
Great company to work for.
Go out and get some bars and pretty much every dispenser in Colorado I think Incredibles
is in.
And shout-out to Matt, to G for, you know, doing what he did with those seeds and, you
know, thousands of people.
Thank you.
And my good buddy Joe Brand.
Shout-out to him if he's going to be listening.
I miss you buddy.
And that's, yeah, that's about it.
Awesome.
And shout-out to my wife.
Shout-out to my wife, of course.
She's my better half.
Yep.
Awesome.
Thanks so much for coming on.
Yeah, thank you.
So there you have it.
A big thanks to P-Bud Mike.
Kem Family.
Mass G.
OGS.
420 Australia.
In the Build Shop.
See you.
A Cannabis show for buddy enthusiasts.
