Hello and welcome to the next episode of The Podcast, a cannabis podcast for budding enthusiasts.
This episode, as always, was brought to you by 420 Australia, your premium store for 420
lifestyle and apparel.
Seeds here now, your number one seed bank who offer not only a guarantee on germination,
but more importantly, a guarantee on satisfaction, as well as OGS for all your organic gardening
needs.
In this episode, we're joined by Mr. James Bean of Seeds Here Now to talk what it's like
to own one of the biggest seed companies in the world and all things cannabis.
Let's get into it.
All righty, so a big thank you to our first guest on the show who's not necessarily a
breeder but instead the owner of potentially the largest and best seed company in the world,
James Bean of Seeds Here Now.
Thank you so much for taking the time to join us.
Thank you.
I appreciate you reaching out.
It was nice to meet you at the Emerald Cup and thanks for following up.
Yeah, no worries.
And thanks for coming on again.
First question I've got, we're going to deviate a little from the normal first question is,
before we get into it, have you ever considered yourself to be a serious grower?
And if so, what strains were you into at first?
Yes.
So the whole serious grower, master grower, evil term, I don't comply with generally.
I think the way I try to tell people it's a weed and they call that for a reason, try
to learn something from everybody every day and you'll get smarter.
He who thinks he knows it all at the end of the day has got a lot of learning to do and
maybe needs to find something else because there's always something that tricks that
an old schooler can teach you or tricks that a new schooler can be like, hey, check this
out.
Oh, technology, that's cool.
But yeah, I did grow.
I had a 10K grow right before I got into, when I picked up about my 12th breeder, it
became, I had to sit down and talk to myself and decide, do I want it to be a liability
if my grow got popped?
Because I have a hard time growing numbers like a lot of us do.
And so if my grill ever got too smelly or if my grow got popped and I had the cops come,
would it be worth risking my guy's business and everything I've built just because I want
to grow a couple extra plants?
And of course the answer to that was no.
And so I stopped, I stopped growing.
I still have all the equipment in my garage.
And then oddly enough, three days before Christmas this year, I now have 35 breeders.
I have my garages full of my, well, it was my office, but three days before Christmas,
somebody stole my car.
And so I saw two Oregon Sheriff at the top of my driveway, knowing that they couldn't
come down, which is no turn around spot.
And then I waited for the other one.
The other two showed up so they both could all come down.
I said, how you doing?
I can help you.
He said, oh, hey, Mr. Collins, can we look in your garage?
I said, well, you know, normally I would let you, but do you have a warrant?
He said, no, we just, we're just looking there.
And I usually would fight him on it, but I ain't got nothing.
So I opened it.
I said, what, what's going on?
He said, well, actually your car's been stolen and it's been involved in two accidents in
two different counties.
We wanted to make sure that it wasn't here and it wasn't in your garage.
And so through no fault of my own, I could have had my game exposed and have put my breeders
at risk because somebody decided to steal my car and the cops had to come and check
that it wasn't in my garage.
And so it's just, it wasn't worth that risk to me.
And so I stopped growing, but which is, which is hard because I got a lot of, um, sometimes
maybe your girlfriend isn't the nicest, so you have to go double work out there and
you got a lot of work to do in the garage.
And so that kind of took, you know, I got to go take loans.
I got to go clean up, you know, kind of took that element out of there.
And that kind of was a bummer.
But, um, and you know, I, I used to listen to, uh, you know, podcasts, uh, um, frequently
and while I grew, I liked to, I liked to give my ladies some knowledge so they knew where
they came from.
And so I would, I'd play the, I'd play the podcast, uh, um, little growers tip.
Uh, I would always plug in my radio into the same circuit as my fans.
Now my radio was always on and people would say, Oh, why do you have your radio on?
So well, the radio is ever off.
That means the circuit on the fans have was blown and we got problems.
And so if you ever hear the radio off, you come tell me right away because that means
the fans are off.
And then strange.
I like growing.
Um, I like what I described as a, as, as a big girls that like to sit all day, sit around
all day at the all you can eat buffet.
So I don't like finicky daddy's girls.
I don't like drunk college girls gone wild, uh, gorilla glue type girls cause they have
a couple of drinks and I'm going to need some support.
They're all, you know, so you guys got to, you know, and they finished great and they
look pretty in the end.
They only put a little time into them.
They work out.
But, um, I liked, uh, probably one of my favorite strains was a blue dot I held in my, in my
collection for a long time that I got from obsolete.
Um, I have a five pack.
Uh, I grew five, my, one of my old sales guys grew the other five.
He did a better, he had a turnout to 29%.
I got mine to 26, but, um, both, uh, just great.
Finos and monster call is very easy.
Um, trim, uh, non finicky didn't weren't touchy.
Like I say finicky, I think girls got cookies are really finicky.
Like they, they're like, they're like a high school girlfriend.
They take him to dinner and they don't want to eat.
Like they just don't don't feed them.
If you're late, they're kind of late.
And I was like, man, you bet you're just always complaining.
And so when I had them on a tray with my, all you can eat ladies, they were, they were
not happy.
So I don't think I believe, but I finally, and I made one of the worst mistakes that
the other grower tip, um, that I had done is I was like, well, these cookies are so
bomb that I'm just going to go run a whole room of them before I, before I had ran one,
I decided I'd run, you know, a whole room of 40 and you know, about week three, I was
like, Oh God, what have I done?
I got six weeks of this crap.
So always, always, you're going to flower a room, you know, flower a plant, I guess
always make sure you run it and learn to learn, try to learn sentence outs or learn how finicky
they are before you, before you make a major investment.
That's some good advice, man.
I love that, that's the reason now that Jesus is just crippling me.
So good.
So I try to make it easy for people, you know, I've done it, I've screwed up.
I've, I've, uh, I've, I've put the, I've cooked the plants.
I've made that my tents too hot.
I've had the jungle swamp going, you know?
Um, so now I just try to help people to get the good, get the good strange or get strange
that they're looking for.
And that will be hardy and not give them any headaches.
So to say, I mean, if you want a strange to give you headaches, I'm glad to sell you those
too, but you're going to know what you're getting, you know?
Yeah.
Nice.
If we kind of fast forward a bit to nowadays, how would you describe owning, you know, a
seed company as biggest seeds here now in one sentence for someone who probably underestimates
what goes into it?
Um, I'd say a, a, a dream come true and, and, and a nightmare that you never knew existed.
There's so much behind it between the ability to like, like, like, um, my, my contacts on
my phone are amazing and it's, it humbles me every day that I'm looking at.
Cause one thing about seats here now is, is, is I have to, I have to verify you myself.
I have a very big vetting process.
I have to meet every single one of my breeders.
I get my gear from my breeders directly from a beers.
I don't meet up with the middleman.
I don't talk to somebody in between because if that's somebody has like a heroin problem
or some kind of issue and he's repacking packs, I guarantee everything we sell.
So we have a hundred percent satisfaction guarantee.
It's not germination.
It's not, uh, we hope you're going to have these, you're going to pop.
It's if you're unsatisfied, if there's too many males, there's too many females of King
Kong comes out of the sky and squishes all of your seeds.
You think it's my fault.
Uh, send us an email.
We'll make it right.
So, um, we don't want people to go back to columns.
Yeah.
So that brings up an interesting point.
You know, you guys are the only ones as far as I know who offer that guarantee of satisfaction.
Now, the first thing that jumps to mind is a, why would anyone shop anywhere else if
you've got that level of guarantee, but more so how many emails must you get from people
trying to scam you out of seeds?
So a lot less than I would have thought.
And, um, so I have, uh, I started as a one man band in 2010 as a Washington seed bank,
wacbank.com and I had, I bought the state of Washington and had one reader.
And then eventually now I have every single state seed bank, a large seed bank, a Casey
bank, CEO seed bank, and then they all forward to seedsherenow.com.
Um, and, uh, that's always been my policy, but even, even when I was just one bank, if
I had to, I knew that I was coming back next year and I'm only as good as my word.
And you can check my reputation with all my breeders and all my breeders say, you know,
we'll say all good things about me.
Um, I don't, I don't owe anybody anything.
I was the worst cash buyers goes, but, um, um, when I had that guarantee, I didn't have
as many emails as I thought I would.
And if I, if I tell you something and then I come back to that show next year, it was
a lie or you're upset with me or you had a room that turned Hermione and you have flowers
and seeds and everything, where you're probably going to cold cock me the first time you see
me.
And so I don't, you know, I'm not looking to turn a corner and get knocked out.
Like, Hey, you lied to me.
So, you know, we always tell the truth.
You always find out the best we can and we take care of people the best, the best way
that we want to.
And all my guys are, all the guys that work for me, we've all purchased seeds.
And so we've all put the a hundred bucks in the envelope and mailed it to, uh, to,
uh, the Amsterdam and waited two weeks and waited and didn't know and thought we got
scammed and all of a sudden it showed up and then you go out and plant it and it's two
and they're stretchy and they're both one falls down.
You pick it up, put it to a toothpick and turns mail and you call attitude.
I call somebody or since you're like, hi, so like, you're like, Whoa, Hey, hello.
Hello.
Like they, they laugh at you.
You're like, Oh, Oh, I can't help you.
So we don't, uh, um, it's not, it's not everybody's fault all the time.
I understand when you're, when you're dealing with numbers and you're dealing with, with,
um, genetics, not everything works out.
Like there's going to be a quirky in every batch that everybody's going to be, um, perfect
and wonderful.
And sometimes, uh, shit happens to say, you'll get a pack of 10 males and I've got a guy
who called me, Oh man, I got 10 males.
I said, congratulations.
Nice job.
You know, he was like, Oh, I was looking at females.
I said, Oh, well, well that case, you know, that's what happens.
I'll fix it for you.
But that, and the way I figure it, if I, if I, if I solve your problem and if I fix your
situation, then you're not going to go on Facebook and I'm going to trash me.
You're not going to do it in an Instagram and it saves me.
You know, it's, it's a, it's a simple pack of C's that gets you started again.
And usually we've found that once we replace that back, um, we'll have that customer for
life.
So, yeah, really good sales strategy.
So, I mean, but with that being said, you know, and you know, I guess let's, let's kind
of be reasonable here.
Do you get emails and sometimes you think to yourself, this does very much sound like
there's probably something on the user's end going wrong as opposed to there being a floor
in the genetics.
I mean, given you just replace it regardless, but do you often kind of probe into that nature
and be like, Hey man, you know, like have you checked for light leaks or anything?
Like, cause these are the common questions you would get from someone like attitude for
example.
Yep.
So I'd say a 60% of the time I feel it's fishy.
I vet.
So before I pick on a breeder, um, I have them send me personal gear.
I have that gear germinated on a recreation, on a, uh, medical facility down the street
from me and I get it all the germination tests back.
And so I germinate them, I test them.
I have them grown out before I even carry them.
I'll have them up and going.
Um, and so, uh, I, I, so I like to think I know what I'm selling because how can I guarantee
what I'm selling if I haven't done it myself?
So with that said, um, I always love the emails.
They're like, so none of them germinated and six of them were males and I'm pissed.
I'm like, well, did none of them germinate or six of them males, which, which one was
it?
You know, um, you gotta go with one side of the story here, but I understand it.
I'm sad.
I'll, I'll fix it.
Or the nice thing about me being a bank and, um, I will, I will pick on attitude attitude,
see bank.
Um, good friend, we carry him, but he's, he's, he's a, he's a breeder that has seeds that
calls himself a bank.
Um, there's others, uh, uh, OG rather, um, other banks, you know what I mean?
Aren't really banks, they're breeders that have their bank of their gear, of their stock.
Um, which I will never have, I will never breed.
Never breed, I think it's shady,
and I think it's seedy when the breeder,
when the guy who sells seeds also makes seeds.
We can get to that later.
But with me having 35 brands,
so let's say I had a major commercial account,
and he calls me up and says,
well, out of that last 30 packs,
Durango hermeyed, and there was an alien that hermeyed,
and I had a pink that hermeyed,
and this brother's grim went bad on me.
And I'd say, oh, I'm really sorry to hear about that.
Sometimes it happens, I said,
but the problem with that is
is that that's five different breeders.
And so all five of those gentlemen
would all of a sudden have to have gotten inclusion
to screw me over and sell you bad seeds,
or you know what I mean, for that to be true.
Had that all been from the same breeder,
well, I could see that something might have happened,
or there might have been a mistake,
or there might have been a greenhouse thing.
But when you're talking about five different strains
from five different breeders that all hermed on you,
you know, I'm gonna go ahead and stand behind it,
and I'll fix it for you.
We'll work on it, you know,
usually we end up giving them half back.
I'll say, well, you might wanna turn your lights off at night
and make sure, you know, go in there
and double check for a light leak,
or watch for your nutrients, or stuff like that,
because I know our numbers,
and I know we keep a record of every return that we've got.
Anybody that has a complaint or an issue,
we have the full disposition of that issue,
and we give those to our actual breeders every six months.
And it's like, here's like feedback that you got.
This is what they said, and this is how we fixed it.
And so the breeder can see,
if I've got something consistently coming up,
maybe there's something wrong with that strain,
I need to go work on it or pull it.
Which thankfully, we don't have that.
We just have, get more top dog.
That's all that people say, they complain about.
Yeah, so I mean, if we just loop back to a point
you made a few minutes ago, you mentioned seed tampering.
Now this is a point that's come up a lot
within the industry very recently.
In some regards, I think it's understated,
but at the same time, I guess I'm not really connected
enough with it to be able to give a firm statement,
but I guess you would be the perfect person, you know?
In your opinion, how often do you think this does happen?
And more importantly, how can we combat it?
So, seed tampering goes back, I mean, way before me.
And I'd say DJ Short has taken the brunt of it
and has been the most abused as far as seed tampering goes.
So back in the day, guys used to send over their cuts.
Like if somebody was having stuff made in Amsterdam,
so say, you didn't just send so-and-so over,
you sent over your cut.
And so now they had it.
And so they had your cut, that I'm gonna tell you,
I made 5,000 seeds, really?
I made 10,000 seeds, I kept five.
But you don't know that, I told you that.
Something that, so I'm an exclusive rep
for Exotic Archive, TH Seeds, which is a big one.
And he's told me, TH Seeds, he's got 25 years
in the business, that's the guy who did the Adam Dunn,
did MK Ultra, Bubble Gum, Heavy Duty Fruity,
all those big ones.
But he knew of companies in Canada, actually,
that were notorious for it.
He'd sell them 10 packs of sage,
and then they weren't hearing anything from him
from six months, and all of a sudden, six months later,
they'd have sage on their shelves.
And he didn't sell them any, his partner didn't sell him any,
but if I took a 10-pack of sage, found a male,
found a female, crossed him, made seeds,
sold him a sage, you as a consumer
would think that you grew sage.
Now genetically, I screwed all that up.
Like I did some inbreeding with little selection
and just took a male and Bubba and his stupid sister
and crossed them and really messed up their gene pool,
and you're not gonna have the genetic potential
that you would've had had it been done right
or had it been the original sage from TH Seeds.
And so not only does it screw the customer,
but it screws the breeder, because now you've got
a bad taste in your mouth that, well,
just because I'm on a bandwagon this week,
it seems Crop King is the next big guy.
He's in the front of every major magazine,
and I tell these magazine guys
that want me to advertise with them, I'm like,
look, when you quit screwing your customers,
I'll advertise with you.
But you open the front of Crop King, he's got 32 strains.
One of them is a blueberry,
and one of them is an azure haze.
So I get on the phone, I call DJ Short,
I said, hey, I thought I had exclusives.
I got Crop King selling this stuff.
He's like, I've never sold to Crop King.
So I go back and look at Crop King, I'm like, oh,
well, they're not in his packaging.
He's not saying DJ Short's blueberry,
he's just saying blueberry in different packaging.
So he's just playing off the name.
And people who are just getting into the industry
are like, oh, blueberry, that's what I want,
that's what I like, and they buy it.
And I had a guy come up to me like three different,
like three trade shows ago, he's like,
yeah, I love blueberry wands, it wasn't so great.
I said, dad, did you get it from Canada?
He's like, yeah, and I opened the front of the magazine,
I said, did you get it from this guy?
He's like, I think I did get it from that guy.
I said, well, unless it came in a matchbook
with 13 seeds, it's not a true pack.
I said, so, but the problem with genetics
is that I can take two sages and cross them
and make more sage seeds, although they'll never have
the genetic potential as they originally would have.
I've cut, I've screwed the customer out of what he can do.
And you can be the best grower in the world
and know everything and have all the book smarts
and the street smarts in the world,
but if your plant only has a genetic potential
of making 15% THC, you're never gonna hit 20.
It doesn't have the potential to do it.
It has nothing to do with you or what you did wrong
or this or that.
It's the plant's potential.
If the plant had a potential of 30
and you screwed up half the time,
you'd still walk away with a 20
because it had a 30% rate to start with.
Yeah, wow, I mean, you just hit on so many good points.
Yeah, first of all, fuck crop king.
Yeah, I mean, it makes me cringe.
It does, it just takes money out of it.
So one of the reasons I got into it too is,
is I've had, I did my thing in the past.
I've had my fame, my glory, whatever.
I like to work with, all the guys I work with now
are guys that made the original strains.
The guys that I felt did it when they weren't supposed to
and took major risks and basically paved the road
that I now drive on.
And so if I can help those guys
or give back to those original breeders
before all these trend chuckers get ahold of them
and start watering down their strains,
then that makes me feel good.
And that's why I have such a heavy vetting process
is because I don't wanna support the guy
that just took Crockett's strain
and exotic and wants to sell it.
I'm like, well, no, you didn't do anything.
You took this guy's and this guy's.
You took two people's homework and turned it in.
I can't support that.
If you took that Crockett and phenohunted it
and found a super male and then bred to something,
you didn't work, that's something else.
But to just take two people's packs
and cross them and come out with something,
I don't wanna support it.
I don't want that person to think
that they're gonna get money off doing it
because a lot of what's not seen
is the breeders put in a lot of work.
I'll get a list from exotic, for example,
of like 15 strains.
And then when I finally get the strains,
there'll be like seven.
But exotic always brings me flour, rosin,
and usually a Cuban deck.
Which means he's grown it out, he's smoked it,
it's past all of his things.
And so what started as...
What started as a...
Oh, that's interesting.
So that's the guy, I think, in Purple Urkel.
I think I've tracked him down.
Oh, really?
A guy by the name of Mad Farmer.
And he already had...
There we go.
Yeah, we've had Mad Farmer on the show.
Really?
Yeah, yeah, he's a great dude.
Purple Urkel is fun.
It sits in the farthest galaxy,
it sits way out here like Pluto.
It's different, it's something different.
And so it's interesting for that reason,
but I wasn't real familiar with him,
but Mel, Mel Vanetics, her Ohio Buckeye Purple stuff,
she was one of his first testers,
which tells me how old he is
and how long he must be doing.
And so I'm more than happy totally to work with that guy,
because that's the guy who needs to...
Who's older now, who has groans
and who's not making that paycheck now.
And so if he can cash in on this green rush
that everybody's getting on
and he's the guy who's doing it back rent,
then that money is his.
Yeah, man, he's actually the one who...
So I don't know if you remember me mentioning
how we're putting on that little cannabis cup in Australia.
All the money we raised from that
is actually going towards him,
because yeah, it wasn't...
I mean, it's ongoing,
but he's not kind of getting the medical treatment he needs,
because as you mentioned,
it's costly and he's a bit older and he doesn't...
And he's not a guy who's really puts himself out there
as much as he should.
And he doesn't breed with flavors of the month, man.
He just uses the killer, what he knows and trusts.
And so, yeah.
And a lot of guys aren't doing it for money
or they're not doing it.
A lot of my good guys are not doing it for money
or they're not doing it for flavor of the month.
They're doing it out of necessity.
Like, what will help me stop with my elbow pain?
Which will, what'll help me stop shitting my pants?
You know what I mean?
Like, what'll help my stomach stop cramping up?
And so it's more of a...
Before we introduced science to it,
it was a hit and miss and kind of a,
I'm gonna grow this strain and mix it with this
and we give it out to my people.
And tell me how it works on this
and tell me how it works on that.
And now that we have science,
we can work into the whole cannabinoid effect
and mercines and terpenes and terpenes to THC ratios
and CBD ratios.
And so we can start dialing in things.
But by us only knowing a few of the cannabinoids
that are currently out there,
that's like me taking the entire pain catalog
and saying, here's aspirin and Tylenol
and that's all you know about.
You know what I mean?
There's so much morphine and all this other crap out there
that's in that, breaks up the pain category.
But we're just getting into this new,
into this plant, so to say.
If I walked out of the rainforest tomorrow with cannabis
and nobody knew about it,
I'd be given the world peace prize, I think.
I was gonna save so many people.
But now I just think our government,
we've spent so much on propaganda
and lying to so many people.
And the proof is in the pudding.
I've seen a girl go down with autism
with intuitive full grand mal seizure.
Her mom pulls out a vial, two drops of THCA.
Within three minutes, she's fine.
And so you can tell me, gasoline in that vial, I don't care.
Whatever it was, it stopped this girl in front of me.
And you can't argue with it at that point.
I mean, it's just, you've seen it and it's touching.
So I mean, touching on the idea of cannabis
as more of a medicine, CBD is something which is always in,
in my opinion, kind of the peripheral
of the mainstream consciousness.
What's the best CBD you guys stock in your opinion?
CBD would be what I consider the future.
The plant can either be high in CBD or high in THC.
It can't be high in both.
And by without them giving us science in the 90s,
breeders were breeding it up to make the highest THC
because that's something we could measure and quantify.
And so, but little known to them,
they were actually breeding down the CBD.
And so that's where we have some,
so basically the guys, what they're doing today
is they're reversing that, using ditch weed,
which is where the harlequin was,
which now that once they've fattened her up,
she's not so lanky and drunk and all over the place.
She's a little bit more stout
and has better structure to her.
But they had to go back to the older strains,
which had the CBD still in them.
That's why a lot of people are looking for land races now
because they were still, people say,
oh, you guys just weeded so much, we're stronger.
No, not so much.
Well, maybe, but not so much.
It's more that your guys' weed still had CBD in it.
And now we've cut that out.
I see a good number seem to be a one-to-one.
So, like if I was gonna go and smoke with my dad right away,
I wouldn't smoke an OJ Kush or an OJ,
an OJ Kush straight with him right away.
That's putting him on his ass.
Yeah, you'd be like, oh, that was a lot of fun.
You know what I mean?
I'd probably grab like an Albert Walker
or something a little bit less knockout effect,
but more flavorful, but still give it his pain kill.
And so like a more of a one-to-one.
So he would enjoy that and not be,
because he doesn't have a tolerance for an OJ Kush.
You smoke it like, oh, you know,
you'd get like a little head sweat.
You're like, oh, that was a good one.
Yeah, so have you guys ever thought in-
Oh, so the answer to that question is
I like to work with the real guy that did the thing.
And so we work with the guy who made Charlotte's Web.
Charlotte's Web was actually stolen from him.
He got kicked out of the building.
It was made by the company TSK.
The guy's name is Two.
It's not the Stanley's fault that they grabbed it.
It's the Stanley's fault that they grabbed it,
tried to patent it and make money off of it.
And that's why I don't like them.
But the gentleman Two brought it over from Boston
and it was originally called Woo Four.
It was named after the Wu Tang album,
Woo is for the Children.
And it was the fourth funeral of the Wu Tang,
of the Wu, for the Woo Four, Woo is for the Children.
And they couldn't read his writing.
And so they just said R4.
And so they called it R4.
Grew a whole bunch in the greenhouses.
It didn't sell, because it didn't get anybody high.
They couldn't figure it out.
And so Charlotte's mom,
looking for something that'll help her,
you know, she's reached the end of her lengths.
She's tried every pain med that there is.
Trying to find some cannabis now.
They're like, well, we'll make you a deal on this cheap.
Make it to a tincture.
It helps Charlotte, insert Sanjay Gupta.
He comes to the story, says, hey, I was wrong.
Let's put these two together.
Charlotte sees the plant, Charlotte's mom.
But I guess it has a very variegated leaf structure on it.
That's pretty unmistakable.
That's like the webbing.
And that's why they called it the web.
But so I worked with him.
Charlotte had a sister.
Her name was Shirley Temple.
Shirley is a 17 to one CBD.
We've also got like a high voltage, which is 22 to one.
We've got a high voltage.
It's gonna be an ACDC cross with Trey Kinnar.
We've also got a dirty bird,
which is a canna-tonic crossed with a super sour tsunami.
The canna-soup.
And then we've got his new line is the dirty stuff.
Dirty bird.
So the dirty line is the prodigy of the bird
crossed with his male, whose name is Ron Jeremy.
Ron Jeremy is a 17 to one CBD male.
And so when you cross that with a 32 to one CBD female,
use the pundant square and they both lean towards
CBD side, you've got close to damn near hemp.
You're hitting the lines at point zero three.
And so that's where he's going.
That's where that line is.
And so cannabis basically, but CBD numbers
and under the point three,
because in the States that's where it lies.
It's point three percent greater than is THC,
point three percent less than is CBD.
But TSK is doing everything and his higher stuff,
like I said, anything with the dirty line,
that's with Ron Jeremy.
So all that's gonna be in the 30 plus.
And those are gonna be better for concentrates
and tinctures more so than smoking,
because they're not gonna be like,
I smoked all that, didn't really get high.
Well, you really didn't need to smoke all that grass media.
You just needed the concentrates from it.
Yeah, okay, that's a good point.
And so ultimately, where do you see CBD strands
going in the future?
I've always had this idea that to some degree,
there'll be maybe say a low percentage of CBD,
maybe say like three or less percent
bred into a lot of kind of regular recreational strains.
And then maybe like people start to kind of notice
the underlying benefits from that.
And that kind of gives it all a bit of traction.
That's just like my own little idea.
What do you think is the future for CBD?
So I never thought that we'd get cannabis passed
on the backs of children, that's for damn sure.
But that's exactly what happened.
It's you can't argue with science.
And you can't argue with,
our body has an endocannabinoid system,
which is built to take in cannabinoids.
Well, the only place that has cannabinoids is me.
And so how am I supposed to intake them,
if my body says I should, if I don't have that ability to?
But CBD, like I said, it's the future.
I see a lot of one-to-ones.
I see a lot of guys, I see a lot of people coming up
and asking for them, not out of,
I want CBD in particular.
Them just knowing it's not as strong.
It's not gonna knock me out.
Not knowing the full benefits of what it's gonna do
and it's not psychoactive and it'll help my,
it'll help my elbow not hurt when I take a hit.
You know what I mean?
And so, but they're just going after it.
Cause it's, I don't want this stuff that's so strong
and nails me and lays me on the couch.
I'm like, I get it, I get it.
Let's go for some bubble gum or something.
Let's go for something that's a little older,
that has messed with, so.
Yeah, okay.
And so, this may be a bit of a weird question,
but in the last few episodes,
we've been talking about kind of those
real old school catalogs, you know,
from like Neville's seed banks and stuff like that.
Have you guys ever thought about maybe doing some like,
you know, physical catalogs of your own,
just so for maybe in 20, 30 years time,
people can look back and be like,
ah, there's the cube by exotic.
Like, you know, that's now the equivalent of the NL5.
Hey, you know, like maybe that's a bit overstating it,
but you know what I mean?
So that they can have the same enjoyment?
Possibly because I'm that nerd that had the catalog
on my bathroom toilet.
And so every time I'd go in the restroom,
I'd be like, you know what I mean?
I'd circle them and I'd memorize them.
And you know, I knew which area of the cross was which,
and I knew that, oh, look at this,
look at that, oh, that's gotta be good, you know?
And so I have those catalogs.
And so I definitely, I think we'll get there.
I think it's a fun idea.
And we may have to put one out just for,
just for, printing is so cheap now,
you don't have to buy old dyes and whatnot,
you can get digital prints.
But we may just for, I want to do a calendar,
and I wanted to do a catalog would be good as well.
But when I first started, I had 27 strains, you know?
Like, that's what we had.
And now we've got upwards of 600, 700.
And so now we can do an actual catalog.
Toward the past, it'd be like,
well, here's 27 strains.
You know?
No, it's like, ah.
So.
That's cool to know that the size is now there to merit it.
So recently you guys started Cedarholics.
And for those who don't know, this is like a new site.
It's like an auction based platform.
A lot of kind of rare or discontinued lines
go under the hammer type thing.
I think what's most unique about this for me
is that as you've stated,
much larger percentage of the end profit
goes to the breeder than what would normally
in say seed sales.
What kind of gave you the idea to address this problem?
Because I mean, it's cool that there's like
an auction platform, but it's also,
you're addressing another underlying problem
in that there are some issues out there
who are kind of, you know,
wishing they would get a little bit more money.
So it would, for the auction based platform for Cedarholics,
it's hard for me to sell that pack at X amount of dollars
and keep too much of it or keep it,
because there's only one or two of them.
And so why, you know, that breeder can sell
one or two of them by themselves.
And so why should I take all of it?
Or why should I do the majority of it?
To where if I just provide them a platform
on which to do it, then they can go through,
because all my breeders have fridges.
I mean, and I love it when I get a text from Al,
do you have a fridge?
I'm like, ah,
because now the breeders are coming, you know?
My guy Goldcubber says three fridges,
they keep this stuff in.
And so they all have their back stock there,
you know, they're gonna come back and work later on
or extras of this in case they needed to go back
and look for something else.
And so, but they're not gonna get rid of them for cheap,
because then somebody else is gonna have that baby.
And in today's market,
somebody else is gonna buy that pack,
start checking with it and boom, again,
they're gonna see a company.
And that's definitely not what they want to happen.
And I can't set a price for them,
because I don't know what a pack of Starfighter F2s
is worth these days.
I've had them sold for 1500, I've had them sold for 300.
And so I don't know what a fair price is for those.
And it's not a matter of greed at all.
It's also, if you will, somehow a matter of fairness.
I had like 250 people trying to buy them all at one time.
It's like the guy who has the facility
and wants to put it in his catalog,
he's gonna get them.
We are talking rare strength,
we're talking, you know, Starfighter F2s.
That's what Mike based a lot of his line on.
I mean, there's a good possibility
you could find something better than what he has in it.
And if a breeder gets a hold of that,
well, there's a seed company.
And so the only way to get these guys
to get rid of those things is to say,
hey, I'll give you the majority of the money.
I'm not gonna keep it.
That's not fair.
So you keep it.
The way it'll work is it's basically like eBay for seeds.
You know, you pay, you get a basic amount of pictures.
It's a charge for a post.
If you wanna highlight it, it's a charge.
If you want this, it's a charge for like 25 cents.
You know what I mean?
Like those kind of like worsted price type deals.
If you want pictures, it's like $2, you know,
25 cents a piece.
So, and then the breeders can actually,
and then there's no,
the big thing about me is chain of custody
because I guarantee everything.
It's got to be what it says it is, verified genetics.
You cannot have tampered packs.
You cannot deal with shady people
who may have tampered packs.
And so the breeder keeps the pack.
Once the bid is won and the payment is cleared,
we ship a shipping label to the breeder.
The breeder takes care of it.
Once it's, once the courier has marked it
into the tracking system, we pay the breeder.
He gets his money and the person gets his gear, so to say.
And then if he has any questions,
he knows exactly for the breeder he got it from.
And then all the breeders will have a,
like exotic at c2rnow.com email.
So you're always welcome to email them directly.
But there's never any chain of custody.
There's never any worries of,
you know, I just paid 10 grand for this pack of seeds.
I hope it really is what it is.
Well, now there's no question.
You bought it from Breeder Steve
or you bought it from Lauren or you,
it's obsolete's pack, you know what I mean?
So, and by breeding with some of those guys,
they've got some bombs in there.
Like Leo just sent me from Fishian Auto,
sent me six of the Magnum Opus,
four of the Kimdog Special Reserve, one Golden Lemon,
and six, oh, six of the Rosé Especiales.
And the Rosé Especiales is the Zittles Cross
with Lung Valley.
So yeah, he wasn't supposed to do that.
So I think he only did 83 packs.
That's why he's just gonna auction them off.
Yeah, I mean, even that Kimdog Reserve,
I would imagine that would go for a pretty penny.
That's from 2012.
There's only four of them left.
And a portion of those packs will go to Kimdog.
He had talked to him last night.
He hasn't said anything up,
but he wanted me to kick Kimdog a piece of that.
And on that note, shout out to Brothers Grimm,
to my brother, Duke Diamond,
I think one of the best growers out there.
The guy can spot plants like no other.
He is the smartest.
He's the most humble.
I cannot say, if he needed my right arm right now,
I wouldn't even ask him.
I'd just probably grab a pair of scissors
and cut it off for him and give it to him
and ask him to sew it on later.
He's just a really good dude.
Anyways, Brothers Grimm, him and Rick did a giveaway
or a sale.
They made a Grimmdog, which was the Kim 91,
crossed with the Cindy 99.
They did 91 packs of it.
And they asked me if I would sell them for no charge,
if I'd pay for shipping and pay for the taxes
and do all that stuff.
I said, of course, just to pay it forward.
So we just cut Kim a check for $12,000
that went to him for their auction.
We sold all 91 packs.
So that's, you know, they didn't take a dime.
I didn't take a dime.
It was 12 grand just going to somebody just because of karma.
So I think that's pretty cool that those guys did that.
That is really, really cool indeed.
With that being said, have you heard from Chemdog Mass G
whether there might be any potential
to get some seed lines going in the future?
I heard that Chemdog Industries
is starting to get the wheels in motion, so to speak.
What do you know about that?
Some things I can talk to you about that.
So I'm in Boston right now for CannaCon.
I had offered Chemdog a pretty penny
to come sit down here and sign some t-shirts.
It's one of my beliefs that, you know,
West is where it's at for now,
but the East is where it will be.
And I told him, I said, you own the East.
Whether you feel you deserve it,
whether you feel that you're shy about it,
whether, however you feel about it,
Chemdog is a name, is a thing that holds power
and precedence in this area.
And you can get paid just for showing up,
just for doing things, just for selling a glass.
But he didn't seem to, you know, for example,
he took a pin company meeting this weekend instead.
So he's in Denver at a pin company meeting
trying to do some licensing there.
But I think he did talk to me about releasing his seed line
when it comes online.
So I guess that's a yes to there being
some Chemdog lines coming out.
I know that Microtech right now is using a lot of his gear.
Has used his Snowdog and those are,
I wouldn't say under the tutelage of Chemdog.
He knew what he was doing before he has a degree in it.
But it's all about the strains, you know.
When it comes down to it, you can be, like I said,
like I said, you guys, you can have, for dispensaries,
you guys can both build great, giant, golden dispensaries
with the best customer service
and free blowjobs on the way out.
But what makes a customer come back to your store next
versus the guy next to you is the product on the shop.
If your product is better than the guy next to you,
that's how you get customers to come back.
And you don't get that with clones,
you get that with seeds.
And so you got that,
because if you got that with clones,
then so did everybody else.
Yeah.
And so, I mean, while we're on the topic
of the Chemdog at the moment,
which one do you personally prefer?
The G Funk, the Chem D, or the 91?
Or the Giesel, or Chem Cis,
or there's a couple others.
And I believe Greg still has three beans,
he has yet to pop,
which I believe that could give us three others.
But for me, it's the D.
It's the D, I like the D.
He sent me, so like I said,
give me a bouquet of flowers when I see them,
which is 12 of these.
With a different strain in each one.
Yeah, so that's kind of what he's working on.
I really like Tommy,
he's a breeder, he takes steps.
Not everything is done quickly,
you can't just do this and this and that equals that.
That doesn't always work.
So there's steps to things,
there's levels to this shit,
you know what I mean?
And so he'll take steps,
and he'll make this times this,
and he'll get that,
and he'll cross this with that,
and he'll get that,
and then he'll cross those two,
and he'll get that.
Those other two steps,
he'll throw away,
because they weren't good,
or they weren't what he wanted,
or they weren't what he was going for.
And so he won't sell them,
because they're steps.
So with that,
I think he has a great eye,
and he builds things.
The Kim D.
Knocked me on my ass.
He sent over 12 samples.
I was supposed to go to Denver.
I missed Denver,
so he sent my guy with me to Hawaii.
We went to Hawaii.
We brought over,
that bouquet had more frequent flyer miles on it.
But he sent it to Hawaii.
I got it.
Odie Diesel came over from Homegrown Natural Wonders,
he was in town.
So Odie came over.
He, of course,
his wife loved the D,
helps her with her crowns.
We smoked like two bowls of it.
They left,
and I just sat there.
My guys were across the street at the trade show,
and I was like,
man,
I should go help them.
But I just couldn't.
I was just like,
so I texted Tommy.
I was like,
you fucker.
I was like,
you flattened me,
dude,
I can't move.
I said,
I remember this heist.
It was like eighth grade.
You know?
I just kept thinking,
my guys could probably use me.
I just can't go.
But yeah,
so it was definitely the Kim D.
Definitely knocked me on my knee.
This is real nice that he has here.
It's a step,
if you will.
This is his Smuckers.
This is Smuckers crossed with 7099.
Oh wow.
So step.
This is,
which is really growing on me.
Rick brought this to me.
This is the Killer Queen.
Yep.
Have you had a chance to try Local H?
And what's your opinions on it?
I mean,
that's one that gets brought up infrequently,
but everyone wants to know more about it.
That's good.
I was looking for the Local H,
but actually,
so I'm in Boston County.
John is at the show right now at the Cafe Harris.
He has my Local H,
and if he smokes it,
I'm gonna kick his ass.
Because it's one of my favorites I get.
It's good.
It's the Triple D.
It's something different.
It's also like the Screaming Eagle
that he gave me.
Screaming Eagle was also,
I showed Kim,
you know,
it was like,
ah,
decisions, decisions.
And Kim was like,
how's that Screaming Eagle?
And the Screaming Eagle was sitting right above.
He didn't even care about his own.
He cared about Screaming Eagle.
But Tommy's just,
he's got a collection,
man.
That's his thing.
I tell people,
so as much as I love Rick,
Rick did the smart thing
and put some stuff in the safe
and took it off for a second.
When he comes back to the game,
he needs custom clones.
He's gotta get those from somewhere.
And so that's why they made a great pair,
make great pairs.
Rick's a cube master.
The guy is so,
he's a genetic,
or not genetic,
but an electrical engineer.
And so he's just brilliant,
knowledge wise.
And so he gets,
he's nerds out on stuff.
You know what I mean?
And I think he did the Cindy
when he was like 20.
And so he was like in super nerd stage.
You know what I mean?
Or he could just like,
I got nothing else to do.
So let's just keep cubing this thing
and back cross and back cross
and back cross and back cross.
And that's why a lot of the strains
that use Cindy are so stable
because there's gotta be a stable one
in the relationship.
And so that's usually her.
That's good.
I like that.
So last kind of question
on your bouquet of flowers.
What's the most unique thing
you've ever been sent by Duke?
A lot of people have been talking
very highly of a thing called
the VA Afghani at the moment.
You know,
what do you rank as the most,
you know,
kind of rare,
but also standout thing you've ever received?
The HPG 13 Edward.
The ash plant.
The black,
his black ash plant.
You've seen it.
Yeah, I think I have.
That's a beauty.
That is,
that's a monster.
It's a beauty of a cut.
It's,
I think he got robbed at the ABSI.
It was his first test.
He was like,
man,
these contests aren't always fair.
And I was like,
dude,
this is obviously your first one.
No, they're not fair.
I said,
I had you,
you know,
20 to one at winning the damn thing.
But it's just a beautiful cut.
I love colors.
It's just frosty.
I guess it's not,
it's not tricky to grow.
And so anything that,
of course,
bag of peel is amazing.
It smells amazing.
So anytime you can trick,
tick off all four of those boxes,
bag of peel,
flavor,
smokey peel,
and easy to grow,
take it,
you know,
but it's,
it's a very highly held cut and
I don't want it.
I'll put it that way.
One of those ships.
Well,
you'll have people show up at your door knocking.
It's,
you're not supposed to have it.
And so it's one of those things,
but Duke of course is supposed to have it.
So yeah,
that's one of those kind of cuts.
So,
I mean on that note,
just a little bit peripheral,
but you did touch on it winning a cup,
for example,
you know,
that can greatly affect seed sales.
So this is something which ties into you directly.
Do you have any legitimate concerns about the integrity or
the credibility of cups?
Because I mean,
it does,
you know,
have a negative effect for your business.
Yeah.
I do.
And that's why I like the ADSI.
That's why I sponsor the ADSI,
which is stands for the Adam Dunn show invitational.
The Adam Dunn show invitational is,
as Adam Dunn is I'm his,
he's the founder of hoodlum.
He's the founder of TH seeds.
Next year will be his 25th anniversary in the business.
That's longer than most people have been smoking weed.
He made MK ultra bubblegum hog,
heavy duty fruity.
I can go on as like a train training,
and he's just got a whole bunch of strengths.
It's a breeder's cup and it's an invite only.
And so it's a deck of cards.
So there's 52 people invited.
You bring your own jar that you grew from your seed stock
and you all sit in a room and you test each other's stuff.
And you don't know that your jar just gets a card number
seven or whatever it is.
And you don't know your card.
Nobody else knows your card.
And then it's like,
it's almost like the basketball brackets.
And so if you lose,
you can still try the losers bracket and win.
Like you still have a chance to come back
at a loser's table.
And so it's pretty fair and it's so fair to go to show you
that the very first year,
the person who won it was a guy by the name of Nicotin.
And I guess it's not a secret that I'm done and Nicotine,
not the greatest of friends.
If there would have been somebody that,
any 40, 45, anybody else that would have won,
that he would have liked to have won that show,
it would have been somebody else.
But being that Nicotine won it,
it's kind of like, well,
the guy we definitely didn't want to win won.
So it's kind of unbiased and it kind of proves that stuff.
But I also say how I met Xalic.
He had won his first cup and it was good.
And I saw him like the next weekend in Denver
and he had shut his boot down, he was all bummed out.
I was like, well, it's fresh, it's fresh carrying him.
I was like, what's wrong, what's wrong?
He's like, I don't think we did well.
I don't think we're going to win anything.
And I'm just feel bad.
I was like, I said, I was like, we can't win them all.
I said, you know, you guys are still doing great stuff.
And I said, I've heard that cups are bought.
I said, and so, you know, how much advertising did you do?
And he's like, well, that's funny thing.
He's like, when we won the cookies, he's like,
we never advertised with anybody ever.
He's like, I was like, well,
that kind of puts a hole in my theory.
He's like, yeah, we haven't been advertising with them.
We don't do that shit.
I was like, well, damn it, all right.
And then come to find out that night,
he goes on and wins three more awards.
But he was so kind, just humble and bummed
and kind of like, oh, I don't think I didn't win.
And you know, that night he wins three more.
And I was like, so you do it?
I was like, yeah, just, you know,
have faith in what you're doing.
And he's probably one of the guys
that has the most stuff tested.
Like I have a little March, if you will,
analytical 360 has let's their testing results out.
And so I have people that are like,
question me, they're like, hey, why is he testing this?
Why is he testing this lime citric?
What's he doing?
I'll ask him, but he has always,
he's always, you know, running beans
and having them tested, looking for stuff.
So.
Yeah, awesome.
And I mean, just quickly touch on that point before,
as far as I've heard,
I heard the ADSI was one of the most trusted cups
there was anyway, because I mean,
our bud Rob Carney, he won the other year
and you know, he grows that fire.
So you can have faith if he's winning it.
It's legit for sure.
And it's four breeders by breeders.
Like it's not just like, you know,
you're a magazine writer and you're a distributor
and you're a butt tender.
It's no, these are other breeders.
These are my peers that grow and are in the same industry.
And they're either telling me that it's good
or that my shit stinks.
Because unfortunately, a lot of breeders,
they just do the history.
They sit in their basements, they talk to their fan boys,
their fan boys tell them their shit doesn't stink
and it's the best fucking thing ever.
And then when they hit real life, they're like,
oh, what, what, what stinks?
What?
You know, they get brash and they get a little rough.
I'm like, hey, it's okay.
You know, everybody has their opinions.
You know, it's fine.
Don't, don't take it so hard.
Well, you said my shit stinks.
Tell them your shit stinks, you know.
So, you know, it's, and when you're talking
that kind of caliber, like Exotic and Crockett and Bog
and Archive and Snow High and Bodie,
and we're talking these great growers,
these great breeders of all,
and cultivars of different strains.
That's pretty high, pretty high standard.
It's a pretty tough group to win in.
I mean, and so, yeah, I, like I wouldn't enter.
Just because I don't think.
There's, you know, I grow good, I grew some fire,
but there's definitely people that join the ADSI's invite.
So it's a higher caliber of thing.
And then that, and on that, that's gonna go down
at Emerald Cup this year because the January thing,
or the July fair went down.
We're a major sponsor with them.
And so they're gonna give us our whole building
and let us do the whole ADSI there,
which I'd like to do two separate cups,
like the Emerald Cup, the Outdoor Cup,
and then the Breeders' Choice Award,
which is the Breeders' Cup, and then the overall winner.
So, stuff will work.
That sounds exciting.
And so, I mean, just to kind of sweep back in
on the topic one last time, just recently in,
I believe it was this weekend gone by,
Chalice went down and like, by God,
social media was in a frenzy about that.
There seemed to be a lot of problems,
most notably around the temperature situation
and the availability of water.
What do you think cups are doing wrong?
Sorry, go on.
It's Northern Mexico, what do you expect?
Yeah, but I mean, in general,
what do you think cups are doing wrong?
Because I mean, one claim I frequently hear
is that there's just too much saturation.
You know, there's too many cups in general.
Do you feel that's the biggest problem?
Or is there ways where if they just made the cups better,
we could have the same number?
How would you address it?
So it's two things.
There's Bongathons and there's collars on,
collars on khakis on carpet.
And there's Bongathons.
And the guys that come to the Bongathons
who are there for the free dab or the free gram,
to me, aren't really buyers.
Like, they aren't really growers.
If you're gonna come here and pay your 15 bucks,
you can get a free gram.
You know, I'm a grower.
I'm not interested in smoking a $10 free gram, I'm sorry.
You know what I mean?
Like, I'm not.
I feel that maybe some of my stuff may be better.
And so people who join those are maybe looking for t-shirts
or maybe looking for accessories
or maybe looking for other stuff.
And you're gonna get four or five pack sales
for those guys.
To where the other businesses that we do a lot more of,
that we thrive in, the business shows
the khakis on carpet,
which is no smoking in the building,
no displaying of cannabis or anything of the sort,
but it's more of the business people.
It's more of the insurance people.
It's more of the trimmers, the blowers, the extracting guys.
The guys are gonna come and dump 20 grand on seats,
opposed to Joe and his girlfriend.
I've never done chalice.
I told my guys, I talked to them about it.
I say, and no offense to those guys,
the guys that throw chalice.
It's a great thing, it's a great date.
It just happens to be hot as fuck in the middle of the day.
And so when it's iron 10,
people usually don't come and buy things
until like eight or nine o'clock.
And usually that's on their way to the concert
and they're maybe have,
and so they're looking for seeing some visuals
and maybe they're not really in the right buying mood
to buy seeds.
And so I see chalice as more of a concert, unfortunately,
than a true show where you're going to spread the word
and the knowledge of seed and the reasons to do it.
It's more of a, you know my brand,
you'll catch a pack here and there.
Let's go to a concert kind of thing.
And I also saw the feds walking down around there.
The feds were, I posted a picture,
they were, which means they had to get county
and local authority,
because the feds just can't count, come in,
they gotta get local authority.
And that's where eventually we'll get candidates,
can-a-dates.
And they'll have to make a stand on that
and where they stand on can-a, one way or the other.
And because, well people need to realize,
of course now we pay taxes on stuff.
This is an issue and we vote these people into office
and if they're not on our side
and they're not seeing the same things we are,
we don't have to vote them in again.
You know, it's our money now
and they're taking a good,
in Washington they're taking 75% of it.
They're taking their healthy share.
And so if we don't agree with the way
that they're doing things,
like Siskiyou County in California,
that's where weed is.
Like not just weed the product, the town of weed.
Like they call the town weed
because there's so much weed there,
they called it weed.
It's right next to Mount Shasta.
But they've now outlawed outdoor growing.
Which makes no sense to me.
How are you a green state
and you now want to not use the sun,
you want to go put people's stuff back in their basements,
use light, run up your power bills,
and it's in weed.
There's nothing out there but weed.
Yeah, okay.
So I mean with that in mind,
what do you see as the biggest looming threat
to the industry that's kind of just on the horizon
and you want to kind of sound the alarm about it?
Justin Bieber.
I'm making him a strength called Bieber Fever.
When that thing hits, it should kill cannabis, I'm thinking.
And people will go.
Yeah, so don't laugh.
Bieber Fever's coming.
No.
I guess to the eastern states,
because the west has already kind of screwed themselves,
don't believe the hype that this will not affect medical.
This will not in any shape affect medical.
This will not change your medical bill.
Yes, it will.
Yes, it does and yes, it will.
Odie said who helped write the laws in Oregon
for their bill, he said it would take five years
for them to kill medical.
It's taken two.
And so it's just,
and the problem where they kill medical
is that on medical, you get charged 10% taxes.
On recreational, you get charged 75% taxes.
Wow.
That's a lot of money.
And if the state can shut you down,
if you're competition across the street
selling your stuff at 10% taxes, it's a lot less than 75.
And so I just shut you down,
well then you can't sell your stuff
and I get to sell mine and I now have the monopoly.
And so you've got to watch out for that.
That and the part I thought was dirty
about California's bill, it wasn't earmarked.
Colorado's bill was earmarked,
Washington's bill was earmarked,
all that money went to kids, school,
housing, rehabilitation, drug units, all that stuff.
Prop 64 puts all that money into a slush fund,
which is accessible by the Attorney General
to use on what he sees fit.
And if he sees fit to put that money
into eradicating home grows and illegal grows, so be it.
But that money wasn't marked to go
to one point or the other,
which brings up a whole nother issue.
If you stop Southern California, Northern California,
and make them all go recreational,
well currently they export 75% of that weed to the East Coast.
If you make them go rec, where's that go?
Where's that price?
Yeah, interesting situation that would pose.
So I mean, if we want to get a little bit more specific,
as opposed to just the general industry,
what do you think is the next thing for the seed industry?
And the reason why I bring this up is because
more recently I've been seeing a lot of people talk about
how specifically seeds just perform so much better outdoors.
And because we're coming into that outdoor season,
that becomes a really relevant point.
Do you think that's gonna play like a big impact,
so to speak, in what happens next for the seed industry?
In that version, hopefully yes,
because we don't see big fields planted of corn clones
or of tomato clones or that type of thing.
They're all plants from seeds.
Seeds have a taproot.
Clones are a branch of a branch of a branch
of a branch of a branch.
They have a shallow, fibrous root system.
They'll never have the ability to have a taproot.
Seeds have a taproot, which can go all the way down
into the ground, hold itself up, get its own water,
get its own nutrients, and be a hell of a lot healthier
than a clone.
I tell people, cut a clone, plant a seed.
In a month, the seed will overtake the clone,
and you'll be able to see the thickness of it
and the vigor.
When you want hybrid vigor, that's...
So, I'm trying to figure out which analogies
are safe for your show, but I do good things now.
Yeah, I do good things now,
but I might throw out my back now and then,
but when I was in my 20s, I did some great things
that were magical, so to say.
I never throw out my back.
So if you've got a young mother plant that's throwing clones,
those clones are gonna be a little more fresh,
a little more healthier, a little bit more faster to root,
a little bit less resistant to pest, mold, mildew,
a little less bitchy.
If you've got a younger mother plant,
they're gonna be faster, healthier, more vigorous,
especially when cutting clones off of them.
And when I say no clone zone, I don't have a problem
with cutting your own clones.
I want people to be sustainable.
I don't want you to have to buy as much.
I love it, ha ha ha.
I don't want you to buy all your seeds from me all the time.
You don't have to.
Just buy enough that you find what you like
that's different and works for you,
and then work with it, and then make clones off of it.
But to bring clones in from somebody else's garden,
that's like bringing a woman into your bedroom
with your wife that she don't know about.
And if you give her racemites,
done, you gotta kill her too.
Because it'd probably bring racemites or broadmites
in your garden.
You don't just get that plant.
You're wiping out your garden.
You're killing all your elites, everything you have.
None of your buddies want to hold this for me, no way.
You know?
Because those are just, they're such,
those two pests are so hard to eradicate.
I hear a good once, twice a week I hear.
So my brother gave me this cut, man.
I trust him, and he promised.
And I said, don't you have a quarantine room?
Didn't you?
Yeah, it had broadmites on it.
I was like, it's the Borg, it's the Borg.
Resistance is futile.
Just kill everything and drop your room.
Yeah, so I mean, with that in mind,
we're starting to see that the issues associated
with clones is becoming so paramount,
especially in a, sorry, like a scene like California
where clones were considered the holy grail
for like, you know, the past 20 odd years.
Do you see?
Yeah, and I mean, so do you see seeds
eventually overtaking it eventually,
given that the clone problems just seem
to be getting worse and worse?
No, no question.
Because especially when we talk commercial grows,
when I've got 100 lights up,
and I'm growing out a cut that my uncle Bobby gave it to me,
I really like Uncle Bobby,
and I hope he's telling me this is truth,
but if I grow this all out, and I have 3,000 pounds,
and Uncle Bobby was wrong, and it's not tangy,
I got a pen company now, or I'm majorly in the hole,
and I've got something that I can't sell.
Because it is coming on the rise,
and I do know I have people who have a business model
of going, they're gonna go around and go to your store,
they test your flour on your shelf,
and make sure if it's supposed to be super, super haze,
they test it, and if it is, you get a gold seal
of approval that it's been certified.
If it's not, you have to take it off your shelf.
You can't, because, you know, it never happens.
But, you know, some people might run out
of Girl Scout cookies, and they'll just pour other things
in there, and to sell it from where they have it,
when people come in.
It may not be Girl Scout cookies, of course,
and like, when I talk to Analytical 360,
usually the top three strains submitted,
that are wrong, are the top three most famous strains.
Like, people will submit a test and say,
oh, this is my Girl Scout cookie cut,
and the Analytical 360 can look at it and say,
well, by sequencing, it doesn't match up the profile here,
and it doesn't cluster here, it's more over here,
but you said it's this, so we have to send it back as that,
but we know it's not.
So, that's their thing, but now with genetic sequencing,
we can do, and we can look into that,
and we can say, oh, so what you're telling me
is that tangy is actually just an ancient orange cut,
when you go in the galaxy, which we just found out.
Ah, interesting, you know, there's been a lot
of backstory around tangy.
I've even heard whispers that Crockett actually bought
a packet of seeds from the mad farmer,
which then went on to be one of the parents
which went into making tangy.
I mean, you know, it may be not true,
especially given what you've just said,
but I've heard a lot of rumors
about the questionable backstory of tangy.
And that's the thing, and that's what makes me go crazy,
that we've been such an underground community
and market hush-hushes that, you know,
we were all able to tell stories and backstories
and myths and whatnot, and so now I have to fight
those myths and find out the truth.
Like, Ghost OG, for example.
It's Ghost OG, I made it.
Then we get Ken on the phone, Oregon Kid.
We find out that Ken says, no, I sold him that
for five grand and five pounds.
Then you get Ghost OG, get your ghost on the phone,
same time, I say, okay, ghost, this is what Ken says.
What happened?
All right, I bought five pounds, five grand,
I bought it, just renamed it.
You know, so you're like, okay, cool, myth solved.
But a lot of people have gotten away with stories like that.
I made this.
Maybe not, and now that we can sequence it,
a lot of people are like, well, shit,
I've lived off this lie, and I thought it was this,
and now it's not.
But yeah, if you look at Tangy now,
it's a direct relative of Agent Orange,
which I think as soon as we get Callie O
and Orange Velvet submitted into the galaxy,
that'll fill out the other corner,
and I think other things will come off of those.
Those will be parentage of that.
I think Callie O and Orange Velvet
have a huge part to play.
Do you, like me and a few others,
have a sneaky suspicion that Callie O
and Orange Velvet are one in the same?
I can't say I've smoked Orange Velvet,
I just know of it, and I've seen its structure.
But I've, I always learn something,
and I think you should learn something every day,
and I've learned that different plants
grown in different terroirs or environments
can have different structures.
And so even though it may have a different structure here,
it can still be the same plant grown in Florida
in a swampy environment where, you know,
for the last 10 years to wherever it's grown here
in a dry, humid environment,
it's gonna grow a little differently over 20 years.
It's gonna start to adapt and be like that.
So I don't know, because I can't,
I can't say that I've smoked Orange Velvet.
I have with Callie O, but,
and so the nice thing about it is if I don't know,
I'll tell you I don't know.
I'll try to find out the answer for you,
but we don't lie for you, because we got science now.
And so.
Yeah, and so, I mean,
how do you think the phylo sequencing, for example,
is gonna affect the seed game in the future?
Do you think, like, for example,
maybe we'll get to a point where breeders
will offer a strain as well as proof
that the parents they use
were legitimately what they said they were?
Because I know that a big issue with breeding at the moment,
like, you know, touching back on the crop king point,
like so many breeders breed with cuts,
and it's like, is that really the real sour D you got there?
You know what I mean?
Right, and verify it.
And then once again, you know, there's verified genetics.
Now we're talking about big business.
We're talking about rec, whether we like it or not.
They have to be accountable.
Like I was just trying to get a loan
for somebody who had a large pricey piece of property.
He's like, I need a loan on him.
I was like, okay, I need to have it appraised.
He's like, no.
I said, you can't get a loan on shit
without having it appraised.
I need, somebody has to appraise this piece of property,
113 acres, they need to have it appraised.
He's like, well, I don't trust an appraiser.
I'm like, well, let's start counting pennies
because nobody will appraise you on land
that you, you know, you're maybe over your numbers,
but so you have to wait, but you've got to get it appraised
to know what the value is on it.
And so, I don't know how I got there,
what the question was.
Verified, is that what it was?
Yeah, like how, do you think in the future,
given we have the genetic sequencing,
that breeders will maybe offer, you know,
like sequencing with their seeds to be like,
look, you know, you can see we use the real sourdough
as the mom, you know, the real super silver haze
as you mentioned earlier.
Yep, yep, and that'll come out with that.
So, and one of the things on my new website
is that I just signed a deal with,
Cannafo and Phylos.
And so, at the bottom of my new site,
it'll, when you scroll down, you'll see the breeders,
you'll see all the specs, and at the bottom,
you'll see a link that goes to Cannafo,
and it'll have the terpene profile,
the negative effects, the positive effects,
what it works for, what it's, what's rarity is,
what blah, blah, blah, blah, the whole thing about it.
It'll have a button that says, buy seed, buy it now.
And I click that button, it takes you to my site.
And at the bottom of my site, at that same page,
say on Tangi, it'll also have a box from Phylos.
And so you can click on that box,
and it'll take you to Phylos,
and it'll show you where Tangi sits in the galaxy.
And that'll be all on the new site,
ready for everybody to look at.
Like, we, we wanna be as transparent as possible
with the strains and what we have and the cuts.
And so, if we can link both those,
get all the information for everybody growing and whatnot,
then you have it.
And through Cannafo and through Phylos,
they're a great team.
And so, where I just sell genetic preservation kits,
like, we tell people, you know, these are,
don't get them wet, don't get them dirty, they will explode.
And that's not my fault.
So, check your local laws, don't get them wet, of course.
But Cannafo can tell you info on them,
and Phylos can tell you info on them,
and Google and YouTube are your best friends.
But I cannot tell you about them,
because these are just preservation kits.
Yeah, yeah, too true.
So, just to kind of throw us
in a bit of a different direction,
I remember I was scrolling through the Adam Dunn fan page,
and I noticed you put a post up saying
something along the lines of,
oh, the history of the OG goes back past the triangle,
you know, and you follow that up by saying,
have you ever heard of Supernot?
So, no, I've never heard of Supernot.
Do you mind filling me in?
Yeah, somewhat.
So, there's five people involved in OG.
We all know it's Bubba, we all know it's Josh D.
That's those two that did it, Bubba, Bubba, Josh D,
had the sack, grew the plant that turned out to be OG Kush.
And how we make sure this is true
is we go back to Josh D's Instagram,
and we scroll down, and he's got Polaroids and camera
from 92 on his table showing the plant.
And that's pretty much all I need to see
to know that it's legit and verified.
And, you know, if you had big enough balls
to send in photo reels in 82 or in 92,
you know, you didn't process that stuff overnight.
You were getting them done at Rite Aid.
And so, if you trusted them to do it,
you had enough balls for that,
you're actually doing the thing.
But, admittedly, popped from seed that he bought of a bag
that a person named Alex bought.
The bag was called Supernot.
And so, the seed came from a bag of Supernot.
So, we at The Theodore's thought that Supernot
stood for nautical, because being Florida.
It now may be a Rastafarian, so to say, with dreadnoughts.
And the Supernot was the hardest of all the nugs
that he sold, that he had.
It was a Supernot, like his hair.
And this gentleman happens to have S1s of it,
happens to have bought 12 very distinctive websites
around it, and came to us by wanting to sell the websites,
not by so much caring about the,
I made this and this, I want credit for this,
but more of, I have this website and this website
that ties to it.
And once I found out what it was,
I got a whole bunch of fucking S1s of it that I did,
because I just wanted to make sure it was mine.
And wants to sell the websites more,
was more, and I was like, well, what about this drain?
And so, we're working on it.
Everybody's got a story, and it's hard to vet them all,
but this is getting, we, Don and I have talked
and been working on this guy probably year,
maybe six months.
And so, but we're getting closer, and it,
so there was a beach in Florida where a dude used to get,
there was a surfer, and he used to lead on a speech.
This guy knows, lived on that beach,
and Alex knew where that beach was.
And so, it's pretty much there.
There's not a whole, there's a whole lot of beaches,
and a whole lot of surfers down in Florida,
and for those two to have both independently
said the same area, kinda leads me to believe
that, yeah, it's gonna come back to Supernod.
Know what Supernod is?
I don't know.
Mm, and do you know the status of those seeds?
Like, do you know they're healthy,
or have they been popped,
or they're sitting there ready to go?
Yes, yes, once, to prove that he did it.
Yeah, or maybe not to prove he did it,
but just to see what's inside.
Yeah, yes and no.
Like I said, so he's sitting on some websites,
like a couple of Kush websites and stuff like that
that he would unbought that he wants to sell
from back in the day, and he's more apt,
and he's more looking into that than,
I'm like, no, no, let's sequence this thing.
Let's see what it is, and then let's claim it,
and whatnot, and he's like,
well, I don't know about all that,
you know what I mean?
Older people, they don't,
so for the last 25, 30, 40 years,
we've told people, don't tell people you smoke weed.
God forbid, don't tell people you breed weed.
Don't tell them that, and then now,
like last five years, it's like,
hey, go put up a pop-up, and a sign,
and sell seeds, yeah, do it,
on the side of the road, like,
you won't get busted, sure, go do it,
and these guys are like, no fucking way.
Like, the first ADSI, half the guys
didn't wanna show up because the way it worked,
you had to get on a bus, you had to put your cell phone
inside of a case before you got on the bus,
and then the bus took you to a secret location
because you've got 50 of the,
what I consider the top US growers,
I mean, you've got Top Dog there,
you've got Kim Dog there, you've got JJ,
you've got AJ, you've got Pink Ski,
you've got everybody, done there, you know?
That's an interesting house
for the wrong person to know about.
And so, to make it safe, everybody had to put
their phones in a case, and some guys were like,
like Chrome and Cornbread from Swamp Boys,
they were scared as fuck from Dunn,
they're like, this guy just comes up to him
with his microphone, so he's like,
do you make the mic, did you do this?
And we were like, ah!
Because they don't even like the theme, you know?
And so they didn't wanna give up their phones,
and they weren't gonna, no way they were gonna do it,
it was just too weird for them,
but once the first one went down,
people were like, oh, I get it,
it's a cool thing, and I was like, yeah, you know,
it's a very special thing, you don't wanna be somewhere
where everybody knows that everybody's gonna be,
that's how the mob works, it's a game they get shot.
Yeah, and I mean, I can vouch for that,
without having directly said the words,
I think, yeah, Ricky has said something to the lines
of like, you know, he's not really into being
in the public spotlight.
No, and Ricky, more so, definitely,
Tommy will at least, Tommy Chrome, Swamp Boys,
will at least talk, and if I have to, man,
if it's for you, I'll do it, but man, I just don't like it.
That's why none of their pictures,
they don't post any of their pictures,
it's just obsolete, same way.
They believe it, and it's law,
but it's so worked into their heads,
and they're such old school, you know, families,
it's just, I'm cool, just do me the proxy,
they don't need to see me, I'll just keep doing what I do,
and we're fine, but the problem with that is that,
like I told you, if you don't come out and claim Alien Dog,
then somebody else is, and they're gonna go by his thing,
until you claim yours.
If they don't know that yours is out there,
then it doesn't exist, so either you claim it or submit it,
and with Phylos, a lot of people,
there's two camps on my team, onto my group,
one camp with like, say, Aficionado,
and Snow High, and Homegrown,
they don't want to sequence, because they believe
that then they're giving up patent rights to the plant.
Well, it's not theirs anymore, if you sequence it,
then you have it, then you can tissue culture it,
you've got my shit.
To where Phylos came, I had a show where I wanted Dunn
to ask them about this, because I don't want to be the guy
that tells all my guys to do this, and that's bad.
So, the way they say it, is that you can't bring a number
down to the patenting office and say, I patent this number.
You have to have a viable thing, a plant.
And once that number, that sequence is made public,
it's no longer patentable, you can't patent something
that everybody has.
And so by putting the strains up in the galaxy
that everybody knows what they are,
it makes them unpatentable, because it's knowledge.
And so, it's kind of the other, because I see Dunn
then giving up the sage, the sour, the real sourdy,
you know, the Zeta, and I'm like, God, what are you doing?
Those guys are not doing that, but he's like, no.
And I see Bodie giving them cuts, and I see, you know,
a bunch of manic stuff, entering stuff,
but some breeders also will just be like, so hard-headed
that they think that they have something
that can complete the sequence, and if they don't give it
to them, then that makes Phylos' job harder.
If I don't give you Orange Velvet or Calio,
then you won't have this myth, you'll have this hole.
And then so, ha ha, it'll hurt you, you know what I mean?
And some breeders just wanna play that game.
But I see it as a good thing, I see it as a way to,
for one, claim your strain, for two, get your name out there
and say, this is what I've done, and prove it.
If you did it, then you can do it again,
or you have the children, or you have the parents.
And then, you know, get the right people
the proper credit for it, because a lot of shit out there
is, you know, bunk.
Yeah, okay.
And so, I just left that little audio pause,
because I don't know if you're gonna wanna cut this one out,
so I always do that.
I wanna know, is Obsolete alien genetics?
No, not at all.
Okay, a lot of people think he is.
I thought so, I think Obsolete's obsolete,
Obsolete's franchise.
Aliens is a guy, I believe his name is Ted,
and he sits on the beach, he's also a surfer guy.
So I was like, hmm, are Supernot and Aliens
sure the same surfer, but they're not.
Alien was distributing through two people.
He was sitting, the word is, he was sitting on the beach,
not on the beach, but Northern California, surfing,
releasing block packs of gear to
Obsolete franchise genetics,
and another guy I wanna call Andy.
Who was his other salesman in Washington.
Andy got greedy, and the numbers started getting heavy,
like 6,000, 7,000 a pack.
And Ted was not cool with that,
was not cool with those kind of numbers,
because he was not receiving those kind of numbers
on that stuff.
And so, Andy somehow screwed himself up
to the point where Obsolete got the website back,
Obsolete owns alien genetics,
and he got about 300 breeding stock of each strain.
The alien rock candy, the land grenade,
the Ewok, all those, and whatnot.
And there's no way one's doing them now.
Meanwhile, alien genetics has come back out on Instagram,
and has said, award-winning orange cookies.
That's not them, they didn't win those.
And people are like, oh, your orange cookies were so good,
your fruit pills were so good, we love it.
And they don't come out and say, oh, thank you,
but that was Obsolete's train.
They just let it be.
And so, what that is, is that is, I believe,
it's Andy, the old salesman, and Skunkmaster Flex,
who have put together a little thing,
and that's the new alien genetics.
And they're claiming, you know,
makers of the Starfighter, makers of this and that,
which is doing nothing more than pissing off Ted,
because he's like, okay, you made it,
sure, grab my cool, get pissed, come back out, make more.
What's Ted doing?
Surfing.
Content.
That seems like what they wanna do.
You know, they surf and grow weed.
I think they just surf from patch to patch, maybe,
I don't know.
Yeah, because I mean, it's just like,
on paper, when you look at it,
you gotta think that Ted is, you know,
not only like his work has led onto amazing work,
but it in itself, you know, stands up, you know, on its own.
Ahead of the game.
Yeah, that's it.
Had some stuff that was ahead of the game.
Some stuff, and maybe had the ability to run numbers,
because that, when it all comes down to it,
we can pop a five pack and I can pick a female,
and maybe it's one bad bitch, but at the same time,
for me to get one out of 4,000,
that is the one that the breeder
was definitely trying to show me,
is asking quite a bit from my breeder.
You know what I mean?
Like, that's like me going to the bar,
finding the blonde with giant tits,
and this and that, and this and that,
and then taking home, and it's like,
your kid better have this,
unless you're an out of here woman.
You know what I mean?
And so it's hard to breed for those exact things,
and a lot of things don't work,
and a lot of breeders, that's like,
how come CZ's so expensive?
I'm like, because these guys throw away
gallon baggies all the time.
I see it, because it's steps, it's not ready,
and they don't want to release it,
because it'd take you five years
to build up your reputation,
take you five minutes to ruin it,
and so they don't want to release something,
and I won't, I push on them, you know?
Don't release unless it's ready,
because I don't want returns on it,
and you don't want the internet to blow up on it,
but they are not the same, one and the same,
they are different.
Franchise is now obsolete genetics group.
I thought that was one of the best logos ever,
the sell of the hat, the alien with the weed eyes,
loved it, but he got some crap with his old guy,
and so he doesn't want to use that logo anymore,
but it's still obsolete doing it,
and he's actually not doing so well,
he's got a stomach infection,
so if it gets worse, I might have to do
a charity action for him.
Hell of a guy, I really like him,
holds a tremendous amount of guts,
tremendous amount of guts, old, old, old ship, so.
Yeah, and so maybe you're able to shed some light on this,
I heard that he was having some issues,
you know, a while back with some of his seed stock,
in that, like,
yeah, like I'm trying to explain this right,
it's not that, like, yeah, so there was hermey issues,
like, yeah, get that out of the way,
but it wasn't because, like, he had picked
a hermey male or whatever, like,
I heard that, like, some external pollen,
or like, something, like, you know,
kind of really external was the issue.
So the first batch, as I know it,
the first batch was done, and he did it himself,
watched it walk the crop through,
was sold to Jungle Boys for 60 sacks,
and so they bought pretty much all his gear at once.
I got the leftovers, we then dropped.
He then made a second batch that was,
that he pollinated in the greenhouse.
That batch was then sold to the seed banks,
and then once those issues were known about,
he's, he stands on his brand,
and so he pulled them from what he could,
and he offered to buy back some breeders.
His partner in the franchise,
before he went to jail,
offed a bunch of those packs, sold them.
And so there are, there was, and there are,
there was issues with one of those crosses,
the second batch that was done in the greenhouse
that he didn't watch,
and there are some of those packs that got released on,
without his knowledge, without, unbeknownst to him.
But as a breeder, and as a bank,
if you have some, or have had issues with them,
let us know, we'll make it right with you.
Like, he knows that there's a possibility,
and so if you had an issue with the battle,
or some of them didn't pop, or you got screwed,
or you didn't think what you grew
was what you should have seen,
call us up, let us know about it,
and then we'll talk to him,
and we'll see if we can make it right,
you know what I mean?
Give you five more, make it right somehow.
But I knew that that was an issue,
and I talked to him about it,
and why and how it happened,
because, you know, obviously, I can't have that happen,
because I have to replace all that stuff.
That's why it doesn't, it never behooves me
to repack anybody else's seeds,
because I'm the guy that's gotta pay for it.
I'm the guy that's gotta pay shipping out there,
listen to you call and bitch at me,
pay shipping back, and then pay shipping back out there
to you, so, you know what I mean?
So it doesn't behoove me.
And then when I say pay shipping back,
that's another cool thing about my company.
If we fuck up and send you the wrong gear,
and you bought Cinderella 99, and we sent you Apollo 13,
unfortunately, you get to keep Cinderella 99,
and we send you Apollo 14.
I can't ask you to send them back, I can't.
That's chain of custody, I don't know what you did with them.
Maybe you blabbed it out, maybe you put them in a car
that was too hot, maybe you traded them out of that vial.
Maybe something happened, and so as a vendor,
I can't take those back, but as a vendor,
I have to make it right to my customer
that you got what you ordered.
And so we just, you keep the Cindy,
and then here comes what you ordered,
which is pretty cool, I mean.
So I try not to make mistakes.
I love shipping.
It costs me double.
But it goes back to chain of custody and verified genetics.
I can't take it back because if I was to take it back,
then you would know I took shit back,
and maybe somebody else pops it,
and they get all four browns and one green.
Well, that green never should happen.
Well, now who's repacking packs?
Oh, it must be them.
So it's just easier if we fuck up.
It's on us, keep the pack, enjoy it.
Here's another one.
Yeah, okay.
And so kind of related, but not really related
at the same time.
Have you ever seen or heard of any breeders
where like maybe they're not growing the best plants per se,
or maybe they're using some nasty chemicals.
And as a result, the seeds are of poor quality.
So I guess what I'm asking is,
do you think healthy plants produce healthy seeds?
Shit plants produce shit seeds?
Have you seen any evidence for that?
Because the reason I ask is because every now and again,
you'll see a photo on Instagram of a real ugly plant,
and they'll be like, oh, you know,
like making seeds is not pretty or whatever.
And it's like, nah, man,
I've seen some really pretty plants that are making seeds.
Rick from Brothers Grimm has some of the prettiest plants
that make seeds, like that Cindy making seeds.
Beautiful, you can't really tell, it's not bad.
Exactly.
It's like a healthy,
it's like my wife.
We got a healthy yoga chick who goes to yoga every morning
and drinks pineapple smoothies
and fucking does some poo for every two days
and is healthy, super healthy.
She's gonna have good kids.
You got crackhead Betty who walks down the street
and smokes cigarettes for 10 packs a day
and doesn't have the greatest lifestyle.
Her kids might have some issues.
They might be a little unstable.
They might not be live up to their true potential
as the yoga mom.
So.
Yeah, and so I mean,
I guess, have you ever had to maybe deny a breeder,
from your seed bank because you knew
that there were maybe issues like that going on?
Of course, I get probably three to five seed banks
hit me up a week as far as,
we care about stuff, we care about stuff, we care about stuff
and none of them usually pass the first question.
Have you been breeding longer than I've been in business?
And I've been in business since 2010.
So if you were making seeds before the big rush,
before 2010, hey, I wanna work with you.
I wanna see what I can do.
But if you're part of the new trend chucking phase
and you made glue cookies
because it has a cool name, bro,
I can't support that, you know what I mean?
What were you going for really?
Like the name, sweet.
What'd you do for the genetics?
Nothing.
So.
Yeah, okay.
And so I mean.
Whorls, I trust whorls.
It's so hard.
And so, you know, maybe you don't wanna answer this one,
but I think you probably would.
Who's kind of a fad breeder at the moment
who maybe you don't think is gonna stand the test of time.
And so I guess it goes without saying,
you probably, if you do decide to answer this one,
it's probably not gonna be someone you stalk.
No.
Well, I can say,
without getting in trouble with that person,
you have to figure people.
I know that like Tiger Stripe, for one, is a bad guy.
He's taken Top Dog, Stardog Male
and crossed with a whole bunch of females.
And then will call me and be like,
hey, I'll sell it to you for 50 cents a seed.
And I'm like, you know,
make the money, make the money, take it, take it.
The other angel says, fuck no, that's not the real thing.
You'll screw your customers.
And so I have to tell that guy no.
And I look at the rest of his lines,
his other lines, he used La Plata's Durango OG mail.
I'm like, no, I can't do it.
You're undercutting my other guys.
You're using his shit and he should be paid for it.
And then, so yeah, so all Tiger Stripe fanboys
are gonna hate me in the morning, but oh well.
So then he takes Stardog and F2s it,
back cross, puts it out in F2, which, super no-no.
Like if JJ wanted to put his own stuff out in F2
and it was his exact thing, then he would've done it.
I mean, you don't give out somebody's breeding cut.
It's just, you're intentionally going after that guy.
I had a recent breeder that we did carry
that I did have to get rid of,
or that we did have to cut terms with, unfortunately.
He came out with a list that was Tangy S1,
Do-Si-Do S1, MK Ultra S1, Thin Mints S1,
Wedding Cake S1, which is great and whatnot,
but he didn't do those cuts.
And I don't wanna support that guy
just by undercutting and using some STS spray.
Like, it's not the same and you're not getting
what you should be getting.
And so I don't wanna, that kind of bummed me out.
I liked the guy and I was like, man, I had good stuff,
but you can't just go out and S1 everybody else's stuff.
That's not cool.
There's no written law, but if anything,
as a bank, I can stop it.
I can say I won't sell that shit.
And so, no, we try not to, we don't do that.
Yeah, I mean, I've heard that,
I mean, that guy, he's built a lot of his stuff
on other people's genetics.
That doesn't surprise me, but oh, well,
I think he'll still probably go ahead with it anyway.
He'll still probably go with it.
And unfortunately, the market will see.
I mean, the market dictates, the market will see.
And like I had told the breeder of the,
does it know?
I said, if you, I said, Pepsi Challenge, baby.
I said, put three, give him a three pack
for every 10 pack of his sold.
I said, and the customer will see
that the proof is in the pudding.
The three pack that he gets direct
versus the S1 is night and day.
And if they find a keeper out of the three pack
and they didn't add a 10, bingo.
I mean, point proven.
And it's gonna happen.
The one that the other guy's made
is not gonna be as good or as strong.
It's not, it doesn't, just nothing against that guy.
It just doesn't have the genetic potential.
It never started.
It never, it could never be there.
It just didn't start that way.
And so he'll never be able to recreate it
or get close to it.
He can get close.
It's like my wife.
So she's not playing with a full deck of cards.
Like she has most of it, but like Femstock,
there's no X chromosome there.
They're missing one.
And she's like playing, like 90% is there.
And as soon as you freak her out, she throws bananas.
Goes crazy.
So I mean, that brings up an interesting point
I wanted to ask you.
How do you feel about Femstock in general on the site?
You know, is it a bit of a risky thing
in your opinion for you
or you feel pretty comfortable with it?
So I started off as no Femstock, no AutoFems.
No Autos, no Fems, just Redstock.
And my bank is generally 80%, 90% regular stock
and 10% Femstock, which is the opposite for the market.
It is 92% Femstock, 8% Redstock.
But I didn't want, it appeared that the local US breeders
hadn't gotten it locked down enough yet.
And it was still like I knew a couple of breeders
that had taken down warehouses in week four
because it just was not looking good
that tried to fend their stuff.
And I didn't want any issues as far as,
you know, herding people's crops
or them not finding what they needed to find.
And so we stayed away from it.
But now that as science has helped us
and we've, and the market has changed.
It was put to me once, you wouldn't grow a tomato plant
if you couldn't get a tomato off of it, would you?
Yeah.
So why would you grow a male
if you couldn't get a weed off of it?
And Granny, who wants to throw five seeds up
in her backyard next to her tomatoes and her corn,
and she can walk him out and watch him every day.
And if she sees some nuts on one,
she can just yank it and kill it
because it's just one of five, it's no big deal.
She's watering it and watching it.
Granny's cool with throwing five things in the back
because it's no big deal to her.
But if we're talking a field, you know,
they say, I got to do it with soul.
I believe the Puntent Square is four out of 100
will be male.
He says, no way in hell, he says maybe four out of 1,000.
The marijuana Bible says it's four out of 100.
But if it's even one out of 1,000 males happen,
that guy gets loose, that field gets seeds.
And so Femstock has that inherent,
it's built into it.
It has that inherent genetics to stress easier.
When you stress it, it's gonna throw.
When it doesn't get water, it's gonna throw.
It gets too hot, it's gonna throw worms on you.
And so it has a greater genetic propensity to go bad on you.
And so I tell people, if you're gonna run a field,
you want to do something large,
pheno-hunt and get a female, find her out with regular stock
and then just cut clones.
Stop buying seeds from me, cut clones.
But if you're gonna throw five in your backyard,
give it shit and you can watch them,
Femstock can work for you.
Throw in the back, you can keep an eye on them.
And if one gets sacky, then you can cut it off
before it kills you.
It's not a huge investment, it's nothing.
You definitely get 10 times your money out of it.
You can kill your males, it's no big deal.
But you get a little short male in the middle of the field
that looks like a female and turns tranny on you
and turns into a male and you throw sacks
in the middle of the season,
and then you just lost that whole field.
And so, and the fems have a greater propensity to throw.
And so that's why I say, get a female that you know is good.
That's why Duke is really good.
Duke, he stresses the shit out of his clients.
Like he was showing me the last week,
I was like, what the hell are these things, dude?
And he's like, oh, these are my stressors, man.
This one, I'm feeding ice water to.
And this one, I got over a blower,
we stick it outside every night and freeze it.
And this one, you know, he's just doing different things
to them to stress them out to see if they're stable
or see if he can flip them out
and make them do the bad thing.
And so, you're looking for that gene.
And so, not everybody does that.
Everybody just kind of, some people just, plants.
Like Bodie, Bodie says, I'm not a breeder.
Bodie says I'm a magician.
I help people, I help plants have sex.
That's why Bodie doesn't work a line.
Everything in Bodie is F1.
Yeah, yeah, I mean, he certainly approaches it
from a non-scientific point of view.
But I mean, the biggest thing-
It's magic.
Everything that can't be explained by science is magic,
he says.
Yeah, I mean, that's like,
that's actually a bit of a philosophical take on things.
But I think ultimately, the thing I take away from Bodie
is like, he just says, you know,
like no matter what you think of my stuff,
like just judge it on its merit.
And I think a lot of his stuff is really good,
in my opinion, at least.
Yeah, we've got a cool thing coming up with Bodie.
It's gonna be a very limited edition release.
It's called Everybody Loves Bodie.
And it's gonna be a pack with Sage Master, who's Adam Dunn.
And he's taken a Jasmine Capis male from Bodie,
with Bodie's permission.
And he's bred it to 12 of his, of Adam Dunn's crosses.
And we have the seeds and swords running all those,
so they're coming out beautiful.
We're gonna make a cool little,
cool little box of, it's like a,
if you either know Bodie or you don't,
it'll be a cool little box that's got crystals in it.
And he went and got some tobacco seeds,
and he got some other cool little seeds,
and he got some other cool little seeds.
And then it'll have like the 12 different vials of 33
of the regular strains, and a little bit of pollen.
And so, it's got, but you've gotta buy all 12,
12 strains of 33 seeds.
So it's like 330 seeds, and you did them all,
and the pollen.
So it's like pretty much a genetic starter kit.
So you find something you like,
you can then back cross it to that male, that pollen,
and see what you could have found.
Or play with them more so.
But you won't be able to buy them individually.
You'll be, it's the case, it'll be a collector's edition.
And we already talked about Top Dog,
JJ's would come in like a fishing tackle box,
and have like some lures, and a bottle.
And this one would have, then you'd have the seed packs.
Just cause, you know what I mean,
like everybody loves that Top Dog.
You know, kind of had them doing pull-ups
with real breeders and stuff.
Yeah, yeah, for sure, that's a cool idea.
And I mean, I almost don't wanna ask,
what price range would we be looking at?
I don't know, that's why I asked you.
I said, what are we talking about here?
So that's a high number.
12 packs by itself is a big number.
And then we've got these boxes, and these crystals,
and these, you know, oh, well Bodie just walks around,
I said, I know, and just picks them up.
I know, I know.
But they're cool, and they're, you know.
So I don't know, and I don't even wanna throw a number out,
cause I'll get yelled at one way or the other.
But I don't believe they'll be cheap.
But knowing Bodie, they won't be expensive.
And then 25% of all sales go to their charity,
and Bodie wants to do it with animal charity.
So I'm sure Top Dog would want it to go to,
you know, like a dog rescue fund or something,
or fishing habitat, something.
So, but we're on the broker in the middle.
I'll disseminate the monies,
and everybody gets their own cuts.
Yeah, for sure, that sounds awesome.
And it's certainly something which hasn't really been,
I mean, not to be honest, I shouldn't say that.
There's been the THC kit, you know,
they made that box a while ago.
They were there ahead of the game, props Adam.
So yeah, that'd be cool having more stuff like that,
especially the pollen, you know,
that's an interesting one.
We haven't spoken about that, but a lot of people,
they kind of raise the idea of like,
maybe doing like a pollen release,
but I'm not sure if it's actually happened, so to speak.
Hit me up three days ago, JD Short,
JD Short's son hit me up.
Oh yeah.
Nice.
But I don't know how I feel about that.
That's not his.
Like, I'm gonna have to call his dad and be like,
hey, you want me selling your 1974 male pollen?
I mean, that's his baby.
He ran 200 strains out of that.
That's his, I mean, as we talked about
at the beginning of the show,
unfortunately, we all pass around my same girlfriend.
She goes all over town.
Everybody's got her.
It's the dicks that are different.
It's the pollen that's separate.
That's what separates the crosses.
It's all the same Gorilla Glue cut.
Cut of a cut of a cut of a cut of a cut.
All the same clone.
It's the pollen that crosses with it that's different.
And so now if I'm selling you this chosen,
like, it'd be like, it'd be like Xotic
selling his Starfighter pollen.
What would the price be on that?
I mean, what, you could get so much,
you breed one line with that, and I mean.
Yeah, it's like, it really is just a seed company
waiting to happen if it was in that type of person's hands.
It's about the males, and so it's about to find.
But in that kind of a kit where you've bought,
bought, bought?
Where you've bought 12 different lines of these crosses,
and you find something special, and you're like,
yeah, but it had just a little bit more cat piss in it.
And you've got that pollen to go back
and then try to breed it, hit it,
try to find that little bit more cat piss in it
or preserve it further, so.
It's a great idea.
Kind of a bit off topic, you must see
a hell of a lot of strains, you know,
especially ones come and go.
What do you think are some of the trending fad strains
which are not gonna be around in two years?
I think for me, I've never had it,
so I could be completely wrong,
but I get the strongest feeling that Purple Punch
is not gonna last the test.
Is Purple Punch big right now?
Yeah, there's, I mean, there's a lot of smaller breeders
working with it, there's a few fems of it coming out.
The next one on the horizon, you know,
I think maybe Purple Punch is already
a little bit on the way out.
I think the Sunday Drive is the new one coming in,
and that's Jungle Boy is kind of popularizing that one.
So last year, last October, my Facebook page,
I think I called it, but,
Oranges Are Dead and Lemons Were Up.
And so I called archives,
he was calling it Lemon Peel at the time,
now he calls it One Star.
That made me go to my car like two times in one night
and smoke bowls.
I was like, I've never walked in a car
and smoked weed since I was like 19.
But it was like, I even made a song,
I dedicated a song to that last gal
that Ash Cherry gave me.
It's by James Hershey, it's like,
I'm gonna miss you, I'm gonna miss you when you're gone.
Like I made that whole song,
because I was like, you're gonna be gone,
and I'm gonna be so sad.
It's just like this yielding monster, lemony, yum yum.
But I think Lemon is gonna be here for a minute.
I know Gene from Aficionado is coming out with Root Beer.
It's not gonna be from Aficionado,
it's gonna be under his new line, Freeborn Selections.
I know that Aficionado is coming out
with a lot of good stuff.
They went to Spain, met some very cool Frenchy people.
Like Frenchy Colone, they have already.
But some other really great growers.
I think just like in 2007, 2008,
I think we love the citrusy, and we love the citrus.
I think we've gotten to the point where
if we wanna get high, we'll just do another dab.
It's not about the high concentrated THC anymore,
it's about the flavor.
Like I wanna taste it now.
Now we've legalized it, I can get high,
I can get super high if I want to.
Now let's have it taste good, and not be food grade terps.
And so I think we're seeing a lot of that, hopefully.
And we'll go in that direction.
I also hope that we'll break down CBD more,
and isolates, and distillates,
and get those into the right hands,
and be able to do them on a mass ratio,
to where we can actually get the small parts
that we need to make it worthwhile.
I also like mangoes.
And then I think within two years,
I think the gas and funk is back.
I think we go back to gas, and then we go
to like rotting flesh, toe jam, dead body.
But nobody wants to really dab toe jam,
rotting flesh, dead body.
They wanna dab creamy cherry soda.
You're like, well this is dead kush.
Dead floating, rotting kush.
You're like, no, I'll try the other one.
Like that was always my,
like right when I got out of growing,
I had this nasty tie from like 79.
It was just pure nastiness.
You're just smelling like, ah!
And you're like.
You know, getting like a little bit more of it.
And she's like, this is so nasty.
And you're like, yeah, but oh, I like that though.
But as she was tie, she had a little lady boy in her.
And so she kept wanting to throw some lady boy traits
on me now and then.
So she had to get removed.
No.
If we just loop back a moment to,
we were talking about the aficionado seeds.
I just wanted to quickly ask you,
cause you would have an interesting perspective on this.
How is it to have to work with a breeder
who has such a high end catalog?
You know, like they're not the cheap man seeds
to put it bluntly, you know, does that affect things?
Do you see like a really low volume of traffic moving
because of that?
Or do you think the market just works it out in the end?
The market will always dictate in the end,
but aficionado will come and it will sell.
Like these, I just got 25 vanilla berries.
They'll be gone by the end of this week.
Whatever, his problem right now is demand.
He has our supply.
He has huge demand and does not have a supply for it.
The stuff we get goes right away.
Because it's, Leo's a really great guy.
Leo, to hear him, you'd think he was 50 or 60.
To meet him, he's like 30, but he's just raised
by like, in the right circles, with the right people,
with the right kind of humbleness and respectability
and paying forward to the people that are above you
and respect that.
And so, to work with those guys,
I gotta say, it's pretty damn easy.
I really, I talked to Leo today.
I really like working with him.
I have no issues whatsoever.
So, we just inked a deal.
I'm aficionado's exclusive North American
distribution point now.
Everybody will go through us,
and then we're gonna work that out
and get on an international deal.
But they keep knocking on the ballpark,
and the reason why is they're doing limited cards.
I mean, you've seen their boxes, right?
Yeah, like I showed my girl, she's like,
oh, you're gonna propose.
I said, no, stop.
I'm showing you the seeds.
I'm not marrying you.
But they're so nice.
They're like, these big boxes that open up,
and they have these wax seals.
And of course, they have two different cards
of authenticity.
They're all numbered individually,
and they have a card on the bottom that says,
if you ever not want these seeds,
we will buy them back from you in the box.
And so, they stand by their stuff 100,000, 10%,
and so do we.
And their thing is just limited availability.
Like, there were 85 of the Zillow Scouts,
85 of the Zillow Packs, and that's it.
That's all they'll do.
And you get them, and you get them,
and you don't, you don't.
To where, you know, Exotic might have 500
of Kimbo Kusha.
So, I mean, not trying to hijack the thread here,
but this is the second time we've mentioned Z-Skittles.
We should talk a little more, you know?
What's your feelings on it?
A lot of people say it's a Sherbet S1,
but besides that, what's your feeling on it as a strain?
A lot of people say, you know, it doesn't really,
you know, it kind of looks like Bama weed,
but like, it tastes phenomenal.
So, I guess what I'm saying is,
a lot of people kind of allude
that maybe Z-Skittles isn't the be-all, end-all,
but if you can cross it with something,
fix up that bag appeal problem,
maybe that'll be the Holy Grail.
And, well, I don't know if the Holy Grail exists.
I think, I think, I look at seeds as baseball cards.
So, we all get a couple starters.
We get a first baseman, we might get a Hall of Famer,
but we're all looking for Babe Ruth and Hank Aaron,
and they're out there somewhere.
And we might've had them on like the first pack,
and we might not get them until the 100th pack.
But we're never gonna know,
because with phenotypes and plants being duploid,
it can always be out there.
There's always that next one that can be out there.
But with the Z-Skittles,
so, what I know about the Z-Skittles
is when I talk to that guy, I vet everybody.
I'm not the nicest guy.
I vet everybody.
When I got down to the brass tacks with a dude,
and I was like, okay, so what is it?
He threw out a grapefruit thing,
he threw out something else and something else.
At first, he was like, I'm not telling you.
I'm like, well, good luck, I'm not carrying a gear.
He was like, well, it's grapefruit cross,
something this, something that.
Didn't make sense.
And I looked more and a little more into it.
And word I've heard is that it was purchased
from a tray from Lake County, an expensive tray
that was supposed to be cookies,
and that when it didn't win in 2012,
he asked Scherbinski, who was on stage,
if it was Sherbert, and he said no.
And the year after that, enter Z-Skittles.
And that's all I really know about that.
Okay, so.
Well, the guy who made Girl Scout cookies
is in that same, is in that same Wilts area.
Is this St. George?
Yes.
How do you know St. George?
I like to do my homework, too.
Yeah, St. George, I believe St. George did it.
I've got him, he's in Wilts,
and I've got the guy down to a store.
Oh, wow.
Like, I know, yeah.
He's a rock hound, so to say.
Okay, and do you think maybe you'll be able to get him
to kind of pop his head up
and do some more things, so to speak?
I'm a hardworking man, I try, I try.
But I also know that he's working
on like a seventh gen cherry pie,
which also is like, oh, well, no brainer.
Big cake, it's stale.
And so he's got issues with that, but.
No, I have these guys down, that's what I mean.
So, you know, I don't find, it's not hard to find,
I mean, it's not hard.
It's hard to find out who did this shit.
I'm sure you didn't find George, St. George right away.
But it's hard, and you gotta do some research,
and then you gotta verify, and you gotta vet,
and you gotta make sure this guy's telling the truth,
and does this match up, and is this time period correct?
And hopefully it all matches up.
But those guys, if you can get to them and show them,
there's numbers, yeah, I mean, verifiable banks.
You can get loans on this shit now.
You can go to the store, you can, this is legal.
This is money.
This is no more, no more, like a non-profit.
No more, I have to hide your face,
or say a non-profit was over here.
You can be some, you don't have to be dead mouse anymore.
You can take your head off.
You know, like, yeah, it's okay, it's okay.
But.
So, who's one of the newer breeders
that you're kind of considering adding onto the roster,
but you're just kind of seeing what's happened, you know?
So there's gotta be some people
who have kind of caught your eye,
but you're still kind of gonna wait to see how things go
before you consider signing them up, so to speak.
So, really, I've only got like three or four left
that I like.
I'm sad, so Source Genetics got a lot of their stuff stolen,
and it looked bad.
It looked like they targeted his house.
Like, they left big screens and left cash,
but stole all of the seed stock, which is bullshit.
That's like directly trying to cripple that dude.
That's the guy behind all the mangoes.
So, the guy did the monster cookies.
He's a really good dude.
So I think upcoming, doing new things
that maybe people are sleeping on,
as much as I wanna hate to say it,
is gonna be, for one, obsolete.
They don't give him enough credit
for his older stuff that he's done.
But two is unfortunately, unfortunately, Mephesto.
Ha ha, yeah, you said it.
I love it.
I'm gonna be honest.
I think we're talking Mephesto.
I mean, they're a double entendre.
They're a double no-no for me.
They do two things that I didn't sit with.
And so, when I met Darren, I'm like,
I'm gonna run you through it.
I said, first of all, you're not gonna get favorable
looked at here in the States, for one.
I said, and for two, let's go look at your crop.
And I'm gonna take it, we're gonna smoke it.
We're gonna put it through a rosin press.
I wanna see it dried.
I wanna see it wet.
And I wanna take some and pop them.
They do like four years breeding on each project.
They back cross it four times to a photo period.
Then they back cross it another four times
to an auto period plant.
They do a lot of work on each strain.
And I like them.
I mean, to throw six plants in the ground.
So let's say you go camping on, what is it,
Labor Day in May?
You throw six plants in the ground,
and you go camping, set your little GPS coordinates.
You go back in Memorial Day in September,
shopping crop, baby.
Those are done.
You didn't have to wait for the sun to go.
You didn't have to wait for this to flip.
You didn't have to wait for them to be male.
You got auto females done from 70 days from seed.
I plant this seed, and 70 days to finish.
Not I flip them, not I get to do.
No, 70 days from when I plant this seed,
I cut these down and dry them.
And as much as I don't wanna,
I like my customers to be sustainable.
With the thing, the problem with auto femmes
and auto flowers in general is,
I'm your heroin dealer, if you will.
You guys come back to me every time you want more seeds.
Ah, you want more seeds?
Come back to me.
And I like you guys to be stable.
Find a female plant, find her, phenohunter,
and then cut clones.
But with auto femmes, if you cut the clone,
the clone's gonna flower,
and the other plants are gonna flower at the same time.
I mean, they're set off days on the calendar,
not off the sun in the sky.
And so, it's a little different.
I'd like you guys to be more sustainable than that,
but at the same time, when I went to Alaska,
it really opened my eyes,
because those people up there, they need autos.
They, whether, it's not just,
and at first I was like, yeah, it's just being lazy.
But they're just not being lazy,
and it's not just in their know-how.
It's like they have, in the middle of the summer,
they have 17 hours of sun, that's it.
Then it goes to zero.
And so, if they don't have autoflowers,
they're not able to grow a free crop in their backyard.
You know what I mean?
Like, they have to pay lights,
and do all that shit in the middle.
Maybe mom and pop Belle don't have that money,
and they need that autoflower.
And so, whether I like it or not,
or whether I agree with it or not,
they're just still gonna buy them,
and they might as well buy them from me,
and have me vet them,
than buy them from Joe Blow, who they don't know.
And so, that's why I decided to pick up those.
And the fem autoflowers,
I just see a big use in commercial farming,
because if so-and-so Inc. can throw
a field of 500 autofems out in their field,
start working on their facility,
and in two months, come out and crop that field,
get paid on it, and then finish their facility,
you know, we're there.
Yeah, yeah, for sure.
Anyway, that's awesome to hear Mephisto's on board,
because yeah, we really love their stuff as well.
I mean, just even from personal experience,
I remember they messaged me,
it was probably almost a year ago,
when I first started posting myself
about how much I love the Blue Magoo,
and they sent me a photo being like,
oh yeah, we're working on a Blue Magoo auto.
And I was like, great.
And then like a few weeks ago, I messaged them again,
and I was like, oh yeah, how's that coming along,
by the way?
They're like, oh yeah, man, still ages to go.
I was like, fuck man, it's like a year,
but they definitely put the work in.
Four years on every project,
because they back cross it, like I said,
back cross it four times to a photo,
and then back cross it four times to an auto period.
And I had them on the show, and it's,
they're really, it takes four years
for them to do their crosses,
because they really have to go through the work.
And then what they didn't realize,
is that after they went on the other podcast show
that I was on,
that they were like, we do a lot more,
yep, the Adam Dunn Show, I just didn't want to say.
They're like, we do a lot more work.
No, not enemies, but you know,
I like to stay loyal with my guys.
Of course, just, so a rising tide floats all ships.
Just know it.
Yeah, exactly, exactly.
We all have to check our fucking egos out the door.
The plants speak for themselves.
Everybody wins.
We're in a great world right now.
As much hard work as I hate and want to bitch,
you know, I wouldn't want to be anywhere else.
I mean, we're in a great place and time,
and we can do things with it.
On the autos,
yes, so they were on the show,
and they were like, man, a lot of people just like,
and I'm like, yeah, pretty much.
They're like, dude, we've been doing a lot,
we do so much more work.
I'm like, yeah.
Yeah.
But here's stuff,
but I love their packaging,
I love their little security seal.
It's all off the South Park stuff.
That's where the Dr. Mephisto comes from.
He's the guy that changes all the animals in South Park.
Okay.
It's funny, I like the piggies and stuff like that.
Yeah.
I'm moving down the stickers that say, like,
I'm a meth head.
It's shit like that.
They just got cool stuff.
They're really nice guys.
And it's all started, too,
once again, out of necessity.
It was two buddies that were betting each other.
It was like, hey, I bet I can get one of my autofims
and you can't out of your regs.
He's like, oh, well, let's see.
And so they tried and dude kept beating him
left after right.
So it was like, I guess your way's better.
So.
Yeah.
So, I mean, I guess, unlike Mephisto,
what is a big mistake that a lot of newly emerging breeders
make from your perspective?
Not doing their homework.
Like taking two people,
taking a pack of exotic and a pack of crocket
and crossing them together.
So I don't want to take shots at banks,
say you make a strand called yellow tree
and you take a crocket's 24 karat
and you cross it with exotics, orange value, OG,
and then your seed bank for one,
and then you grow that out and you win a cup with it.
Well, now you're a seed bank that took this guy's
that you sell and crossed it with his that you sell
and won with it.
Well, you didn't do any of this yet.
You didn't make that.
You didn't break.
Cause basically you're buying homework.
Like I think some,
I'm sure when your viewers will quote me on this,
but on a true F1, I believe there's what 4,228
or 4,028 possible varieties of differences
that can come phenotypes that can come out of it.
Ones that lead more towards mom, more towards dad.
And as we break those down and cut out the shorter ones
or if you will cut out the blondes, cut out the red heads,
F2, F3, F4, F5, break it down, down, down.
Then we get less variants on those.
Fuck, I get stoned and I forget where I was going.
We were talking about.
People just like, just kind of like using
one crocket's strain and one exotic strain winning the cup.
Yeah.
And you're talking super hybrid dogs.
Like, so if we look at it as dogs,
they're all wolves at one time, right?
All came back to canine lupus and through inbreeding
and crossbreeding and fucking things up
and you get short little weird dogs
with weird deficiencies like the owner of C2 now
is tank my English bulldog.
And so, but to get an English bulldog,
they had to take a wolf and
mess him all up and breed him all crazy.
And then they came out with a English bulldog
and to make a poodle, they had to do the same thing.
And so, I think, you know, we can't count us
as the same way generally.
There's so much right out there that
for people to buy clones, it's just crazy.
There's a lot of variety out there
that they're missing out on.
And I don't know of anybody that's won a cup
with a clone that they bought at a store, you know?
Like the way that most stores work, I hate to tell you this,
but you know, they're gonna run a phenotype
or a phenotype with 100 cuts.
They're gonna keep number one
and then they're gonna sell number three.
And so that way you buy number one at their store
and it's so good, it's purple, and it's so sweet.
And you're gonna buy their clone that they sell you
and it won't be quite as good.
And you wonder why.
And you'll try, you'll try again,
and you'll buy it again, and you'll try again.
And you'll never be able to get it quite as good
as they do it at their store
because you never had the genetic potential to.
They never sold you the number one cut.
You got the number three.
And so, you know, it drives yourself crazy.
I keep going back to that store.
But phenotype, phenotype, phenotype.
Yeah, so I mean, it's a little bit like that
with Girl Scout Cookies in my opinion.
There's so many fake cuts, or not fake,
but you know, just varying cuts, so to speak.
And for all the flack that Girl Scout Cookie gets,
there seems to be a lot of popular crosses of it.
And I think that they'd be pretty good sellers, you know?
So I'd be interested in your take.
How well do cookie crosses sell overall
considering how much hate cookie crosses gets?
That's right, they sell it crazy.
But usually good breeders will try to stabilize her.
The form cut seems to be pretty stable.
And why there's so many cookie crosses is because,
and I fell under the category,
but because it was unstable to start with,
it was a herm to start with,
what came from bag seed will be bag seed.
And we'll throw bag seed.
And so if you got it from a bag seed and you grow it,
you can pretty much bet your balls
that she's gonna have balls,
there's gonna be bag seed there too.
And so if you buy that bag and you get that,
you're like, oh, I got this Girl Scout Cookie seed dog.
I look at this.
And you plant it, of course it's gonna be female
since it's S1.
You're like, oh, I got this cookie now.
And you plant it and then you end up
with something like OGKB.
Yeah.
Which is, it's a crisp breath cut of cookie, if I believe,
which is the slowest vegging, time consuming,
most finicky hooker on the block.
I mean, she wants a limo to pick her up,
she wants this, she wants that.
OGKB is just the slowest thing.
But her crosses are wonderful.
If you can get the right male,
that takes that slowness out of her.
Because she's worse than the Girl Scout.
She's like Girl Scout's bitchy sister.
She's so slow, I don't know.
But a lot of people use the crosses
because if you get it right, it brings her frost
and she stays stable.
But because cookie came from a bag seed,
everybody that bought a bag,
they all thought they had it,
and they all thought they're better with it.
That's why there's animal cookies and Fookies
and fortune cookies and, you know,
because it's a clone.
Sure, it's Girl Scout cookies.
How do you know?
I mean, I think I bought 10 Girl Scout cookies
in the back of, in front of Albertsons in Sacramento
for like five grand in 2009, 2010, 2011.
I bought them and brought them up to Washington.
Let them get real, real big.
And then fucking just cloned off of them
and just floated the market.
As soon as I let one out,
somebody was going to do what I was doing.
So, but yeah.
Everybody's a legend.
Although only there's two legends, OGs, if you knew that.
Yeah, well, you know, go on,
tell us about the legend OG
because that's what I've been trying
to find information for.
Maybe I'm not looking hard enough,
but I can't even seem to find who made it.
So, legend OG is the,
one of the better of the OGs, I believe.
It's a yielding motherfucker, it's huge, massive.
Swampy, Swamp Boys used it in their,
in their Zelda.
And in Zelda, their first thing.
And it's Cornbread Hort holding this thing
and it's bigger than heaven.
It's just spherical coal, it's just,
doo, doo, doo.
I was like, golly.
But it fills in it.
It's where the OGs are like,
vroom, vroom, vroom, vroom, vroom.
It's just like,
brrrr, you know what I mean?
It just fills in all those empty spaces.
But there was,
it was supposed to travel from point A to point B.
And, or from point A to point B to point C.
And when it got to point B,
point B didn't want to give it up.
And it should have been given up
and then asked for a cut from point C
and then point C would give it back to point B.
But point B didn't even want to give it up.
And then eventually gave a cut to point C
to where the original guy went up and saw point C
and said, oh yeah, I just gave you that one as a tester
just to see what you're gonna,
make sure you didn't give it out.
That's not the real one.
Here's a real one.
And gave the real one back to point A
who was partners to point C.
That would be the legend of two legends.
Is that it was originally a test
to make sure that he wouldn't give it out.
And then when he went and saw it that next year,
he was like, yeah, that's not the one I gave you.
That's the other one.
So one's the crinkle cut.
What's the other one called?
I've heard crinkle cut
and I've heard some Hawaii Maui thing cut.
We can call money Mike.
I just released money Mike's I-95 cross with the legend.
So the legend is I-95 is legend OG
crossed with a start out Corey Hancock.
I think there's also either TK or SFV in there.
That might be true and it would be TK.
Yeah, I just remembered that I-95 being like, wow,
this is a powerhouse of like three badass strains.
Yep, and money Mike is,
we just released it's so quick as shit.
It's great.
I think that's what archives lemon peel is.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
I thought that maybe had something to do with the lemon G
just because he's always ranting on about how good it is
and then the name.
I thought maybe he was having a bit of fun with it,
but oh well, just all weird hunch.
Yeah, that's why we have Phylos
and we can just take shit and put it in the galaxy
and be like, ha ha.
Yeah.
So who's your favorite breeder
who you wish you could be selling,
but maybe they're not in the game anymore
or maybe they're just not a part of CT now
for whatever reason.
Alien Genetics would be the first.
First would have been obsolete when he left me,
it broke my heart, but then he came back,
he was like, man, you sold more in six months
than there's other guys did in two years.
I was like, I know it was stupid.
I'm glad you're back.
Cause just his shit is like,
that's what I personally ran in my garden
was all those franchise stuff.
It was just easy, frosty, easy.
And you know, not everything works.
In society, not everything works.
In children, not everything works.
In duploid plants, not everything works.
You're gonna have a corky every now and then.
You understand the corky like,
but to do drugs, I'm too small for that.
Like that's it.
And so you just have to,
but you don't know you're gonna have corky
until after you have him.
And so you just have to watch too
and you have to be able to call your plants.
It hurts, but you have to be able to cut a bitch
and be like, you know what?
You're not what I'm looking for.
And with OBS, that may be a little,
you may have to do that more often than others.
But the ones that you do keep are fire.
And I have learned so much stuff from that guy
just by him telling me different tricks and techniques.
Like with pheno hunting, I'll give this to you
to your little show, a little breeder tip
to your show on pheno hunting.
When you're pheno hunting in a room by itself,
away from your other plants,
you don't need that big bushy plant.
What do you need?
You need two colas to make sure it's stable
or it's not gonna throw, right?
And you wanna find the smelliest one
and the best looking one and the one that finishes first.
You don't need all this shit.
So when she gets up to about four high,
cut the two side ones, clone them.
So now you got clone to the two.
Now you got a plant that's symmetrical
with two colas fit and sitting next to each other
and just stack those in a four by eight tray.
And you can get like 30 to 40 of them in there.
And then instead of looking at the whole plant,
making sure there's no herms on it at all stages,
you're just watching two colas at the top
to make sure those don't hurt.
And then out of that whole tray,
instead of finishing them all off for these big trees,
you just go through the 50 or whatever's in that tray,
have them sequenced or have them tested
and then say, oh, yep, that's the bad bitch.
I'm keeping her.
And then go back to those clones
and then boom, you have them.
But instead of having those four armed plants
or six armed plants that are like all over the place,
just chop them and then stack them.
And then just say, you just have to check the tops.
Yeah, that's an awesome tip.
But it's just old school shit like that.
And then I hear from breeders, I'm just like,
you know what?
Yeah, because I used to run fucking giant trees
or mini trees and I'd have to look at all that
and it'd be the lower branches that would first throw
and I would miss them.
So yeah, duh.
And so in general, have you noticed an improvement
in the quality of seeds over the years?
Like, you know, in terms of the percentage of offspring
you get from the seeds that are like keepers, so to speak,
or better quality than just duds?
Yes, because we have science.
Breeders are now breeding for things,
you know what I mean?
Before it was with our nose
and this one made me feel stonier, man.
I think, you know, but you're not really sure.
But you know, this one smelled better, I think.
But now we can send these things in and be like,
oh no, this one's definitely higher in terps.
This one's definitely higher in mercine.
This one's definitely higher in THC,
with THCV or whatever it is you're looking for.
Instead of when you breed, you can then take those results
and be like, okay, this plant is high in THCV.
This, or this highest plant is high in THCA.
I'm gonna cross those and get an even higher plant, THCA,
or whatever cannabinoid you're looking for.
And then it becomes a worthwhile thing.
And if you can run those in two's fashion, like TSK,
and get those on a volume where they come out under 0.3%,
then you're growing tons, fields and fields of plants
that may have a minute amount of the cannabinoid
that you're looking for, but on an acre,
or two acre, or five acre scale,
that minute amount adds up to where it can actually do
and heal people and save and do things.
But as long as you can grow your own shit in the backyard
and don't have to pay the government,
they're not gonna let you do it.
Yeah, okay.
And so, on a bit of an unrelated topic,
but I really wanted to ask this question
from a personal curiosity.
Do you find yourself having to kind of constantly
put out little spot fires in terms of these little,
how should we say, micro feuds in between breeders?
That was yesterday's comment on my,
we have a program called Slack with all my employees,
I've got 12 employees, and that was my yesterday's,
my little comment of the day was,
putting out fires all day.
But yeah, all fucking day, putting out shit.
But just, you know, people doing things.
So Exotic asked me if he could use
the Alien Sour Apple from Obsolete.
And I said yes, no problem.
So Exotic puts out Alien, or Candy Rock,
Candy Alien, Cherry Apple Alien,
whatever the fuck it was this last time.
Obs calls me pissed.
He's like, it says, Sour Alien,
or Sour Apple doesn't say Alien on it.
And then it says my name.
He's not just using my name.
I said, I called you on this, we talked about it,
he's not using your name, he doesn't care about you.
Well some of my friends said he might just put
Obsolete on there just because it's just so more packs.
I said, bro, I love you, I said,
I don't wanna take you down,
but he's got 23 cups in the last two years,
ain't got shit to do with you.
You know what I mean?
He's just doing that out of respect,
just to say that I got it from Obsolete,
and then showing you love on the thing.
He might have forgotten to put the Alien,
which I get and I'll talk to him about,
but it was done with no bad intentions at all.
It was done straight out of fucking respect for you
and giving you credit on it,
because he knew that I wouldn't take it
if I dealt with you, so.
Yeah, okay.
I even spent three hours with Gage Green the other day
just talking about their bullshit.
How did that go?
Fun, he originally told me that he got busted,
that the cops came to his house and shit,
he's like, don't tell anybody.
Like, okay.
So were you talking to Keyplay or MK4?
Japanese dude.
MK4, sorry, M4K.
Yeah, I think.
Yeah, cool, cool.
So I'm sitting at the hotel,
and I already left him like two messages,
because he was getting lippy with Marcus
and putting his shit about the Marcus thing online.
And I'm like, that's cool that you and Marcus have beef,
and I get your principles, and they're great,
and that's wonderful, but the other of us that have paid,
you're putting us all on fucking blast.
And do that shit in the DMs,
do that shit where it's not in public,
but you're putting us all on blast.
And I know that he has like 40 other shops in California
that he works with, and you get our shit done,
and that's a lot of revenue,
and it costs a lot of people, and watch it.
Oh, then I called Mike on it.
He's like, well, I don't give a fuck.
Exotic.
I was like, no, I said, you should give a fuck.
I said, because if he gets our guy in sight and exposed,
goodbye your sight.
I said, and last time you fucking,
you lost your 137,000, you were like,
you posted the, that's it, folks, I'm gone.
My phone blew up, and people started rioting,
and they thought I'd made you quit.
I said, so no, don't do that again.
I said, but that was the greatest pre-marketing ploy ever
for Airmocup, so next year, maybe do it again.
I remember that.
Yeah, but, so yeah, I gave, so I was at the airport
waiting to come back from Key West,
when I was down in Key West two weeks ago,
and I just had it with them.
What's nice about iPhones is you have all the fucking texts.
Just like a court transcript.
I think they're missing one court.
As far as I'm concerned, I have everything in writing ever
for the last six years, but.
So March 13th, Thursday, I said,
I reached out to you three times,
and I'm losing my patience.
I suggest you call me back, and I'll leave it at that.
And then he called me back right away at the airport.
We talked, he said, he's like, in confidence.
He's like, I tell you what, so I actually got arrested.
I was like, what?
He says, yeah, they came to my house.
I was like, fuck.
That's crazy.
I said, about what?
I said, spin it.
I said, it was definitely Marcus or one of his cronies.
That's no brainer.
You shouldn't have fucking blown him out, and he apologized.
And I said, was it your plant count?
And he was like, yeah, I was over,
they said they could smell it, and I was over my plant count.
I said, then do that.
He's like, I was just saying I was with a relative,
but I took my sight down.
I said, that works, that looks fucking tons worse.
I said, just, the cops are at your house,
you're getting a public record,
just say you either had an old warrant,
or that they came at you, and fuck the cops,
you were four plants over, and they want to make an example.
I said, but the cops were clearly there,
and you clearly can't fucking lie about it,
and you clearly, unfortunately,
brought this shit on yourself.
He's like, yeah, I know I should have stopped it.
I just need the power to find this thing inside,
and I appreciate the support you've shown,
I can see why Mike and Stylist trust you like he does.
I said, I'm here to protect my brands, and bullshit.
Oh, and then he's like, and then my CFO,
who's in Colorado, hits me with,
hey, did you hear Gage Green got arrested?
And so I sent that picture to fucking Gage real quick,
I was like, hey, this came from my CFO in Colorado,
who should not know these things.
I said, I did not let the cat out of the bag.
If I told him, he would not be telling me.
I said, your shit's out.
I asked him who he heard from.
He said that he was at Two's, and so Sonny,
Chief of Ed, called Two and told him.
And so he called me, he's like, you called Sonny
and asked him who he heard from?
So I asked Sonny, I said, where'd you hear that from?
He's like, well, the guys who were sharing his booth
in the Chalice offered me his booth, and I said no.
So I told fucking Gage that, and I said,
he's like, well, why don't you call Sonny
and see if he can tell him about it, tell anybody else.
I said, dude, Sonny's in Oregon, Two's in Colorado,
you're in Michigan, fire's out.
I said, it's fucking, it's uncontrollable
fucking firing by that at this point.
I said, all you can do is fucking throw
a giant douse it with water, make a statement,
and then don't fucking say another thing.
Don't feed the trolls.
I said, just say that you got arrested,
you were a couple, you, tell them the truth.
I said, by shutting down and saying nothing,
people think that you had something to do with seeds,
and all your customers could reasonably foresee
that their addresses would now be compromised.
I said, but that's not what you were arrested for.
You were arrested for being over plant count,
which, can't fucking blame you, who isn't?
I said, if anything, you'll just be normal and real again.
I said, so, you'd say that you got fucking busted
for plant count, you were in there for four days,
and that's it, and that fucking, you know,
snitches get stitches in this goddamn business.
But don't, you know, but don't feed the trolls.
Don't keep answering people's shit,
but you need to make a statement.
They clearly came.
You clearly left for three days,
and it wasn't over seeds, and so, you know, don't.
Mark Henry didn't go to jail for fucking selling seed.
He went to jail for not paying his taxes,
pissing off the Canadian government.
So, I was like, dude, don't, you know,
I don't rep you, I don't rep your shit.
Just because I had heard a story about those guys,
so that's why I won't deal with them, with Gage,
but, you know, we'll just call that grape jumper
and sour grapes.
Yeah, Jojo Rizzo's stuff.
Exactly, Mr. Rizzo.
Interesting.
Who was feeding Mr. Rizzo, who was supplying him.
Yeah, we've heard Matt threw that around, yeah,
that there was some dodgy stuff going on there.
That shirt face?
Yeah, oh yeah, I forgot you guys are not friends.
I now remember that thread going on.
Because, but you saw where I clearly posted
every fucking screenshot that I had that was like,
oh, you're the best one,
oh, I want you to carry my Femini Spray, and.
Yeah, I mean, you can't deny you're the best.
But, I mean, what's interesting about that is,
I remember, the one thing I do remember from all that was
something along the lines of,
you said you wanted to be the Walmart of seeds
or something like that.
Where, like, do you mind expanding on that topic for us?
Do you mean by that,
like you just want to be like the biggest supplier
or do you mean like,
you can-
It's not the Walmart, but Costco of seeds.
Costco, sorry, yeah.
So, do you, by that, do you mean-
He said Walmart.
He said Walmart, I make up.
Oh, okay, I just thought I remember it wrong.
Costco has everything, pennies on the dollar,
but they're able to sell every brand,
good brands, top quality brands,
and give excellent customer support.
So, I don't know if you shop at Costco or not,
but you don't have to keep your receipt forever.
You just, if you buy something there and you break it,
they keep your receipts.
You just go in there and tell them your name,
they pull up all your shit that you bought.
Oh, you bought this here?
Cool, we'll take it back and give it to you.
Like, they have, like the Nordstroms of seed banks,
if you will.
That's what I am.
But we have a 100% guarantee.
If you buy anything at Nordstroms and bring it back,
they'll give you your money back and give you your shirt,
something new.
We do that as well.
The worst thing you can do is ask a customer
how he germinated his seeds.
For one, I can't do that because I sell
genetic preservation kits and they are these,
don't get them wet, don't get them dirty.
But I, for two, that's never a good conversation
to get into because my way may not be the right way
to germinate.
It might not be, you know, your way might not be the way,
his way might not be the way.
Whatever way works for you is the way that works
for you to germinate.
And not everything germinates.
And so if you had a pack that fucking didn't germinate
one time, shit happens.
Send us an email, we'll send you a free pack.
You hit me up four times, we may have to watch
a YouTube video on germination of seeds.
Yeah.
And you'll probably be on the list.
But.
So in kind of line with the whole popping seeds,
breeding thing, what's a strain that you personally
would love to see be bred with more?
I know for me, it's pink champagne.
And I know that Dungeon Vault Genetic have got
a line or two with that in it.
You know, but you've probably got something else in mind.
What's the strain you wanna see get used more in crosses?
I want roadkill skunk back.
Oh, you stole my next question.
I've got a $5,000 bounty on her head.
You think Duke's closing in on that bounty?
So the only dollar I want for,
me and Duke bet dollars all the time.
I tell you about Sour Patch's dad.
Sour Patch bet him a bunch of,
we're both fetties.
And so that's how we bet.
And so he bet, Sour Patch bet Duke a bunch of soups,
ramens, a couple sodas, and a honey bun.
And Duke won, of course.
So I paid off his debt.
But Tommy said he had it, and he brought me a jar,
and it was not what I was expecting.
And so he didn't this time last year.
That's not to say that his current steps
aren't working in that direction.
But for me, what I was looking for wasn't in that jar.
But at the same time, I could possibly say,
I don't know that I've ever smelled a true roadkill skunk.
I'm only 39, which is not old.
I mean, it's old, but it's not a true roadkill.
I placed the roadkill pre-83.
Like, 82, Sacred Siege went down.
Fucking Frankenbean, Dr. Frankenbean, Skunkman Sam.
He's got a third name, too, as well.
He mysteriously gets out of jail after Sacred Siege.
Goes back to the house, grabs some straggly cuts,
takes them to Amsterdam, and sells the six of them
to the six companies.
And out comes the shit and two other skunk one
and these other skunk crosses.
So, and they don't have skunks over there.
So they don't know.
They bred for the sweet side.
So I think it has to come from this side.
Now, another guy I carry called Master Tai,
who, talk about background work.
I think dude's an F1, F8, Hell's Angel,
just because the catchy case had to have come that way.
He's got such a neat shit.
He's got a 68 IBL skunk cross, he claims.
So when I go back and I read through history
and I look back at the people I talked to,
well, 67 was Vietnam, and that's when the body bags
and the brick starts coming back from the war.
So technically, somebody could have been breeding
with seeds 67, 68, 69.
I think that's when the start of the Vietnam War was,
and that's when they were bringing the shit
back in the body bags.
And so it's like, hmm, this guy should make some sense.
But, you know, he also claimed that he made Space Queen
and he didn't make Space Queen.
Vic Hyde made Space Queen, toothpick Vic.
So which is my fear.
That's your next question.
Which breeder do I wanna see come back?
Toothpick Vic.
Yeah, you think he's still alive?
Yeah, I think he's just doing his parents' business.
I don't think he's got enough money in it.
But I know Neville's coming back.
Yeah, Neville is the one person I would really love
to interview in that I'm gonna go to him.
I'll be like, I'm coming to you, buddy.
I'm driving, because he's in Australia.
But yeah, he's hard to track down.
Yeah.
Mark Correia is close to me, if you wanna talk with him.
He's got all kinds of shit to talk about.
Not shit to talk, but questions to lay out
about Ben Donkers and Cincy Seabank.
Wants to know, he's never received a penny
for any of the Jack Correia strains
that they sell for 300 bucks a pack.
Although that was clearly his dad's strain.
Hasn't received a dime on it.
The whole family has them.
Yeah, that's a good question.
I think a lot of people have got a lot of questions
for Ben Donkers.
Yeah, so.
Yeah, but so yeah, if I could have one back,
she'd be a real kill skunk,
because I think she's extinct.
If I could have two back, I think I'd have ATF or MTF,
just because those are two that I cannot seem to find.
And so, I mean, while we were on the topic of the skunks
and just in specific, you mentioned the 67, the 68,
you know, the possibility of breeding them,
what do you know about the Brothers of Eternal Love
and the possibility that they were the ones
who did the skunk, you know, the old Uncle Fester 69?
That's where he gets, that's where Master Kai
claims to get it from.
Okay, and I mean.
But Uncle Fester was a meth cook.
Yeah, that's what I, I mean, I had seen that online
and I thought maybe it was just like a commonality,
but not the same person.
Yeah, because he, I'm pretty sure there's like a,
there's a few, like, there's like,
he wrote a few cookbooks.
Yes, I believe three, in fact.
But he was running most of his shit
through their crank cases.
But that's why I called, got called crank,
because the bikes have a crank case,
which could be easily filled with things
and then up with it.
But those same areas of that motorcycle
could also be filled with cuts and clones.
And I've heard stories that HA would go into towns,
they'd squeeze people, they'd, you know,
pretty much, I'm gonna fuck your wife, I'm gonna shoot you,
you're gonna give us your,
and we're gonna take all your shit.
Or you can work with us,
we're gonna take your cuts and clones
and we'll pay you and we'll work with you
and everything will be cool.
And they protect people.
And so I thought that, I've heard most stories
and I do know the guy, a son of,
I actually know a guy in the brotherhood who's still alive
and that his son is Golden Coast Genetics,
Oscar Dillman, who is his dad's brother
and that's who I got the information
that the shit was coming in starting in 67.
Ah, okay, yeah.
I mean, God, I wish we could speak
to some of the Timothy Leary era type ones.
Yeah, no, he's, so Golden Coast's name is Dave,
but if you look at his lines, he has the manic,
he has the old Afghani crosses,
so he's got the old brothers, brotherhood,
snow pats and his dad's brotherhood.
And so that's who I can go,
because some of these guys are so fucking old,
I have to vet them from someone.
I'm like, fuck, who do I vet you through?
Who do I find out if you tell me the truth?
You gotta get some real old fuckers.
And so, but yeah, he would be on
and he'd be probably stoked to be on.
He's bored staying at home.
I just gave them, bought them a bunch of seeds
so they can, he can give his dad a table
that sits up so he can get in his wheelchair
and so he can still grow on his table and all that shit.
So, you know, Dave loves to get on and start shit.
He likes to stir up the pot.
That's good to hear.
And he hates, he's not a big fan of Riot or Archive,
so he's fun.
Okay, I'll have to eat him up.
And his gear speaks for itself, so.
Yeah.
And so, sorry, I was just gonna say,
so what are your favorite genetics?
And what I mean by that is not necessarily a strain,
but like, you know, kind of the origins, you know,
are you more of like, you like things
where they're Afghani heavy
or maybe like more Thai type stuff?
Like, where do you fall?
I guess I'd go for more of the, you know,
this will be a sound clip, ladyboys,
but more, more of the Thais.
I'm over the fruity, nice.
You know, I like flower.
I like something, you're like, oh, God.
You know, smell a little bit more.
You know, I like, just something that just knocks you off,
like, because you're expecting fruity, floral,
citrusy, somewhere on the line, so you smell,
like most of these Thais are just fucking nasty,
and you're like, fuck, that's awful.
Mark that with a red, I'm keeping her.
You know what I mean?
Like, it's just, I don't know why,
but those are also ones that have also
the greater propensity to throw in
and not be as stable with them.
So, but I got a Thai seed from a guy from 79,
and I had to add him fast to come out with something.
He says, this was in my hat through the war,
and I came home, and it was in my hat,
and I don't know if it's still viable or not,
but I figured I'd give it to you.
I said, thank you, I'll give you some fragrance.
Here you go.
I just gave him one, and I scuffed him, you know,
put him in a little thing, a little warm.
Three came out, and two were females.
One was just a stinky fucking bitch, which I love.
Like I said, rotting flesh, dead body,
kind of toe jam, nasty, just like you're like, ugh.
Ugh, yeah.
You know?
That's awesome.
Yeah, it was just different.
You know what I mean?
Something that, like when glue came out, it was different.
You know,
weed's going to get, you know,
eventually all fucking Jack Carrera.
Jack Carrera's 11 different strange cross.
And once you get the milkshake so milkshaked up,
it's going to work its way towards Jack.
And so I like things that are far off, like different.
Like you don't want to be the fifth person
in the store that day trying to sell Jack
or headband or OG,
because you've got to beat the four guys before you,
you've got to be cheaper.
And there was a price for it.
To where if you're the only guy in their store
with purple fucking donkey dick, then you're the guy.
Yeah.
The question I've always had is there seems to be a lot
of breeders in the scene who, for one reason or another,
tell you that another breed is like, you know,
like quote unquote a bad dude or whatever.
Do you think a lot of the time,
most of it just boils down to personality conflicts?
Because admittedly there are some dudes
who are just straight out shady.
But I've also found that for some people
who maybe I'll get told they're a bit of a shady dude,
there'll be almost equally another group of people
who will say, nah, he's cool.
And the person who initially told me they were shady,
the other camp will be like, nah, he's shady.
And it's like, well, maybe there's just kind of a bit
of a little like, you know, a feuding going on.
And maybe neither of you is, you know,
innately a bad person, but there's just some, you know,
personality conflicts here or something like that.
So I can see you've been in Denver.
Yeah.
Yeah.
There are two, possibly three camps in Denver.
One camp does not like the other camp.
And as always,
it's,
it has legs and the only STD, the worst STD ever, kids.
There are female involved between both camps.
That's how stupid it is.
But,
yes, some,
so it's like Top Dog, Top Dog sold to OES.
And I had to send him pictures of OES.
I'm like, here, here's your screenshots, bro.
Like, this is the guy you want representing your brand.
Like, turpity, I'm this guy, turp, turp, turp, turp,
you know what I mean?
I'll go show you a video.
And I was like, this is, this is the guy you want,
like, representing your shit?
And if so, then maybe I'm the wrong guy.
He's like, fuck, no, I don't want that kind of guy,
representing my shit.
He's like, it's exactly the opposite guy I want.
God, I'll pick it back up.
I was still in the ones, oh, two different brands.
So, the proof is in the pudding.
I mean, the proof is in the work.
They can talk all the shit they want,
but I can pop the beans here,
and if they come out right, then they come out right.
And if I was seeing a non, I mean,
the proof is in my 10,000 customers.
If I'm hearing consistently that, you know,
down the board, these aren't germinating,
or these are herming, or these are coming out.
I mean, we've got enough of a base
that I can go to my breeders and then say,
hey, here's a stack of order, here's what's going on.
Or I can go to like, Exotic and be like,
you got three returns, bro.
You know what I mean?
Like, and half of them, you know,
I know they're all bullshit in the first place.
Like, we just, but we,
it's never good to have that conversation.
How'd you germinate them?
Everybody can fuck up once.
Something could happen to that pack.
They could be all males.
It could happen.
It could foreseeably happen.
I get it, you know?
And that's why, you know, people may bitch at my prices,
maybe 10 or 15% higher.
But with a guarantee and three days service
and everything else we provide,
or a person that answers the phone,
it's worth it, you know what I mean?
Especially where it comes in the breeder packs.
We attach them to cards.
You get, you know, you see me with all my breeders.
You know what's coming from.
And it's gonna come down to that.
You're gonna have to have your shit verified and sold.
That way, when you go to turn it into metric
or i502 system,
and they scan it for, you know,
with the testers,
it's gonna have to match up in the sequencing area.
It's gonna have to be in these clusters,
or it's not what it is,
and you can't sell it that way.
Because it's for now.
So, I mean, on the issue of, you know,
kind of selling seeds and all that end of things,
how often do you guys find you've got to kind of change up
your shipping methods to kind of throw profiling off?
Do you find it's not something
you have to overly worry about,
or is it something you've got to stay on top of all the time?
My life is hell.
I'm surrounded by the department of agriculture
has my back and I'm surrounded by lawyers.
But the legal gray area,
so there's,
hemp seeds are the same ones you can buy off Amazon.
You can buy off GNC down the street.
They're all genius cannabis L-Sativa.
So there's no cannabinoids in the embryo whatsoever.
We don't change up our stuff.
Our biggest problem has been my haters, my competitors,
knocking me off to like straight up big narcs.
Somebody calling up to my visa card and saying,
I didn't buy tomato seeds off that site.
I bought cannabis seeds.
Self implicating themselves,
which of course I got black flagged
and then all my visa shut off.
And then I had somebody call my server and was like,
so they're not really selling seeds for 300 bucks a pack.
They're selling seeds.
They're just shipping out ounces.
So they shut me off.
Leave my website, delete my backup.
So they were zero culpability.
My Instagram has been taken down six times.
My Facebook's been taken down.
And so it gets unnerving when you're a trailblazer.
I understand you get your arms cut up
and you should wear gloves,
but it's all a fight fair.
It's gotta be some of the industry
because I have no unhappy customers.
If you're unhappy, I'll ship you seeds.
The only way you can be unhappy
is if I ship you too many seeds.
Stop shipping me seeds.
Okay, cool, you're happy.
And that's why you have the guarantees
because you can't, there's not a reason to be mad at me.
I didn't breed them.
I'm just a broker.
And if you're upset, I'll replace them with somebody else's.
I don't do anything.
We've had relatively good luck.
We've used the same courier system we always have.
I own all 50 states.
I have a courier in all 50 states.
And so the courier gets the order.
The order gets, you know,
gets a tracking number and it gets received
in two to five days.
And I think that if you look on the right side
of my website, you'll see the review section,
which is put on by Yotpo, Y-O-T-P-O.
They're a third party review section.
And I think we have over 865 five-star reviews.
So, and they're all third parties.
It's not like I just sat here and wrote that.
I don't know.
I spent all your day slaving them out.
No, that's good to hear.
It was so good.
I've run out of things to thank.
So one of our last questions,
what's the most odd request slash, you know,
like weird reason someone's given you
for why they need new Cs.
Like what's the most just far out email
you've ever received, you know, in general?
So I probably have to ask Dusty or JC.
Like I said, we've got two employees now.
I figured out a long time ago,
one of my biggest keys to success out there
is it takes a team.
It takes a team to be successful.
I couldn't go around and do the shows I do.
I couldn't be in Boston right now
if I didn't have six guys back at the office,
packing boxes, doing shit, getting stuff ready.
Three guys here doing the trade show
and babysitting done right now.
So it definitely takes a team.
And so it's weird.
It's heartbreaking because we'll get a lot of people
who want some for donations.
And it's hard for me to say no to donations.
You know, if you give me this, you know,
nutsy sob story about my mother has cancer
and she has this and she has this and she has this,
I won't give you seeds, you know what I mean?
Because that's, I'm gonna give you CBD seeds
because that's what should be done.
But then sometimes my, you know,
that's the way to do customer service teamwork
is sometimes it'll be like, oh, that guy again?
He's on the blacklist.
He always comes back.
He's always making up these bullshit stories.
And so you have those people that, you know,
purposely use that as an excuse,
which fucks it up for the people who are like,
no, my mom generally does have cancer.
She is dying and I finally am getting her to try some edibles
and it's like, well, I wanna be a part of that.
If she's, you know, she grew up with, you know,
operation propaganda and, you know,
you get hired, you're gonna rape your sister.
Well, you know, now if I can help her
and give her some homeopathic all natural hand salve
that she can rub on her fucking hands,
her hands are now.
Just don't tell her it's weed, she's fine.
She loves it.
In fact, she needs some more, you know what I mean?
She just doesn't know what it is.
And so I think that would be it.
I guess I don't know if I answered it,
but it's just the sadness of, I mean,
I get some weird ones, but it's just,
I get a lot of ones wanting donations
and then, you know, horrible stories of this happened
and this happened and this happened and this happened
and, you know, it's hard to, you know,
what's true and unfortunately, you know,
I've fallen for them and the only reason I say it
is because they've, you know, my staff has pointed out
and been like, oh, well here, here, here and here,
you shipped them all to the same address.
And I was like, oh.
You fucking suckered me.
All right, well.
So for someone who's interesting in ordering some strains
in the near future, if you could just say,
pick maybe, you know, like say one to three strains
right now from the catalog,
which if you were gonna personally grow out,
you'd be like, yeah, I'd probably grow out these three.
They're kind of interesting me right now.
What were some of the ones you'd recommend?
So I would definitely grab a Fruity Pebbles OG from Obsolete.
The Fruity Pebbles is fun.
From Exotic, I would grab the Triple OG.
He's about to put the Triple OG out by itself.
The Triple OG is the male of all this last line
of the Kimbo, of the Cocoa Puffs
and everything else that came out, the Cube, Labyrinth.
I don't think you should put it out for another year.
It's like basically putting it on Starfighter.
He's putting out the Triple OG by itself.
It'll be probably either this month or next month.
By two packs, you'll be able to get that one.
It'll be like the Cube, basically.
If the Cube went for 450, the Triple OG would be like that.
But that one would be just another one to have for sure.
And then Relentless is doing a lot, a lot of great work.
I've had actual breeders send me pictures of his work
saying this is some of the best shit I've ever done.
Like breeders, and breeders don't call me
to tell me other things are good.
I mean, breeders call me, so I heard this one's hurting out.
I heard this one's being bad.
They're not like, hey, this guy's shit's really good.
And so Relentless is putting out a lot of really good stuff.
He's on the set right now.
And then we just got back Thunderstache.
And so, Pinks and Purps, aka Chocolate Thunder,
aka Thunderstache, was Mike's partner, mentor,
if you will, back in the day, Mike Exotic.
And so he lives up in Washington.
He did the Sour Banana Larrys.
He's a great guest to have on.
He's super fucking smart about times and dates
and who did what.
He knows a lot about elite genetics.
The guy who keeps getting thrown in jail
and puts out fucking phenomenal stuff,
which I don't know enough about, but he's a really good guy.
But his banana dog and his sour Larry dog crashed.
They were the first ones who crashed my site
when we released them.
That's a good thing to have.
Yeah, so we like that.
Then, of course, you know, last but not least,
the Banners are doing a bunch.
Banner just came out with, you know,
he got a strawberry diesel male back from Rezdog.
And so he was able to, because that was half a Banner,
so he's been able to get everything back with it.
So you've got the Banner OG,
and we're just gonna be like 75% Banner.
And then, you know, eventually he'll work his way back
to a full on.
Yeah, awesome.
And so final question,
what's your favorite strain of all time to smoke?
I can't say it yet.
It's not out.
RKS?
So for one that's out,
the one that's out would be,
just because Mike Exotic, he'll give me a flower,
so no, sorry buddy.
Archives Lemon Peel, one star.
That thing just, it's a yielder, it's chunky.
It's, like I said, I walk out to the hotel,
to the car twice to smoke it.
Really, really good stuff.
And last year it was Exotics Lemon Meringue.
They were both also real chirpy, chirpy, nice, nice stuff.
I got some Forbidden Fruit at Emerald Cup this year
that blew me away.
It was like just the most purpliest grapefruit
that was wonderful.
I had to even call a dude and be like, what is this?
What was that purple nug that was in there?
And then for upcoming strains,
I finally have gotten ahold of the Chiquita Banana guys.
Oh.
So 34%, it's Monster Yielder, Spherical Colas.
So that's, they're looking at putting those out
probably within a month.
Wow.
Yeah, so I'm always on the hunt.
I'm always doing something.
Like I said, I just got,
finally got the guy who made Purple Urkel.
And now I vetted him, or one of the ways, like I said,
I go to great, great extents to vet my people,
because everybody made something, you know.
I met a guy today who made cannabis.
I was like.
Yeah.
So I'm sure you did.
But Melvenetics was one of his first testers.
Yeah, well.
Which makes sense, because Mel has the Ohio Buckeye Purples,
all the other purples, and you know,
which this guy's grandfather, Purple Urkel himself,
then makes sense that she would still use those in her lines
and then she would have gotten them from them
and that they would match up in sequence.
And so, so that's pretty interesting.
Yeah, sounds good.
But that would be very interesting.
So if you look at the Ethos, Ethos, Ethos Galaxy,
Purple Urkel's like, like, like Pluto.
It's way over here by itself.
And I don't know why it clusters way over here by itself,
but it does.
So that means something.
Yeah, I think we're actually gonna do a follow-up episode
with Matt in the future.
So we'll have to delve more into that.
Yeah, no, sure.
Maybe we can do him on the drop.
Like I said, I've been texting with him.
I guess his reception's bad, where he's at and whatnot.
And so he's, yeah, he's always like,
I'll come down at 12, which is like three,
your time and I'll call you.
That's what he did today.
I said, okay, I'll call you at three.
I'll be excited, you know.
But, you know, even funnier thing is he comes from,
it looks like about 10 miles from where I grew up, so.
Oh, wow.
That shit was that close.
So I'd be like, holy shit.
Yeah, that's awesome.
And so I guess just to wrap it all up, you know,
like thanks so much for coming on the show
and for spreading so much of your knowledge,
and so much little tidbits of awesomeness
we're gonna have to chase up and follow down further.
Follow down further, that's the thing.
Everything I've said is as I know it.
And so I'm not a scientist, I'm not a genetics guy.
I'm a seeker of the truth.
I want credit for, to get to where credit's due.
And I want the old guys who took the risks and shit
and made my road easier,
I'd like to give them back shit now, you know what I mean?
Like I've had my fun and this works great for me
and if they can get what they do, you know,
because they're used to writing, you know,
blah, blah, blah on a Sharpie bag.
Well, by the time I get that thing home, who the fuck,
I can't read the first two lines.
So now how am I supposed to get credit to it?
And what am I supposed to name this?
And it's definitely not retail sellable.
So we can come in and help them and do their stuff.
So it's just good that I can still get them out.
And then, you know, we've got 35 breeders,
I think all of America's top breeders, I don't know.
I like OG Rascal, I'm working on him right now.
Bodie says he doesn't have the demand
or it doesn't have the supply, I'd run it out too soon.
I said, well, that's a demand issue.
I said, we just have to switch that up,
get you better packaging.
Yeah, that's it.
So again, yeah, thanks so much for coming on the show
and hopefully we can catch up again soon.
Well, sure, definitely, thank you much.
You guys can check everything out at www.seedsherenow.com
and seedoholics.com as well for the auction site.
And all the new aficionados are gonna be going up
on the seedoholics site, the Kim for Reserve,
the One Golden Lemon, the Rosas Special, which is the Zill's
and I believe there's 25 Vanilla Berries.
Yeah, awesome, snatch them up guys.
Definitely, thank you very much for having me
and good growing.
A huge thank you again to James Bean
for taking the time to sit down with us.
Big shout out to Seeds Here Now, 420 Australia
and OGS as always, number one sponsors in the game.
Check them out for all your needs.
A big thank you also to all our new Patreon supporters.
You guys are the first ones listening to this.
I hope you're all enjoying it.
Shirts coming out soon guys.
Hope you're looking forward to it.
See you.
