Alright, alright, alright.
Welcome back my friends for another episode of the podcast.
A cannabis podcast for budding enthusiasts.
You're joined by your boy Heavy Daze here from the Upside Down Library.
And as always, we are extremely appreciative of our sponsors.
They help make the show happen, the best way to support the show is to go support them.
Seedtier now, you're the number one seed bank in the United States.
You're looking for a guarantee on satisfaction, not just germination.
Hit them up.
They promise you'll be happy at the end of the grow.
If not, send them a message.
They'll sort you out with something else.
No one offers it guys.
Get on top of it.
If you're in the USA, Canada or the Americas, check out Seedtier now.
Once you get your genetics there, you've got to make sure your room's on point.
And to do that, hit up our friends at Pulse Sensors.
They have the best sensors in the game for getting all of your grow parameters dialed in.
If you want bigger yield, more resin, more potency, get on top of all the variables that
you can't tell just with your eyes and with feeling.
Get serious, get Pulse.
Thank you so much Pulse Sensors.
We appreciate you.
We've got to keep your garden pest and pathogen free.
And for that, check out our friends at Copert Biological Systems.
These guys have all the most amazing predators and predation technology.
The Apiparum if you've got aphids, the Spidex Vital if you've got spider mites.
The Spidex Vital will literally change colors in front of your eyes to show you it's eating
spider mites.
How good is that?
Copert, thank you so much for your support.
And last but not least, our friends over at the Patreon.
Truly the lifeblood of the show.
We could not make episodes happen without the Patreon.
If you would like to get early access to future episodes, unheard additional interviews that
only the Patreons get exclusive access to such as Bodhi, Mean Gene, Bob Hemphill, Trichome
Jungles, so much more.
Check out the Patreon, www.patreon.com forward slash the podcast.
We're also doing exclusive monthly genetic giveaways.
Check it out guys.
On this episode, we're incredibly grateful to be joined by the one and only two of the
seed company and OG within the CBD community.
The man who brought Charlotte's Web to the greater masses and a guy who's collaborating
with Duke Diamond.
Do I need to say any more?
So excited for this one.
Two is an absolute legend.
Ready to talk all things from past, present, future, predictions, so much more.
Let's get into it.
Alrighty gang, thanks for joining us for another one.
On this episode, we're joined by the man behind the seed company, a range of killer CBD lines,
affiliations with Charlotte's Web, a whole bunch of other cool strains we're going to
dig into.
A big thank you and shout out to two of the seed company for joining us today.
Oh, thanks.
Actually, it's the R4, not the Charlotte's Web.
That's what they named that.
You know what I mean?
We'll just, I guess it's, yeah, we don't want the Stanley brothers coming after us.
Look, let's start it off right there.
Give us a bit of a rundown.
What's the Woo for?
All right.
So, I came out from Cleveland and 10 years ago, 2009, I managed to get some samples out
to Denver and then they were like, holy wow.
So I went around and I got strains from all my friends and collected basically Ohio.
And then there was this one called the Cream and it would mess you up.
So I was, I knew that was special and my buddy didn't have that cut available, but he had
these seeds that this guy named, we call Wu Tang back home.
Great guy.
And he was growing his basement and get a little mishap there and the seeds were made.
And when I got to Colorado, we ran all my gear in this, I set up a hundred lighter,
you know, and we ran like a small project just to get us moving with a company called
Greenworks.
And we got the test back and sure enough, there was in the Wu's because I had two of
them, the Wu one and the Wu four.
And they came back, one was like the basically hemp almost, I mean like within a couple points.
And then the other one was a little more like a higher THC.
And then they were like, sorry man, you're not allowed in the warehouse.
And I was like, can I get my stuff back?
And they wouldn't give me that back.
And then good friend, Adam Dunn, who I'm sure you're familiar with, call me one day and
was like, yo dude, they came like Kelly Roller, this dude who was supposed to be my homie
and Josh Stanley came shooting through Adam's like club or place of business, art gallery.
And we're like trying to get him in on it.
Like, do you want to run?
You know, and he's like, no man, that's my dude's shit.
You're not allowed to.
I know I don't want anything to do with it.
You know, then he called me and then, well, then it turned, you know, for fun, the cream
was an Af Jack, like an Afghani number one times a Jack Herrera.
And then the CBD end actually came from Alex at Residencies, who's Soma's son-in-law.
Actually he passed away, but he had been breeding stuff that Soma had created.
And this was the reclining Buddha that actually gave all the CBD to the web or the R4 or the
woo for, you know, to that plant.
And then so I was, that's when I started drinking a lot, you know, that's when I decided, yeah,
I got really mad, you know what I mean?
Like these motherfuckers stole my shit.
And you know what I mean?
Now they're, now they've got a TV show coming out with Sanjay Gupta on CNN.
I was like, fuck that.
Right.
And I was, so I was just, I was kind of ruining myself at that point because I realized, you
know, like that one plant was like the key to, you know, that was my millions of dollars
that I thought I was going to make when I came to Colorado to be a weed millionaire.
And so I was upset for a while, man.
And then my buddy was like, dude, you got to watch that show.
And I'm like, man, fuck those dudes.
I know they got my plant and he's like, just watch it.
So I watched it and I realized that, you know, what I brought was helping people like helping
somebody who couldn't get any other help.
And that poor girl, Charlotte, was having like a hundred seizures a day, man.
She was a twin and her twin sister didn't have any kind of problems.
You could see like the difference in like how she was growing and developing as a human
being, you know, it was not to use this word in any way derogatory, but she was the, she
was retarded literally in that she couldn't learn and grow.
Do you know what I mean?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Like as in the medical sense.
And you know, I realized that like, you know, no matter what, man, I'm helping people and
that I need to get back to work.
Like I cried and like, I wanted to meet her before she had actually passed away too.
She kind of saved me.
Like I was, I was really pushing my, you know, my body.
I was doing a lot of chemicals, including alcohol and just get, you know, trying to,
cause I thought, you know, I came out here with the intent on like doing that whole thing,
you know?
So then my, well, this guy, Adam Cooper, who he helped out a lot.
He had a cherry, which was like a nice, it was a can of tonic S1.
And we took that and we put it on this Kandahar that my buddy's brother actually got in Kandahar.
He's a sapper.
Those are the guys that look for, they go ahead and like look for bombs and I, you know,
the things that blow up and kill you.
And they had brought some back and we intended to use that structure of the Afghan to strengthen
up the cherry, which was, and the cherry was amazing.
Like the extract from it tasted like, I mean, cherries like, like uncontrollably, you know,
like a medicine, which was really weird to me, you know, like, wow, this really is medicine
and it really tastes like medicine.
So we, I brought a bunch of stuff in my backyard.
I took that cherry.
I took the, Oh, I, somebody had given me a cut of the Wu five or the R five that now
came out, which was those guys, those dickheads that stole it.
They self my, you know what I mean?
They self it and made S1s and sold them for, I don't know, man, I think I'm like a hundred
bucks a piece.
Like what a fucking assholes.
So I got, you know, and I got some, um, sour Sudami and then I got just a bunch of different
heart, you know, some Harley Harlequin stuff.
And I put it all out with the male, uh, the male cherry condor that we had.
And there was like a, I don't know, like eight other plants out there, pollinate them all.
And then that's when, like, I, I, I had them all and I sat on them for a while.
And then James from the seed, uh, from seeds here now hit me up and was like, yo, dude,
you want to sell those things?
And I was like, yeah, that'd be cool.
So we started packing them up.
I gave a ton of weight to, I probably gave away like, uh, at least a third of what I
started with, like the can of moms and who aren't nice people.
And like, just, just like, you know, trying to be the Johnny apple seed of sorts.
And then, um, went ended up going to the Emerald cup.
I assume that's, I've only been to two of them.
So I assume, uh, that was the first one.
And then does when James only had like 12 breeders on the, it was like me and Sonny
and Odie and, uh, Mike from exotic, you know?
And, uh, actually, yeah.
So he ended up selling like, uh, you know, that was the first year.
And then the next year when we went back, like people like Duke over here actually kept
people were like, do you have any CBD stuff?
And he just kept sending people to me like, uh, consistently.
So like he was rocking the table.
It's a busy weekend, man.
We just raged out.
And I sold out, uh, people were coming up, they're like, I need CBD.
And I'm like, yeah, here are seeds.
And they're like, we're going to breed with these.
And I was like, that's the point.
And then from that and some stuff that James did, like basically almost 95% of the CBD
hemp genetics in America were born like, uh, from stuff that I had made, you know, like,
um, all that cherry wine and all that stuff has got my cherry condor and like, just, it's
crazy to think the scope and I'm proud of that.
Um, but yeah, that's, that's all that.
What a great recount.
I mean, so many different angles we can follow up on, I guess the first one just as a sort
of nomenclature thing, would you prefer that both I and the community calls it woo4 r4
or are you comfortable with the name Charlotte's web?
But I like woo4 because it gives honor to the guy that made it, you know, you know, one
of the coolest things that, uh, I got to do was I got to call him after, you know, all
this popped off and I was like, Hey dude, guess what?
Because of you, like hundreds of people and children and everything are finding, and now
it's like millions, you know what I mean?
Like CBD.
I, you know what?
I told my mom before she passed away, I told her, and this is, you know, obviously I stretched
the truth a little, but I told her I invented CBD, you know, and that everywhere that she
goes and when she sees CBD, that was me.
And she was like, she was stoked.
So, um, but in a way, like we brought it to the thing, you know, so the woo would be great
because that gives him the, you know what I mean?
Like it, it was an honor to call him and tell him that he, because of him, like people were
finding relief and not having seizures and little kids were like, uh, we were the, my
buddy Todd, uh, the Raven and I, uh, were the first people ever allowed to give kids
cannabis in a hospital ever, like in Colorado, at least I know, but like, uh, we made a roll
on, like I grew it and he formulated it and these kids would have a seizure.
Maybe you saw it, it was all over the internet and like, you take this roll on and like hit
their feet and within like 20 seconds, they weren't having a seizure anymore.
Wow.
Like, yeah, that was cool and fulfilling.
So we'll call it the woo.
I get all messed up too, man, because so what happened?
It became the R because I have horrible handwriting.
Like, like I don't even type legibly, you know what I mean?
Like it's horrible.
Um, so they misread it and relabeled it, which is probably, you know, that's just something
dickheads do anyway.
So.
Are we able to loop back on that?
How, how was it that, um, the Stanley brothers came to sort of enter that facility?
Like what was the series of events that led to them sort of getting access to it?
Oh, we harvested, we harvested the first round.
They sent it to the lab.
Lab says came back with high CBD.
Then I was kicked out of the, the, uh, thing I had, uh, I wasn't, see, I'm not upset that
I was kicked out.
I had a felony that a drug felony from like a while ago and I hadn't quite got to that
10 year mark.
Do you know what I mean?
Yeah.
But I was pretty upset that they wouldn't give me my gear back, which is just some
bullshit.
So the guy I came out with was supposed to be like my, like my homie, you know, we
started, yeah, the, the actually, yeah, the statute of limitations is up, man.
We started hustling, accessing, and I was like 17 going to raves, like all over the
United States, like all over the Midwest, at least, you know, I made that dude a ton
of money.
You'd think he'd be like a little more, you know, not piece of shit, but so they kept
that.
And then I suppose the, this one isn't, I'm not sure.
I assumed the Stanley's or at least Josh went to, you know, saw the test results and
went over there and asked him for it or something, you know.
Okay.
So it's sounding like it was all sort of quite opportunistic on their part.
Yeah.
I mean, they, they S they made, they made S1 my stuff.
Like that's like a sin in the breeding community.
I just don't take somebody's, especially like that, you know, just don't take somebody's
gear S1 and sell, you know, make thousands and thousands and thousands of dollars off
of it.
That seems like a pretty shitty thing to do.
So the listeners will, will give me grief if I don't try to follow up on it.
Why, why was it you were kicked out of the facility?
Felony that was from a drug felony, like from like 2001 and then three.
So I wasn't off.
I, they have a 10 year minimum.
Like when I got here, it had just been implemented.
Like I was allowed in the facility.
And then all of a sudden they were like, well, if you've had a felony or we're still on
paper in the last 10 years, you got to wait until that's over to work in the industry.
So do you think that it, that was like the actual truth that they just found out and
were like, Oh, sorry, policy is policy.
Or do you think it was like their way of being able to get rid of you?
Yeah, actually a hundred percent.
Literally the guys that ripped me off, the main guy's name was Chad.
Oh, wow.
Okay.
Cause I just like to clarify, cause one of the stories you sometimes hear around the
community is that the Stanley brothers had this plant and they grew it thinking it was
THC only to find it was CBD.
And then like, they sort of like quote, swindled Charlotte's parents being like, yeah, buy
this weed, like just trying to sell it to anyone who would buy it.
Do you think that that probably wasn't actually the case?
And they sort of had more of an idea of what they were doing the whole time?
They went specifically to those guys after the tests were published in a local weed
magazine. I still have it around here on the bookshelf.
It was the first time I've ever seen my strains in print.
So I kept it. But yeah, man, they knew exactly what they were doing.
And I know it's mine because it was a variegated plant.
And you can see that in that video where they showed all the plants, like, oh, that's my
fucking gear.
But then I also heard that like they had a Tennessee farmer, Kentucky farm there, Rocky,
whatever. And there's like bottles of Eagle laying around and shit.
Like they had sprayed it with like horrible fungicides, like, and they were going to give
this to children.
You know what I mean?
And they probably did, actually, because that was before we established thresholds for
pesticides and all that kind of like, you know.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Okay.
But yeah, that was all intentional.
I'm not sure about me getting, you know, I know the felony had something to do with that.
But yeah, that whole, that wasn't an accident on their part.
So what did you sort of do in the aftermath of all this?
You sort of mentioned that you were feeling a bit down in the dumps.
Lots of drugs and alcohol.
That's what I did for a while.
I was really upset.
Yeah, look, I think that's pretty understandable.
Was there anything in particular that sort of helped you see the light at the end of
that tunnel?
Yeah, that video, man, with the weed with Sanjay Gupta was on CNN and seeing that girl,
Charlotte, seeing something that I did help anybody is cool.
But to see somebody in such a horrible spot where even the worst of pharmaceutical drugs
that they give to children won't work.
I don't know if you ever see what they give to kids with seizures.
It's disgusting.
It's like Valium and Keppra.
And basically, you're just fucking your kid all up.
You know, after watching that, I realized like, hey, I did this already.
Might as well get back to work.
And what I did was kind of important.
Even if I don't get...
I saw the other day that Charlotte's Web, the company is now worth millions.
Do you have any ambition or want to try to have some of the credit attributed to you?
Or are you just at the point where you've moved on and you just do another stuff?
No, man.
What are you going to do?
I can't afford a good lawyer and I'm sure they can, more than anything.
Then how do you prove all that?
Yeah, that seems like a lot of money to lose the battle.
Yeah, if nothing else, I think it should be our goal that the community knows what you've
contributed.
Thankfully, in the sort of intro you gave us, there's a whole range of other avenues I'd love
to follow up on.
But I guess the first question is, given you do have such a focal tying in to the Woo,
do you still like to work with it?
Or are you at the point where you've done a lot of crosses, you've got stuff to give to
people and you're doing other stuff now?
You know, man, there's not a lot much left to do with CBD or...
My homie, Adam Jocks up in Oregon is making like, taking like, OG Kush.
And he can back it up and make OG Kush hemp.
That's like the only way that I see CBD hemp being like...
Yeah, like, okay, so here, for instance, I make a product called Hempin and it's CBD
tinctures and stuff.
Tinctures and stuff.
And when I first started, kilos of CBD, just the crude, were like $3,500.
Distillate was like $7,000 or $8,000.
I don't use the distillate, but that shit was like 10, 20, I don't know, it was high.
And now, like, kilos of CBD are like $200.
So to be able to farm all that...
You know what I mean?
At this point, I think CBD is, unless you're going to do those boutique-y kind of things with it,
it's just available.
I mean, lots of seeds out there that have...
I think that one's done.
I'm going to try and do some one-to-ones here with Duke here.
I got a nice...
One of my projects, when you take a THC plant and a CBD plant, like on ends of the spectrum,
you end up with like 50%
one-to-one and two-to-ones and like 25% high CBD and 25%.
And those one-to-ones, I did the Tiger Beet, and that was tested out at 16.5 THC with 17.5 CBD on it.
I like that kind of thing.
That's quite impressive in terms of the numbers.
Normally, I feel like you rarely see one-to-one strains go above like 10 and 10.
I know, right?
That was like...
It was beautiful.
Then I had some that were like...
I had a strain called the Bird.
I sent it up to Alaska, and he's got a zero THC.
Maybe the machines don't really pick it up if there is any.
That's a pretty cool...
So the THC gene is responsible for the plant's immune system and stuff like that.
So a pure CBD plant that doesn't have that gene capable of at least being there,
isn't as good because it doesn't have that immune response thing.
Yeah, certainly.
That's interesting.
Do you find that as an extension of that, they're more prone to pests and mold and
botrytis or not necessarily?
Yeah, yeah.
The woman that owns the lab, who is a good friend of mine, she actually went through some stuff.
And has a non-detectable, but the THC gene is switched on.
It just isn't working.
And that, she had...
Not patented, but got some legal paperwork over because that's a cool trait.
You know what I mean?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Certainly.
Okay.
So they sort of do need a little bit more mothering, so to speak.
I mean, there's weird stuff like that, like genetic abnormalities that would be fun to
surf through.
You know what I mean?
And find polyploids or there's some weird auto flowering genetics that kind of come
in hemp too.
That's nice.
I'm growing CBG this year outside because it doesn't run hot.
And I just wanted to grow some plants outside.
Okay.
Okay.
So do you feel like maybe the CBG is like a...
The gene is a bit further located away, so you don't...
You rarely get THC being made in conjunction with it?
Yeah.
When you see a 20% CBG plant, there's rarely any THC in there.
Well, CBG is the precursor to all the other ones.
So by bottlenecking it right there, it's not really able to produce other things.
And why is it, do you think that CBG has only in the past few years got a limelight sort
of shined onto it, whereas CBD has sort of been touted for a lot longer?
You know, man, we didn't even know, like scientists had no idea there wasn't even an
endocannabinoid system in your body until like the mid-90s, they discovered it.
They discovered it.
And we're still, as a community and stuff, discovering all kinds of new stuff in the
plants, cannabinoids, like just terpenes.
Like there's still...
Like CBG has been around for a little while.
It's just as people...
Okay.
So we didn't have testing equipment back in the day.
You couldn't just take...
In Ohio, especially, you just can't take your weed to a lab and have them test it.
So that's why that wasn't really available until everybody started to go online with
medical.
So now I like to have a lot of stuff tested and that gives me a good idea of what's going
on in the plant.
And you can find those anomalies.
Like I'm sure through the CBD breeding, somebody found some G or high CBG plants are very
prevalent in Europe, actually.
Like a lot of that, the hemp that they grow is actually high CBG.
And what sort of benefits do you think CBG can bring to the table that maybe CBD doesn't
quite do as well?
I know it's really good for your brain and your bone structure.
It's like a bone...
But at the same time, man, CBG has like, I don't know, what hair I have growing and my
fingernails grow super fast.
So I assume it's like the same.
I like the...
I guess it's really...
I haven't yet got to really get in on it.
I just had it.
I've been growing it just because the last couple of years and I kind of set it off to
the side after we harvested it.
And I gave it to my dude to make some suppositories for some cancer patients.
So I guess technically I did try it, but I don't know.
Hey, it's brilliant you bring that up because I was going to say, I saw on your Instagram,
you had those full spectrum suppositories by the looks of it.
I just wanted to ask, do you feel that suppository-based cannabinoids work pretty well?
I hadn't heard much about that, but I'd love to hear more.
Here, I can break this down.
This makes perfect sense.
So you eat some weed, right?
You eat, let's just say some oil.
It gets to your stomach.
It gets subjected to a very low pH from your stomach acid, which does things to it, converts
it, does...
Then it gets shot over to your liver and then that changes it into a whole different chemical.
And then it gets into your bloodstream, right?
Yeah.
All right, man.
So when you boof it, it literally goes all the cannabinoids without being converted,
without being...
You know what I mean?
Go right into your bloodstream via your intestines.
That's the most absorbent thing ever.
And it doesn't get converted in any way or be subjected to chemical changes or anything.
Literally, the THC goes right into your blood and all that stuff just goes straight up in there.
Ah, fantastic.
You avoid first pass metabolism.
Yeah, right?
Interesting.
Interesting.
Okay.
And then what's the onset time?
You know what, man?
I decided, because I gave my medicine to a couple people, I decided to try it myself.
And I would just, I would do it and go to bed.
You know what I mean?
I wasn't like doing it and running a marathon or trying to stay up.
I just, it would be like, take a shower, do that, go to bed, wake up.
Now, sometimes in the beginning, I woke up...
When you eat too much weed, that hangover feeling, I kind of had that a couple of times,
but nothing major.
I don't really know what to say about my personal...
Like I feel great in life in general, but I gave some to this, one of my neighbor, landlord,
his friend who had just gotten stage one rectal cancer and he's down to try it.
So I gave some to him and he got his blood test back and it didn't get any worse.
But it didn't get any better.
So I think the next round that we make for him, there'll be more THC instead of a rounded out
full spectrum, you know?
Sure.
So that's promising.
And I think those will get you high.
Like I've heard stories about people doing high, high THC suppositories and getting a buzz.
So we'll find out.
Yeah, it makes sense.
I'll keep you posted.
Cool, cool, cool.
I would love to hear from the horse's mouth.
What do you think is the future of CBD lines?
As you mentioned in a prior answer, you can get it really quite cheap.
So there may not even be much of an argument to grow it yourself anymore.
Pillows and firewood.
So you think it's just going to become so ubiquitously available that no one will really
grow it anymore and you just buy it if you need it?
I mean, I assume people still grow it, but it's like big farms.
I mean, I saw they were getting down to like two bucks a pound.
And if you were buying a considerable amount, I mean, if you're really pushing it out,
I think, you know, I don't think people are going to stop growing it, especially as new
states.
Okay, so this year is the first year that I have been federally legal to grow hemp.
Thanks to, oddly enough, Mitch McConnell.
I'm not trying to give that dude a shout out.
And even Trump, not my favorite people, but they actually signed the farm bill that included
the hemp thing.
And so I had to go through extra hoops, like register with the USDA and go get fingerprinted
for a federal background check and all kinds of stuff.
So I assume there's hemp farms in every state now.
Yeah.
I just think we scaled back from a few years ago.
A few years ago, it was like a monumental, huge amount of people growing.
There was acreage.
And now I think it's scaled back considerably because a lot of people don't want to grow
something they can't sell.
Yeah, certainly.
So I mean, in terms of some of the CBD lines you offer, do you think that a reason someone
might grab one of those is because they might be able to find something that really specifically
works for their medical issues?
Or do you think that in general, just getting any old CBD is probably going to be about
right?
If you're talking about any old CBD strain, and I don't think, no, I think they're all
different.
You know what I mean?
A lot of the stuff outside, there's different terms.
I think that comes along with a lot of the same genetic makeup.
You get a lot of Mercy and a lot of berries, cherries, but now things are starting to,
now we're getting lemon, limes and all that stuff.
And with those come different effects.
You know what I mean?
In a medicinal way, the way your brain wants, some people love smoking this strain because
it makes them feel terrific.
And then some people they're just not getting it and they like that.
You know what I mean?
Because that's their body telling them what medicine they like.
Does that make sense?
Yeah.
Yeah, certainly.
Certainly.
So I noticed on your Instagram page that you mentioned CBDV and I have to admit, I really
don't hear a lot about this at all.
Can you give us a little bit of info about what it might be used for and do you plan
to do anything with it in the future?
So I have a plant, I call it four-way, not to be confused with the four-way THC plant.
It's a pain in the ass, but it's at one quarter THC, one quarter THCV, one quarter CBD and
one quarter CBDV.
And the only option to do anything with this is I'm going to try and feminize it on itself.
I think that would be the best way to express, because I tried to put it on some THC and
it basically erased the majority of everything in there and the THC dominated it out.
So it's kind of highly unstable.
I'm not even sure what CBDV would...
I know the variant is like...
And THC is like an appetite suppressant and like a more speedy or alert high.
I don't know what CBDV does.
We're venturing out into the unknown.
I love it.
It's cool to see.
I met this guy, I was at a seed swap.
Duke and I were up at his seed swap and this dude came up and he had like jars of extract,
beautiful stuff, smelled great.
And he didn't really get into it.
Then I ran into him on 420 and we were talking and he went and learned like oil extraction,
like how they do petroleum.
And then they applied that to cannabis.
And now they're going through like fractionally and cataloging every single substance that
comes over.
And then he was like, this one would get stuck in the top of the distillate, in the...
What do they call that?
The head, where it's hard as a rock.
So they took that and they call it CBDT as in trash.
And he said it would harden up like a Lego.
So they started selling it to the road crews up there to mix with gravel and fill in potholes.
This dude flexed my brain.
I was like so impressed.
Like with...
That's awesome.
You're filling in potholes with potholes.
Oh my God.
You know?
He found a peanut butter strain that like when he cracked the...
His brother cracked the seeds, it smelled like peanut butter in the air.
I was like, come on, man.
And he's like, no, I'm serious.
I'm like, really?
So he's working on like, if he can make seeds, take the hearts out or do whatever it takes
to emulsify that into like a peanut butter for people who can't eat peanut butter.
And I'm just like, cannabis winning, like new shit.
Fuck yeah.
My friend Erica, her dad, Tom is redoing a house and purchased stateside grown insulation
to do his house.
It has rated better with the R value than the pink stuff.
So I'm excited.
I like...
You know, I've been about this plant for a long time.
It's nice to see it's starting to finally get recognized for sale.
You mentioned earlier the cherry candahar.
And before we dive into all of that stuff, I just wanted to ask, one of the comments
I've heard a lot about CBD in general is that a lot of the varieties all have this common
denominator cherry smell.
Do you think that all comes from that cherry candahar you referenced?
Well, I can't say all of it because canna tonic, you know, have you ever heard of Ringo?
He's passed.
He's, he's a big, big, big fan of Ringo.
He's passed.
So he bred out that a lot of good CBD too.
And it wasn't...
So his, he did the canna tonic.
So that was where the cherry came from.
And I'm not really sure where he had sourced his original CBD gear from.
So Ringo, he did the sour tsunami, right?
I think so.
Yeah.
I wanted to ask you, because I can see you've worked with probably the majority of the lines
I'm about to mention, but if you look at sort of the common CBD strains you see around,
you've got, as you mentioned, the canna tonic, sour tsunami, harlequin, ACDC, the woo.
Which of them do you like the most?
Or do you think that they're all sort of a bit different and offer different things?
While I'm proud of the woo and everything, that has horrible terps and it's just,
it kind of has like a metallic terpy kind of thing going on.
ACDC is an awesome plant, man.
I'm like, canna tonic, sour tsunami, it was kind of floppy, you know, like had more of a like a
weak sativa kind of thing.
But like the ACDC is a solid, solid, awesome CBD plant.
It grew fat, it made beautiful, like luscious bud that smelled of cherries.
It's so weird, like almost like a fruit bowl, like not even cherries, like pear and cherry and like
peaches and like all those fruits sit inside those kind of those strains.
And then berries, like they went and they did that cherry wine.
And then through that, they found some berry flavor.
And now that people are, like I said, working to get more of a flavor.
You know, like I said, the boutiquey stuff where they mix it with like
weed and then bring it back to him.
But in that original batch, I got to say that ACDC was, that was just a great pleasure to grow.
You know, I mean, like some stuff's a little more tricky, but.
So that was my favorite.
But they all kind of were like, except for the Wu, they all kind of were that same vibe.
Once I did the cherry things like that, help bring that out to, I assume, like the
because the cherry back on like all the other ones that were similar cherry.
It's crazy, though, it was like legitimate, like cough syrup tasting.
Brilliant.
Yeah, really intense cherry flavor by the sounds of it.
Just to loop back on that cherry Kandahar, do you think that it is the case that a decent
amount of Afghanis probably have some CBD in them?
Or do you think that the one you use was really like a diamond in the rough?
You know what?
Um, you know what?
I don't I don't think the Kandahar had any CBD in it.
We were trying to use it for structure because the original cherry was like a floppy, thin
plant that grew, you know, it just wasn't, you know, like a good Afghan is super thick and hardy.
Do you know what I mean?
So we were trying to impart that kind of shape and structure into the CBD plant because it
wasn't the cherry would not have survived like in a field or, you know, it just was a floppy
like it would have been destroyed by wind the whole deal.
So to put the Afghan on it was strictly for structure.
But at the same time, if you follow on Instagram, all those like the land race guys and
all those guys over there, like they go into Afghanistan, they're like doing all the
the strain reconnaissance kind of thing.
You know what I mean?
Like the collectors, Izzy and those guys, like they they're finding like one to ones
and stuff in some of the gear that they find in different regions, you know, in Afghanis.
So, I mean, it's there.
I don't remember what the strain was, but it was like you were saying, you know,
it was only like a nine to ten.
Yeah.
Okay.
That's really interesting.
And I guess maybe sort of one of the final questions to round out some of the CBD topics
we've covered is, are there any particular CBD ratios that you're fond of for certain
conditions or do you think it's all just a matter of personal body chemistry?
First off, I don't, I try not to give medical advice or and I'm not a doctor, but if I'm
trying to treat somebody's cancer, I would, well, I would give them a one to one.
You know what I mean?
I don't recommend that.
I can't make medical recommendations, but I think like, you know, I think ratios are
important.
And then I think that like once, say like a kid with epilepsy gets used to one ratio,
like a different one helps.
I've seen that happen.
You know what I mean?
But basically, like I like to give, I think CBD is an important.
Like take, I feed it to my dogs.
I felt like shit when I woke up this morning and like my back hurt and I went and ate some
and I felt like a champion.
That's just my personal, you know.
But I mean, yes, I think certain people find better relief from different ratios.
Definitely.
You know, I don't think just CBD helps out anybody like the isolate stuff.
I think that's garbage.
I think even like taking the THC out, like when I make these bottles, I try and get my
THC up as high as I can while still being legal, you know, at 0.3%.
I think that's important.
I think you need that whole entourage.
You need all your cannabinoids like together to help.
You know, we don't really know a ton about that, like about the endocannabinoid system
yet.
We got it all, you know, we don't know how certain things are.
It's hard, you know, different thing to be studying.
So, but yeah, I honestly, without trying to give, I'm not like a, I'm not a doctor.
I'm just a guy who grows plants.
I do think that it's that ratios are important and like anything else, man, whatever, like
your body will let you know if you're doing good.
Right, like it'll tell you if that's what it wants.
Oh man, I really, and I smoked that OG Kush or something and it really like calmed my
ass down and made my back stop hurting or that ACDC really like, you know, increased
my appetite or, you know, stuff like that.
Or like that should stone me out so much, man, I couldn't feel my body.
That was great.
You know, all those things come from different, definitely different ratios and, you know,
different amounts of cannabinoids within that.
You know, it's, I mean, I mean, we're still discovering new stuff, but like, there's so
many out there that could be in the makeup of stuff that it's just amazing.
So I guess, yeah, I'm, yeah, I'm dwindling here.
I just don't want to be trying to make medical claims on the stuff, you know, like I'm trying
to help people if it works, but like, I don't guarantee any of this because it's not legal
here either.
They don't like you doing that.
Yeah.
So pardon my aversion to, I think everybody needs cannabis and, you know, what works for
you is definitely not what's going to work for the next guy.
Yeah, certainly.
I can, I can appreciate the sentiment there.
Just one of the listeners submitted questions that would slow in perfectly right here is
someone said, out of the strains you've made, what would you recommend as the terpiest one
to one you offer?
Oh man, I've only done one, one to one, like in all honesty, that was, but I'm going to
do one with my Lemon G, which I don't know.
I took it to Amsterdam in 2011 and we got second.
It's one of the most terpy lemony things ever.
So here in a minute, I'm going to do my one to ones that I have back on that and that
should yield something good.
But technically the, I don't even know if you can find them now because it was so long
ago that I did that initial CBD breeding, you know, like most of the strains have sold
out and I mean, I still have a bit of seed, but they're probably getting aged, you know?
So I guess the answer to that question would be wait and see, because there's new ones
coming, I suppose.
Brilliant, something to look forward to.
And, and just as sort of the same question, but on the other end of the spectrum, we had
a listener asked if I wanted to give something to a child that was going to hopefully be
non-psychoactive, but still high in CBD, is there anything in particular you'd recommend?
Well, again, if you don't want to, like, you'd have to get an isolate.
Like if you don't want to get it, like there's going to be, like, do you mean by CBD, like
extract or like CBD strain?
Just a strain, I guess, so they can sort of do what they need to with it.
I would probably want to find something real low.
You know, if I was, you know, you don't want to be, I can't advocate getting children high
as much as I'd like to.
They'd calm their little asses down.
But, you know, most of the stuff that was given to children when we started doing that
was real, like low, because you couldn't, like I said, you didn't want to be heat, you
know, last thing you want is a stone kid with epilepsy.
I don't think that's a good thing.
So nowadays you can go get CBD oil.
I mean, you know, I make it and then other people make it.
I mean, so like I said, you don't like to grow it and then to extract it.
And then it's just easier to find like a good source of like I personally source all my
stuff organically, including my carrier oil and the flavors.
But like, yeah, I would want something that would be the hemp.
There you go.
If you want to feed your kids some CBD, make sure it's made from hemp.
That's a reasonable sort of sentiment.
In full spectrum, though, I think is important, in my opinion.
Yeah.
In anybody eating it, you know what I mean?
Isolates and stuff.
They have a ceiling where, you know, they work to an extent and then it stops working.
And then when you add in all those other cannabinoids, you get the entourage, which
helps carry it past that point.
Yeah, definitely.
Definitely.
Some sentiments I can get behind with the full spectrum stuff for sure.
So, let's actually take it back now to the question we normally start off the interview
with.
What have you been smoking on recently?
Man, JJ kicked me a pack of this dirty taxi and then Duke here, I get it.
Like, I came home from a weed show and I had like $10,000 worth of seeds from every breeder.
Like, you know, I traded them all CBD stuff and I started every, basically almost all
of them.
And I ended up with two plants that kicked ass.
This dirty taxi and one of Tommy's, or Duke's skunk van B2s, I do believe.
So, I've been smoking on that taxi and I took it and I crossed it with some stuff.
That was the last seed run that I did.
It's dank.
And so, yeah, it fits for what I like, you know.
It's like a good daytimer.
Now, we're about to be...
We'll have all those seed flowers coming up here by the end of summer for some phenoselection.
But yeah, basically the dirty taxi.
It's the GMO times a chem dog I-95, which has a couple OGs in there, I do believe.
What a brilliant answer.
Because I wanted to ask you, I was looking specifically at the GMO.
I was looking specifically at some of the crosses you've done and the SLV OG is a cool
one.
I wanted to ask, do you in general prefer the SFV OG over the triangle?
And that's why you did it that way?
Or was it just because the dirty taxi already had a bit of TK in it?
You were like, you know, I'll switch it up a bit.
Actually, the reason that I named it that and I worked...
So, I live in a valley.
It's dirty.
And you know, the next round will have the triangle in it because it's actually shaped
like a triangle.
So, I wanted to make something that would work down here.
But I like...
I love that SFV.
It smells weird.
Some cologne I wore is like a 21-year-old trying to pick up chicks and tennis balls.
Yeah, it just it smokes.
And I wanted to keep it.
I wanted to pull a little more OG out of that taxi because it's in there, you know.
And I find OGs like, you know, I want to grow them.
I would run a bunch of them if I could, but they're always...
They're going to yield the greatest and they're kind of a finicky.
So, you know, maybe find something that's going to be a little more conducive to just
being a nice plant to grow.
But the version two is going to have the triangle up on there and then I'll work it back into
like a solid, you know, start effing it back a little.
Yeah, beautiful.
I did want to ask you because we spoke about the dirty taxi hybrids you did.
And I wanted to ask, did you find a male in that same pack that you got the female?
Or did you find the female and impressed you so much you were like, oh, I'm going to get
some more, go back and find a male?
I'm smoking the taxi now.
The last joint I got, I've been saving it.
And this is a good read.
You know what?
The male out of there, we had just...
My buddy had given it to him and he was like, dude, you gave me a male.
And then he's like, but I used it to make...
And we crossed on something and it brought forth...
It really was a good representation of what the thing...
And you know what?
JJ is one of my favorite breeders.
The guy that really hits what I like to smoke and he's honest and he's good.
So I asked him, basically, man, everybody I've seen that started one pack has gotten
a winner in one direction or the other.
You know, I got two that I really liked.
The female that I kept was more conducive, like growth wise.
And I like the herb on that.
It's got a little more GMO in there.
And it bangs out like the weight.
So I kept that one as my female.
And then the other one, the males kind of got a pissier smell to them.
But he came correct with the dirty genes.
You know what I mean?
Everybody that has started them is...
I'm seeing all the nice, I guess, phenotypical expression that I would expect.
And then I made some dirty dirties, but that's not my gear.
But I want to see if I could even work it back a little bit just so I can have one that
is very representing the one that I like a lot.
Like it's a little stretchier, with nice big...
And that's what I'm seeing.
It's pretty dominant in a lot of stuff, what it seems.
But I found a great plant in two, three great plants in one pack of, I think, what, 12?
Hell yeah, that's beautiful.
And another strain from that line, the Trash Eclair, it looked great because it sort of
seemed like it's aimed for the general grower.
You know, like it's THC dominant.
There's some pretty recognizable names in terms of the parents.
Got like the Forum cut in there.
You've also got another cross, you know, the Super Silver Haze with the diaper.
I guess I wanted to ask, what stimulated you to move to these more THC dominant crosses
compared to the prior work?
Well, I mean, so the last project that I did before the Dirty Taxi was a ton of like hand
collected land races from like, wow, we had some like Siri and stuff.
We had some African, we had like a lot of hash producing.
Oh man, I'm trying to remember.
That was a while ago.
The Lash Guard guy, which is like actually one of my favorite plants.
It's like a pre-bubba bubba and it's got like heavy coffee and like tobacco and leather
and stuff like that.
And then like I knew that Duke and I were going to start working together and I wanted
to put something together where, you know, I want to work the, I want to work more dirty
stuff out.
So I took what I, you know, I had and I thought I would work with it because I have some stuff
like that I didn't think would pair well, but just as time goes on, you'll see a lot
of those show up and a lot of stuff that I'm, like I said, we're looking for that sour
lemon male.
It's going to be, you know, and like, so some of these, and like, I'm going to work back
and like, I'm going to work back that SLVOG into, I just think it's, I don't know.
I like that.
Not only do I like the, really like the flower, it's beautiful and just nasty, but this, the,
I like a big plant, you know, like I like a big, like the G13 cross should, that's a
small plant, you know, like that.
It'll be just amazing to have a lot bigger, heavier yielding of some of, you know, like,
and it's gross.
So I was like, you know what, I want to breed this together.
You know, and I had all this stuff that I really liked.
So I, it actually was more of a, like, I knew we were going to move into more THC lines,
but I really like, it was like, like I found this plant and it was so awesome that I basically
just, like, I don't smoke anything else if I don't have to, like, I, it's just, you know,
when you find, so I wanted to make sure, you know, put it on my favorite stuff.
And then I thought, you know, that's kind of why I did that.
And then a lot of those are, like I said, will be used in further down the line.
That's brilliant.
And I love that you mentioned that, like, you know, having that bigger yield was important
because something that has been talked about for a while, admittedly, but is coming up more
and more when I talk to different guests is that a lot of people have this growing feeling that
we're sort of backing ourselves up against the wall with forever decreasing yields.
Sort of seems like as the years go by, things are just getting smaller and smaller yielding.
What's your thoughts on this?
Is it something you're consciously trying to battle?
Yeah, it's like that, man.
The most, like, it's always like, damn, if only that one was a little bigger.
And it seems, you know, as a, so then they take those small plants and they breed those
small plants and you get progressively smaller plants, you know, like the biggest yielders are
never the most amazing, like, you know, you're not, they're not the super fraud, you know,
and, you know, it seems that the most bangers are just, that's like the cruel joke from,
you know, from the plant itself.
Like, yeah, man, wouldn't you love a giant, like, super yielding, but yet like,
banger.
And I think that's that, you know, I did find that, I found that in the taxi and I found that
in that skunk van V2, like, I pulled down all these plants, some outdoor plants that I had
pollinated just for fun.
And we were breaking it up and like, you know, like doing like, and then there was like a bunch
of hash, like I had her breaking them up with gloves and the hash was falling through the trim
tray.
And we did like three plants before that.
And I ended up with like, I don't know, let's call it like an ounce of Keefe.
She got on that plant and it yielded like three, like one plant yielded as much as the other
three plants times three on that skunk van.
And it was, it was like the, I don't know.
And we called it the, what the fuck me and my buddy.
Cause like I, he kept breaking, he would break it up.
I gave him some and he would, he would be breaking it up and I would catch it out of
nowhere.
I'd be like, what the hell?
So like, I, I think I found two very good, you know, representations of something that
that's going to yield a bit and have like quite a, you know, especially that skunk van.
I think I got some seeds.
I made of it around here.
A dirt, I think I made some dirty ones.
Uh, hopefully they will, uh, you know, if you can find a middle of the road down that
it's going to be great.
That's some interesting news.
I guess I would love to sort of like follow that logic through and then say, would then
you sort of agree that by that logic, we would say that like cookies is better than TK or
Chemdog because it yields less.
And like, as things get better, they yield less.
Nah, man, I wouldn't do that.
As much as, uh, it's kind of cussed out a little bit.
It's a really easy plant to grow.
You know what I mean?
Like it yields well, this, it smokes really well and it grows phenomenally like easy.
Like, whereas other things are a little more finicky.
And I just think, uh, I mean, I get good yields.
I grew some of that form out a while ago.
I liked that.
I enjoyed smoking it and it wasn't like a depressing yielder, you know?
Yeah, definitely.
I feel like cookies does get quite a bad rap.
And I think it was CSI who said that, um, you know, if I'd never seen cookies on Instagram
or heard about it and you just gave me a bunch of try, I'd probably tell you that some of
the best weed I've ever had.
What's your thoughts on that?
I enjoy smoking it.
I don't think cookies is like the best at anything.
Um, it's, you know, there, obviously there is a reason that, um, it's been, you know,
recently it seems to be the bottom bitch and everything, you know, like, and that's
cool.
Like it went that way, but like, uh, I'm looking forward to smoking this Durban tie.
You know what I mean?
I'm looking forward to smoking the skunk.
I'm looking forward to like, that's all good.
I like my herb dank and funky as opposed to like sweet.
And I don't know, it's weird now, or there's new strains out that I don't think they really
have much terps going on.
They're just, you know, people name them weird cookie shit, you know, the trash of Claire
that was, cause there was already, you know, the GMO is cookies in a way.
So I figured, you know, reinforce that.
It's kind of like some, what would you call that out cross BX?
Is there a name for that?
What do you think?
Like, so it's cookies in there.
It's still back in there.
Like, but it's a few out.
You could say it's like an in cross of sorts.
So, but that was a, I named that.
Have you ever watched Seinfeld?
Yeah.
George.
I named that trash of Claire.
That's where George was like, either that woman caught him eating that.
Yeah.
That's good stuff.
I mean, I thought that that would be a good, like, I like the structure of the cookies
and you know, it is good.
I don't think it's the best weed I've ever smoked though.
Yeah.
Fair call.
Fair call.
So I would be interested to hear, I was cruising on your Instagram and I saw you put up a photo
of a plant you were calling Jim Leahy.
How did the park supervisor cross turn out?
It sounds fun with that puck BX one in there.
Yeah.
There was a lot of puck in there.
It was dirty, sour puck, puck.
And that came from a root seller, the sour puck, buck that you does not get enough credit.
He's a terrific breeder.
But that's the one that we crossed the dirty with that first time.
And and, and John had just passed away recently.
You know, when I made that, the Jim Leahy, I mean, as a very I was a very dedicated trailer
park boys fan for many, many years.
You know, it just kind of fit.
Plus there's a bunch of puck in there and what are their pucks doing?
That's hockey all day.
So got to have some kind of Canadian reference, right?
Oh dude, I'm such a massive fan of trailer park boys and I cannot for the life of me,
get my lady to watch it with me.
She won't have a bar of it.
My ex girlfriend might be the one that got away.
Her name is Corey.
She got a dog and named him Trevor.
Like she might be the one that escaped, you know what I mean?
Like, ah, that's pretty cool.
That's awesome.
That's awesome.
You mentioned a little earlier that one of your projects not long ago was that you were
working with some land races and I did notice on your Instagram, you'd posted the Durban,
the Swazi and the Moroccan, like the little labels.
What were they like to work with?
And do you think that sort of the nostalgia people have around land races is like worth
the hype or like it is a bit of nostalgia?
Okay, that's an awesome question actually.
In all honesty, like, dude, can I agree on this heavily?
Like there's something to be said about going back, you know, like I got this beautiful
Lashkar PCK out back.
We're going to do some work with that.
So the Durban, let's start there.
You know, a lot of Durban that you get here, like the one that is in the cookies.
That oddly enough, that extract guy that fills the potholes with the pot, he gave the Durban
to Berner.
Now that's an old, like that comes from the Holland and that's crossed with an unknown
indica.
So that's how you get those big, dumpy Durban buds over here.
Whereas the seeds that I started, my buddy,
Hal from Israel, he went and I guess he was on, I guess he was on vacation, but he went
all everywhere that those seeds are from.
He was there like collecting seeds.
And so Durban in the wild is a much more, yeah, scraggly.
But I mean, the turps were there.
It's hard to work with a lot of stuff like that because it doesn't, you know, you want
to see like amazing flower, but it does have that like pro-magnon kind of, you know, older
school.
But when you smoke it, it's phenomenal.
The Moroccan, man, that was, oh, woof, man.
That was a good one.
That was great.
It was like legitimate hash.
Like you, like it was just a big old, well, not even a big old, like just a hash plant.
It was beautiful and it smoked well.
And you know, the working with those was great.
Cause we seeded them.
It was, I smoked a lot of, you know, the, it was awesome, man, actually.
But I don't recommend it unless you want to do something like that.
Like there's good Afghanis that are wonderful, you know, that those guys, they actually sell.
But like, if you know, it's not commercially viable to start like these Thai seeds that
I have because, you know, they have a propensity for hermaphroditism and all that.
And then they don't produce these buds.
But if you're into like really weird, like good buzz is like a lot of African stuff.
You know what I mean?
You get that THCV because it's on the equator.
And I mean, I do think that like, I bet now that you get to see those guys in, in Afghanistan
and in all those little places where they're collecting those seeds and they're showing
like the, you know, the, the selections that the farmers have selected in that region,
you know, they're doing their own breeding technically, you know, as they grow, like
the, the more the farmers in Afghanistan that are, you know, have been growing for generations,
like they're doing their own selections, you know, they're not, does that make sense?
Yeah.
I think it's, it's great.
I think that there's a lot of great things that you could like, I don't think inbreeding
all like the, your cookie strains is a great, you know, way to get anything, but you know,
you're not going to get a lot of diversity out of that.
I had the combos in the fridge.
Yeah.
I mean, I love land-based work.
My lime tar that I just bred with that dirty is like the limest thing ever.
It smells like fresh, like fresh limes, like just squeezed.
And then like a weird Turkish bazaar over the top with like flowers and like goofy stuff.
And then on the other Fino, it's got like chocolate and mint and like,
so, and that all came from land-raised stuff.
Do you know what I mean?
Like, so I got to say, like, I think that it's going to be, you know, I think that
we're going to find a lot more awesome turps and stuff like that in that, then we're going to like,
in you know, whatever the next cookie strain is.
I think he was releasing a fish scale or something along those lines,
which is not something you should name cannabis.
Yeah.
Right.
There's been a lot of discussion around that one.
And I think it might even be a renamed strain, but we'll hear more about that later.
But I wanted to follow up because those land races you just spoke about, you cross them to
the LGK, which I believe is an Afghani.
Can you tell us a bit about that?
And was it a CBD rich one?
No, PCK.
Oh, it was PCK.
It was PCK.
So PCK is the Pakistani Citroli kush that I got from Bodhi.
At the Emerald Cup, he was just like, like some kind of little, like, I don't know,
he just kicked me like 50 or 100 and we went through them and picked out like,
it that stuff just turns real purple.
And that's where that perfumey top end of the turps comes like that Turkishy weird,
because that smells like incense.
But the blood structure on that is just not awesome.
You know what I mean?
It was fluffy, but it brought like this whole bunch of amazing turps that you just don't
really get.
So and then like that, we were trying to breed stuff that, because I'm up at 8080 feet,
which is about where all those high regions and mountains are, you know?
So we were trying to go intentionally, like the season here is ridiculously short.
Like I've been, I've grown outdoor and I got my hemp side, you know, I grow my CBG on that
side and that luckily that stuff finishes up.
But like trying to grow outdoor out here is such a pain.
Like I grow these beautiful plants all the way up and then like right at the beginning
of October, you get this like horrible week, a torrential hail and like shitty wind and
you know what I mean?
So unless you're covered in a greenhouse, you're really not gonna be able to pull anything
off and it's all gonna get messed up.
So we were trying to breed, you know, for the altitude and stuff like at the end of
time.
So it's nice because all those, like a lot of those Afghans finish off relatively shortly
and are used to like this kind of same altitude.
So you know, might as well mimic like, you know, the same kind of environment, right?
I mean, we're kind of like Afghanistan temperatures, like cold, snow, you know, all that
shit.
So that was the thought process on using that.
Plus I wanted to keep it real still land racy, you know, like I didn't want to, like it
didn't need to be like PCK times cookies, you know?
Yeah, certainly that makes sense.
I've been led down the wrong path by SeedFinder on that.
That's interesting PCK and that makes sense because I saw you had worked with that.
One of the listener questions we got is, are there any other land races that you've got
your sights set on working with in the future?
And what land race in general do you think is the most interesting?
I got a pack.
So my buddy, a good friend of mine, went down to Jamaica and was hanging out down there
for a couple of weeks.
And he was trying to find seeds.
And then on the last day, this old head, you know what I mean?
Like that really old head, that old dude with the dry box that just, you know what I mean?
Like rolls up on him and is like, hey, man, I heard you were looking for the lamb's bread
and he hands him his bag and he's like, this is my family's genetics.
And it's been worked for like three to four generations.
So I have legitimate Jamaican lamb's bread and I don't know of anyone else with that.
You know, so I'm going to try and make more obviously out of that.
Start them up and see how it is.
You know, what if it's just cookies?
You never know.
He might have just slipped with some, you know, but hopefully, hopefully it's legitimate.
You know, I like a good, weird, wild sativa, but I don't like it to, you know, I don't
want to grow like 20 weak hazes.
So, I mean, it's nice to see things like Thai popping up now.
We're going to work with some of that, I guess.
Maybe.
Yeah.
And like, I am going to continue.
We're going to work.
I think we're going to work on the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the
we're going to do some youth work.
The you is by PCK, Lashgar Gah, which like I said, is the last place they actually smoke
flour in Afghanistan.
Maybe I didn't mention that as opposed to making it a hash, you know, and that's the
one that has that like pre-baba, baba feel.
And then the you is like the limey one.
And then it's the chocolate one too.
So we're gonna put some stuff into that.
And I have a, the lash card, just PCK Lashgar that looks beautiful.
That will probably work, do some work with.
Um, yeah, I'm, I'm super stoked about that actually.
I mean, in a world of polyhybrid, you know, is like just some basic, you know, basic,
but like not, yeah, like not bread to death, you know, a little diversity, you know, it's
nice, it's different stuff.
Like, yeah.
Right.
Yeah.
It sounds nice, man.
An injection of some fresh blood is always welcome in my opinion.
And you sort of touched on, um, you know, ties and I think you mentioned Hayes in there
and I've noticed that in the past, maybe a year or so, like more or less since Neville's
passing, Hayes has sort of become a bit more popular in the, uh, the community dialogue.
And I wanted to know what's your thoughts on this.
Do you ever want to work with some Hayes's and do you, do you see it taken off?
Well, um, I love my super silver Hayes and we have another super silver Hayes here.
Uh, I'm looking forward to doing some work with those.
I really liked that.
Uh, now as far as giant Hayes's go, like those big, um, Tony from Boneyard, great guy.
Uh, he had sent me some of his Hayes's on Hayes.
So it's basically like had these giant files of them.
So, and then a friend just, uh, went overseas and grabbed all Neville's gear and stuff.
So we have all those in the, I think we're calling it the Federation.
So in the Federation, I do believe that a lot of Neville's work is going to start popping
back up.
You know, I like the, you know, I listened to the PIF episode of the Dunn show.
I had never smoked PIF.
I didn't, you know what I mean?
I had no idea.
It was just a NL5 Hayes.
And, uh, they had these old school guys on talking about growing it.
And they were just like, it was so easy.
You just started from flower the minute it roots.
And then, you know, you save on like, and I was like, damn, that is.
Okay.
So yeah, if you only have like a week or two or a veg and you got like 16 or 18 weeks of
flower, but it's on 12 and 12, you're going to save all that money on your veg and be
able to, you know, um, so I think that's pretty cool.
I've never done anything like that.
I've never just been like, oh, if we started now in 20 weeks, it'll be done and it'll fill
up the whole room.
I've never really, uh, gotten down with anything like that.
So it'd be fine.
Yeah.
But it's like, I have the ceiling height for it.
That's nice.
Um, it's a big commitment.
Hold on.
Where's the, I'm cooking my dog's food as we speak.
Um, like, and it's literally cooking like a turkey and elk.
And then I got to chop up this broccoli and then rice.
Oh, beautiful.
This dog's spoiled.
Well, so, uh, I moved to this little tiny town, right?
I didn't know what I was going to do, man.
I moved to this, like the cops came to my spot in Denver and were like, uh, you're only
allowed six plants.
I'm like, but I'm a caregiver.
And, uh, they're like, sorry, we pass a city ordinance.
Let's see your garden.
And they went in and they're like, holy shit.
Wow.
Look at that.
This is nice, man.
Sorry.
You're gonna have to cut it and shut it down.
So I was like, well, so I had to move somewhere that was respecting, you know, people that
still take care of people.
And, uh, so I found this place and I didn't know how I was going to acclimate into a Spanish
town either.
Like everybody here is basically, uh, Spaniard, like not Mexican.
There's just, there's some Mexican people in my town, but basically like these guys
came up from Mexico and they're, they were Spanish and they settled in my, you know,
so that like my landlord looks like a conquistador kind of, um, and you know, so it's like,
um, so I started like giving out CBD and everything, you know, cause there's a lot of old
people.
I, we made some dude, um, some cancer meds, you know, and then, uh, I met the butcher
and the butcher was hands hurt.
So I gave him CBD and his hands didn't hurt.
So he could continue butchering and we made friends.
And, uh, you know, now, uh, in the fall when he harvests, you know, when people bring him
the elk and the deer and everything, he just gives me all the scraps.
So I just, you know, uh, a, this is better than dog food, you know what I mean?
And B is cheaper technically to buy like rice and broccoli and just, uh, you know, do it
like this.
Plus I like cooking and it's really good for him.
You know, like, uh, my last dogs, because I do believe because they had a good, healthy
diet and CBD, they lived to 17.
Nice.
That's pretty good.
And that's, yeah, that's, I mean, the new guy here, he's eaten like lion's mane and,
uh, all kinds of stuff up front.
I got like a mushroom blend.
Cause I'm trying to, you know, I want to see how, I want to see how long I can keep a dog
alive.
Like an explosion.
I don't like them dying early, man.
It's the worst part, like losing animals the worst.
Uh, so this way, you know, they eat a, they eat a good diet.
It's awesome.
I was just going to say one of the, one of the common questions we get asked a lot is
a lot of people want to do it, but like, they don't know where to start.
Like, what would you recommend as like starting doses and ways to give it?
Um, I make a pet friendly one and, uh, what it is, is, uh, just unflavored.
Cause you know, um, I make, I, the other ones I make have organic flavoring, like mango
and all that.
I suppose I can put a dog flavor in a game, but, uh, I give them one squirt.
Like I actually, I worked them up.
My dogs are 40 pounds and I give them like, what I would recommend a human is like, you
know, well, I, you know, to take like one milliliter, but basically, you know, everybody
has dogs and different sizes.
So you gotta, again, I'm not trying to, well, I'm not a veterinarian either.
Uh, but like, I think it's great.
either. But like, I think it's great. I think, you know,
everything alive. You know, mammalian kind of thing like
dogs, cats, we all everything has this end of the cannabinoid
system that has been depleted because of the marijuana and
hemp and cannabis being made illegal. You know, I'm sure
you've seen that meme that's like back in the day, the
animals ate hemp and then cannabinoids transferred through
the milk and you know what I mean? And that's why we didn't
I mean, as you know, I don't know if that it makes sense, I'm
gonna say. And then when we eliminated that, you know, since
the endocannabinoid is directly responsible for, like your
immune system kind of, you know, like it's, it's has a hefty,
hefty weight in that. Now they're finding you know, like,
that it it actually has a lot of immune functions, you know what
I mean? And then, you know, so it's the same in your dog and
the same in your cat like they, they have CB1 receptors and CB2
receptors. Like, I had a buddy, I went home, my mom had passed
away. So we did our celebration of life. And it was awesome. And
I got to see some friends and one of my old friends came up
and he's like, Hey, man, I'm noticing that Delta eight is
legal. Now. I got a great idea that no one thought of. And he
was like, Delta eight dog treats. And he started asking me
what I thought the dosage would be to like get your dog high.
And,
and like my dogs like not bud, he's new. But those who woke up
stone to shit this morning. I found this Northern Lights
number five. And in my I snuck into my flowering and it was
throwing bananas like it was a Chiquita banana factory. So I
cut it down and I started feeding it to the dog yesterday,
not the bud just the leaves. And she she'll eat she knows what's
up like what she doesn't feel good. And the other one did too.
When they don't feel good. They go eat the leaves. I had to
train them not to eat the plant, you know. But I think it's
first of all spectrum, I would think and then you would have
to feel you know, you have to build up a dog's tolerance to
CBD and you definitely don't want to get it high because I
don't know if you ever dealt with a like you ever had a an
animal eat your weed or like we made we made brownies one time
or something back in the day and threw the trim out back with the
butter on and the dogs ate that thought they were I thought they
were dying. And it just turned out they were like so I so you
know, be careful with anything you give your animals you don't
want to you know, make them uncomfortable or anything. But I
think it's I think cannabis in all forms is good for everything
with with the system, you know.
Yeah, definitely. I saw on your Instagram, you've been
experimenting with micro dosing mushrooms. Give me the lowdown.
So I do a couple things for my mental health. One of them is I
do enjoy the micro dosing of the mushrooms like I don't like I
haven't I actually quit drinking man on New Year's. And I'm going
to say a I really wanted to do it. But like I was drinking like
six to eight beers a day. IPAs that's like 200 calories of
beer. You know what I mean? Like I had a beer belly. I was like
being a slobby drunk and you know, like, my mom wanted me to
quit drinking and I want to be quit drinking and I felt you
know, with this new thing coming up, you know, like, it would be
just better if I quit. So on New Year's Eve, or they know the
night before I went up to have you heard of the area for 20
place? Yeah, it's like, so we went with those guys. We rented
Adam rented the hot springs. We went up there and I had eaten
one of these little tablets with some psilocybin in it. And then
the next night, my my buddy's kid who isn't a kid. He's like an
adult, but like, you know, came over and it was shitty outside.
So we all spent New Year's Eve together. And I that's the last
time I drank I we made some mushroom tea and I like had a
real deep conversation with him about why I wanted to quit
drinking and like reinforcing like, in my mind when I wanted
that I woke up man I haven't drank since I believe that
mushrooms magic and otherwise like have serious and I you
know, Paul Stamets has been doing a lot of research on this.
Like I take a lion's mane supplement. You know what I mean?
Like, it's an extract. They do like hot water extracts on them.
And that's supposed to, you know, has been shown to rebuild
your neural network in your brain that could have been
damaged by stress, trauma, drugs like alcohol. And it also is
like a mild serotonin booster. So I was taking that and it's it
what's the word on where it potentiates the psilocybin into
your brain more, you know?
Yeah, nice.
Supposedly, it rebuilds your clusters, you know, where your
nerves all get together, tenfold what they were, like at their
height of being the healthiest, like you're rebuilding your
brain. So I've been on that cake. And when I take when I
micro dose the mushrooms with with lions, man, I have to be
like really careful. Like my buddy made, he put an ace into
like a chocolate bar. And each square was supposed to be like a
quarter gram. And that was like almost tripping pretty good. Like
I have to break those into quarters because the lion's mane
makes it so much more potent. So I haven't been doing that lately
because I, I noticed like I get somehow I seem it seems to
affect me pretty good. And I get pretty high. So it's not
productive, but like, something I'm really, really about and I'm
willing to scream this from the top of the mountain is a
ketamine for depression and anxiety. Like I'm on the team.
Like once every three, three months, I'll procure some and
like I have a I do a thing where I you know, will fast and then do
it and like do it for like two or three days and then come out
of it. It's like you know, when your router goes bad on your
computer and you got to reset it, you got to hold the button
in and then it's like powers back up. I swear to God that
does it to my brain. Like ketamine hits over 150 different
receptors in your brain. It's been shown like once it wears
off it I don't know the chemical but it creates a chemical in
your brain that subsides like depression and anxiety for like a
month or two, you know, like it literally imparts like it's fun
to do because I enjoy it. And then also, when it's all over,
man, I feel rinsed out like I can, as somebody who suffers
from those things. Like the logical thought that it imparts,
you know, makes both depression and anxiety like illogical, you
know what I mean? Like, because it's, you know, what you can't
fix the past and you can't worry about the future. And I
have to say that's like my like, I don't know if I would be in
such a good mental state that I've been in lately. If it
wasn't for, you know, the four times a year that I do that to
myself. Like that shifts, like if anybody that's listening to
this, like has has depression, anxiety, like that they can't
kick the shit out of this bad, like, and they have access to a
clinic or even like, whatever, like, make sure you get some
safe shit. Like I highly recommend that it saved like it
saved my life a few times. And I can actually say like, some of
my most
amazing moments of my life. And a couple dumbass moves have been,
you know, because of it. But I seriously like if you if you
have portable depression, that you don't think is unbeatable,
man, like go find one of those clinics, man, they will. Like
there's a place out of Durango now by this guy named Dr. Mark.
He they like send you ketamine lozenges and then they call you
and you get to have like your therapy session, you know, after
after you ate this. I had some shit happened to me a while ago.
I went and got a shrink. This is a couple years ago. And I
preached to him the benefits of ketamine so much that he went
and started recommending it to his patients that were
suffering. And he said that they were seeing like significant
and wonderful results. So like, that's, you know, that's my
regimen. I don't eat. I microdose mushrooms, maybe like
one week a month or something. But it's that it's once every
three months that really makes my brain feel like healthy. Like
I feel like a real human when I get when it's over, you know,
oddly enough.
That's beautiful, man. So glad to hear you to you're finding it
so helpful, man. Likewise, encourage anyone to check it
out, especially in Australia, they just rolled it out. I
believe it's a nasal spray, you can get it. So talk to someone
if you're feeling depressed, guys.
Oh, it's beautiful. It's a wonderful, like, maybe, you
know, so it's the it's a disassociative tranquilizer slash
psychedelic. I mean, they were using it to like, they were
giving it to kids back in the day to like, subdue them. And
then some adult did it was like, holy shit, man. And we shouldn't
be giving that to kids. That's trippy as shit. It's really like
it's all over the place, man. You're seeing, actually, you're
seeing a wonderful amount of psychedelics become more
mainstream in the uses of, you know, PTSD, like maps, just
they're pushing that MDMA for, like soldiers and people with
PTSD. And that's getting approved. Like, the FDA gave
them the approval, like, go ahead, like, they procured the
amount of money they needed to have the chemical synthesized
in like, the most, what do you want to call that? You know,
it's got to be made according to like, pharmaceutical
specifications for them. So they had to like, get that okayed by
the FDA to get the lab that you know what I mean? But that's
gonna be like a big and then if you haven't watched, have you
seen Paul Stamets movie? Fantastic fun guy. Yeah, yeah,
I love Paul Stamets.
Oh, it's beautiful. Like, like that whole end of life where all
those old people are like coming to terms with dying and cancer
and like, that's great. I can't imagine like, you know, you're
you're gonna die and you're worried about it and then eat
some mushrooms and now you're like, you know what? Okay, cool.
Whatever, let's do this. You know, that's a gotta be like a
relief. Right?
Yeah, yeah, hugely, hugely. Some interesting work being done
that area for sure. I think definitely a long way to go with
you know, end of life care, palliative care, those things we
could do better.
Yeah, I mean, it's got to be scary. Like, you know, you know,
you're I don't know. Yeah, that's a that's something that
I've been pondering a lot since I lost my mom like, really like,
like I've been taking I didn't started a masterclass course on
philosophy, just and it really was like super interesting.
Because it, you know, philosophy is like studying what it is to
be human. And it was like, I don't know, it really hit me in
a good way. So I've been thinking about like, a lot of
stuff like that lately, like, you know, like, what's our
purpose here? Like, like, you know, do we when we die? Like,
what's going on there? Like, I don't know. These are things I
have a lot of internal dialogue, I guess. Which is why I love the
academy that shuts that down.
Yeah, definitely. Hey, look, I mean, we're sort of on the topic
not to be morbid, but I had a few people submit questions
saying, I heard two lives in a morgue or used to live in a
morgue. What's the deal with that?
No, no, I live in an old funeral home. Actually, I'm standing. I'm
looking at the human skull and the nervous system and the
skeletal system all laid out. I'm in the old embalming room.
So this is what this is fucking crazy. So I was working with
these ladies, the lady like owns the lab, good friend of mine,
like my mom, kind of. And they you know, I was looking, the
cops had come and they're like, well, we'll give you 90 days. So
they let me shut it down and set up a flower and harvest and then
basically, like I couldn't, you know, so I was looking everywhere
to move, you know, that was like, cool, with the medical
system and shit and went up north in in Colorado to no
avail. Like, in Greeley, did you know the ground has oil in it?
So no, you know, it's like, not organic, you know, so and they
were down here. So they were like, hey, you should come down
and check this place out. So I come down here. And it's out in
the middle of fucking nowhere. I don't know how I'm gonna, you
know, I shop at the Whole Foods, you know, like, every guy's, I'm
used to having things within my fingertip reach, how am I gonna,
you know, it was kind of like, but as time went on, like, this
actually became like the best option ever. So I come down to
check it out. And in the kitchen, it's like literally the
posters like the most I still have them up the muscular system,
human skull. And then in the drawer, like, there's like, you
know, in the movies, when you get kidnapped by the bad guy,
like the German guy comes out and like the rubber trench coat,
and he's like, you're going to talk and unrolls that big roll
of like, evil looking metal things that he's gonna hurt you
with, you know, talking about? Yeah, that was in the drawer.
Oh, yeah, that whole kit, like, holy shit that I was like, Oh,
man, then over here, there was like a sink that they would hook
up to basically like, it's a it's a one way system, they go
in through your artery and out through another one at the end.
And then they pump you full of chemicals and like, pump all
your, you know, your liquids and stuff out. So I had to move
that I removed that sink. That was kind of gross. And then the
one of the selling points that he said, was like, Oh, there's a
door drain, which is, you know, so they were, this was the
corners station to for 10 years. So everybody in the county came
through, like this place is, you know, no one ever died here. But
then it's weird to have local people come over, like say to
buy CBD or whatever. And like, they're like, man, I haven't
been here since you buried my grandma. It's like, that wasn't
me. Like, but it's a big, empty space. And it's really nice. And
it works. And like, the every like no one, I'm not doing
anything out of the ordinary down here. Like the way I had a
roommate, when I first moved here, and he ended up robbing me
with this woman who I was being romantic with, we'll say. And I
had to have the cops come through. They know like the
whole layout. They know what they've seen the whole shebang,
you know, like the one cop watched me take clones. And like,
I need to save these, they're gonna you know, so like, you
know what I mean? It's not like a, it's cool. I feel very
comfortable here.
That's awesome.
You know what I mean?
Yeah, yeah. Did they give you any cool stories when they left
to make sure you weren't really scared? Or you feeling pretty
comfortable there?
Oh, man, I'm super comfy here. I feel, you know, like, no, no,
like I went down to the sheriff's department. And I was
like, yo, dude, you know me, I'm like, I just had these
problems. And I do my medical thing. And this is what I do.
And, you know, like, what? I don't want you guys coming to
talk to me. So what do you want me to do? And they're like,
don't go over your mouth. So that is I follow that. And then
I'm like, nice. On the other side of the building. I'm
licensed up by the USDA with a hemp thing. So like, you know
what, where I live has a weird misbalance of like people to
horrible drugs, you know, so like this area has like a meth
a coke and crack a pill heroin, you know what I mean? Like, all
that kind of problem alcohol like, so like, I don't think you
know what I mean? They have much more important, like, stuff to
do then. You know what I mean? There's lots of people around me
grow and they are not they don't even I don't even think they
have cards or I don't know. It's a weird place. But yeah, so it's
a funeral home. No one ever died here, though. Just my dogs.
They were the first ones.
That's not good.
It's okay, though. The so the landlord said while he was
building the place. While while the landlord was building the
place, he said his brother in law or something came in and was
like, hurry up. I'm gonna be the first guy you serve up. And then
he was Oh, right. Oh, no, no, no, no. And then the second guy
came in and he was like, yo, dude, I'm gonna be the next guy.
And that dude was like, they were calling it. You know what
I mean? Like, it's a weird situation. And no, I've never
seen anything weird here. Like spirits or ghosts. That's not
something I believe in. But uh, you know, if I saw anything like
that, I might change my mind, I suppose. But you know, how long
is ghost hunters been on and they've never found shit. So
well, look, while we're on the subject of kooky and
interesting, I've been told by multiple people that you're the
the Nicholas Tesla of cannabis. Tell me a little bit about this
Tesla Ponix experiment you've done.
Actually, I'd rather fire that one back up. I had a keyhole I
think they're called rack, you like lock the little things in
that, you know, I had it tubbed out with what do you call it a
pond liner. And it was off the ground and I had a I had a what
do you call that thing a heating mat in there. And it says don't
immerse in water. And I had water through all the plants and
then you know, there's a fit like it was just ever so micro
amounts of water in there, but it was all submerged. And then I
was the next day I came in like holy shit, man, these are like
the nicest plans I've ever fucking seen. I'm talking foot
and a half fat ass fucking stems, like thick, leathery
fucking leaves like not us nothing out of place. No, you
know, nothing out of place. And I went to rub my arm over them
and they fucking shocked me. I was like, What the fuck so I got
the multimeter and I was running like 60 watts or volt volts
watts volts 60 volts to the top of the plant. Right like like
what and I you know, I had to ground it because it wasn't
grounded. So when I hit the I hit it on the concrete and
tested it. So I let this go you know, and I was trying to
experiment with like this more water make it go up or down and
eventually I think the thing was going bad because it got up to
like 100 and I assume that means it was shorting out or something
so and then I had I just decided that like I don't have fire
insurance and like this seems like how you get a fire so I
pulled that experiment specific out and then I called a friend
back home who you know is also very smart human and I was like
check this out. So we looked into it and it's called
electroculture. The technique is called electroculture. This
dates back like talking hundreds of years right like for
instance it was like the late 1800s this one of those monks
you know the guys that do like the beer or whatever Belgian
guys he was experimenting on bacterial growth from static
electric charges and he found that you like one static electric
charge from say your foot into the ground increased bacterial
growth 400% this dude in the 30s this is cool this dude in
the 30s he took two poles and put them north and south like
big poles he buried him in the ground and tacked him to a big
piece of metal at each end and then he wound copper all the way
up with the rotation of the earth like so many times and he
put them on the north and south end of this field and he grew
clovers that he won the world's fair with and they were eight
feet tall off this passively pulling this out of the air you
know. So I called him and he worked at a medical supply
place and he said me you know what a tens unit is of course
you do it you know the thing you put on like oh I sprained my
arm or something it's got frequency yeah say what yeah and
jackass they put it on their gooch oh I did not do you
remember that on the first jackass movie they put it on
their gooch and we're just that was my introduction to a tens
machine no shit but it's like you know just a little
wavelength and like potency and stuff so I got a couple of those
and instead of putting little patches on I like put on
alligator clips and I stripped down some like a romex which is
you know like wire like house wire and I use the copper you
know I clamped them on I put it in the plants and it was getting
like the same effect but not quite as magnificent you know
because it's a lower lower amount of voltage but it was
consistent like I got some bugs and then I like turn them on and
you could adjust it like a I think now listen I could have
been high I didn't document this but I swear to God I could
like make the bugs move faster or slower depending on the
current I was giving them so got a couple of these tennis units
hooked up a couple of lemon plants grew them electrically
and then that's when we went to Holland and got that cup second
place the whole week just tripping on acid it was fucking
hilarious I think I walked over 100 miles through Amsterdam that
week like we I smuggled weed I guess yeah that's we're past
that so we're I'm in Amsterdam we got like three ounces left
worth of booth and just rolling mad joints everybody else in the
spot was just like the greenhouse guys had like a
nastiest like 20 foot long balloon volcano you know and
like other people were giving out little like one hitters and in
retrospect after I got like everybody every world's flu this
was probably a bad idea but smoke a joint so everybody and
then the police raided the place and everybody like Adam was
grinding up all the weed and I like stuff that in my stuff the
remaining herb into my coat and walked out because the Dutch
police they didn't look very tough so they are so I put it in
my arm and then as I got closer to where they were all at I
realized that they put the monsters up front man so as
we're all waiting to be searched and shuffled to get out of the
venue I'm like hey because I've been riding a tram or the bus
and everybody you know I need a bag we're all waiting to be
shuffled out Adams rolling these giant joints he's got a
grinder and it's got this grinder like six or eight inches
across I mean it took your whole hand like so he's grinding up
all the weed he's got and I need a bag so I get the bag and
then I throw my sweatshirt on top and then I asked for a bunch
of like swag you know like so give me all these like not
posters like flyers and all that shit so I got this bag of with
the weed in it and then the cops are like come on okay he's like
do you have anything illegal on you and I put the bag in front
of him and I open up like no man you can search me and he's
grabs the bag he's like not in there puts the bag down pass me
down grabs the bag hands it back to me and I walk out and
like we were the only ones with any weed for the next couple
days of the cup it was awesome that was a good time that was
yeah like that was fun actually holy shit what a killer story
are there any other strains from that Amsterdam trip that
stand out in your mind is quite memorable we didn't smoke I
mean the you know like I was really working that booth man
like we didn't have like I mean I got when you like when you go
to those things and like the Emerald Cup people are like oh
you're so lucky like yeah fuck you dude I'm busting my ass
back here you know like so like I didn't not that I really
didn't I didn't really taste it but I didn't I honestly
didn't we worked you know what I mean like I probably rolled
hundreds of joints and shit you know like just and then talking
to everybody and then I on the way home I end up getting like
the wook flu from like 10 different countries I thought I
was gonna die that's how it happens right that's how it
happens oh you know what though a good solid weed at the time
Adam's Cushage oh yeah do you know what I mean like that was
something that like yeah that was something that was like his
buddies did and it smoked real good you know brilliant brilliant
I'm yeah I'm glad when I met him like because I was trying to
I was wandering around Amsterdam like trying to buy a weed and that shit's
expensive and shitty so then when I finally actually met him
I could knew you know just it was a better herb for sure that's
great to hear you've mentioned a few times you've got
some stuff going on with Duke can you tell us anything about what we
might be able to expect or is it all under lock and key
okay so we're gonna we're making some seeds we're gonna combine our genetics
and like you know he's got some stuff he wants to do like he wants to like work
on a couple of his you know like his screaming eagles and
the pole cat and uh you know I'm gonna lend my lemon to some stuff and like that
you and I got this original G13 that I've been carrying around since I
was like like just like 18 19
and uh it's just been through hell and I'm trying to get it worked back into
some stuff and it's one of the strongest females I've
ever seen like it won't turn like I've I've been trying I've tried
spraying it with silver thiosulfate like uh three different occasions and
it'll like push the the male flower bananas out and
they won't open like consistently every time but uh so we're gonna try and
get that to work uh we've been sponsored actually
uh by yeah so we got sponsored by build a soil
who are kick-ass I don't know if you ever talked to jared man like yeah uh
they have made a special blend of soil for him personally that
it's this is awesome um he can't hear me uh
okay so he's old school you know what I mean like he uh
he wanted to use like bone and blood and stuff in there you know like any good
organic old school guy knows so when he called Jeremy Jeremy's not on
that kind of thing you know it's all factory farm animal stuff so he actually
convinced them to uh replace some of it with more organic
and more uh you know sustainable stuff so it's
actually it smells terrific we've been working
with it uh so they they sent us that and then
the we were we had a couple different options with the leds
and those fell out and then estech uh who is a let me you know this is
really interesting estech uh offered it to us and when we
accepted them the other guys were like like just at our like come on man no we
got you like because they're so estech is owned by this guy named
jack jack is a uh uh he's a chinese guy who
developed uh what do you call them uh street
lights you'll have all led street lights over there
so he developed the led street light which if you get if you're thinking like
a street light has to do what like project a lot of light down
regardless of like you know fog and stuff like that
so he's got a special like lensing on him
that even one of the i'm not here to talk too much shit
even one of the best led manufacturers was trying to steal from them and they
lost it's amazing because um these little
row they're called high base they're like maybe six inches wide by
three ish feet long and you know as opposed to those ones like spiders i got
all those like you know bars going on these things
have like uh and i'm gonna post it up here but
like a bubble looking things right and inside the bubble is like nine
leds and there's something about that the uh that lensing that he's got that
causes the leds to have like immensely good light penetration i'm
talking like it was and i'm new to the ppft but it was at
8 50 it was two and a half feet to 8 50 from
the lens which is cool because i don't know if you have you know leds
generally you have to like have them slammed down on there you know what i
mean and their wi-fi
okay so you control them remotely here's the okay so uh you know uh
we get them and we're setting them up and uh i download this app
and at first it's like asking me for permissions for everything
like i mean it was scary the amount of permissions of this thing wanted
and i didn't really understand what was going on and i looked it up and it's
actually this open source automation app you know what i mean
and it'll control everything in your house like from your lamps to your
your hvnc your uh your just everything you could possibly want
to automate and stuff you didn't even know you wanted
like your curtains closing or your windows
shutting on them so you know what i mean um
and all that's programmable within this little
app so and if you can i don't i don't want to do alexa but you can do alexa
too like it all said you know alexa turn on
my garden kind of thing yeah but i'm not don't do that because
jeff bezos will then see your garden but you got
secure home security it's all wrapped up in this nice app and it
sends you notifications when the lights come on and i imagine like once we can
get more uh environmental controls you know
they'll be uh automated like that too the lights will
dim down on their own if it gets too hot and they cover like a nice for being
a little bar there they cover like three by four
so we got them in a nice line and uh we've just been setting it up you
know um we got some tents from some people i
have to look um and they're nice and white on the
inside as opposed to that you know speckled aluminum or mylar or
whatever
um and these are five by five which is nice because they're bigger like i have
a four by four that i breed in and when that fan comes
on it really sucks in and you know what i mean like kind of puts
the cramping on the plants hydro grow those are the guys that gave
us these fans they're really nice and then so basically we're gonna
showcase all these people's products because we believe that these are you
know uh especially the leds these are like
really the i don't know i don't like these big
stupid leds that have all these parts these things are just streamlined and
they look nice talk to the computer you know oh it smells so good in there
wow and that soil really smells good he hit it with the dragonfly earth medicine
also somebody who's helping out man those are really nice products i don't
they probably don't get to australia but uh unfortunately no but they're
great product yeah and it's like they're super organic
like they're flowing in the same vibe that we're trying to do so uh
basically we're just gonna bounce out seeds man like
they're legal they're like 100 you know there's no thc in there you don't have
to worry about that so i want to
expand the reach you know it's not my hemp plant my hemp
strains are grown like anywhere hemp is grown you know
it's kind of cool but like it'd be nice to
my buddy runs a wreck i think the wreck in israel i think that'd be fun to see
um some of you know some gear over there and stuff
yeah definitely definitely it sounds like you got a lot of options on the
plate i um i wanted to ask you
you've mentioned the the lemon g a few times we need to get the backstory on it
what can you tell us about it because i think i heard at one point it's like a
colombian or something but i'd love for you to fill me in
okay i have that g13 plant that i've had for
since i was 18 like 27 years right i don't know anything about the other
side of that uh lemon g um i'm not sure what
uh description says but like it is definitely
that g13 because i've done a lot of work with it
and i get g13 phenos out of it i'm not sure what the sativa side is
i'm being honest like if i knew i you know
i'm not one to to lie i have no idea all i know is that it is one of the
terpiest things ever like it's literally like uh my ex-girlfriend
would break out in hives trimming it like uh my friends would
puke um like trimming it and i've had a couple
people puke smoking it like it irritates uh my one buddy's throat
so bad he won't it's it's like lemon
lemon you know what i mean with a funky from the g like a turkey gravy up
underneath it and that's like a quintessential g right
there um it's a beautiful plant it yields
like you could have a giant bag of it and that's like an ounce you know what
i mean you got like a it's so fluffy it doesn't really have a
lot of weight that was like one of the reasons
like when i got back from the cup i decided to put a northern lights that my
buddy had been working on it because i wanted some density and they flowed
really well together uh and i also
there's uh it makes the most like uh amazing like for a while there it
was the hottest thing in colorado like extract wise
because it's that whole that that delimiting just came through so
hard you know i mean
but as far as your question goes man i can't answer that and i apologize
i'm not sure of the lineage i just a friend of mine
when i was collecting strains in ohio to bring out here
like i've been growing it but i i asked everybody that gave me strains
uh when i came like can i take this with me and
so yeah that's that is the extent of my knowledge i'm sure there's a lot of ohio
people coming online now i'm noticing i'm sure somewhere in there because
somebody tried to call adam after the cup and they were trying to tell him it
was skunk times misty which um
like i said i've done a lot of work with it you know like crossing it with
stuff and always get g13 my classic one
out of it you know what i mean see you can see it you can smell it
uh so i don't know i guess long answer no that's fine that's a good answer
what are you guys up to so oh actually man you know like uh we're not
here here's what we're planning not only are we going to be planning the
the breeding and stuff we're going to be doing like i said uh the podcast
and the instructional videos like uh you know part of
him developing his own soil line was because
um you know he wanted to be able to give people a reproducible
uh you know like hey you want to grow herb like this you need
you know here's the soil use here's how we're doing it
and uh so we're going to do instructional videos and that'll be like
also to show how awesome responses are and then we'll be doing uh
uh the podcast we were tentatively going with two dudes one cup
or one grow so that when we win a cup we can be two dudes
one cup which is disgusting and funny all at the same time i love it
yeah uh podcast was already taken uh damn it yeah we'll spell it different
the premier podcast you man you won the you won the name lottery when you got
that one off uh dude there's like a hundred podcasts
called the podcast yeah podcast is beautiful you know i mean
yeah it's look it's got us to this point right can't complain
yeah so we were you know so basically yeah we're gonna do this
thing and uh you know um he actually has been sitting he like
he sequestered himself on the side of the mountain with uh
a bunch of like uh video editing here and he's been learning like proper
editing and the whole deal so when when we do this uh when we we're
gonna be putting it together uh potential like just commercials for
our guides you know what i mean for our
sponsors and uh you know cool star wipes and stuff
interviews with uh weirdos that we know yeah just there's this one dude in
australia he's totally fucking weirdo we're thinking about having him on you
know hopefully you don't you want to keep
your show in good repute uh you know it's fun to have like i want
it'd be fun to have like uh people with their own show series you know what i
mean yeah man yeah do the uh people who already
have their own show show you know bring them all on but i want to take
you back to the question we used to start
all the interviews off with pretty late to do this one but i love it anyway
tell me about your first experience with cannabis paint me a picture what happened
uh all right man i was you know i got started a little later i was 17 years
old um i met these dudes
a guy my mom like when i was actually how did that work out
yeah um around 16 i met these dudes they were like chesbians i was a
skateboarder kid my mom moving to this weird ass little town
it hit his fuck uh and i made friends with these guys we started hanging out
and uh so i never you know i was in one of the first
classes of dare you know and i never really wanted to smoke
weed because my both my stepfather and my mom both smoked
cigarettes i thought cigarettes are disgusting you know
so i went on the weed i want to do lsd like so much that when i was like
15 i took the anarchist code book into my science teacher was like yo dude can
we make some acid means later voted me most likely to do drugs
and i was really pissed off and then he was like not
stupid things sometimes so we skipped school
me and three or four of my friends and we got some you know
quit the mad dog which it turns out isn't
mad dog and he isn't stanford mad dog but um
and we were drinking at my buddy's parents during school time
and uh my buddy took his mom's bowl she had a little
like marble bowl you know a few inches three inches long
and uh they had tried to give me a smoking for it i wasn't having it but
then i got kind of tipsy on the alcohol and i grabbed the
bowl at that point when i was a kid man like
uh i was like the first kid ever on riddlin
and then like i was i was on some prozac when i was later you know because
i don't know they had like in third grade i was tweaking on riddlin what a
gross uncomfortable thing so i was on some kind
of antidepressant i'm not really sure i can't remember and i stole the ball i
climbed up a tree and i fucking smoked this ball and i got
high for the first time ever and i pulled like a paul samet's and i
got down and i decided that like i feel pretty good i'm gonna quit taking
these fucking pharmaceuticals and i'm just gonna go
smoke weed and then shortly after that i got into the rave scene and you know
experiment with all the gambit so but i you know uh cannabis has been
since that day because i was like you know what fuck
this horror because horrible serotonin messing where your brain chemicals like
since then like okay then i went home and uh i wanted to buy a bag of weed
obviously that's what you do right and i smoked so now where can i get it
so my buddy who i just talked to earlier
johnny uh and i called our other buddy tag and
we're like hey man just sleep so it took like hours to come
bring us this bag of weed and uh it was like the corner of a brick
and uh you know they have seeds in them so
i saved the seeds out of my weed and i went home and i
in my in my closet i had my toy box from when i was a kid
that had things like my dungeon dragons books and my type wonder uniforms and
you know all that stuff when i was a nerd you know what i mean
uh and i moved all that stuff out and i went to the home depot and i got myself
a little grow light put some plants and i started some seeds
and my mom's like so what are you doing in
there and i'm like i'm growing orchids mom
and she uh laughed and she was like you know i
grew up in the 70s right those are orchids and you gotta get them
out of here so then um i was about to turn 18 and she was
like dude if you're gonna be selling weed you can't really be doing it here
so i moved out i got a hot girlfriend and moved out and then we just started
growing i like uh
yeah and it started off we stole uh 400 watt
high pressure sodium from the college two of those
up in a little closet and then you know at a time
grew so did you know and you gotta get a couple thousands and
you know why not get six or whatever so and then moved out here instead of like
a hundred and you know it just
growing stuff i i got put on probation or parole actually
i got i had to go sit down for a couple years uh
apparently not to make drugs in your own home you're not allowed
what were some of the strains you were first growing did they have names or was
it before then
uh after i got out of jail jail uh i'd take p tests and um
i started dating this girl was growing some herb and i failed the first one
and uh i got dinged for it and then
but the next one i diluted and then and so then nicole went with the diluted one
and she's like uh look this is diluted like what do you
mean it's piss and she's like no it's not
i'm like it came out of my dick and she's like you diluted it
i'm like what makes piss piss and she's like creatine
and uh she's like if you test hot again i gotta you're gonna get in trouble and i
gave her this big speech like look when i'm off parole i'm probably
gonna i'm gonna go smoke weed i don't think there's any wrong with i
think it's medicinal i'll probably go grow some more i laid it out and she
looks right at me she gave me this big spurg and she's like
uh yeah whatever you want to do when you're not my property
don't fail again so i got like got some creatine because i was smuggling
like kilos of creatine into the joint you know what i mean
uh that's a whole different story uh and we were working out and so i knew
what it was so i went and got some and uh mixed it i like diluted myself
but mixed it in and i was taking that and like i passed
and then she took me off that if anybody out there i mean this is a
while ago but uh i assume that still works right
it was just creatine though so she told she like told me what it was i was like
what makes this piss and she's like creatine so
i worked it out and i passed and then i didn't have to take anymore so then
and i started i got like i started dating this other girl and i was like we
should grow weed and she's like well what about getting
caught and i'm like don't and so we set up a little a little
garden or basement and then uh it was nice actually
and it was real efficient and then that's when uh
that's when i turned 30 and i went over to amsterdam
and i met like adam and oh you know he eventually moved to my house when we
moved to colorado it was a pretty funny situation
wow so he came back to the states with you around the end of that 90s period
no i moved to uh i went to amsterdam 15 years ago uh when i turned 30
and then when i moved to denver i kept up with him you know
and then when i moved to denver i ran into him in denver
and then we got a house and then i was like yo i got a house come on so he
he ended up moving there that was crazy we had like the tiniest house
and six dudes living in it like i slept on
bunk beds on pallet racks with like 300 clones next to me
it was the it was a wild time and that was the green rush coming out here
it was an interesting time in colorado and were you just growing like uh for
flower at that point we had just gotten here and i got to
sing i don't like to throw away plant matter so i'm growing like perfectly
healthy plants i kind of want to cut them and clone them so what started
with i brought maybe 20 different things out
here and like a tote with a lock and a lid and then
once we got here they just kept getting bigger so we set
up the cloner with the intent on moving into a warehouse that was uh
that was like the entire intent you know and then that's when
that whole greenworks thing happened and then the whole
what we started talking about when we first started the conversation
ah interesting interesting okay you like that like that's like a guy
ritchie movie man i bounced back all the way to the beginning
you know what i mean like and that and that's how all that happened
there you go there you go i mean i'm interested to hear
in the early days were there any breeders you specifically were sort of
looking up to uh okay so we were like 18 uh some friends
you know they decided to drive out west and like go to bc
and they called mark emory and that dude like mark emory showed up in their hotel
room with like a like a photo album full of seeds and they
ended up getting uh
i don't know a few different things from him
um like uh sagarimatha's uh
bubbleberry right like what else do we have back in cali mist
um i got some skunk number one you know like that was what like 1996 maybe
so uh i didn't really know about all that stuff you know what i mean that was just
i didn't really realize like the whole like uh
i didn't you know i didn't really realize the whole story
you know i didn't really realize the whole scope of it until a few you know later
until then we were just growing like local strains like this g and this afghani number
one that was like the nastiest stuff ever and uh the cream which was charlotte's mom
that stuff was a little later in the stable uh
yeah it was it was more like what was regionally available than you know
and i assume that a lot of that stuff was procured from amsterdam you know what i mean like
people do go out there it's like you know it was a stoner pair you know that's where
you went for genetics and all that do you know what the cream was
yeah it's uh the afghani number one times the jack carrer
that's right okay the af jack sorry i remember you said that okay
yeah it would make you stupid it would like make you so stupid that like you
couldn't function that's why i thought it had some other medical quality uh
but it's it's funky and it's i like the afghan number one like we're we're on like a you know
he's got some skunk and i've got i think i got that afghan one coming back i found somebody
uh the internet is a wonderful thing sometimes like uh
if there's a like the clone trading and like the it's you know what i mean like the
the genetics they're moving all over you know what i mean that's pretty cool it's a great way to get
past the disease too but uh you know what i mean or nowadays man like nowadays viruses are they're
all the rage you know what i mean right like that seems to be the zeitgeist it seems to be
relatively new now though it seems to have something to do with like the hemp thing that's
going on and yeah it's certainly spread uh sped up sorry the the spread of a lot of viroids and
various other sorts of things hasn't it it i've seen some ugly hemp plants that had some shit
like my buddy puts and stuff out they had like a it was some other weird virus you never heard of
that affected like beets or something and it looked all like cabbagey at the top and all screwed up
so when i got here and we set up this big warehouse the idiot that i came out here with
kelly roller uh this dude would lay under the plants cleaning the plants smoking cigarettes
like right at the stone body you know like i'm pretty sure like that's how you get tobacco mosaic
virus so uh you know i'm into hops man since i quit drinking i've been uh i went home to ohio
to do my mom's thing and i hit up the non-alcoholic beer section because all my friends back home are
brewers and you know what i mean like my old buddy's like a master brewer at a spot so i
want to be able to like you know so i ended up buying like some non-alcoholic brews and uh these
hop waters that is just hops and carbonated water and uh those turned out to be excellent so i still
have all this brewing equipment i'm trying to master those uh and at one point i was like dude if
we uh if we put some hops into the you know tea we could probably and then it was like nah man
hop latent virus that's you want hop latent virus that's probably how you get that
but i did that once way long ago and it really did make them the herb more funky like uh
and it was stonier like the mercy was up you know
yeah nice that's interesting that's really interesting to hear
i um i wanted to ask you what can you tell me about the g13 clone you've said a few times you
know you've had it for a long time and i saw on your instagram you're doing the reverse or with
it can you tell us a bit about what your plans with it are and if you can give any insight on
the backstory i got my first uh spider mites from this kid jason cantrell i think he's passed away
i think he's passed away but they came on this afghani number one and this g13 and we were told
like basically okay so if you find an old seed catalog from back in the day there's like the
one of those old ones you know it's like black and white and stuff there's actually a picture
of the g that i have and it's like cut only this was uh the the lore behind it is what is it
mississippi or mass mississippi they had the federal marijuana growing program going on for
like that dude who you always see that gets like the fucking ridiculous size tin of joints every
month he's like the only guy left on that program uh supposedly that it came out of there and it was
afghani and they started like so many seeds and that was the 13th one to be kept supposedly
um and then somehow it got over to neville and then he showed that picture and then it started
getting crossed with stuff and a lot of people that's what you know there's a lot of g13 crosses
and then duke here was really nice enough to back me up i showed him i had one in the breeding tent
crossing with the sour and i was like smell it and he's like yeah dude that's that and then he
we uh you know then he showed me like that his 88 g13 hp it'll have that same vibe and uh which
other one the airborne uh which you know i've seen i don't think it had it but this is like
a more concentrated version of that and so um he's got a couple things that have that in it
we're gonna try and put it on those but uh yeah so it's like a funky little smells like food
like uh i don't know ugly little plant but yeah it's like if you took the lemon off the lemon g
basically yeah you're left with the g but it you know um it's been beat up man like i think that
that cut uh i want to give some props to a guy i call grandpa um he's one of my best buddies i
met him back when i was like 17 he was the first guy ever knew to grow a plant he called it sasha
and uh he was the keeper of that g for many many years but it has probably had every single bug you
can think of it's fought off fungus it's been it's never turned hermy ever like you can't get
it to throw a flower it's like super solid and uh so it's just been hanging out i think it could
use a little rejuvenation and i you know luckily for a buddy named nick mccombs who got the job
at greenworks after i was fired or got like whatever you want to call it uh he saved it
he saved a couple of my things and and got me the that's you might have given me my r woo four back
then i'm thinking because he he like got disgruntled with the company and so he stopped working there
so like uh yeah i got he you know he kept some of the ohio's aleba you know when these guys like i
said these ohio guys are coming out now you know like being a little more uh on the instant and
stuff and i see guys working with the lemon and all this and uh they say they have the g but when
they when i ask them for pictures it's definitely not my g you know what i mean like it looks more
like the airborne you know bigger buds and not quite the because my g is kind of like bluish
green and like i don't know not the same plant and so when adam moved out to colorado he said
this is awesome he sent his goons and they were awesome these two guys came big mike and uh
sam squanch i remember what that dude's name was he was a beast so we had gotten some herb and some
of that g and uh he woke up and i handed it to him i'm like hey man this is my g and he took a big
old hit and he got this look on his face like he was pissed and he's like i don't know if i like
that at all what you know i mean it's it's got a not a normal turf profile so i think that's
important to bring back you know what i mean like we're just getting homogenous turps kind of like
now you know it's weird how we have uh what's the new one candy gas that's what everybody wants
and i think i think that's the new and before it was fruity gas i hate fruity gas that's like
what my weed to be just funky and fire and gassy like keep your yeah if it's fruity i want fruity
like it's just weird i don't know it sucks that trends like there's you know there's we're gonna
have to break free of this uh this weird mold that we're not you know like the mold that we're all
trapped in when it comes to i mean you can only breed something so long like right before it
becomes genetically yeah and no fun yeah there's yeah i mean i was in a not argument i was in a
conversation with some people that we were talking about like you know f1s versus like f5s and we're
like you know respect the work f5 and but you when you start them all you're definitely getting the
whole it's all the same like there's that's cool if you want that exact thing but it kind of loses
a little ump and like those fresh f1s or even f2s man that all that stuff's like you get a i like
topheno hunt that's the fun part of uh of growing weed right it's fun to do but like yeah man i want
to i want to i want to see different uh expressions of the same plants right you know i don't know i
yeah you see those guys talking about like heavy ass like i took it to f20 and you're like why
well it's um was homogenous at like five kind of i don't see what your what was your purpose
so plus uh both you know i'm really excited about this project coming up i think that uh
duke and i get along well we both have the same kind of style when it comes to like
regenerative soil you know what i mean like you get the best herb with living soil
hands down i were wanting to ask you actually
what advice would you give to an aspiring breeder someone who's just looking to get into it all
you know uh tommy is saying uh breed with intention
you know like what what's your goal what's your goal why are you breeding like what do you want
like what's your purpose you know like uh like why why did you choose those like what about
you know what about that plant gets you going like why do you like it like what's so special
about it you know uh what's different like it's weird how there's there's so many breeders out
there now and they each like you know most of them there's a few of them just do that hype on
hype on hype you know and then you know a few of my jj duke here they all you know they try to work
it out like don't just buy well actually i did i bought a temple i got was given a 10 bag of seeds
and i bred with it but i i did because out of literally ten thousand dollars worth of seeds
that i started two plants like there's a lot of garbage in there and those are like
some of those were like 200 packs from people who were like you know breeders and stuff but
they were like the most garbage shit i've ever seen like uh start with fucking bangers you know
like i chose that taxi because it hit me like man i love this weed this is great this is this is
my what weed should be it hits all the notches you know what i mean it's it's funky it's got this
crazy like mouth feel that like leaves that greasy i just like some i farted in my mouth or something
uh and you know i i enjoy a weed that i could smoke all day because like that you know i smoke
weed all day and so and it fits into my so my growing style is i got these big ass beds
like full of soil which is i'm still getting the hang of man you know like there's some
it's an interesting you know when you're working with all one big bed it's an interesting bit i
got some blue mats and water it in and uh i use ambessa soil that's definitely not something you
get down there i think my buddy rich makes it it's all like small craft planted and it's all super
i think the plants eat better than i do like for instance i mean
alfalfa kelp protein soft rock phosphate we got some yucca yarrow spirulina corella comfrey wild
yammer nettles horsetail moringa jill moringa is like one of the healthiest plants on the planet
like as far as like antioxidant properties and anti yeah look into moringa man it is like oh
it is i don't even know how like it is one of the most medicinal plants on the planet
so um a start with something you like um something you know why you have a purpose like why are you
you know just don't take two stupid things start you know and pick whatever out of there there has
to be you know like if you're breeding for excellent genetics you have to uh start with
the parents you know like uh you know and a lot what the next one isn't applicable to a lot of
people unless you know like uh when ben dronker started that skunk number one he started 10 000
seeds and whittled it down from there you know um a high amount what do you call that uh
a a large uh population like a good seed pop you know what i mean a phenom you start you know 20
20 30 seeds you're gonna see winners come out of those for the most part unless you're running
like jj's here i think they come on to everyone i'm gonna give that dude props again i think he's
a terrific breeder and i you know uh uh you know i i'm honored that he lets me work he's he doesn't
like a lot of people working with his stuff but he let me do it i said i sent him back uh all the
seeds that i made with it you know i mean i sent him back packs and like big ones and uh for him to
work you know i mean that's another thing like if you're gonna make seeds don't be a dick don't s1
somebody's gear don't like reproduce people's gear that they're working with you know like
like be your own like you know make your own path like find weird shit find the one that works like
you know what i mean don't just i don't know don't just do it because it's cool like actually
try and get like reasons like why you put those two together like what about you know what do
you like about that what do you think that you're male which you should run at least to see you know
what's going on and make sure you check everything because like uh if you if you cross two plants
that have a propensity to be hermaphroditic or intersexual you're gonna breed that gene in there
and it's just gonna like magnify the chances of that uh showing itself you don't want that so
like okay so what you know be original i guess that would be awesome like we need more uh
need more weird shit like i don't fucking care about how your cake tastes like you know it's like
what like try and make something new try something new there you go like give give props to the
people that you that you consider great and that you work with and that you know like if you like
if you get seeds if you buy a pack of dirty tat you know one of those and you decide you're gonna
cross it with something uh give the shout out make sure that the you know you're not
i don't don't be naming your fucking weed first i hate those cats like literally like grow the
seeds figure it out like i see people like i need good names and it's like well like just do some
work first you know that's a great sentiment what's the single most memorable cannabis experience you've had
um winning that cup in like uh 2011 the second place that was pretty cool um
seeing there you know actually
uh my life is the single most awesome cannabis experience i've ever had you know like uh it's
funny now i'm getting older i meet people who you know they they've jumped from job to job and when
you tell them what to do they're like oh yeah how long you been doing that like i don't know 27
almost 30 years now people are like wow man that's a really long time to be in a job like
cannabis is i i live for this plant i work for this plant when the plant isn't working
right i don't feel right so like yeah this my existence is the most uh the most memorable
the most memorable cannabis event ever of my in my personal you know like every and it's cool like
every time i think we got it like you know that winning that cup was cool moving out here was
cool like meeting adam was cool now like like breeding all that hemp was fucking amazing man
like the fact that you know like that the cbd thing popped off even though it did the way it did
like you know knowing that like something i did brought like helped bring the whole thing to the
table you know what i mean i brought that plant and the next thing you know it's on tv the next
thing you know i'm getting legalized like i feel like i had a hand in that and that makes that's
fulfilling to me um knowing that you know i dedicated my life to this plant and actually
did something so that's the most significant one how's that the fact that i know that i did
something like profound in the what i love
hell yeah what a brilliant answer so next question what is a strain where all of your
friends were hyping it up telling you like man you gotta try it's the next best thing and then
you finally tried it and you were like oh is that it that's a good question
um i hate um and no offense to jeff from iree i think he's a great dude i hate golden goat
people i know like love that shit it's like ah that's gross like uh just not it's you know
like i said that my brain isn't on the golden goat um and recently my buddy's been trying to
convince me of runts that's how i knew the guy that made runs is like a billionaire now because
he's like he's just trying to convince me to like you should try growing this once man and i'm like
you know man i think we got more like i don't think uh i don't think duke would be like yeah
bring on the runs we'll work you know what i mean and we're gonna cross some ruts for some stuff
although you know what uh to be honest uh i have a couple things that i like here like the
cushmans and stuff and that's kind of bubba-esque and um i might do like a side project when we get
some of his stuff and like i think that that's a good string that that rabbit hippie cut is it's uh
and this is why it's an amazing like it's on its own thing you know what i mean it's got that baba
but it's a little like sweeter and i don't know uh and it stands out in a crowd and that's important
but uh
yeah golden goat i don't get it you know yeah no that's a good one i haven't tried it myself but
there you go i like the addition so for the next one imagine we're on a boat and i'm going to drop
you off on a desert island and you can take three strains with you to grow for the rest of your life
what three are you gonna take well i'll probably need something for pain
so i'm gonna take a heavy indica an afghani i don't know which one though
like uh damn that's a really good question uh
i would take an og kush actually you know what and i know this sounds weird um
before i smoked og kush i thought people from california were just a bunch of pompous douchebags
not that that's changed a lot but um they would always be like i only smoke og kush bro and it's
like yeah whatever dude there's hundreds of strains you're just just fuck off you know
then i smoked some good og and i was like you know all right i can see what and i think it's
i think it's a great strain now that i've uh kind of experienced you know um a few different ones
like we were talking about the san fernando valley one of my favorites uh also there's this one out
here called uh the the cold creek not the cold creek what the cold creek yeah uh and that one
is like spectacular and juicy uh so yes one would be og kush uh
the second might be that afghani number one for back in the day you know but nostalgia has a lot
to do with your memories you know like as far as i can remember it was nasty skunky earthy
like stony like grew beautiful um and then something with cbd i suppose you know you're
gonna want i mean if i'm stuck there for the rest of my life i'm gonna need medicine
right so something full spectrum like uh because at that point you don't need a one-to-one you got
your weed there um so i don't know uh this canna so hard that was fucking beautiful man my buddy
ian and i put it together and it's canna sush canna uh tonic sour tsunami uh and harlequin with
and it's all like basically he just we put them all in there it turns purple has that fruit bouquet
great like have you ever smoked any cbd dominant bud or anything yeah yeah it's enjoyable yeah it's
uh they say it's not psychoactive but uh you know i'll be damn man that uh sure put some kind of
feeling on you so something like that like the acbc or uh the canna so hard or just something
that smokes good and grows well and does cbd just because i mean you know we're not yeah we're just
growing it to stay healthy right so yeah there you go brilliant answers so as a follow-up we're
gonna drop someone else off on the island this time someone you're not a big fan of you get to
choose what three strains you're going to leave them with what would you give them so dr grinspoon
um yeah um uphill battle like some hemp cbd hemp you know you want them to stay healthy
enough that they live a long time but you don't want them to get as high as they potentially could
right yeah yeah and uh uh
some pure haze throw them up you know love it love it some they're gonna have to work for it
but like so i get to leave or do i don't have to stay with them no no no it's just them oh okay cool
so as the final question i'm gonna give you a time machine you can go any place geographically
any point in history to collect some seeds or a clone where you're gonna go what are you gonna get
the future and i have no idea gotta bring i got yeah the integrity weed that saves the future
from you know what i mean yeah like why would you yeah i go i go forward in time and grab
you know once they figure out and get it all you know the i mean i don't know you know like
everything now is available like it's cool i mean if you look hard enough you can basically get
you know anything like you want old mexicans you get old mexicans you want all your classic you
know tie all that stuff is still available so i don't i don't know what why yeah man something
that's not old you know does that make sense yeah definitely look no one's ever said they're gonna
go forward either so i love that for the uniqueness but that's in line it's in line
with this whole episode given you bring a unique perspective which we've enjoyed very much so with
that being said i think that just about brings us to the end of things were there any shout outs or
comments you wanted to make yeah like the the people that uh big big ups to grandpa big upset
uh adam dunn my homies good dad big ups to duke wonderful human being uh big ups to my
my cousin ron he's always been and my mom like most of all you know like uh
she accepted that i chose a different lifestyle and it was because of her like she raised me
and uh there were you know like i don't think she knew what she was doing but i would ask her to
tell me stories about the 70s and timothy leary and woodstock and all that shit and my mom wasn't
like a hippie or like a you know but she she was she grew up in that time and you know the more
she told me all about lsd and like you know i've heard you know people are jumping out of buildings
but that got me curious and that's what led me to uh you know my my my alternative lifestyle that i
chose uh at a you know was uh i think due to all those pharmaceuticals that they gave me as a kid but
uh she supported me you know through like okay here quick so i go to her house for christmas
i'm there on christmas eve i had a drug lab right that's what i got bused for and uh i was like on
a lot of drugs and i i was like i was breaking down because you know here's your mom's house
all fucking fired up and uh on christmas you know looking back like i'm fucking up
and she comes out but she's like what's going on and i'm like i just you know life and stuff
and she's like you didn't kill anybody or anything right and i was like no actually
my dude and i have the nicest drug lab you've ever seen and now i have a drug problem and she
looks she sits there for a minute and she looks at me and she's like well if you owned a candy
factory and you ate all the candy you wouldn't be in business very long would you yeah man and i
mean that was you know so yes big shout out to my mom i hope she's uh i hope she's telling god jokes
even though i'm an atheist she wasn't so i hope she got what she wanted she's like making that
dude laugh that's it that's what i got huge love to all the moms out there especially to yours and
thank you again the man behind the seed company a range of killer cbd lines a range of killer thc
lines check them all now the seed company too thank you so much again for joining us
yeah man if you can call your parents and tell them you love them go spend more time with them
like really you know what i mean that's probably i mean that's what a lot of them want you know
what i mean like they only last so long so there you have it my friends a huge shout out to two for
coming by sharing all his knowledge with us it was a fun episode i hope you guys enjoyed it as much
as we did and as always huge shout out to our sponsors who helped make the episodes happen
seeds here now stocking all the hottest breeders amazing customer service check them out guys i
promise you'll be happy we've got heavy days genetics okay worth checking out right likewise
a huge shout out to cope with biological systems your number one choice for predators and predation
technology hit them up keep your garden happy and healthy guys i promise you it's worth it to
release bugs periodically cope it thank you so much for your support we appreciate it so much
likewise huge shout out to pulse sensors you know you love them keeping track of all the variables
in your garden especially the ones you can't see or track yourself make sure that your next crop
is the best to date more yield more potency more resin everything you could want comes from having
a better dialed in environment check them out guys get serious get a pulse sensor and that just about
does it for this one my friends i'll check you on the next one this is heavy d signing out from the
upside down library we'll see you
