Hello and welcome to the next episode of The Podcast, a cannabis podcast for budding enthusiasts.
As usual, a huge shout out to our sponsors.
Seeds here now, you know them and love them.
All the hottest breeders and the latest drops at the best prices.
They bring a guarantee on satisfaction, not just germination.
Why would you shop anywhere else, guys?
If you get it from them and you're not happy at the end of it all, hit them up.
They'll sort you out.
Seeds here now.
Thank you so much.
Likewise, a huge shout out to our friends at Copert Biological Systems.
You know them and love them.
They've got the industry leading predator and predation technology.
You can see the bugs working in front of you as they go red.
Especially if you grab the Spitex Vital.
Those bad boys get rid of any spider mites you got.
And trust me, there's nothing better than getting on top of a problem before it begins.
Check it out.
Spitex Vital, incredible product.
Thank you so much, Copert.
Huge shout out to our friends at Simply Souvenirs who have got our friends in the UK stocked
and sorted.
If you're after hand selected boutique breeders as well as some big names to satisfy all your
needs, check out Simply Souvenirs.
They got a range of smoking accessories, dabbing tools, a whole bunch of extra things to keep
you covered all with the best customer service in the game.
Check them out.
Big shout out to our friends at Simply Souvenirs.
And a big thank you to our friends at Pulse Grow Sensors.
You surely are aware of Pulse.
You've probably already got them.
But if you don't, you need to get one, guys.
Because the reality is a lot of variables in the garden you can't see or feel.
VPD, like you don't know what that is most of the time.
Get a Pulse sensor in your garden.
It'll increase your quality, increase your yield.
It'll help you get your grow room pumping on all cylinders.
Check it out, guys.
Thank you to Pulse for supporting the show.
And last but not least, check out the Patreon, guys.
If you want unheard episodes, additional content, we're giving away genetics all the time for
free.
Check it out, guys.
www.patreon.com.slashthepodcast.
Huge shout out to the Patreon crew.
On this episode, we've got a much anticipated and awaited interview with the man himself,
Gypsy Nirvana.
You know him, Seed Boutique, IC Mag, so many other things.
Here to talk about a very illustrious history, some cool stories, so much more.
Let's get into it.
Alrighty, friends.
We are back for another big one.
And on this episode, we have one of the most prolific seed distributors in cannabis history,
the man behind IC Mag and Seed Boutique, and the guy who gave countless breeders their
start.
A big warm welcome to Gypsy Nirvana.
Thanks so much for joining us today.
Hello.
How do you do?
I do well, my friend.
How are you doing this morning?
I'm doing fine.
I'm sitting on this lovely balcony as it's dawning in the UK, looking out over the blue
sky, but we'll see it.
Things are green and happy to be here, I guess.
Kind of flattered that somebody would want to ask me some questions about my illustrious
and many-faceted life.
You nailed it on the head.
Many-faceted is to not even do it justice.
But a question we love to start off most interviews with is, what have you been smoking on lately?
Moroccan hash.
It's kind of what I started with when I first started smoking cannabis way back in the Stone
Age.
1975.
Something like that.
I think I was 15 and my brother had some Moroccan hash.
We rolled it up in a spliff with a bit of tobacco and we smoked it.
It seems that you kind of revert back.
Maybe I'm going through a second childhood.
After all these heavy indicas and soaring high sativas, to come to some sort of regular
daily constant and keep a level head as much as you can, I come down to what I started
with, which is Moroccan hash.
Actually, I've got a little bit I can show you.
I'll get a little bit of hash.
Beautiful.
How does that one compare to the stuff you have in your childhood?
Do you think it's similar or quite different?
It's not too strong and it's not too mild.
We used to have much milder stuff called slate Moroccan back then.
That was the cheapest stuff and that was harder.
This is kind of soft.
You can just break it off and crumble it up like that.
Very simple.
I've been a consummate cannabis stoner user, whatever you want to call me, most all of
my life.
I find that finding something that is consistent on a daily basis, doesn't knock me up too
high or put me down too low.
It keeps me on a kind of level that I can cope with is the best for me.
It's when I mix them up that I have the problem.
Particularly a couple of weeks ago, I was over in Amsterdam interviewing a few quite
well-respected breeders and people in the seed industry over there, Soma being one of
them.
He knocked me out with some of his Soma salad bubble hash.
You can really overdo it on cannabis.
The amount of THC you consume, everybody's got their tolerance levels.
For me, I try to keep them not too high and not too low.
As soon as you try something extra strong, you're gone.
Literally, I was out cold for about a minute, came round again.
In that day, I tried all these other varieties too, Gweed and Nash, so it knocks you out
eventually.
It doesn't matter how strong you think you are or how much you can combat the THC.
Everybody has limitations.
That's brilliant.
I guess as a follower, in general, would you say you're more of a flower guy or you're
more into your concentrates?
It depends.
I'll take what I can get.
If there's nothing going, a lot of the times, users don't get to choose.
They just take whatever the guy has that has some, whether it's a dealer or a friend or
a grower or whoever that passes you some weed or you grow it yourself.
That's what you cope with at the time.
It's not as if we have the choice of selection of some areas, say the United States do, with
all their dispensaries and what have you.
Generally, I find hash is more compact, so it's much easier to deal with.
Weed is generally smellier and more bulky.
It depends if you're traveling or not.
Generally, for traveling, hash is the best.
It's nice to have a bit of both if you're at home, to have as much choice as possible.
Certainly, I can appreciate that.
I would be interested to hear, though, what's your thoughts on the current UK scene?
These days, it feels like, by all accounts, it seems to be really flourishing and the
law enforcement is taking a bit more of a relaxed approach to it.
How do you feel about the UK scene at the moment?
I don't know.
I'm not really with the in-crowd, or if there is an in-crowd.
I live quite a quiet life these days after the mad shenanigans of the past decade.
I've kind of settled down with my wife and two kids.
I don't get too involved.
I go to bed at nine o'clock at night.
I'm up early in the morning, like now.
I'm not so sure which way they're going.
I'm not really involved with any organizations.
I've never been a member of any organization, as far as I can remember.
No unions, no political parties.
Maybe a book club once.
Take me back then.
What was your childhood like?
What was the progression like for you to get into cannabis more seriously?
Trying to encapsulate it in as short a space of time as possible.
I was born down the river from here, where I am in Kingston now, in Chertsey, in a field,
in a caravan, in a rainstorm.
I grew up on the fringe of society.
I went to a state sync school after being thrown out of a boarding school.
They said I was maladjusted.
When I was in my early teens, they took me for psychological evaluation.
Then they gave me these pills.
I think it was haloperidol or something like that.
It made me go a bit kind of veggie and a bit bonkers.
I didn't like it.
Sure, it calmed me down, but it turned me into a vegetable.
I didn't like that.
It didn't take them for very long.
About that same time, my brother was experimenting with Moroccan hash.
That seemed to work.
It calmed me down.
When you go through your teens, you get a big release.
I think it was testosterone or whatever.
I'm more prone to explosive episodes or whatever it is.
They took that as being some sort of way to say that I was not correct psychologically.
They gave me the pills, and it didn't work.
I found cannabis, and it did work.
It's helped me mentally during that period.
Later on, when I've had injuries and other things,
I wouldn't say it was a great painkiller, but it takes your mind off it.
It makes you a bit sillier.
It cheers you up.
You can laugh at yourself easier.
It's good to be able to do that.
Most certainly.
As far as it being a benefit to me,
I'd say it has been.
It's not killed me.
It's got me into a lot of trouble.
I'd be interested to delve into all of that.
I remember when I read this Guardian article about you,
it said at one point you were a roadie for The Clash.
Was that when you were younger and before you got heavily involved in the scene?
I grew up in my teen years.
We're in the 70s, and I'm a Londoner.
I was very close to the whole punk scene when that came about.
I used to hang around the back of the 100 Club
and other venues like the Nashville in London,
various other pubs where bands were playing.
This whole punk thing seemed like a new wave.
There were guys around my age or a little bit older
who were dressing in odd clothing,
were rebelling against society.
During the 70s, we had a big depression.
Particularly amongst the working classes.
There wasn't much else to do but go to gigs
and jump up and down and act the fool.
We had a lot of fun.
Some of these bands, I started helping them with their equipment
and doing a bit of roadie work, just really donkey work.
Pumping big Marshall stacks around and various other items
for the public address system they wanted to set up
in whatever hall or university or pub all over the UK.
It worked as a roadie for a couple of bands.
The Adverts I worked for for a while.
I worked for a couple of gigs with the Pistols.
Then when I went to the States in 1977,
I moved to the USA.
The Clash came over in 1980 and found me in San Francisco
at one of their gigs.
Then they asked me to work for them on the US tour
because I was just about to join the US Marine Corps.
They talked me out of it.
I did a few gigs with them across the States.
I ended up going down to New Orleans because Lee Dorsey
was recording the Clash on that tour.
They invited me down there because he had an auto paint
and fender shop.
He gave me a job spraying cars, which I wasn't very good at.
I kind of mucked along and got a job in Old Man Rivers
in some honky tonk down there as a security at the door.
I did that for a while.
It was a New Orleans invention.
I came back to New York and worked for a band called,
Levi and the Rockettes.
They played CBGBs, Max's Kansas City,
Lone Star Cafe.
This is going back a few ways.
Anyway, I was kind of mixed up in the music industry
from the perspective of somebody who worked security,
worked backstage security for the Clash,
and front stage to stop people climbing on the stage.
The band was on the stage.
There's some really crazy events, not least one
at the Santa Monica Civic where I saw this guy
getting paled on one of the 4x2s on the buttress,
the wooden buttress at the front of the stage.
It kind of turned me off the whole thing.
I didn't like crowds anymore.
I got away from that.
I ended up coming back to the UK eventually
and stayed here for a while.
I worked in a British wine factory of all places
for nine months and then decided
to take off to Asia once again.
I bought a car and drove through Europe.
I ended up in Crete.
I got a job as a miner for an American property developer
and ended up, him and his missus
took me over to Bangkok.
Yeah, one thing led to another.
The guy was crazy.
I ended up in Hong Kong for a while
back in the early 1980s
and traveled all over Asia doing various smuggling runs
and worked for a while in the entertainment industry
in Hong Kong, usually in the martial arts
kind of action movie area.
I was in blood sport, did Bionic Ninja
and all these kind of B or C class movies.
Some of them are just hilarious.
Go onto YouTube and Google Bionic Ninja
and you'll see me back in 1980
at five or six, jumping around in Kowloon Park
or in some container port
out near the new territories in Hong Kong.
That was crazy, crazy days
back in Asia.
But all the time I was traveling, I was always looking for
the best hash or the best weed.
And sometimes it came with seed.
So I always thought it was a good way to
get cannabis around the world
was to be able to be a purveyor of seed.
Somebody that could find something that was different
or somebody was trying to make something new
they might use it in the mix.
That's so fascinating to hear that the whole while
you were always looking for the best hash and the best seeds.
Were you collecting seeds that you would later sell or was it more like
you were collecting the experience that would allow you to later
sell the seeds?
I think what really opened the door
was the internet with Weedbase
which came up with the cyber
where growers could communicate breeders from around the world.
It was just pre-overgrowth.
Guys from that site set up overgrowth
around 2000 I think it was, 22 years ago.
And then it enabled people
with a like mindset to communicate
internationally.
I'm going to go back inside because I'm
bloody shivering out here.
I don't know, it's dropped to about 12 centigrade.
Oh wow, that is chilly isn't it?
I guess then I would be interested in asking
what was it that stimulated you to think
you know what, I'm going to start selling seeds myself?
Well, it wasn't until I think
1985
when I got into some trouble
over a bit of hash.
I had a fiancé who was in Holland
and I would regularly visit her.
And of course I'd go to a coffee shop
and I'd pick up a piece of hash
and I'd bring it back to the UK
with me, you know, after the visit.
And I think it was about the eighth trip
this spring a spaniel
stood in front of me and then sat down
and gave me this really stoned look
from this customs agent at Harwich
you know, because I was on the boat
from the Hook Van Holland to Harwich
and I had a customs check
and they found some hash in my jacket pocket
as always.
I would carry a bit
but not enough to assume that I was
intending to supply anybody.
It was just kind of personal.
So that ended me up in jail
because I refused to pay a fine
or do any community service.
Anyway, it was a terrible jail experience
and I thought I've got to do something
about these stupid laws.
So what do you do?
Get a Kalashnikov and a bomb
and run around acting like a terrorist?
Nah, I don't think that's going to work.
You know, you become a target
very easily.
So I just thought that cannabis
is a beautiful plant.
Most people have only heard bad news about it.
It's been portrayed as being some sort of evil.
Let's get it growing in thousands of gardens
worldwide.
Hundreds of thousands.
Maybe even millions of gardens.
So how do you do that?
If you get it growing and then people see
the benefit of the plant,
they use it, maybe they eat the seeds,
or maybe they use the flax.
Maybe they make a medicine out of it.
Maybe they get high on it.
It benefits society in some way or another.
But society isn't going to know that
unless they see the plant growing
or they have the access and the ability
to be able to grow that plant.
So what do you do?
You have to give people that.
So you have to have the seeds,
the ability to distribute them,
and also it helps to have the education
and the know-how how to cultivate plant
as well as you can.
So what do you need?
You need a website to explain that
so people can interact.
So we did that with ICMag.
And the seeds, you need a seed site.
And a lot of our policy, well,
my policy from the start was the main idea
was to get people growing.
It wasn't to make lots of money from people.
So the impetus was from the start
to give people a good deal on the seeds,
make sure that they're not crazily priced,
if possible, unless the breeders,
first of all, pricing them so high,
then obviously you've got to make a cut
on top of that.
And then giving away kilos of free seeds
along with the orders on condition
that people would share them with others.
And this is what happened.
So for every order that went out,
it wasn't just for that person to grow.
It was intended for somebody else as well.
So instead of one grower, you get maybe two.
People kept to their pledge of spreading the seeds.
So it seemed to work.
And over many years now,
I think the cannabis industry has grown exponentially.
It's huge now in comparison to what it was back
in the 70s and 80s when I started out getting involved
with it in one way or another.
That's brilliant.
And did you ever have like a conscious thought,
so to speak, that like, hey, this journey I'm on,
I may not be the grower to change the world,
but I could play another role and help change things?
Or did it never occur to you that the ripples would spread
that wide and you just sort of thought you were doing
your own little thing and it wouldn't cause the effects it did?
Well, yeah, I always enjoyed growing.
I mean, it's a wonderful thing.
I love having plants around me.
But to do it well and to be a breeder,
you've got to really, you're kind of tied to one place.
Generally, well, would be, you'd have to,
unless you're one of these jet set breeders who can do everything
over the Internet, can even feed your plants every day.
But no, I haven't seen so many successful situations
with people that try to automate their whole systems.
Generally, you have to be in one place all the time.
And even if you go on holiday, you're worried sick
that when you come back, all your plants are going to be dead.
So I know, you know, the mentality of a grower and a breeder.
So I, you know, I do grow a bit, but not really to the extent
that you would need to grow to be a breeder.
I mean, people like Sam Skunkman think you need to grow out
10,000 plants for selections to be any sort of respected,
considered respected breeder in the first place.
And who has the facility to do that?
I think more people do today than they did 10 or 20 years ago
because of the decriminalization and legalization
in some parts of the world now.
But, you know, still most of the world is growing
in an illegal light to a certain extent.
And you have to take this into account.
You can't just think that, oh, it's legal in the United States.
So, you know, you can be really lackadaisical
with your own security.
It's not a good idea sometimes.
Maybe I am because I've only got three plants.
That's kind of tempting fate.
But somehow you've got to do something against it.
But, yeah, people are growing more today than ever they did.
And hopefully I, you know, I was instrumental in aiding
that somewhat in the past.
It wasn't just me.
There's been a lot of other people who've been distributing seeds
and have a similar mindset.
And it's a way of getting back at the authorities
because now we have seen legislation hit home, you know,
in favor of cannabis legalization and decriminalization worldwide.
And hopefully that will continue throughout all the Western nations
and then the rest of the world accordingly.
It's a very slow progression, I must say, over my whole lifetime.
And I've seen it go from bad to worse to better.
And it's getting better.
And the UK now, I really don't think the police are concerned
as long as you're not causing a problem with it, you know,
or you're making a huge business out of it.
We've got 250 stoners knocking on your door within a 24-hour period.
I mean, on that topic, in a sense, do you feel like you really paved the way
for people like, say, the Attitude Seed Bank,
who are now arguably the biggest seed bank in the world?
Yeah, well, I think in some respects I've kind of been the head of the industry
and been the one that's had his head banged against the door a few times.
I kind of feel knocked out, or I did.
It was quite a shock.
In 2013, I was in a – I had a house in Subic in the Philippines,
and then I got told by my sister's brother,
who was kind of our caretaker of the house,
that there were several guys with long guns surrounding the house.
Long guns, I mean rifles, you know.
So I'm like, oh, what's going on?
So we waited for the knock on the door.
There was a knock on the door, and they wanted to take me to Manila.
It was the Bureau of Immigration, and I hadn't a clue what this was all about.
I'd been living in the Philippines since about 2006, 2007,
and had a family there, had children there, had my life there, everything.
And suddenly they wanted to put me in this detention jail.
So they drove me for a couple of hours into Manila
and dumped me in this really awful dump,
dumped me in a dump that smelled like a dump.
Yeah, there I lived for two and a half years.
After ten days of being there, they tried to kidnap me
and do what's called an extrajudicial rendition
by trying to force me onto a plane to Los Angeles
from Manila, Nino Aquino International Airport.
I think it was Terminal 1.
And of course, lucky enough, I was informed what they were attempting to do
by one of the other prisoners there.
He said that, yeah, they'll try and do this to you.
You need to resist and don't need to get violent,
but you need to try and stop them from shipping you over to the States
because it's totally illegal and can only be done with your consent
because being British, I'm not an American subject,
so I shouldn't be subjected to American law.
The long arm of the law overseas.
They're homeland security that seem to operate outside their homeland.
So how did you manage to foil this plan? What happened?
It was a comedy of... It was just a comedy.
You say the comedy of errors. I don't really know.
But they took me there, and then before I went there,
I mean, back then my back problem was a lot worse.
I've got this from doing some weight training back in the 90s and overdoing it.
I pulled some muscles and graded some bone in L1 and L2 vertebrae or something in my back.
So I had this enormous back problem when they put me into this jail,
and so I was taking quite strong medication for it.
And so when they were trying to cart me off to the airport,
I took a double dose, and then I went to the airport,
and so I felt no pain at all, and I had the attitude that I didn't care,
and I was very stoned, and I just said to them, you know, this is illegal.
You can treat me as a punch bag or whatever you like,
but I'm not going to put those handcuffs on.
I put my hands above my head, and then they stood on a chair to try and reach
because they're quite short, the guys.
And then I moved along, and they couldn't reach,
and we had this argument about them trying to put the cuffs on.
But eventually I said, look, I just want my lawyer,
and it's obvious to me that this is not being done right judicially.
And I managed to talk them out of it without too much wrangling or any wrestling or anything.
So it kind of worked out, but then they took me back to this detention jail,
Camp Bagong Diwa in Bikutan, which is kind of like a huge police camp,
2,000-plus police surrounding you, all living in barracks.
So it's not easy to get out of that place unless you've got some sort of SWAT team
and a couple of helicopters.
So I think I read in the Guardian article that you ended up spending about two and a half years there or so.
I was interested in asking, what was that experience like?
How would you compare it to other jails you'd been in?
And as a follow-up, did it change your outlook at all?
Well, it's not as if I've done a world tour of jails.
I think I've only been in two in my life.
There was one in Norwich for a month in 1985 in England,
and then the two and a half years in the Philippines in Bikutan.
But yeah, that place was something else.
I mean, it wasn't a traditional Filipino jail because the majority of the people in there were actually foreigners.
It was a foreigner's jail.
So you had people from all over the world in there in all different types of conditions, physically and mentally.
You had a mixture of guys that were thrown in there for various types of alleged crimes,
from as small as their girlfriend making a complaint that he called her a bad name,
to some guys that are involved in kiddy fiddlers and non-citizen people like that,
and then murderers between that, con artists, rapists, you name it, came through that place.
It was a human criminal menagerie, to put it bluntly.
And I spent most of my time in my bunk reading every book in English that I could lay my hands on.
That was about it because I didn't really want to mix and associate too much with the other prisoners.
I kind of kept away as much as I could.
It was open in some respects because the guards weren't interfering all the time.
They pretty much left the prisoners up to controlling themselves.
So the guards just were checking the gates that you weren't allowed to go through,
or you were allowed to go through at different times.
They weren't too intrusive.
I only had one guard that tried to be a little bit aggressive towards me at one time.
So it could have been a lot worse.
And what was it like in terms of when you finished your sentence?
What happened then?
Did you go back and live with your family in the Philippines or did you go straight home to the UK?
Well, I never had a sentence, you see.
I never went to court and was found guilty of anything.
All that happened was the United States put out an indictment in their state of Maine
saying that they wanted me in connection with international trade in cannabis.
Well, it was only the seeds, actually, you see.
But in the United States, the seeds are the same as any part of the plant.
They can say you're an international illegal trafficker in narcotics, even if you are a seed salesman.
And this is all I was doing.
I was buying seeds from Americans and selling seeds to Americans.
And I was doing it from the UK, which is a perfectly legal place to do it from,
because in the UK there is no laws against buying and selling of cannabis seeds.
So what happened eventually, I mean, I didn't want to leave my family over there.
I tried to be able to stay in the Philippines because I thought if I went back to the UK,
I would automatically be transported to the United States or that there would be this extradition hearing or there would be a trial.
So it did happen eventually.
When I did return, the United States came after me after I was back for eight months in the UK.
And they took me to court.
And after a year or so, the court said, no, they can't have me because there's no dual criminality.
The law is different here in the UK on seeds as it is in the US.
So they can't extradite me for something legal in the UK to somewhere where what I've done is illegal, which is in the USA.
But since I don't live in the USA, since I'm not an American,
it stands in British law that they can only extradite you to another country if you've broken a similar law in your own country.
If it's within law that you are operating illegally in some way or another, which I wasn't.
In fact, I was just kind of living in the Philippines, semi-retired.
And my breeding project then was making more kids and just having a family life.
I've still got a few hectares down on the Sulu Sea there full of coconut trees and just trying to live a more basic life away from the mega city madness of the rest of the world.
But then the rest of the world has the long arms of the law that can reach around and grab hold of you and screw your life up for the next five or six years.
And that's what they did.
I had a lot of loss of family life.
I missed my kids for many years, although they could come visit me when I was in jail.
But then I left the Philippines.
I finally, they allowed me to come back to the UK.
And I think going back there and talking about other people within the cannabis industry, I was locked up for about two years in that jail.
And then the British embassy came to see me, the consular attache.
And he came along with this quite portly man who had flown in from Bangkok, who was part of the consular group over in Bangkok.
And the first thing he said to me is, you know, Howard Marks, don't you?
And I said, yeah.
So when he winked at me, you know, did you know Howard Marks?
And I thought, yes.
Well, that's what's that got to do with things.
And after that guy left over the next six months, the British embassy couldn't do more to help me.
They actually got this one guy on my case.
He was half Filipino, half English, this young, young fellow to push my case forward so that I could finally go back to the UK.
And to do that, I had to drop two cases in the Supreme Court I had against the Bureau of Immigration over there because I brought cases against them.
And they said that they won't.
They're not going to let me leave the Philippines unless I drop these cases in the Supreme Court.
So that took about six months to do before finally they dropped the cases.
And then they allowed me to do because I had a good case against them.
But I would have been there forever waiting for it to come up in the Supreme Court.
So what's the point?
I got out of there.
I'm still on a blacklist, so I can't go back there unless I clear it with the Philippine embassy here in London.
And with the, they want me back.
And if I go back, they think I'm some sort of cannabis kingpin.
Yeah.
This is what was said.
The Filipino DEA consider me to be some sort of kingpin.
Well, I mean, you got to admit, if you know Howard Marks, it's not hard for them to confuse that.
While we're on the topic, did you have any cool or interesting stories of spending time with Howard at all?
I think I met Howard the first time I was very young.
It was out in Asia, in Hong Kong back in the 80s.
But then he became quite visible on the whole weed scene with Mr. Nice, stuff that came out and the association with Ben Dronkers and of course Shanty Baba or Scott.
Yeah.
So I've known all those guys on and off for quite a few years.
We all kind of revolve in a similar circles on the internet within the industry or did.
And occasionally we get together and party.
On the rare occasion that we did, it was, I can't remember half of it because it was so intense.
That was the way it was.
It was sad because I think Howard went the year I finally made it back to the UK and I was not in good shape.
That's it.
I mean, the last couple of years, a year and a half, I've really been concentrating on my own health and get back in shape.
Because sitting in a prison in Bangkok for getting on for three years isn't doing your body much.
I even tried to work out and slipped in the cat shit and injured myself.
That kind of turned me off.
So yeah, occasionally I might have a chat with one or two.
And I've been thinking lately it might be more interesting to just go and interview them.
So that's what we've been doing.
Putting together some sort of travelogue, video, podcast, chat thing or whatever you want to call it.
Going to interview these different breeders in different parts of the world.
It seems like I might be doing more of that coming along.
I haven't done this type of work in 20 years.
I put out a couple of DVDs.
I think it was back in 2003, 2004.
One was the Kiff from the Rif, which was about the hash trade in Morocco.
And another one was with Bubble Man over in Jamaica making bubble hash.
That must be nearly 20 years ago.
So yeah, it's kind of an old profession that I'm trying to pick up again and see if I can be an interesting interviewer.
Basically doing what you're doing.
So that might be interesting for me.
I've always admired certain people who do that as a job.
And I thought that would be a really, really cool job to be able to do.
To be able to travel and experience various cultures, meet different people and just keep talking about stuff that interests people.
The viewer is entranced by what you're saying and isn't bored to tears.
Trying to make it interesting.
That's fantastic.
You fully answered one of the questions I was going to ask you, which I was going to say, can we expect any more of those videos?
But that's great to hear.
And you mentioned Bubble Man.
I'd love to quickly ask you, I feel like there's been a notable decline in the amount of people who are interested in bubble, especially in the advent of like BHO and all these other types of concentrates.
How do you think we can help educate people that really high quality bubble is still some of the best concentrate you can get?
I don't know.
I mean, you've got to kind of look at this not as a cannabis connoisseur.
You've got to pull back and kind of look at it as the general public and then make a comparison.
I mean, a lot of people do always to the alcohol industry.
And so if you could try to compare, say, bubble to the alcohol industry, what sort of booze would you have?
You'd have very fine, expensive single malt or something like that.
And out of all the people that drink alcohol, how many of them actually are really into super expensive, fine, single malts?
You know, it's a very small percentage.
So, yeah, it's interesting.
Bubble, you know, for me has always been something nice.
But on an everyday basis, I fear that I would just be knocked out.
So I stick to my kind of mild Moroccan hash and it keeps me going.
That's brilliant.
We've had other guests in the past talk about many years ago, you know, say the 90s when concentrates weren't as widely distributed as they are now.
People talk fondly about smoking with Sam the Skunk Man and he would have like, you know, some of the only full malt bubble.
Did you ever get access to that?
Do you ever have any recollections of events like that, some memorable hash smoking with people?
Sam's always been that way.
You know, when you see him or you first meet him or you see him on a regular basis, he always has, usually has this very fine dry sieve that he makes himself.
He's very particular.
He won't take anything from anybody else.
I've never seen him smoking anybody else's gear.
And he uses that.
He was the first guy that I came across, I don't know how many years ago it was, that told me about CBD.
He said, now smoke this and you're not going to get high off it, but you might feel a bit better.
I went.
It's an interesting concept, isn't it?
It was this like non-alcohol beer.
This stuff is like non-alcohol beer, Sam.
And he's like, no, no, no.
It's just CBDs in there.
It's not, he's got all these numbers and names for all these different terpenes and God knows what, you know, just blinds me with science sometimes.
The guy is so knowledgeable.
But yeah, he knows what he's talking about.
And sure enough, another 10 years later, it's all over the place.
People, it's a panacea.
It's a therapeutic thing.
It's in all sorts.
It's even in shampoo, you know.
That's brilliant to hear.
I mean, while we're on the topic of Sam, who was some of the first people, once you started IC Mag, you thought, let's get the seeds out there.
Who were the first breeders whose seeds you were distributing?
Was it like Sam's stuff or was it other people?
I think one of the first associations I had was with Mal from Nirvana Seeds.
And because we share a name, it was kind of interesting.
I like the guy.
He's kind of all over the place.
He's not, he's very different to say Henk from Dutch Passion or Ben Dronkers.
He's the guy from the streets.
Interesting guy, is Mal.
So, yeah, I made an association with Mal first and started vending.
The first breeders I took on was him with his seeds.
That must have been, I don't know, late 90s, I think, from Holland.
Yeah, the first time I started doing it and I put a website up.
I think it was called seedsdirect.to, based in Tonga.
Yeah, and then I had a one-page ad in High Times and it started snowing through the mailbox.
So many people were ordering.
It was hard to keep up with the orders just off the get-go.
As it turns out, I was one of the only people in the world.
I mean, there was a couple of other seed distributors online.
I think Mark Emery was doing it in Canada and Heaven's Stairway in Canada also, a place called Laughing Moon.
That was about it.
So I'd kind of tapped into a niche market of cannabis seeds that people were really trying to get a hold of.
All these new varieties that were coming out and older ones that they couldn't get locally and they could only get internationally.
So yeah, it started snowing orders and trying to keep the administration together and the workers to micromanage all that stuff.
It was quite an accomplishment for me to be able to get hold of.
It took a while.
I don't know.
Maybe it's going to take forever.
But I find it much easier without having employees these days.
Just minimalizing my life, making things smaller instead of bigger, taking less on instead of more on.
Being a moron.
That sounds like a good approach given how busy you've been in the past.
What was it like as the business grew?
Were you just picking up a lot of European Dutch breeders?
And if so, do you remember when America first came on the map in your mind?
Like, hey, I could get a lot of USA breeders too.
And who were the first?
Yeah, well, I looked at it from a global perspective because I know that this plant grows just about everywhere.
You know, or it can do.
It has the potential to if you give it the right environment, of course.
And people were creating wonderful indoor grow environments, tropical or otherwise.
I mean, I live about, I think about seven, eight miles away from Kew Gardens.
I could just go there and walk around the tropical house and imagine it was full of cannabis, you know.
So I know that you can create environments like that.
My grow history, I kind of a bit rubbed off from my grandfather, who is one of the top guys in the Royal Horticultural Society.
And he used to grow wonderful chrysanthemums and breed them and win all sorts of trophies and medals and plaques for it.
You see the silver on his mantelpiece.
It was all from chrysanthemums.
But yeah, I live in an area where there's a lot of gardens and there's a lot of stuff growing.
It's a very green area of London, right near Bushy Park and Richmond Park.
So always as a child, I was always interested in plants and how they grow.
And then it led to me being thrown in jail and me wanting to get back at it.
And so I thought I'd be a seed distributor.
And it was a fun job too, you know, running around the world looking for rare land race varieties or anything somebody was making in a different neck of the woods.
Basically, you try and have a look at how this person was making the seeds, whether or not they were a closet breeder or whether or not they were doing it properly.
So I had fun traveling all over the world to go and visit these people.
Often before I bought their seeds, I want to see how they actually made them.
God knows they might just buy them from someone else and sell them to you.
Might just be a middleman.
I got interested then in all the different varieties and seeing how people would grow them in different environments.
And being able to share this knowledge because these people, obviously, they're living in a very secure environment.
They don't have many associations with other people because they're doing something that needs to be kept secret.
So a lot of them, their only outlet has been through the Internet.
And being able to communicate with other like-minded people anonymously is important for that.
And they've been able to do that now for how many years?
We had ICMAG going, I think, 18, 19 years, something like that, going since 2003, 2004.
So they're able to do that through the site.
And it's a good way for people to mingle, to make friends.
There's a lot of friends that have been made through the Internet.
And a lot of those people never have met each other in real life and perhaps never will.
But they've still got a friend online.
Yeah, that's a brilliant point you make.
And I guess I would be interested to know, was there ever a point where you realised how big ICMAG was getting and the influence it was having?
Like when you're going around checking these different breeders, could you feel that this was getting a lot of momentum?
Or was it still just sort of relatively seeming like it was controlled?
I don't really know.
I don't really know.
Like I say, I'm not educated particularly that far academically.
I haven't been through a college or university.
So maybe that's my excuse to say that, yeah, I saw things moving forward.
But I just wanted to do what I always did, which was travel and meet new breeders and growers and either get new seeds made or buy seeds that were already made by these breeders and then bring them back.
And then the whole distribution outfit would take care of the distribution.
I wouldn't have to do all the emails.
I wouldn't have to do all the work setting up websites, anything like that.
I'd just go around the world and meet people, buy seeds, trade seeds, grow plants, whatever it takes.
That's all I was interested in.
So it was reliable upon a core of people back in the UK to keep the whole distribution up.
And of course, when I get into trouble, like I did in 2013, the people that were working for me and with me got the heebie-jeebies naturally because they'll think it's like dominoes.
I'm going to be next.
So obviously, work kind of slacks off or you're not there to monitor it.
You're stuck in some stinking jail in 40 degrees Celsius under a tin roof in the Philippines.
So you're not functioning the best that you can either with your brain.
While we're on that topic, do you think that when you read people online who maybe have some gripe with you, maybe with some seeds they bought or whatever, do you think that essentially was the circumstances in which that happened?
Like maybe it happened while you're in jail and it was out of your control sort of thing?
Or what's your thoughts on that?
Yeah, I mean, the whole mail order seed industry is full of pitfalls and difficulties of many levels from the buyer's perspective and also from the seller's perspective.
Because for years I went through working within that industry and with the way that the mail is, having PO boxes that certain postman figure out there's money going to those boxes so orders disappear.
You send orders out and they come back to you six months later after you've resend the order twice.
It's a crazy world, that whole mail order world.
And nothing is perfect and nothing works like clockwork.
We had all sorts of problems.
And then of course you've got staffing problems because you're in a cannabis industry.
Most of the people working with you are stoned anyway.
And occasionally people make big mistakes because of the stoning or they forget things.
I mean, I've done it myself before.
So it's not very accurate sometimes because of the nature of business, I guess you could put it that way.
Yeah, certainly.
I guess just to put it to rest, to anyone out there who ever has had any issues, you know, sort of accusing of like any sort of issues with seeds or like replacing seeds or anything.
Are you saying there's absolutely no truth to that?
You know, it's just the general inherent issues of the system.
No, I don't know.
There's all sorts of this industrial espionage as well, isn't there?
There's other seed companies that will try and build themselves up by putting you down.
You get fake customers sometimes who demand that they ordered and yet they didn't or that they didn't receive their order and yet they did.
You should have seen back in the heyday of it, some of the chargebacks we used to get were horrendous.
Looking at five grand a month or something, people that receive the seeds or whatever it is that you're sending them and then say that they didn't because you don't end up with a signature.
You're sending it through regular posts and there's no actual proof that the person received it when perhaps they did or perhaps they didn't.
You never know.
This is the whole thing with the international post.
It's so unpredictable.
It can work nine times out of ten or it can only work one time out of ten.
It depends where you live and what happens on the way.
Yeah, certainly.
If we loop back to what we were talking about before, you're going around to different breeders' houses, trading seeds, getting a feel for the land.
Is there anyone's grow or bud who really stood out in your mind as memorable where you were just really blown away?
Yeah, there's a lot of different breeders, a lot of different characters and it's difficult to put them in a list of who you think is better or worse.
But who stands out?
I guess Breeder Steve more than anything, a Canadian breeder.
He had a company called Spice of Life Seeds.
A very interesting guy, very smart.
And yeah, I used to drive to Switzerland.
He got himself set up with a factory in Switzerland for a while and I used to drive out there and see what he was growing.
He was really into making this variety called Sweet Tooth and several others.
A lot of them were Canada-based varieties or USA-based varieties that he'd come into contact with and made seeds from.
But yeah, that was one of the more interesting breeders I'd say would be Breeder Steve.
And of course, Sam Skunkman as well.
You could sit there and you could ramble on for hours, just interesting stuff if you can understand it because it's quite technical a lot of the time.
But yeah, if you want to look at people like him, somebody that's been eclipsed by this plant all of their life and had something to do with it in one form or another has made a living out of it.
So it's part of the industry.
Yeah, definitely.
I was also going to say we were lucky enough to have had Breeder Steve on the show.
He's definitely a very smart guy, interesting character.
And I remember I think he actually told a story about being on an autobahn with you in a fancy car or something going very fast.
Yeah, we had some funny experiences sometimes.
Yeah, I used to have this very fast car and used to drive it over to Switzerland and commute to Amsterdam in it.
And there was quite a few adventures associated with its travels.
Suitcases full of seeds and getting pulled over by the, who was it, by the Belgian police, wasn't it?
No.
Just before I went into France, Belgium.
And then finding a couple of Samsonite suitcases full of the seeds that I just bought in Amsterdam.
Because I used to go on a couple of times a month.
I'd go through all the breeders in Amsterdam and just buy a whole bunch of seeds and then drive them back to the UK rather than risk sending them through the post.
And of course I'd have to travel through Belgium and France to get to the Channel port, to get to Calais before I could take the Channel Tunnel over to the UK.
And yeah, they nabbed me once in Belgium and in the diff it ended up with them taking all the seeds that I had in the back of the car.
They detained me for I think about four hours and just let me go after searching the car quite well.
I think they were looking for class A drugs. They were surprised to find seeds.
And the funny thing was, as I drove away, before I'd stashed half a spliff in the sunglasses capsule just above your head if you're driving that car.
And I popped that down and they hadn't even looked in there.
So I had half a spliff and I was driving away from the Belgian police.
They'd just taken I don't know about 50 grand's worth of seeds off me.
And there's me smoking a spliff thinking I'm lucky to get away with that.
And I said to them when they took the seeds away, what do I do?
They said, I'll get an attorney.
And I'm thinking, jeez, an attorney's going to cost more than the seeds did.
That's brilliant.
You know, there's all these pitfalls.
I mean, if you're a businessman and you're trying to distribute cannabis seeds around the world, it's a lot more difficult than if you're into doing distributing shoes or plates.
There's a lot more pitfalls, particularly legally.
Just driving through a country with something that's legal in the country you bought it from and the country you're going to.
That's what happens.
Yeah, look, that's interesting.
Sounds stressful.
Did you find it stressful or was it all pretty laid back?
I'm quite used to the customs organizations around the world and the thought of being detained and all that.
So you kind of preempt these things.
You might do a trip 10 or 20 times and think, oh, yeah, that's fine.
But you know, in the back of your mind that there is a potential that you could come unstuck.
But you kind of you work that into the risk factor.
And you either take the chance or you don't.
And if it happens, at least you prepared yourself psychologically for the event.
So you're kind of like, oh, yeah, I thought about this before.
This was going to happen sooner or later.
So you can kind of eat that and not get too freaked out about it as if it's a big surprise.
Yeah, sure, sure, sure, sure.
I'm always interested to know.
I have this theory in life where it's like any job you can think of, some of the biggest challenges, it's not the things you would think about.
It's other stuff.
So I want to know when you were doing the seed boutique and ICMAG was sort of at its peak.
What were some of the challenges that the general public was probably not even aware of that you were dealing with?
And it's causing you frustration.
You're like, oh, if people knew it would make my life so much easier.
What made the job challenging?
I think it's drama.
You know, if you let too much drama into your life, if the people that you're in regular contact with daily have ulterior motives,
if they're pretending to be something they're not and you are actually fooled by it and you've taken people into your confidence, perhaps you shouldn't have.
And then it can all fall apart quite quickly if you don't feel that you have the security within your own business that you thought you did have before.
And this happened because it's not only the business, but the people that run it, they have their own personal relationships, of course, and their interactions with other people.
And the success of the business is to a greater degree, I think, based upon them being in harmony than anything else.
Because if you don't have the chemistry of the people that work for the business correct, then the business isn't going to do well.
It will pull itself apart.
And this started to happen because I broke up with my partner, Nikki, and we had a partnership in the business.
Both of us, equal partnership.
And then the manager that I had at the time, this Roger Thomas Clark, otherwise known as plural of mongoose, was kind of the manager of the mail order.
And they became an item.
They became a couple and they moved in to a house with each other.
And then they tried to take the business off me, to scare all the people that were involved, all the other employees with me, with threats, veiled threats and otherwise.
And it became nasty.
It's as if this business that I created with Nikki as help, of course, suddenly it wasn't the beautiful business that I thought it was.
It was somebody else becoming bold and it turned kind of nasty.
And we had certain events of violence, certain events of extreme emotional distress amongst the people involved.
And yeah, it was like it turned into a bit of a beast.
I didn't enjoy it so much.
Is this the context around that infamous video of I'll eat your mind?
Yeah, well, that was kind of made as a gag.
I think if you see in the beginning of it or at the end, I'm saying cut because I asked the guy to film it.
I told them that, yeah, I'm going to chastise Teflon in front of the camera because he was in cahoots with the mongoose and to film it because it might be interesting.
People might want to look at it.
So it was kind of I had my mind set in the long good Friday that there's some movie, some scene in a movie.
And I was very stoned at the time.
OK, let's give Teflon some grief, but not to the point of chucking him out the window.
I never had that intention.
It was just kind of a bit of drama that we played out.
That was all that was.
And then Mongoose got hold of it and then used it, thought he was using it as something really bad to throw at me and put online.
So it entertained a bunch more other people, I suppose.
Yeah, interesting.
We had a few listeners who asked about sort of just your general reflections on having worked with mongoose.
Sort of what you've said here, you sort of like, I don't know, would you say you regret it or it's just one of those things where you like learn to listen?
Sometimes you've got to look at yourself in the mirror and say that you've been naive, you know, that you've let people into your life that haven't been beneficial to it.
You know, haven't even been neutral, that have been bad.
Your association with those people has not ended up well, put it that way.
So, yeah, you can have regrets.
What's the point? It's in the past now.
As far as whatever Mongoose has done, I think now he's sitting in a nursing home or a jail in New York, still waiting on his sentencing.
And he plea bargained down to, I think, just being charged with one case.
And he's looking at 240 months, I think it is, in jail.
That will be minus whatever he's served.
Well, reading through the papers, because as a trial goes on or a case goes on in the USA, you can actually follow it.
And one of my ex-employees has been following the case of the mongoose at the moment.
And of course, he's accused of being instrumentally involved with the Silk Road website that would sell every type of drug imaginable.
There was a few kids that ordered with their mom's credit cards and died of heroin overdoses or something through that website.
So he was involved with something that I would never touch.
And now it's, you know, he's trying, I think he's trying to delay his sentence in as much as he can, because he's had a fall from his bunk in jail.
He's complaining constantly about not having a pen and other things.
And I've been reading through the case lately, what's going on with him.
And they're trying to get him sentenced.
I don't know that anybody in the prison system I have a kind of a little feeling for because it's no fun.
Maybe it's something to do with karma with him.
Because I see him do so many other people wrong.
Maybe it's coming back on him now.
We'll find out.
I think he's sentenced to supposed to be sometime around the end of September.
Coming up.
There you go.
We'll have to follow that one to see what happens.
I think at this point, you know, you've been talking about negative associations.
Everyone is waiting to hear us talk about Rez.
You know, he's a focal and polarizing figure in the cannabis community and especially in history.
What was your relationship with him like and reflecting back on it, how do you view it now?
And I guess, you know, whether you want to answer now or later, we'll go into the whole incident with Dutch groan and whatnot.
Yeah.
Rez.
Well, as you read through, you spend hours looking at a forum site and you read through it.
Some members stick out more than others for whatever reasons.
Maybe they use language that is outrageous or maybe they've got some sort of humor that you can jive with.
Rez always seemed kind of interesting to me.
And he had a kind of a following of people that either they loved him or they hated him.
He had this, he got a reaction out of people.
I think because he was always very abusive to everybody.
Maybe that was it.
Whatever it was, he has some sort of pizzazz, you know.
And he seemed to know a bit about breeding and he was making seeds eventually and he wanted an outlet for them.
So I suggested, hey, you know, I've got an outlet.
Why not?
So like any other breeders, I started vending seeds that came from him over the years.
And generally they were quite popular.
You know, he had his detractors and he would voiciferously attack them too on the boards of Overgrow or Icy Make.
Sometimes I think I had to ban him.
I even had to ban Rez at one point for a short period of time.
Yeah, he seemed like, before I even met him, he seemed quite an open and interesting character.
Or maybe it was just a persona he'd created for use on the internet.
I wasn't to know until I met him, of course.
And what was that like?
When I did meet him, he was a very slender, kind of haggard looking dude.
Like he'd worn life on his face a few times.
And yeah, he was interesting.
He was conversationally quite lucid and we talked a lot about different things.
And over the years, built up a relationship as a vendor and him the producer of various seeds.
And we would allow him to go and build up his release or whatever it was.
And then we'd do a pre-release on Seed Bay and get some seeds out there.
People would grow them and then if they turned out well, then others would want to buy more.
He had this ongoing business deal with him.
It was very difficult to pay him.
You could only pay him in cash.
You couldn't just send it like with the other breeders or whatever it was.
Most of them, you could just pay them bank to bank or whatever it was.
They didn't want to pay for trail.
Yeah, and I think one time he was on his way back and he got caught with some cash or some seeds got caught.
He was sending coming this way and the cops roped him in.
Little did I know about it at the time that he'd already had, I think, two strikes.
He lived down in Florida and he'd had some sort of cocaine charge.
He had some federal charge against him.
Anyway, it was back in the times, I think, when there's like three strikes and you're out.
It's this whole thing.
So if he got busted for something else, then they could throw him away for a very long time in jail.
And this is what I think led to him turning informant and grassing up a lot of people over there like Chemdog and Dutch Grown and a bunch of other people that the police pulled in and squeezed them as they do.
And so it goes.
And I was one of the ones that got turned over.
For better or for worse.
I mean, they probably I heard that they'd gone to after they took Rez down and then turned him into an informant.
He told him about Dutch Grown and they'd gone over there and they'd seen my name on seed packets.
What I wanted to know who's this Gypsy Navarne.
And of course, they'd handed me over as the UK distributor.
And at that time I was out in the Philippines.
I was living there as a resident.
And so that's where they I was not as if I was hiding.
I was being quite open.
I didn't think I had anything to worry about, really.
But obviously, I did.
And it ended up.
With me being detained.
Excuse me, I've got the burps.
No problem.
You strike me as someone who's sort of I get the vibe you sort of made your peace with it all.
Do you still hold him quite personally accountable for it all?
And as a follow up, like, do you have any thoughts on the fact he's like back and active on Instagram?
Yeah.
You know, I could be bitter.
And I could feed off some sort of hate and want to get some sort of revenge or whatever it is.
But I can't muster up the energy to bother.
It just seems like not a very productive endeavor to go after that.
I'm not really into tearing people down.
If he's come through it all and can manage to keep living out of life.
I think he's got more to worry about the people he crossed up in the States than me.
I'm a long way away.
You know, we all have to pay for our sins at some point, I guess.
And, you know, I always liked Rez.
I thought he was a bit of a crazy guy.
He was always popping pills, too.
He was always on these pharmaceuticals, whatever it was.
But he visited me a couple of times when I was in the Philippines.
And I got along fairly well with him.
So I didn't have, you know, I didn't hate the guy.
I don't really get into hate anyway.
And, OK, well, I'm going to say that this guy has to go to jail and do 20, 30 years for me.
I mean, who's going to do that?
Honestly, is he going to go to jail for me?
They came after me anyway.
And in the diff, they couldn't get me.
I've got a clear, clean slate now.
They dropped the charges in the court in Maine.
And I've got the proof, the original court documents saying that there's no charge against me.
It's been dropped.
But it really screwed my life up for a long time.
Cost me an arm and a leg.
Led to a more simple life, which I'm quite enjoying, to tell you the truth.
That's interesting to hear it's come full circle.
I like that.
I like that.
Out of curiosity, a lot of people say that Rez did a lot of his work out of a few tents, which people try to criticize.
But I always thought, isn't that more like impressive?
Because he is regarded as having some pretty, pretty bloody good work.
Have you heard anything about that?
Did you see anything like that when you were with him?
No, actually, I never saw anything Rez had ever grown because I never really visited New York much at all since the 1980s.
I was in New York in the 80s.
But no, I never went to see any of his growths.
But I did know some people who did.
And they said they weren't really a large concern, to say the least.
But it started with breeders again.
Some, very few of them, hardly any of them, do it what's considered the right way by growing out for selection tens of thousands of plants, at least a thousand.
They only can do it within the space that they have.
So if they've got a closet, they can still make seeds.
Like you can still make children in a council house and you can make them in a mansion.
Yeah, fair point.
Fair point.
Interestingly, you were one of the first people to pick up Bog.
What was your friendship with Bog like?
Bog was always entertaining, wasn't he?
In a kind of risque, bawdy, bordered on kinky way, the way he would describe how he would play with his female plants or whatever it was.
I just liked his broad sense of humor because I know that humor is a good way to teach people.
Once people are laughing, they're more likely to hang on every word you say.
So Bog had the kind of skill to write down stuff that would make you laugh and wince and cringe or whatever it was.
He was an interesting character just in the way he wrote.
So I got after him that way.
And then, of course, I said to him at one point, I used to send him free seeds because he would always grow them out and make some glowing reports sometimes.
And I said, why don't you make seeds from the seeds I send you?
So he decided to become a breeder.
And that's how he started Bog Seeds.
And the rest is history.
Well, he's not with us anymore.
I think he died last year or the year before.
Not too long ago.
I hope he's resting in peace.
He's got plenty of Bog bubble with him.
Certainly.
He came over to Amsterdam a couple of times as well.
He used to be a paramedic.
So he'd have quite a bit of life experience, I'd say.
Anybody who works in that profession would do.
And he did some things with me like we drove through the German autobahns at speeds in a fast Jaguar.
And I let him drive.
And then I drove.
We went over the mountains.
And it was kind of idyllic.
We had a good laugh together.
Good character.
Sounds brilliant.
And that's what it's about.
Personalities and characters.
No, that's what I enjoy most.
Getting around to meet these people.
And of course, the lovely plants that they're involved with generally as well.
That's an interest too.
But being able to travel and meet people.
Why not?
You can always stay at home and grow.
That's the options you have.
Generally, I choose to be on the road.
But if you're raising your own kids at home with your missus, you don't want to be absent too often.
At this stage in my life, I'm spending more time around the house, I suppose.
Yes, certainly.
And yeah, I didn't mention before, you know, rest in peace, Bog.
Another character who you have to give a rest in peace to, who you have a history with, Subcool, who passed about a year before Bog did.
What was your relationship with Subcool like?
I mean, there's obviously that notable story, him on the forums when you got arrested.
How do you reflect on the relationship you guys had?
Subcool was another guy that was out of the early Overcrow days.
I think he was in Weed Bay Seedlings.
I think he was in Weed Bay Seedlings before that.
It was that variety.
He was connected with Jack's Cleaner.
That was it.
He was all into the Jack's Cleaner thing.
And I got to know him a bit online.
And then I think at one point he got into quite a bit of trouble.
And I said to him, why don't you come over to Europe?
Maybe if it works out, if you're the right person for it, I can give you some work.
And I'll let you stay in a place there when you come over.
So he did.
Eventually he came over.
And at that time, it was around about, it was the first Cannabis Cup that I had a stall in.
And I was advertising the stash boxes and of course the seed company.
And I kind of got him to help out with that.
Trying to set it up.
And after he'd been over for a short while, he brought another friend of his over.
Blunt, Blunt, I think his name was.
I don't know his real name, but he called him Blunt.
And he also asked if he could stay at this place.
I was renting this house at 43 Zadig.
It used to be owned by Morrister Hund, who is a famous hash snuggler.
And it was a crazy place with all the different bedrooms and different levels and what have you.
And at that time, I was given, because I was writing for Weed World magazine,
they gave me this big plastic bucket full of various types of hash and weed.
I think there's 30 odd types of weed.
Maybe the same again, different types of hash.
And Subcool and Blunt sat down with me and we were trying to judge.
So I was giving them a smoke of one variety and something else.
And these guys were always talking about harder drugs as well.
They were always talking about pharmaceuticals.
I forget the names of them, but pretty strong opiates or synthetic opiates that they were into.
Like Percocets or something?
Yeah. Is it Vicodin?
Yeah, Vicodin. Yep. That's a strong one.
Vicodin and some others. I can't recollect.
There's nothing I've really been into.
Those sort of things are for serious pain relief.
And these guys didn't look like they were in serious pain.
Anyway, suffice to say that after I think a few varieties I tried, it's knocking me out, so I had to go to bed.
And I woke up the next morning and Subcool was running around saying his friend had died during the night.
And I'm like, what the hell is going on?
So sure enough, this blunt guy had passed on in the night for whatever reason.
I mean, I'm not sure, but I could have my guesses.
So this was the notable incident with Danny Boy.
Oh, Danny. That was his name. Yeah. Danny Boy. Or Blunt, he used to call him.
Maybe that was his online name, Blunt.
In the house at the time, there were staff from my company in the UK.
There was about three different ladies and they were all freaking out.
It's not every day you wake up and there's a dead guy in the house.
And you don't even know the guy.
You know, I don't know if you've seen some of their movies where, what's the name of that movie I saw once, where they had a party and then they woke up the next morning and there's a dead guy in the house.
It's just like that.
And it kind of freaked everybody out, knocked them off whack a bit.
And Subcool was just really losing it.
And I was trying to help him out and calm him down and realized that he was agitating the women as well.
The ladies there who were very emotionally upset.
So I thought, best if we get him a hotel.
So I gave Subcool 400 bucks and said, go get a hotel because we can't deal with this right now.
We're busy as a company trying to do this Cannabis Cup thing.
And this emotionally is upsetting the whole house.
So it's better if you get a hotel.
And he was, I'm not there as a psychologist because his buddy died.
You know, for me, it was, I was trying to deal with the whole business thing of keeping the store open, the Cannabis Cup and doing what we intended to do while we were over there from England.
Yeah, it was difficult.
Let's put it that way.
Maybe I was a bit brash.
Maybe he was a bit too emotive about it.
I don't know how long he'd known the guy, but it was as if he'd lost a brother.
It wasn't good.
Yeah, I think, you know, reflecting back on the chat I had with Sub, I think he did largely view Danny as a brother.
That's interesting to hear your perspective.
Yeah, because I think when he said it, he sort of viewed it as being kicked out of the house.
But of course, you know, we didn't really know about the effect he was having on the other housemates, which is obviously a consideration.
Yeah, so to me, morale was important and we were trying to do something there that we worked out months before.
And to get it done, you know, we couldn't be mourning this guy and be walking around moping because this guy died in the house.
We didn't even know the guy anyway.
So it was kind of sad, but it was kind of removed for the fact that this guy was nothing to any of us.
It was just somebody that showed up the day before.
Literally.
Some of the girls didn't even know that he was in the house in the first place.
Certainly a very unforeseen event, for sure.
And then how did that all pan out after that?
The event finished and you just ended up going home.
Did you have any, like, follow-up investigation or they just accepted it as an accident?
Well, there was me also a bit concerned because I had this huge cache of samples for the Cannabis Cup inside.
The house and I don't know what the other people there were, what type of recreational drugs they might have had for their own use.
I've no idea.
And there's quite a complement of people in the house itself.
So.
Yeah, there was a concern for that, but it turned out that there was no investigation or anything like that.
They said that he had some sort of heart attack, something to do with his heart.
And that was all I ever heard about it.
And then the next thing I knew was Subcool bad-mouthing me, saying that I acted in a bad way or whatever.
I don't know.
Basically telling some lies as well.
Maybe he felt hard done by my reaction to the whole thing.
It's sad, but that's the way it is.
Sometimes shit happens and maybe you don't act the coolest on the block with it.
The way life goes.
Yeah, look, certainly sounds like a very complex situation.
I imagine there would have been a lot of competing interests at mind.
I mean, you know, obviously a rest in peace Danny Boy and Sub and Bog.
While we're on that topic, I guess around that time was sort of around the time when we had the original incarnation of Brothers Grimm.
And I feel like you don't really hear much about Sly.
Mr. Soul's still around and doing his thing.
But do you have any recollections about Sly at all?
Did you ever deal with the Brothers Grimm?
Yeah, I think I was the second vendor ever to offer their seeds for sale after Heaven's Stairway at Richard Caine's.
Calrissian.
He was their initial vendor and then they wanted somebody in Europe.
So I think it must have been 2001 or something.
21 years ago, I became a vendor of Brothers Grimm seeds.
They were very interesting.
In fact, they're very interesting to a lot of Dutch breeders.
Who taken them since then, made their own varieties or crosses, female seeds and various others.
Taken Cindy 99, various other varieties of Brothers Grimm have put out and created new hybrids with them.
So yeah, it became with me, it became transatlantic, not just going one way sending seeds to the States.
It became receiving seeds from USA breeders and then showing them to European breeders.
That's interesting.
And did you ever have any specific communications with Sly?
I guess the reason why I ask is I've heard some people describe Brothers Grimm as Sol was really good at the marketing and Sly was doing more of the breeding.
Did you have any info on that or not really?
I never met Sly, but I did meet Mr. Sol.
He came over to the UK maybe 20 years ago nearly.
And I gave him a road over with me to Belgium in the car because I was doing my regular commute to the Amsterdam shop.
And he came with me on one occasion.
He seemed like a nice fella.
I can't remember the actual conversation at the time.
But yeah, I did ask him at the time if it's okay to make F2s or whatever you call it out of a Cindy 99 because we had so many people asking for stock and we didn't have any more Brothers Grimm stock.
And it didn't look like he was going to have any because I think he was working in the engineering field and he had a job in Europe.
And so he couldn't concentrate on growing back in the States like he had done before with Sly.
I've since learned that Sly has passed away in recent years.
So Mr. Sol is the only representative now of Brothers Grimm out there.
And good luck to him.
He seemed like a nice chap.
I didn't really know him for that long.
It was just a car journey more than anything.
This is the thing with the internet.
You might know people for years online, but when they're sitting next to you in a car and you're on a four or five hour journey or whatever it is, you get to know them much better that way.
I prefer the personal meeting with people.
That's why I've always made an effort to get around the world to meet various breeders at different times, not just to buy stock, just to see how they make their seeds.
Yeah, brilliant.
Brilliant.
Something I wanted to ask you a little bit unrelated.
I heard that you were friends with Kanga Tiva and when he got out of jail a few years ago, he went to the UK.
Is that true?
Can you give us an update on him if you know anything?
Who's Kanga Tiva?
I guess that answers the question.
You're not sure.
He's the Australian grower who's associated with Mullumbimby Madness.
He was working with Neville on the Grail Hays a little bit.
I've known a few Aussies over the years.
I think they don't go by their online names, so I might have known him as somebody else.
Yeah, there you go.
I'm just trying to think of how else you might know him.
Do you remember Wally Duck at all or not ringing any bells?
Yeah, Wally Duck or Donald Mallard as we know him.
Yeah, that's the one.
Yeah, he's a mate that I see back from the early overgrow days again.
An Aussie, a bush grower.
I think he's up in Queensland or somewhere.
They're in the Table Mountains.
Yeah, he's a good mate.
He was out and dealing with all the wildlife and this, that and the other.
He was quite descriptive.
We got chatting and of course we shared seeds.
He'd send some seeds over that they got over there and I would send some more from over here, over there.
He would grow them out and make more seeds and then send them back.
This is what happened with many breeders around the world.
You share the seeds with them and then they want to share what seeds they make with you.
If you could sell them or if you can give them away, at least they're being distributed and plants grown from them.
That was their mindset, which is mine too.
If you've got seeds that are just going to waste away, just give them away.
Try and get somebody to grow them.
Definitely, definitely, definitely.
I wanted to ask you, who in your mind is one of the unsung heroes of the scene?
Be it a breeder or just a community member who you think just doesn't really get as much attention as maybe they merit?
I think there's a lot of up and coming breeders that will come to the fore in the future as the old school die away.
We can see that happening already within the cannabis subculture or industry, or what you might call it.
It's been in prohibition mostly over the last 80 or 90 years.
Some have come to prominence and others not.
I think there's a whole new batch of people making seeds now.
There's new breeders up and coming.
I could throw some names around, but I don't think that's really the point.
These guys are the product of what we've created in the online communities many times.
We've got people that have grown up.
We're in the early teenage years with Overgrow and then they've come on to IC Mag.
They've become breeders in their own right.
Now they've got their own Instagram accounts and this, that and the other, their own legitimate seed companies.
Helping spawn the industry has always been one of the things I feel most proud of, if there's anything to be proud of within this industry.
Helping others and having something there where they can communicate with like-minded people,
whether it's on a social level or a business level or a matter of interest in the plant.
That seems to work.
You can even go in there and have a chat.
You can go in there now.
I don't know, the latest software.
Now we've upgraded from the old V Bulletin software to the new stuff.
It's a much better site to navigate.
I find it interesting, but we don't get the traffic that we used to get.
There's just so many options now out there.
People seem to like Instagram and Facebook.
I'm trying to keep the site going as long as I can.
It seems to pay the bills at the moment.
People talk like they're very fond about the forums, but Instagram still seems to dominate in terms of the numbers.
Do you think that there might be some sort of paradigm shift?
Instagram seems to be increasingly banning cannabis accounts.
It's hard to advertise.
Do you think there might come a time where the forums rise back up and become the main point of communication?
I don't know.
I don't go to these sites.
There are people called Gypsy Nirvana on these sites, but they're all doppelgangers or fakes or whatever.
Somebody's even coined gypsynirvana.com.
I thought I had control of that domain, but I must have lost it through non-payment of something or other.
There's somebody out there with the domain name in my name selling seeds that's got nothing to do with me.
The internet can be good and it can also be a bloody crazy place when people nick your identity and go around making money with it.
Yes, certainly.
You just answered one of the questions I was going to ask, which is that the current website looks pretty unanimously like they're scamming people, but I had a suspicion that you weren't involved in it.
I guess it's kind of flattering in a perverse way, isn't it, when you think of it?
Yes, certainly.
We had some interesting fan submitted questions.
I would love to know the answer.
Someone wanted to know the backstory behind getting the genetics of the citral or the bubblicious.
Do you remember either of those two specifically?
I'm only running a 486 kilobyte hard drive in this brain, so I've got to pull up that information somehow.
I've got to go back to the 1980s.
There's one of these weird modems I used to connect and it makes all these odd noises, these clicks.
So, it was citral?
Yes.
And?
Bubblicious.
Bubblicious.
Wasn't Bubblicious something that Now put out?
Yes, I think they were both from Nirvana.
Yes, as a form of bubble gum.
Yes, because the Dutch breeders or seed makers were all into knocking each other off, big time.
I think Mao had this particularly potent skunk male that he got from Sam and took most all of the popular clones
or anything that won a title or a cannabis cup or whatever and pollinated them with this particularly strong,
resinous male and seemed to produce seeds that in many cases were even better than the originals as far as potency
or even yield was concerned.
So, just by making these hybrids, shaking around the pollen from this very good male enabled him to start a whole seed company out of it.
A lot of the Dutch breeders worked it that way and I've heard in the past there's ongoing court cases and all sorts of consternation
between various companies using the names of seeds of somebody else that's created them like Simon from Serious Seeds and the AK-47.
Mao started selling something that was called AK-47 as well and of course Simon didn't like it.
So, they brought a court case or they get involved in it.
It almost gets criminal, almost to the point of violence amongst these people.
And eventually, I think Mao changed it to AK-48.
Yeah, so he started selling it as AK-48.
So, yeah, amongst a lot of these Dutch breeders or seed makers, it's not that they all produce their own special varieties.
There's some very good varieties that go around and they make hybrids off of all of them to a lesser or greater extent.
Brilliant, brilliant.
And another question we got asked by a listener was, do you specifically have any recollection around when Nirvana did their remakes of some of the classics like The Northern Lights and The White Widow were like two notable ones?
Yeah, well, I know Mao, he would go for what is the correct genetic material to create something.
He started out with Bernard at Positronics.
So, he knows the value of producing something that the public will like, the growing public will like.
And I'm sure he would have put together something that was popular.
You know, there's been a few, I think in the past, there's been a few releases of seeds that have not come up to expectations because they haven't been tested or whatever.
But I think Mao always tried to get tested and looked at me as a good outlet for testing when I got the website together.
So, we would do, you know, test grows.
If I would get a batch of seeds, something coming up new, I put them out to growers on the website, they grow them out, we'd be able to see them in live action, you know, how they would grow out.
They put pictures up and then other people would buy on that.
Whether or not they'd be all different types of phenotypes and some stunted and some mutant plants, then people wouldn't be so keen on buying them, would they?
That's interesting.
I mean, one of the questions we got asked by a few different people was like a lot of people in general have this sort of fond memory of some of the African lines you sold.
And I guess I'm wondering who did those come from and do you have any seed stock in general laying around or it's all sort of gone throughout the years?
Yeah, mostly it's gone because I've moved around a lot.
I've been in places that I didn't plan on being for a long amount of time.
And I haven't been able to concentrate on securing and keeping the seed stock that I've had in good repair, so to speak.
Like when I was away in the Philippines in jail, my seed stock wasn't kept refrigerated and it was just left in an office with employees that were kind of lacklustre and a bit worried about themselves getting in trouble for operating this business.
So obviously germination ratios dropped off and yeah, eventually I came back and I had loads and loads of seed stock, but the majority of it wasn't worth or couldn't really be sold as anything other than badly germinating seeds.
So yeah, I lost a whole fortune in the stock that I'd accumulated over many years because of my incarceration.
Yeah, wow. That's a bummer to hear.
I can only imagine all the beautiful things that would have been there otherwise.
One of the listeners wanted to know, they asked a little bit about, if you could tell it, I'm actually not 100% familiar with this, so it's like maybe you know about it, maybe you don't.
They said, can you tell us a little bit about the Hayes drama?
I think maybe they're talking about the amazing Hayes you gave out.
Is there some sort of story behind that or not really?
No, there's been so many Hayes hybrids and Hayeses over the years that I've come into contact with.
I can't even remember half of them to tell you the truth because Hayes seems to have got into so many different cultivars and crosses and hybrids, whatever you want to call them, that it's difficult to quantify.
What do you think of when I say Hayes?
Well, I know the roots of it.
Supposedly, it was something that came from the Hayes brothers.
It was mostly made out of a Colombian or some South American origin.
It was passed on to Sam.
Sam brought it over to Europe and grew it out.
It didn't always grow true.
Apparently, it's got a lot of different phenos and you have to search for the good one.
It's a bit variable.
People say that occasionally it had intersex traits.
Maybe it depends on how somebody grows something out as well.
That can affect all of that.
It's difficult to work out exactly what the Hayes is or what it was.
It's kind of in folklore now almost.
There's people in contention about it and will forever argue about it.
About Neville's Hayes and about Sam.
We've had ongoing discussions that go through hundreds and hundreds of pages on ICMag about the mysterious Hayes.
That's interesting.
There's still so much discussion around it.
That's interesting to hear.
It's the effect of the plant.
I think that more than anything, most cannabis people smoke.
I think these days, or consume, however they take cannabis, most of it is more of something that relaxes you.
That makes you lower in consciousness perhaps.
Whereas the Hayes has kind of the opposite effect.
It is very extreme, I think, to most cannabis users because the majority have never even tried it.
That's the interest.
It's kind of, what was that, it's like the absence of cannabis.
That's a good way to put it.
I like it.
There's an allure about it for sure.
If you could only pick one strain to smoke for the rest of your life, what strain would you pick?
Whatever I say, people will disagree with me because they prefer their own.
As far as Hayes is a concern, sometimes I think it's a little bit too much on the edge.
I wouldn't pick a Hayes.
But I'd pick something that was a nice hybrid, like Cinderella 99.
That would suit me.
Something that's fast, grows indoors, very fruity, wonderful kind of dank fruitiness, pineapple, papaya fruitiness that Cinderella 99 has.
It's almost like a candy.
I remember the first time I ever tried any, I sent one of those old film cases for, by Mr. Soul, I think it was.
And ever since then I've been a Cindy freak.
That does me.
I could survive on Cinderella 99 for the rest of my days.
Yeah, it's brilliant, isn't it?
Really functional, lovely stuff.
I've got another question, sort of similar to the last one.
This one was submitted by one of our listeners.
They wanted to know if you had to start growing today and you had to buy seeds off one of the breeders that currently is around, what seeds would you buy if you could only get one pack?
Oh, jeez.
That's a tricky one, isn't it?
Because there's so much variety and there's so much good out there.
It's like, say a kid that really likes chocolate and you say, all right, what of all these chocolate bars do you like?
Well, they're all chocolate.
Yeah.
Oh, that's a hard one.
Very hard one.
First of all, I'd look at the breeders that I kind of admire and would stand behind their product.
And they're not just something that's made conveniently from another breed of seeds and relabeled and called something else.
I'd look to be growing something that was maybe original, maybe getting nostalgic, looking back, growing one of the mainstays of the current industry.
Maybe just growing out a skunk one or growing out a Northern Lights or something kind of not too fancy.
Doesn't have a name that incorporates all sorts of weird gizmos.
That's brilliant.
Another question we got was, what was your recollection of Tom Hill and his lines?
You sold them for a while.
Do you have any fond memories, any specific memories?
Tom Hill, he's a rollercoaster of a person, really.
Great guy.
But then, I think there's a lot of people wouldn't say that.
Yeah, it's kind of a bit of an enigma and tends to come on my site sometimes in one mood and then gets along with most people,
then comes on in another mood and pisses off a load of people and ends up getting the moderators to ban him.
Well, he gets himself banned through breaking the terms of use of them.
But, yeah, I don't know.
Many years ago, I got a package in the mail and it was all these seeds from somebody called Tom Hill.
I didn't know where they're coming from particularly.
Then he kind of hooked up with me on the website and said, yeah, I sent all these seeds over.
You can just give them away or sell them, whatever you want.
We sold some and we gave some away and people seemed to like them.
Then he became more vocal on the forums and a lot of people liked his style.
But, yeah, I think his thing was rum and coke.
Maybe when people drink a lot, they tend to get a bit sloppy online.
He was kind of informative, interesting, but at the same time insulted to a lot of people.
He didn't coat it with any sugar.
Straight to the point.
People like that.
People like that if somebody comes across sometimes a bit crude and makes their point with passion.
So Tom was very passionate like that.
I think I met him, I invited him to come out to the Philippines years ago and he came out.
We went out and had a couple of nights out on the town together.
We were absolutely blotto.
Had some good times.
Seemed like a nice guy, really.
Interesting.
I think he grows up in the mountains.
He's kind of like a mountain man.
You know?
Put him on the Rockies or something.
We've got a few stories together.
Yeah, interesting chap.
There again, it's about personalities, you see.
You've got some wild men of cannabis and I guess Tom is one of them.
I love it.
I love it.
I wanted to ask, were there any particular standout Cannabis Cup experiences?
I'm sure you've been to a number of them.
Anything kooky or wild that we haven't spoke about?
Yeah, there was one year.
I think it was the second year I had anything to do with them.
And maybe the last was I wanted to enter Cinderella 99 in the Cannabis Cup.
So this was a big deal for me.
The first time I ever made an entry.
I cleared it.
I think Mr. Sola said, look, we want to enter this into the Cannabis Cup.
Yes, no problem.
So we were waiting for the authorization and they needed to come and pick the weed up.
And the guy came over from the Cannabis Cup.
And, you know, in a roundabout way, they told me that if I wanted it to place, I would have to pay a certain amount of money.
So I thought that was kind of corrupt.
And that led on to us wanting to, you know, every year to the growers and breeders Cup.
We wanted to do our own kind of mini Cannabis Cup.
Just amongst the growers and the breeders of the plant.
So we started this 420 growers and breeders Cup.
So the 20th of April every year.
We put a show on.
Some years we employed tribute bands.
We had an ACDC tribute band one year, a big venue.
And I used to fork out a lot of dough to try and get this thing happening.
But I'm not very together with organization and stuff like that.
So some years it didn't really work out.
But there was still a lot of entries and a lot of people showed up for it.
So it just financially was a bit of a drain.
So eventually it just became maybe 50 or 60 growers and breeders would show up and then they judge each other's weed.
That was the last time I think we had it just pre-COVID.
We haven't had one since.
But there are plans to put one on for next year.
And yeah, we started it in a way because I thought the Cannabis Cup was corrupt.
And we thought it might be more interesting, particularly the growers and the breeders on International Cannagraphic,
to have some sort of event every year where they could get together and meet each other.
And I think we've done it in Amsterdam mostly.
And for a couple of years we did it in Barcelona.
Hopefully we can get it on for next year again.
And I can go along and pass out on all the different varieties.
I love it.
I've got to ask and follow up.
Which Cannabis Cup was that?
The one you wanted to send to the Cindy in?
Oh, geez.
High times, yeah.
Ah.
There you go.
We had one of our listeners ask about the Gypsy Nirvana collection of seeds.
Can you tell us anything about that?
Well, yeah.
Ever since the get-go, I've had some favourite varieties that I would put into my collection.
Either they'd be rare landrace stuff that I'd found on my travels,
or they'd be from different breeders that had certain seed lots that I thought were particularly good,
and so I'd put them in the collection.
So there's been several varieties that have gone through the collection over the years,
and I don't think I have any of them left unless there's ones that are still up on Seed Bay or Seed Boutique.
And they would more likely be newer seeds,
because I've told them we don't want to try and sell the older seeds anymore because they're just not good.
So the older varieties, obviously, stock runs out, so we don't have them all the time,
and so we have to introduce new varieties.
Occasionally I'm looking around for something good to put into the Gypsy Nirvana collection,
and currently I can't think of anything.
That's interesting. Great.
Someone wanted to know specifically, did you know anything about the G13 inkross, or is that a bit too specific?
I know this G13 plant, it was supposedly from some American government institution in Mississippi,
and there's folklore going on about it.
What has been presumed to be the G13, I think Ben did most with it initially.
I think he crossed it with the G13 hash plant at Sensi Seeds.
Yeah, very famous nowadays, isn't it?
Yeah, and that became known as the Mr. Nice, wasn't it?
Mr. Nice Cross, after Howard Monox, G13 back cross.
Howard being instrumental in me getting released from Philippine authorities in the Philippines back in 2016.
Howard was an Oxford don, and he met many people who are now heads of government in the Philippines.
People who are now heads of government and industry today.
He probably sold them hash back in the 70s or the 60s or whatever.
He pulled some strings with the British diplomatic corps to send one of the top dogs to meet me in the Philippines.
Then after he met me, the British embassy couldn't do enough to help me get out of there.
So I got out the year Howard died and I didn't get a chance to actually go and thank him.
I think he talked to the right person or pulled some strings to get me out of that hellhole in the Philippines,
that ex-Marcos era death camp that I was ensconned within and couldn't find a way out of for two and a half years.
So bless Howard Marks.
Bless Howard Marks, having a brilliant affair.
I think that just about brings us to our quickfire questions.
So I wanted to ask you, first one, what are you most proud of out of your career thus far?
I'm a proud father.
I'm proud to have brought seven kids into this world and been able to support them.
I guess that's breeding.
As far as cannabis is concerned, I'm glad that I've introduced a lot of people to it and it's helped them in many ways.
Maybe there's one or two that have fallen by the wayside, but I don't know.
It's the same with anything you do in life.
There's always a risk concerned with it and it's up to you to quantify that risk and whether or not to take it or not.
I've taken a few risks that weren't really in my favour and come across in the past.
But if you don't keep going forward and pushing for what you believe is right, if you're looking for change or if you're looking for a living, the cannabis industry has offered me all that over the years.
I don't regret anything I've done really.
You almost got me there.
I was about to ask that.
I will praise it differently.
Although you don't regret anything, is there anything you wish you could have done differently?
Yeah.
Well, there was this guy, this online entity called John Lee Pettymore, JLP.
We had this plan to aerially bombard various parts of the globe with cannabis seeds.
With balloons.
We were very into working out the whole science and the weather and this, that and the other.
How we could invade various nations with plants that would grow from the get-go in the right season at the right time.
And just force cannabis on the rest of the world.
Bit of a pipe dream, I must say.
But yeah, I'm kind of sad that we didn't explore that a little bit more.
That's brilliant.
That's brilliant.
Okay.
So, next one is, what is the single best flower you've ever had?
It might have been the most recent one that I experienced over in Amsterdam a couple of weeks ago.
Simon from Serious Seeds offered me a very beautiful mimosa bud.
It's this variety that he has called mimosa.
Which was an offering and a gift.
And of course, it looked beautiful and it was cured properly and it smoked like a dream.
And that was the same day that I passed out on Soma's bubble hash, Soma salad.
So, I have some weird dreams of that day.
Being in and out of consciousness, whether or not the mimosa contributed to it or not.
I can't really say.
I'm not that au fait with my own blood chemistry, perhaps.
That's brilliant.
Sounds like a fun time either way.
But on the other end of the spectrum, what's some bud where everyone around you is hyping it up?
You're really looking forward to trying it and then when you finally did, you're just like, oh, is that it?
I don't know.
Because all various varieties of cannabis have some sort of attribute.
Merely by being cannabis itself, you know, it's something.
And whether or not it's got 1% THC or it's got 35% THC on it,
seems to be a common denominator whereby people will judge how good or bad it is, but not from my experience.
You know, I've got just as high in some respects or even higher on cannabis that has a lower THC level than I have done on stuff that's not beneath a six.
You know, is it really all about becoming comatose?
No.
You want to try and plateau out before you become comatose and enjoy a high.
You don't want to just pass out.
Or do you?
Some people's lives are so grim that just being under a chemical kosh is a relief.
So I guess it's horses for courses, as my mother would say.
It depends what works with you and your own metabolism and what particular time you take it and what company you take it with.
That's it, right? Different strokes for different folks.
So, we're on a boat and I'm going to drop you off on a desert island.
You can take three strains with you for the rest of time.
What three would you take?
First of all, the island would have to have a good water source and the soil would have to be decent.
Surprisingly, it's got everything.
Lots of coconuts.
Yeah, lots of fan leaves that shade you.
I'd take the basic building blocks of what we've mostly got today.
I'd take a very good haze.
I'd take a really good skunk one and maybe a Northern Lights vibe.
And you can make a lot of things from that.
Come back in 10 years and you've rebuilt cookies from scratch.
Okay, so this I thought is a different one to what we normally ask people and I wanted to hear your perspective on it.
Looking back, what do you think were some of the best seeds you ever had available commercially?
I had an interest in giving away certain varieties of seeds in the past.
Because I thought that the ones you give away are the most important ones.
Because they're more than likely the first seed somebody might grow.
So, you've got to start it with a bang.
I remember I had this seed lot made once called, Who's Your Daddy?
And basically what I did, I think I took a whole bunch of power plant and clones, you know, top commercial clone at the time in Holland.
And I situated a whole bunch of different males around the room that matured and spread their pollen all over these different power plant clones.
And yeah, we called it Who's Your Daddy? because we didn't know who the daddy was.
We knew it was power plant.
And then made a whole bunch of seeds, a couple of kilos of seeds out of that, I think.
And just gave them away for eons.
And just about everybody that grew them out was happy that they got a wonderful plant that flowered fairly fast, was a good yield and had nice terpenes to it.
So, yeah, those are some of the more fun things that we've done in the past.
Giving away batches of seeds that I know are great.
And you could probably sell them for a lot of money.
But knowing that the first seeds a lot of people will grow and to make sure that they grow something that they would really enjoy.
That's brilliant. I love it.
Not the answer I was expecting, but the answer we deserved.
So, final question we ask people.
If I could give you a time machine and you could go back anywhere, any point in history, presumably to get either clones or seeds, where are you going to go and what are you going to collect?
Oh, goodness gracious me.
I feel like Phileas Fogg around the world in 80 days.
Who's going to be my passport to now and do the collecting?
If I was to go back in history.
Well, you know, the enormous Indian hemp trade that there was amongst, I think it was the East India Company, particularly in the UK and throughout the world.
India was one of the prime growers of cannabis going back to the 1700s, 1800s.
And to be able to go back to a time like that and peruse through thousands of plants in the fields and make selections and be able to bring genetic material from that stock back into the present.
Yeah, it could be a kind of time tunnel episode at the very least.
That would be incredible.
A brilliant pool to select from and a great answer in general.
So, I think that just about brings us to the end of it for this one.
Are there any comments or shout outs you'd like to make?
No, I just wish that any viewers out there have an enjoyable experience with the cannabis that they grow during their life.
And for the ones that I've been instrumental with helping in the past, in the present and maybe in the future.
Grow on!
Brilliant sentiment.
So again, one of the most prolific seed distributors in history.
The man behind IC Mag, Seed Boutique, countless others, having given countless breeders their start.
A huge thank you again Gypsy Nirvana for coming on the show.
Oh, thank you for having me.
I'm most flattered.
Something nice to do this time of the morning.
Hoogaloo!
Huge shout out to Gypsy Nirvana.
And a huge shout out to you guys for making it this far, joining us for the whole episode.
As always, I hope you enjoyed it as much as I did.
And I hope you go check out our sponsors who helped make this show happen.
Seeds Here Now, you know them, you love them.
Number one, all the hottest breeders, the latest drops at the best price.
Check them out, Seeds Here Now.
Likewise, Coppert Biological Systems.
You want to keep your garden happy, healthy, pest and pathogen free?
Spidex Vital, Afiparam, you know them, two killer products.
Get your garden healthy and clean.
Huge shout out to Coppert, number one in the industry.
Thank you for supporting the show, we appreciate you so much.
Just like we appreciate our friend Simply Souvenir holding down the fort in the EU.
If you're anywhere in the EU and you need some killer genetics, some killer stuff,
some killer smoking accessories, check out Simply Souvenir.
They got you covered guys, best customer service in the game.
Hand selected boutique line up of both local and international breeders.
You're not going to regret it guys, Simply Souvenir, huge shout out and thank you.
That's about it guys.
Make sure to go check out the Patreon if you're interested in supporting the show.
Huge love from the Upside Down Library.
This is Heavy Days checking out.
We'll see you.
