All right, all right, all right. Welcome back guys for part two of our Irazine interview.
I hope you guys are ready as always. It's your boy, Heavy Days here at the podcast,
the cannabis podcast for gardening enthusiasts. As always, big shout out to Seeds here now.
Amazing sponsors, guarantee on germination and satisfaction. What more could you ask
for? Well, you might need to keep that garden running when you're popping those seeds. So
hit up our amazing new sponsors, Crop It Biological Systems, all of the beneficial
predators you need, all of the beneficial microbial products you need, and even some
artificial feeds to help boost the numbers of your beneficial army while the cycle's
running. As always, huge thank you to the Patreon gang, lifeblood of the show, early
access to episodes, additional content, interviews with Bodhi, interviews with Gene, interviews
with Bob Hemphill, the list goes on. Check it out, patreon.com forward slash the podcast.
Hope you guys are ready for part two. We're going to be jumping straight into it with
your boy Irazine. Lock in for another two hours. Let's get into it.
So yeah, what a fantastic explanation of all the different areas. If we kind of just keep
on that same topic, I noticed in one of your posts, you're in one of the valleys looking
at one of the different farms in the Khyber Pass around the Pakistani area. And you mentioned
how some of the farmers like to import the high altitude varieties and they'd hybridize
it with their stock and it would give a kind of quicker flowering, more squat, more resinous
plant. This was like, you mentioned this as though it was done very intentionally and
methodically. Do you feel like this type of breeding has always occurred? Because I think
people often talk about land race breeding as though there wasn't a ton of kind of, shall
we say, intelligent breeding done, but this very much points to the opposite.
Exactly. That's a very good point, by the way. I mean, the way you tend to put it across.
So, I mean, there are a few different things happening, of course, here, like everywhere
else. So, first of all, we have to understand the cultural basis of that practice.
Now, this is not something that has been happening for the longest period of time. Like, this
has not definitely not been happening for thousands of years in Pakistan.
OK, now, some of the regions of Pakistan, I mean, even before we get to that, I mean,
let me just build a little more cultural context here, because see, Pakistan is
predominantly, it's a Muslim country that people over there, at least 95 percent of the
people are Muslim by religion.
And the country that is next to them is Afghanistan.
And that is also predominantly, you know, Muslim family.
I'm sorry, Muslim country.
I'm so sorry about that.
It's a Muslim country, right?
So now you tend to have a great deal of interaction between these two countries because
of this common theme, which is the Islamic religion.
Right. So now what is happening is there are certain areas of Pakistan where this happens.
And those areas are situated around Tira Valley.
That is like 32, 31 and 33 degree north.
OK, now those regions, while they are significantly higher, are still not high enough
on latitude that they would induce a quintessential expression that people usually
refer to as Afghanica.
OK, so what happened was that some of the people from Pakistan must have been traveling
to Afghanistan and they must be seeing these varieties over there that tend to have, you
know, better resin content, better effects and just they're just better overall.
I mean, in terms of production, I mean, that's one of the reasons why, you know,
everybody wants to breed with them.
So it was a very natural progression for them to only get those seeds in Pakistan.
But here is the interesting part.
Now, they're not intelligently thinking at this point in history, OK, we're going to
get these seeds to our country and then we're going to mix them with our indigenous
varieties or, you know, the regional varieties that we have.
They're not thinking in those terms.
That is something that is going to happen as a result of they getting those seeds into
the country because they think that, you know, of course, these are so much better.
I mean, the highest, if not better, I mean, it's so much different.
So, I mean, such as, you know, our human species, I mean, you know, our nature is just
we're curious and we want to have everything and we want to have things which are
different. We want to know why they're different.
So they must have, you know, gotten those varieties and started cultivating them, not
knowing that eventually they will get cross pollinated to your regional varieties.
So in the end, you know, what you really end up with in a way that people are not
selecting after, you know, after they're getting cross pollinated because they're not
really thinking about that.
They're just then picking up seeds and they're growing them.
And eventually what you see is you see an intermediate type of plant emerge from this
interaction because, of course, there are going to be still very short plants like
Afghani varieties, which would still stay intact.
And you would always see them pop up in larger populations.
You would also see, on the other hand, you know, the thinly variety, the regional
varieties from Pakistan within the larger populations of that mixed crop, they will
pop up. But what you would see in majority is majority you would see a plant, you know,
which is a perfect amalgamation of both of those words and which also seem to have
certain qualities which not only make it better in terms of effects or in terms of
production that is yield, it also, you know, makes it better in survival and in
mitigating the environmental risk.
So, for example, I'll just go this small example and that would really, you know, make
things more comprehensive.
In Afghanistan, if you go to a bulk, if you go to bulk province, it's really dry, arid.
There is hardly any rain year round and most people rely on the glacial waters.
So the varieties which are growing there, I mean, they're not accustomed to, you know,
rain falling on them, especially not during the flowering time, even if a little bit does
fall in the spring. So when you take those varieties to a place like Tirra Valley, where
you have an annual rainfall of close to 900 mm, right?
So then what you're really doing is that you're really pushing that variety, you know, in
a way that the phenotypes or say the genotypes, you know, which are, what you should say,
which are resistance to mold, mildew or, you know, mitigating these, you know, moisture
related risk would then, you know, excel.
And eventually what's going to happen is that the plants which are not able to mitigate
those moisture related risks would die out because they will not be able to, you know,
they will have bud rot. And because of that, their seeds will be less viable or viable
in less numbers of what I mean to say.
And eventually every year their population would decrease because of that.
And, you know, we understand, I mean, how population works and, you know, natural
settings. And eventually what you're going to see is that only a marginal amount of, you
know, the original variety that was brought from Afghanistan survives intact, of course,
with a little bit of change and then a little bit of, you know, Pakistani would remain.
But what would really overtake and what would really become of, you know, the whole
process or what would really emerge as the one champion in that, you know, a whole
breeding thing is the intermediate plant that is not only better than both parents, it
also has the capabilities to mitigate all the risk and still bring all the properties
from the Afghani varieties, which is why they actually, you know, in the first place got
those seeds to Pakistan.
So most of the farmers tend to work with those.
And the interesting part is now there are some farmers which have gone a step beyond
who have understood that, you know what, I could actually separate these two varieties
and I could not only grow them separately, I could have them interact or cross pollinate
at my will so that I choose, you know, which plants get to make the seeds.
And then I would have like a test field kind of a thing, which we which in modern world
we call, you know, testing for the seeds that we make and they would grow them and then
they would select plants, you know, which seem to show the best, you know, the best
features, what they're looking for, regionally, whatever makes their hash cell more.
So it could be yield, it could be resin content.
So each one to their own.
But yes, there are people who are now meticulously looking into these little aspects.
And, you know, it just became becoming apparent to these people that, you know, if they
go on selecting for better plants, they eventually end up at better places, yield wise,
production wise and quality wise.
Yeah, of course.
Do you think that the modern breeders, so to speak, could learn anything from the older
school farmers? Have you ever stumbled upon a little patch and kind of been impressed
by a little trick or something you've seen by the farmer?
And I guess as a follow up, as these more traditional farmers learn the more modern
breeding techniques, do you think there's a risk of us maybe losing a little something
about their maybe slightly more primitive methods, but maybe there's something to it
which might be lost?
I mean, if some somebody's to answer this question in a very emotional, political way,
then of course, he's going to say, yes, there are a lot of things.
I mean, you go back to roots and blah, blah, blah.
But if we just break it down in a very practical manner and look at it objectively, then
what do you understand is that there's not much that can be adopted by the modern people
because, see, it's not like modern people is a different species.
It's just that what we are is that we have at our disposal the collective consciousness,
the collective intelligence of the entire community.
And that includes even those people who have no idea that what they have been doing has
been incorporated into the larger understanding of how to grow plants.
But what we have understood that there are better ways to do that.
At the same time, I mean, there are communities in India which have been using
lactobacillus bacteria and many other forms for growing the plants and even for they
spray like 50-50 solution of water and milk for the pests.
So it's not like these things have been invented or brought by the modern cultivators.
These were all like simple indigenous techniques.
But at the same time, they had refined them to a level and not only refined them, I
think what modern society or rather the modern community of the breeders have done or
the cultivators have done that they have scratched the surface beyond indigenous
communities are capable of.
And that is on the scientific grounds because a lot of cultivator and breeders nowadays
are like scientists basically.
So they can they not only breed with those varieties, grow those varieties, they tend
to, I mean, you know, scratch the surface that, you know, what makes a certain technique
work or what makes certain technique not work.
Like there's a lot of debate that goes around no-till and tilling the soil.
I know there are a lot of people who get really edgy about these kind of discussions.
And it is just an amazing thing that you don't see in indigenous communities.
You don't see this kind of discussions.
Usually they know something that has been told to them by their families, by the
elders, and they just blindly kind of follow that.
I'm not trying to say those are wrong things.
But what I'm trying to say here is that because we're not having continued informed
discussion, the thing is only getting passed down.
It's not evolving any further.
It's not evolving into something better every year.
But that is what has happened in the modern society.
When we take up those concepts, we don't just sit on them.
You know, we kind of expand them and we scratch the surface and try to understand why
this works in this way and why not in that way.
And because we have the tools and the resources and the scientific understanding of
the cannabis has increased so much in the last few years, thanks to all of these
countries investing in the information of and dissemination of information of cannabis.
I'm really grateful. But at the same time, I mean, there's a big problem because even
in if you look at times like 70s, 80s, 90s in the modern society, I mean, there wasn't
much of that happening.
That's only started happening like after 2000, I would say.
And because during 70s and 80s, the people who were growing cannabis were not
scientists and the people who were scientists, they would not have grown cannabis at
that point in time. So that really kept cannabis away from scientific exposure for a
very long time. But as we know, later on, people like Rob Clark and a lot of other
people got into it and they started really, you know, fixing a few things, explaining a
few things. And I think they have what they have done is that we've really paved the
path for other people, you know, to like not think about the stigma related to this
plant, but just go ahead and use your scientific expertise and, you know, help the
community, you know, bring out more and more information.
And in 2020, the situation is that you could go on Google and there are just endless
array of, you know, scholarly articles you can go through about cannabis.
And it's almost like, you know, it was never illegal.
Yeah, exactly right.
And we certainly all stand on the shoulders of giants like Rob Clark and people who did
early contributions.
And it makes me wonder, were there any people in India who you looked up to as a bit of a
role model or who was doing work kind of when you were in your kind of more junior stages
of things? I would say in the early life, there were some, but it was not related to
cannabis, especially specifically.
So my mother belongs to the Chamoli district and Chamoli district is actually the place
where the Chipko movement started.
Now, I'm going to talk a little about Chipko movement.
What is Chipko movement was it was like an environment and feminism kind of a mixed kind
of movement. So they were cutting down trees in northwestern Himalaya.
So all of these tribes, and that includes, you know, the one my mother hails from, they
would go and they would stick to the trees, they would hug them.
Now, Chipko means to like stick to something or to hug something, OK, in Hindi.
So that was the Chipko movement.
So they would go and they would stick to the trees and hug them.
And like ultimately that would, you know, make it impossible for the people to cut it
down. So, I mean, I mean, I was not around in 70s, but I definitely heard
great stories of, you know, our ancestors, you know, helping in that movement.
On the other hand, from my father's side, you know, one of my uncles and, you know, he's
pretty famous and he has been presented award by the government as well for his work around
the environment. His name is Jagat Singh Junglee.
Junglee basically means the guy who comes from the jungle guy, right, in Hindi.
So he has been given this salutation in a way, Junglee.
His name was Jagat Singh and, you know, we call him Junglee that because this guy alone
himself planted an entire forest one day after the other by bringing plants.
One, he would sometimes take 10 plants, sometimes take 20 plants.
And in a barren place, he was able to make a full fledged forest, which is now inhabited
by a variety of, you know, animal and, you know, birds and insect species.
And, you know, he was ultimately awarded a great honor for doing such work around the
environment and preserving these plant varieties which grew there.
So that has always been, you know, a driving force for me that has kept me around the
plant. It always told, something inside always told me that if it is something around
related to the plant that is, you know, that that's going to be what I'm going to do.
So I think that has been a great, great motivation.
I mean, not that I want to like, you know, bring that up to, you know, really legitimize
anything. But I mean, that's just something that is attached to my history.
And, you know, I'm proud of it.
Yeah, totally understandable.
That's a really amazing story.
And you bring up a really relevant point about the destruction kind of of the natural
habitats of these cultivars.
Do you think people are really paying enough attention to this and are aware of the
repercussions of that?
In America, I mean, certainly I think almost everybody understands.
And when I say America, because the community that I'm in, by and large, I mean,
there are people from America and Canada.
So basically, I just considered that all Americans and even South Americans, right.
And some Europeans.
So I think in Europe it's even larger.
I'm sorry, I think because of the greenhouse seed company and, you know, some of the
work they have done around the land race, the awareness has been a little more on the
European side.
But because, you know, all the, you know, Indian and the Pakistani and the Afghani
people who are now coming onto these platforms with their land race varieties, they
are more connected, I feel, with the American part of the community.
So I think the larger wave of understanding is coming from the American side of the
community. But I think for the longest time, the information has been residing in the
European community and people have been aware that, you know, this is something, I
mean, this preservation work is important and it needs to be done.
The only thing that sort of bothers me about that is that there are some people are not
going to really name anyone here because that really doesn't serve any purpose.
But some people, you know, who have been to India and, you know, they have collected
seeds and all they have ever done is they've just sold those varieties to people and
made money. They've never sent anything back to these people.
They've never spoken about them.
They've never spoken about their problems and they never even came back or are even in
contact with these people apart from when they really need the seeds.
So although these people have been around and, you know, sometimes these people even
feel the need to assert the fact that, you know, they've been around for much longer.
But, you know, then I don't I feel that, you know, just being around is not enough.
I mean, you have to do something.
I mean, you know, you have to do something that makes a difference.
Even if even if you've been doing for a month, I don't care if you're if you've done
more, if you've contributed more than you deserve, you know, to be at the forefront of
the movement and, you know, especially the people who are whose intentions are inclined
in the right way, because, you know, this thing is this thing is very delicate.
You know, it can go wrong in so many ways.
I mean, it's just not very hard to imagine.
Right. So, you know, we're very weary of the people, you know, we connect with them.
And there were instances, you know, I got in contact with some people, you know, but not
exactly the kind of people I would have worked with.
But well, that happens.
I mean, you know, you really understand, you know, the human factor is going to play out,
you know, sooner or later.
So eventually we're trying to figure out more ways to keep our rigor around preservation
of the variety. So not only that, we have been able to sending these varieties out to
people, we're also preserving them ourselves, which I feel that at least the people who
are, you know, you know, selling them or what they're doing, whatever they're sharing
them, they should they have a responsibility that if you're in a situation in a place, we
can grow it, you should grow it.
Or if you can't, then you can at least, you know, collaborate with someone outside, you
know, who is in a legal state and is able to grow them and have them grow it.
Because keeping them shows that either you want to really hoard it and, you know,
create some kind of pressure in the market or some weird thing, or maybe you're just not
bothered. You just say preservation and you don't really understand, you know, that the
preservation, just like the charity, begins from home.
Yeah, of course.
And I can understand why you would be concerned about that.
I guess it raises an interesting question and we had a few of our viewers ask, you know,
varying forms of the same question where they wanted to basically know as someone, let's
just say, for example, in the Western world, you know, kind of the countries you mentioned,
Canada, USA, Europe, stuff like that.
Someone who's living in those places, what can they do to help kind of preserve these
regional strains? Is the best thing they can do?
Try to get some seeds and do a reproduction and just make sure they're around?
Or should they try to care take for a strain?
Should they try to get over to a village and actually physically help the village out?
Like what you mentioned would be a nice thing if you went there initially.
Like what's your thoughts?
Yeah, there are a few things I would like to talk here.
I mean, the first thing is that I really want to take this opportunity because you reminded
me and want to thank the global community, especially from Australia, New Zealand, Europe
and very specifically from America, because they have been nothing but supportive for
the last five years. I mean, if it were not for the community, I mean, the global community
and who has helped and supported, you know, we can't even imagine doing one percent of
what we're doing now.
What people can do, there are so many things people can do.
I mean, you know, you could just take a plant, you could grow it and, you know, if you could
show it to 10 people, even if you don't reproduce it, let's say you don't want to keep a male
because you have your OG and cookies going at the same time.
So you want to make sure it's safe.
So even if you grow a landrace female and you show it to 10 people, then you might show
it to someone, you know, who may be a little more interested.
And then he would go on to get those seeds and, you know, grow a male and a female and
preserve it.
So the point being is not what you have to do.
The point being that you have to feel that it's
priority, that you have to first of all understand that there is an urgency.
This is not, you know, like women are getting oppressed, which has been happening for
like thousands of years and would go on for a thousand more.
I mean, this is something which is happening now and it's going to end very soon and then
there will be no more of it.
So we have to understand the urgency around this.
The preservation effort has to be a little more than what it is right now.
But I think we're on the right track.
The attitude is absolutely fantastic.
And, you know, global community about preservation, people just have no second thoughts.
They understand this is important.
But what people are missing on is just just talking about it and just going making
comments and, you know, liking pictures and saying, oh, this is the best thing.
That's not really helping anything.
What you have to do is that you have to get hold of something, get hold of something.
Not trying to say that buy it from me or like from some of my friends.
Get it from anywhere you can get it from.
Grow it, preserve it in a way, get a male and a female.
You know, this is I'm talking about the very basic what you could do and, you know, you
could preserve it, make some notes, you know, when it grew, what was it like?
You know, how much time did it take and what it smells like and all the other aspects.
And that information becomes part of our collective consciousness, our collective
knowledge about the land risks and heirloom varieties, which, to be honest, is very
scarce right now.
OK, there we don't know anything about land risks and heirloom varieties.
I mean, most of the questions we have to say, I don't understand.
And, you know, I'm not trying to say that that is because we don't really understand
the whole thing in a very comprehensive manner as we do most of the other things.
So first of all, we have to ensure we have to take every part possible to add to the
collective understanding of the land risk and heirloom varieties.
And that could be as simple as growing one plant in your house, making all the notes
about it and disseminating that information among at least with 10 people.
The second would be to motivate other people.
You know, if you are smart enough, if you're that intelligent guy who understands the
importance around the preservation, then it's your responsibility to go out to 10
other people and, you know, let them know about it.
At least make an attempt to, you know, put things into perspective and, you know, show
them why this is really important and why this is not just, you know, another heated
agenda on the horizon.
Well, and then there are other people, you know, who are more capable, who have bigger
farms, they have more resources.
So those people should definitely be supporting these groups and, you know, support
anyone, you know, I don't care.
I mean, like it's me or anyone.
But support these guys.
I mean, because, you know, that's the only way you can make sure that they stick around.
Otherwise, you know, it can be hard for a lot of people.
I can say that.
And, you know, because you guys have the resources and now I'm talking about these
people who have big farms and resources to put behind the plants, they should be growing
more of it. They should be the ones who would be should be selecting these.
And they should become these new people.
I mean, you know how there is this variety that goes around in USA.
I might be wrong. It's called.
I don't know. I don't remember the name of some kind of OG Kush, I think maybe.
Let's just say some OG or some something which is very good, which was selected by.
Oh, I'm sorry. It's like called 78 OGFE.
I don't know. Something like that.
So somebody that that tells me at least it's telling me somebody in 1978 got some
Afghani seeds and he was, you know, intelligent enough and resourceful enough to grow a
lot of them and then select a really nice plant that has made it down, you know, 30
years down, you know, down the pipe.
And now everybody can enjoy that.
But wouldn't we want to have more of that?
Wouldn't we want, wouldn't we wish there were like so many other more people?
I mean, that way everything would have been, you know, preserved.
I mean, isn't this the most, you know, regretted thing ever by people that I wish
people had, you know, save the haze.
I wish people had saved the skunk or like whatever else, you know, isn't this the
biggest regret in the community right now?
And if you look at the nature of that concern, the nature of the concern is that, you
know, we weren't vigilant enough to preserve the things that we thought are good.
We knew these things were good.
We still did not preserve it.
So if anything, you know, if anything's going to wake us up, then it's only going to
be our own history, which may be as short as like 30, 40 years.
I'm talking about the cannabis community.
But there are so many lessons to be learned that the things we lost, why we lost
them and how can we make sure that whatever is present now is not lost.
So, again, for the people who think that these things will not be lost, well,
consider this. I mean, even in America where, you know, things, you know, are so
much more stable and everything.
They were varieties which were really good and then they got lost.
So, you know, I mean, there is a very good possibility this this thing is not going to
exist in like five to seven years.
I mean, I could tell you right now, I mean, some of them will, but most of them would
be gone. And if not gone in a way that they're eradicated, then those varieties would
not be the same because like you mentioned earlier in the podcast that, you know, it's
only a matter of time that some people do get those seeds and they get mixed up.
It's all done for. So.
Let's do what we can do now, I mean, instead of, you know, telling our kids stories about
these varieties, let's give them the seeds, let's give them the actual plants.
Yeah, perfect.
What a brilliant answer for what people can do to get on board and help out.
I think this would actually be a fantastic time for you to maybe just explain for maybe
the few people who aren't aware who's a part of the Indian Land Race Exchange and like
where they could get your seeds from and just some stuff like that if they want to help
out.
OK, so Indian Land Race Exchange is a collective that really looks after a few
different collectors.
And, you know, if they need some kind of help that is related to seeds, you know,
because that also helps them in a way that financially.
Let me just elaborate a little more.
Like I went to Manipur this December and I was alone and I went there and I got, you
know, a few hundred thousand seeds from there.
So I don't need that many seeds.
So what I do is I pass along some of those seeds to my friends and they have different
pages on Instagram and they can sell some of those seeds and whatever money resource
they get in turn, they can then use it for their next year tours or for, you know,
growing the plant that they're growing in India and, you know, just continue the whole
thing. Right.
So we work.
I basically work in that way.
And what I have is I have two immediate people who work with me.
One is Archaic Serpent.
He's on Instagram as Archaic Serpent Rapperelms, I think.
And he's the guy who's from Kashmir.
And, you know, he does all the stuff from Kashmir basically for me.
And then I have another guy that's named Red Giant.
He's on Instagram as Red Giant92.
He's the grower.
He pretty much grows everything for me.
And he's a brilliant grower.
He grows a lot of hybrids as well.
You know, he says that he does a lot of stuff.
So this is the immediate team.
And then we have further extension like Indian Heirloom Seed Company, who's a great
friend of mine and lives in Bombay.
And, you know, he has these unique varieties as well.
And, you know, we collaborate.
Sometimes I give them some of the varieties I have and, you know, he moves them so that,
you know, it helps the community as a whole so we can lift everyone.
And yeah, that's pretty much it.
I mean, like then there are other accounts like I can name.
I mean, there's my friends from Malara, the Land Race Mafia.
I'm sorry, I can't really, you know, remember them.
Land Race Mafia.
So these are like young kids.
And one of the kids actually was on the cover of Dope magazine along with me, you
know, because these guys have a great relationship with, you know, villagers in
Malana. So, you know, they have they have helped us a lot, you know, get access to
the Malana village in the Malana region.
So later on, you know, I thought, you know, they were talented enough that they should
be, you know, leading their own project.
And I really motivated them that you should be trying to put out some of the
varieties from your friends from Malana.
And they're just doing just that.
And they're also trying to get to these different places, you know, and trying to
get hold of the other seeds.
And of course, you know, the Afghani guy, Baba879, I mean, you know, he's nothing
short of an icon, of course.
And it was really interesting, you know, that in 2018, I met with him over Instagram
and, you know, I tried to get seeds from him and the seeds got seized in the mail
because we had no idea that they will get seized.
And what I had to do was I had to actually flew him over to India along with the
seeds. And that really was the first time how I got the guy got hold of the Afghani
seeds, which were released in April 2018 to the community.
And then since then, he has been able to expand his work beautifully.
And, you know, he now has access to a lot of, you know, European and American seed
banks as well who sell his seeds.
So that's fantastic in the way that things have evolved in the past few years for
everyone. So this is basically the small team that we have.
I mean, I'm sure there are a lot of people from America that I want to name, but if I
start naming them, I mean, you know, we would need like four or five more hours to
complete that. But I'm just going to speak about like maybe two or three people who
have played an important role.
Of course, you know, I've been motivated a lot by Mr.
Bodhi, you know, because he even came to India, you know, for the fair for the Kumbh
Mela. And, you know, we hung out together for a couple of days.
I mean, he's just amazing guy, you know, tells you all these crazy stories from South
America about DMT and all that.
So it was really cool.
And, you know, he gave me so many seeds.
I mean, right now I'm working with some of the varieties, some of the varieties that I
could not get, like Pakistani Chitral Kosh and, you know, the Kandahar Black.
So he got it to me and they're like amazingly inbred as well.
So like most of the work is done.
So, yeah, he's been a great help.
And then, you know, I have another friend.
I don't know if you know him.
He's known as BioVortex, Jesse Dodd.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. I met Jesse.
Yeah, he's probably one of my best friends from America.
I mean, he's one of the best guys.
He's helped me so much.
I mean, you know, we're almost speaking on a weekly basis and we're doing this
conference and we're discussing, you know, sometimes that I'm writing, you know, some
of these articles and papers I have to share with him and, you know, so that he can do
some critique on that.
So it's really great.
I mean, because see, the most needed thing here is the motivation.
The only thing you need to make sure that people keep doing what they're doing is by
making sure they're motivated.
And, you know, these are the people that I'm naming right now.
They're motivating me.
Then I have another friend.
His name is, he's by Dr.
Grensky, I think, on the Instagram.
That's how he pronounces it.
And, you know, he helped me a lot for like sending money to a country like Pakistan and
Afghanistan, because, see, we can't send money to Pakistan because we have a very
difficult relationship with them, OK, politically.
And I'm sure you know that, like everybody knows that.
So sending money there is like if you want to get arrested, you do that.
So I have to, yeah, I have to route that money through them.
And just imagine it.
You can't find people in America who's going to risk their ass, you know, and send
money to Pakistan because it's just pretty similar for them as well.
Right. And I'm not trying to say that someone is bad or some country is bad or good
by that. I'm just saying how things politically are right now.
OK, so he helps me.
He goes out of his way and he makes sure that he's sending big amounts of money to
Pakistan, which is perhaps risky even for him to do that.
But he does that because he want to make sure that this thing is done.
The whole circle is completed.
And he also was receiving seeds for me, because if I try to get seeds from Pakistan,
they get busted. So I have to get them to America and then I have to get it.
I have to get those seeds from America to India.
So, I mean, he's been helping me and he's yeah, he's a busy guy.
I mean, you know, it's not like he's not a busy person.
He's a very busy person.
He has several projects of his own and, you know, so much work.
But he makes sure that he takes out some time.
So like I said, the preservation or the helping doesn't necessarily need to come in the
form of you buying seed or you growing them.
It can be so many things that you could enable other people to do or put them in a
situation where they could do more for themselves and ultimately, you know, contribute to
the larger community.
And these are people and one more person I want to name is would be I don't know his
name. I never asked him.
I think he's mass medical strain.
So I don't know his real name, but he's a fantastic guy.
You know, absolutely amazing.
We have lovely conversations around the plant, very spiritual kind of conversations and
very philosophical as well.
And, you know, we agreed that I had a plant, you know, that I feel was really special.
And, you know, I didn't have enough seeds to release to everyone because then some
people really get angry because there are very few seeds and I can't get them to
everyone. So what I did was I just reproduced like a bunch of seeds about like
hundred, hundred and fifty.
And then I gave the F1 seeds to, you know, mass medical.
And I told him like, you know, you can grow them and you're going to find like the
Sativa ones and like the Indica ones, like the tall ones and the short ones as you
want to classify them. And you can either segregate them into different tangents and
breed them separately or you could just amalgamate everything and just make a very
homogeneous mix of everything and, you know, just distribute it to people and put it
into people's hand. And, you know, he's he's a great grower and, you know, he makes,
you know, a lot of seeds available to a lot of people through a lot of, you know,
American seed bank and venues.
So I thought I should give it over to him and he would be the more responsible and
better person to work with it.
And, you know, he's doing it and he's again, that's just another unique way how, you
know, he's contributing to the big effort.
I'm really thankful.
There are some people who are helping me in the library project as well.
There are some people from a Fissionado estate and I can't remember the name.
She's a woman and, you know, she's helping Torrey Gates and she's helping me a lot
with the library project as well.
We are going to make a cannabis library in Himalayas in my hometown.
And, you know, we're going to put together a lot of agriculture related books and
cannabis related books.
And she's been helping me collect all these book donations and, you know, just
helping overall with the morale and motivation.
So, yeah, lots of help.
And like I said, there's so many other people I want to talk about, but, you know,
it's just not practical to do that.
But these are the people I can think of really who are involved in the movement with
us in a larger way and are making a difference.
Yeah, what a really comprehensive answer.
And I mean, you brought up a favorite of the show, Bodhi.
Everyone loves Bodhi.
That's a bit of a common sentiment.
And yeah, you know, it's so funny you mentioned that.
I was only talking to Mass Medical Strains just yesterday about just general stuff.
And he brought up that collab you were doing.
And so I wanted to know, what can you tell me about the Swabi line you sent him?
It looks really cool.
And do you hope to do more collabs going forward?
Yes, Swabi line is a really special one and for a few different reasons.
So if I talk about my father's side of the family, they were not necessarily from India.
In 1947, India and Pakistan became two different countries.
And at that point in time, my father's family, you know, they moved from Pakistan
and they used to live in Swabi.
They moved to Rajasthan and then from Rajasthan they moved to Uttarakhand, where
they found the environment was pretty much similar to where they had come from.
And they kind of settled there.
And after a couple of generations, you know, everybody was speaking the language and they
had completely, you know, become a part of the larger, you know, Garhwali or the
Uttarakhand culture that there is.
So I was able to make a friend in 2000, I think it was around end of 2016 in Pakistan.
And, you know, he sent me some seeds from Swabi and that was really special for me.
I kept those seeds in refrigerator for a very long time.
And in 2019, I brought them outside.
Then I had the resource and I was sure that if I grow them, I can, you know, like make
sure that, you know, I flower them and I make the seeds and do everything that is
required to reproduce and preserve it.
So I grew a few of those.
And what I did basically was I excluded all the longer flowering females which were
present in the population.
And I only selected the ones which are flowering faster and had copious resin
production. I used two different males.
One male had an amazing vigor.
The other male didn't have great vigor, but it had visible, you know, trichomes on
it. So, I mean, that was a plus.
So I wanted to use it and see if that really translates into something else.
Well, it surely does, because when I grew the F1s here last year, I saw that, you
know, most of the F1s that came up, they were just way more resinous than what I had
originally selected that population out of.
So for that reason, it's a very interesting population.
But now the question is why there are some short flowering and why there are some
longer flowering varieties within that one population, especially if it is domesticated
in a place like Pakistan?
Well, the answer is that Swabi is a place which is like really at the edge of Khyber
Pakhtunkhwa, near like Mardan and Punjab.
So while you're just, it's sort of a place while you're like getting down from the
mountains and, you know, you're going towards more hotter, more temperate climates
which are also flatland territories.
OK, so you have the wider varieties which are growing out there are pretty much similar
to the Indian varieties, which are thin-leaved and, you know, they flower like 14, 15
weeks. And, you know, they seem to have a very unpredictable way of producing THC, CBD
or whatever.
So what people did in Swabi was just like everyone else in Pakistan, you know, they
got their seeds from Afghanistan or some place like Uzbekistan where they can get the
seeds, which, you know, grow plants that flower very short and, you know, have all
those desirable effects that we know of from the short flowering varieties.
But the problem was what they did not account for was once again, the wilder population
growing around it. And because there's no one stopping that, they keep interacting with
each other. However, if you see on an overall basis, the flowering still remains short
and, you know, the resin production is pretty much there because, you know, the
domesticate population, after all, is being taken care of, even though it is getting
pollinated with the one which is wild.
And of course, the wild variety is the farthest thing from a true breeding variety.
While your domesticated one isn't either a true breeding variety exactly, but it still
is a little more homogeneous than the other ones.
So it tends to dominate overall.
But you still see a lot of, I mean, you know, longer flowering plants, not to the extent
that 14, 15 weeks, but yeah, about like 11, 12 weeks you see them and you see they have
a significantly more stretch.
And as a matter of fact, I would say even the ones that you would consider, you know,
short flowering or Indica in a way, even they have significantly more stretch compared to
a pure of Ghani variety or a pure variety brought from a place like Uzbekistan.
So a lot of diversity going in there and the smells are just amazing because you'll be
getting a lot of spices.
I mean, that's the thing about Pakistan.
A lot of varieties that come from Pakistan have the spicy flavor and it's just
delectable. I mean, you just fall in love with it.
Absolutely. So the spice is going to be there in an overwhelming fashion and it's going
to be coupled with like raw mango.
And even Mass Medical told me that, you know, he was getting some rubbery tones and
something like onion.
So, well, let's see, you know, how it really develops and, you know, because he's really
growing and growing them out big and, yeah, we'll really see.
And I'm really excited to see how they test and what kind of phytochemical composition
comes up, you know, number wise, if there is some CBD present or even some other rare,
you know, cannabinoids present in that plant.
So that all remains to be seen.
But so far, the developments are good and Mass Medical has also gone ahead and, you
know, taken the opportunity to pollinate some of his staple varieties with swabi and,
you know, eventually work on those lines and see if we can release some of them.
So it's going to be it's going to be great for people.
Well, I'm always open for collaboration.
But like I said, you know, there's this big factor, human factor, you know, that we have
to be careful about.
So we have to be careful, you know, who we're working with and that our intentions are in
tune. And then we both have the same goal in mind and not that, you know, one person is
thinking something and the other person is thinking something else.
There are so many varieties that I have, you know, which I cannot release because that's
not good numbers.
But eventually I'll find people, you know, good people who will who would be responsible
enough to take them and reproduce, preserve and then distribute them to the community
so that everybody can enjoy them.
Yeah, that's that's really exciting.
And I think likewise, we're going to wait and see all the awesome stuff to come from
that collab. I'm interested to know, do you have a certain type of breeding style you
like? And by that, I mean, do you like to cross different land races together?
Do you prefer to just reproduce them and just kind of hunt within the one line?
What's your preferred kind of way of doing it?
Well, because, I mean, I'm not a trained breeder or I mean, because I've been only doing
it for a few years.
But I mean, I've had a background in science and, you know, I also studied cognitive
psychology. I mean, I have a master's degree in that.
So we've done a lot of research and we understand how the recent methodology works.
So that pretty much remains the same wherever you go, even though plant breeding is quite
a different thing when you compare it to other things like psychology.
But if you are curious and you understand how to perform experiments to reach at
different conclusions, how to form hypotheses and how to prove and disprove them
yourself, it's eventually going to help you, you know, get at positions where you know
more than, you know, somebody who's just looking at the plant in a much simplistic
manner. Now, there are a few different things that I like to do.
First of all, I'm a really fan of like pedigree breeding, but that's more for like the
monoecious varieties, you know, which has male and female on the same plant.
So it pertains more to that because you could self-pollinate those in a way, you know,
which is not really conducive for varieties like cannabis.
I mean, so even in cannabis, you could do that.
So basically what that means is you're going to trace the pedigree.
So all the characteristics that you see in a hybrid.
OK, let me just start over.
I mean, if you have, let's say, two plants that you cross together, you have two land
graces. Let's say I have Kandahar Black and I have PCK and I cross them.
So what is going to happen is that I'm going to see the progeny and the progeny will
have a few different things.
OK, what it's going to have is some of the progeny is going to look like the male, some
of them going to look like female and some of them will have a co-dominant expression,
which will be an amalgamation of both of the parents in varying manners.
But when you're working with varieties which are highly inbred, which have been
homogenized for certain traits, like I'm going to talk about Pakistani Chitral Kosh.
Now, Pakistani Chitral Kosh is so inbred, I mean, that it's so homogenous for that
trait. I mean, the way it grows and everything that no matter what you cross it with, it
just completely takes it over.
It is just knocks off the other alleles and just takes over completely.
And I don't know about the Kandahar Black, but I grew only about like five to seven
plants and I could see that almost every plant was identical in the way they would
acquire colors and the way they would grow in a lot of things.
So that made me understand, I mean, again, this is also a very inbred variety and
pretty homogenous for the trait black leaf, if not anything else.
So I just thought, you know, you just cross these two varieties and the predictability
is going to be really high. So for someone who's working in small spaces like me, I
mean, I don't have like fucking farms here like I'm growing plants at, but I have
enough space to do my breeding work in a meticulous and in an honest manner.
So I have to readily choose plants or the parents when I will be able to greatly
predict the outcome because I don't have really have the space to see what's
happening every time by growing 200 plants.
So when I run into varieties like Hindu Kush, let's just say when I was growing
Hindu Kush and the first thing that I saw was, again, there are these three different
expressions there. The first is a narrow leaf that corresponds to the primordial
state of that plant because they were all narrow leaf before they got domesticated and
everything. And then you have the domesticated variety, which is, of course, of
course, the broad leaf variety, you know, the perfect structure and everything that we
recognize as the cannabis plant.
And then there is intermediate variety, which is just between both of them.
It has, you know, certain features from both of those varieties in varying manners.
So soon as I saw that, I thought if I want the narrow leaf trait to carry on into my
projects, then I can't just take this very plant and, you know, start, you know,
crossing it to everything else because this is a part of a very, you know, a very
heterogeneous population.
I mean, it's just not something, you know, which is consistent.
It's not dominant in the population.
If it were dominant, then I would see it pop up a lot more often like the broad leaf.
So then the only option you have, then it's not really a matter of what you like to do.
The only option you have is to take that plant, you know, and find another plant, you
know, its counterpart, which is as closely related to it physically in other aspects,
smell and all as you can.
And then you start inbreeding them selectively.
And you do that until you reach a situation where almost every plant comes out like
that. It happened in four generation, five generation, who knows?
Depends on the variety, depends on, you know, how well you're selecting it and a lot of
the things.
So once you do get to that point, then you have once again reached a situation of that
PCK into Gandhar kind of a situation, because now you have a Hindu Kush variety that is
going to act as a true breeding variety because it has been, you know, homogenized for all
of those traits in it over generations by selectively inbreeding it with closely related
individuals. Now, if I take that Hindu Kush and I cross it with something else, then I
can be sure that these traits will show up in an overwhelming proportion and at least
in the F1 generation.
And then the selection work is going to be, you know, really easy or you could just, you
know, cross pollinate the F1 generation, get to the F2, you know, and then select from
an even more diverse population.
But then again, there is no fixed rule.
There are no rights and wrongs.
You can cross land races to land races.
You can cross land race to hybrids.
You can do whatever you want.
Right. You will end up making seeds.
Some plants will come out of those seeds.
But if you want to work in a way, you know, that is predictable and that kind of creates
like a feedback loop that your own work has to give you a certain feedback that what you
were expecting. Yes, you're able to see that.
Like, for example, again, if the Gandhar Black and PCK cross does not show enough in
population, you know what I'm expecting to see, then that tells me that something went
wrong in the parental generation.
Then I can go back and, you know, I can figure it out what it is, although I'm pretty sure
that's not going to happen. But what I'm trying to say here is that it really depends on
where you're trying to reach.
So if you want to reach somewhere where you want to be confident in giving out your seeds
and letting people know what they would be like, then, well, that's the way of working
that you have to either find true breeding varieties or you have to find varieties and,
you know, make them breed true for, you know, traits by breeding them and just a lot of
work. I know, but, you know, it has to be done.
And I understand, I mean, the market situation is completely different for people in US and
Europe because they're constantly competing with so many other people.
And, you know, so the actions are pretty much predicated by, you know, what's market, what
market is doing, what's good in the market more than what they want to do.
And it's kind of sad at the same time, but, you know, people have to put food on their
table. So, I mean, I'm not going to go out and blame someone for like not doing the work
that we should be done.
But at the same time, there are no rights or wrongs.
I mean, you do what you can do and then you try to reach at a place where people can
appreciate it.
Yeah, of course, understandably, people have got to provide for themselves and their family
Just to kind of tie up two little things I was wondering about your breeding process.
Do you, given what you just said, do you tend to like to select just one male to pollinate
females or do you like to use a few?
And then as a follow up, do you keep any cuttings at all, either male or female?
I like to select a few males always, I mean, at least three, four or five, depending on
the population as well.
If I mean, again, it really depends what you're trying to do.
So let's say if I'm working with Lolaab Valley that I and my friend, Archaic Serpent,
were. So we saw there is a staggering amount of variability present within the larger
population. So we had no option, but we had to select five different males.
They look completely different.
And then we had to narrow it down to one, which took around like three months of just
dressing those males and just trying to see if there's any latent intersex trait that
might pop up later.
So all of those things.
So it really depends what I'm trying to do.
But if I'm working with, let's say, PCK, then I don't really need to have like 20
different males, really.
I mean, it doesn't really make a lot of sense, but I'm sure you could, you know,
increase the probability of your results in a better way if you have more males.
And I do understand that.
But I think a more, I think a more, I should say, a more in tune way with your process
or I would say a more way that would, you know, take you towards your goal has to be
taken by people rather than what would appeal to people as you're doing good.
Because I see that some people would go and do things because they feel that, you know,
this would drive people's opinion in a certain way and it would make them feel that
I'm doing the right things.
But I think you always and always have to choose over, you know, you have to choose
what you want to do over what would drive other people's opinions.
And then you could, I mean, it's very hard to explain in words for me.
I mean, English not being my first language, I guess.
But what I'm trying to say here is this, that, you know, the male selections, I mean,
it's difficult.
I mean, you know, because most people, you know, who are growing like selecting 20 males,
they never tell you like what they're selecting for and how they're selecting.
Because I see some people say that, you know, if your male, you know, drops the ball
in late, then that's a good male or you have to find a male that has a big cluster on it.
All valid and, you know, they make sense, you know, all of them.
But I don't see people like, you know, when they're working with a population that
taking notes of the females, you know, the females you like.
If let's say you like four females, you know, in a population, then you have to take
notes from the beginning that what is the difference between their internodes, you
know, their life, their leaf surface area and all of those things.
And then you will be finding males.
Because that exact thing is going to help you.
That data is going to help you determine which are those males which will be perfect,
which will be synonymous to the females that you have selected.
Instead of just relying on something like a bigger, you know, cluster on the male or,
you know, it has a dense stem rubber or something of that sort, which is great.
I mean, you should do that.
But I mean, if you're maintaining data from your female selections, then you can just
take that physical data, apply it to the male and see which males have that exact
structure and all those traits.
And, you know, these plants are the closest to the females you've selected and you
could do that. So I think more than in numbers, it is about how to select the male
then that is more important because you could have 10,000 males and yet not have a
clue how to select the right one.
Yeah, very astute point to make.
And I mean, you know, while we only just talked about Bodhi just a minute ago, I want
to use him as a good little segue into my next question, which is when you kind of
travel around and you go and visit different places, do you predominantly trek between
them or and is that like a style of travel that you enjoy?
Because I just remember Bodhi is so fond of it.
Yeah, we have to track most of these places are not accessible by roads.
So most of the places you have to track.
So Himachal Pradesh is fairly easy because you get if you want to go to the Malana, you
get to the last point with your car and then it's only about two kilometers to the
village and two kilometers to, you know, Wai Chin Valley and about another kilometer to
Magic Valley. Vailing Valley is a little farther.
It's about like eight to nine kilometers and everybody's not even welcome there.
So I mean, like most people don't go.
But apart from that, I mean, it's pretty much easy.
But you go to places like Uttarakhand or, you know, northern Kashmir, then there's a
whole lot more walking involved because the roads are just not paved.
Those places are not getting the kind of revenue and tourism Himachal Pradesh is
getting. And, you know, the development is pretty much, you know, in sync with that.
I mean, as much the revenue the state's going to have.
I mean, they will only be able to spend that and sometimes not even that.
So Kashmir and Uttarakhand, it's going to be really taxing.
I mean, if you're not the kind of person who likes to walk, then you're going to have a
very hard time. And because of the altitude, I mean, it's really difficult.
And, you know, I have met some people who come from like America.
I mean, I had this guy in 2018.
He's a good friend of mine.
And he came from America and we took him to, you know, Uttarakhand.
And, you know, I took him to Kashmir and I took him to, you know, Himachal Pradesh as
well in Malana. And, you know, he had a great time.
But again, it got really taxing and tiring for that person because, you know, he was
just not, you know, used to walking a lot on a daily basis.
So and another thing is when you're doing this, you have a very short window, like you
have this window of 15 September to sort of like 30th October, because most of the
harvest is going to happen between that.
And you have to make it out to all of these places, at least to the three Himalayan
states and have to be present there, you know, while it's going down.
So it's important to, you know, plan very meticulously how you're going to go about
your, you know, hunts every year.
So every year we make a calendar at least four months prior, at least five months
prior. And we know that, you know, what places we are going to go to this year and what
exactly are we going to cover.
And, you know, if you're going to make some kind of video like we did one in Kashmir,
you know, we covered how they make hash traditionally by cooking it.
So we write a storyboard for that and we make sure that, you know, we know exactly what
to do at that point in time because it's all happening live.
And if you miss it, then you miss it.
So you just have to be prepared and the presence of mind is of the essence while
conducting this kind of work.
But hiking and walking is basically a very integral part as well.
And if you're not up for that, you're probably going to have a very hard time.
Understandable, of course.
And when I think back to Bodhi talking about the trekking, he often speaks about it as
though there's like a spiritual aspect to it.
And a lot of the cannabis and hashish you sample along the way is really special.
Is that kind of the way you think about it or is it more just like a means to an end to
get the seeds for you?
No, absolutely. There is a deep spiritual aspect attached to it.
And I just want to be clear, and this has nothing to do with the religion or the God
here. When I'm saying spirituality, I just mean to say a higher understanding and a
higher awareness of you and your surroundings.
And I think there are two very important things that happen when you go out on these
treks, especially if you're alone.
First is that you are in a serene environment that is very hard to come by and a
chaotic life in places like India.
So now you are actually physically in a place or in a situation where you can reflect
back to things in your life, reflect back to things that you see in nature and you can
connect with them because there's nobody around you to judge you or to call you crazy
or any of that sort of thing that we seem to be really worried and preoccupied about.
And the other aspect of it is the awareness of the surrounding.
I mean, without going out in the nature and you could call it data collection in a way,
in a very crude manner, and you could also call it increasing the awareness of your
surroundings. So both are correct.
And, you know, that can only happen when you're venturing to these places where there
are no roads.
Because, see, if there is a road somewhere, let's understand this, that place has already
been ventured and you can probably find that information somewhere on Google.
Right. But if you go to places where you don't have a road and you're hiking into these
mountains, to these valleys, well, surely enough, you're going to run into places and
you're going to run into cultures and people and resin and, you know, alcohols and honey.
And, you know, sometimes they make, you know, butter from indigenous milk and all that.
And all of those experiences, you know, you will always be devoid of that if you are not
attempting to go there.
So if some person, especially somebody who lives in America or lives in a country where
these kind of experiences are scarce to come by and they do make a journey like that.
I mean, what possibility do you think there is that it does not have a spiritual, deep
spiritual impact on that person?
I mean, you basically have to be like, you know, a non-human entity, I mean, not to be
moved by the beauty of the nature that is present in Himalayas.
I'm not sure if you've been here, but it's absolutely breathtaking.
I mean, I've only lived all my life here and every time I go, I'm just dumbstruck, you
know, looking at the nature around me.
So like you said, I mean, you know, Bodhi really puts it in a very eloquent manner that
I might not be able to put it across in that way.
But the gist of the story is he's just as interested in hiking and in the journey as
much as he's interested in getting to the destination and then doing the thing, which
is incredible.
And that is the attitude that we need to have and not because that it's something
spiritual. At the same time, this is the same thing that is going to help you with your
data collection. If you're aware and sensitive all the time, if you're receptive of your
surroundings, when you're and you're hiking, you're not going by a motor car or by a
bus, you know, you're walking slowly and you're taking information as our senses are
evolved to, you know, at medium speeds, at medium sizes, then we will be taking a lot
more and we'll be imbibing all this in broad data from nature.
And because there are no roads, so we might be getting in, you know, more or newer
information, which you could then process in your own way, use your intelligence, what
you make of it and present it to the community, you know, who are not geographically
blessed enough to be in those places so frequently.
And, you know, that's really what it's all about.
So I think he puts it in a very beautifully and very simply, it puts it very simply, but
there is a deep, deep meaning to that, I think.
Yeah, most certainly, and I mean, Bodhi actually gave me two questions to ask you, so we
may as well roll into them seeing as we're here and he wants to know first off, what's the
most psychoactive Indian heirloom strain you've been able to try?
OK, the most so.
Most I mean, this is this is a this is a tricky question, but I'm going to say Manipuri,
the one that comes from northeast of India, Manipur, and especially the one that we
recently got from eastern Manipur-Burma border.
And I don't understand the reasons why, because, you know, again, the domestication is
pretty much, you know, of the same standard as it is in the rest of the north India.
But the varieties that seem to come from these places northeast of India seem to have a
really, you know, intense high, if not more.
And I have a little theory and this might be wrong, but I'll just tell you what I think
about this. What I think about this is that the eastern part of India is where which is
like quite close to the equator, near the south and the east part, the southeast part
where Orissa is and Andhra is.
And those places are very close to northeast India and northeast India is also close to
the northwestern Himalayan regions.
So in a way, the sandwich between these two places.
So it's I mean, it could be that, you know, people from, you know, different places like
east and north went out there, migrated, and they may have contributed somehow, you
know, in what makes up the natural population out there today.
But we also understand this as a matter of fact, that, you know, the Mal tribes, you
know, of the Tangkhols and they have descended from the Burmese people and specifically the
Burmese people of the Tibetan descent, Tibetan Chinese descent.
So that's the migration pattern that has been traced and they have been able to trace it
because of the language, because the way, you know, the languages they speak and these
are different dialects.
So they can understand that this dialect evolved properly from this one.
So that really paints the picture of the migration for northeast of India.
So those people have come through the ways of China.
So I don't know if they bring varieties from China or Tibet along with them, and then it
gets mixed along with the general population, which is just entirely different because of
being, you know, a very wet tropical like climate.
But it seemed to have an amazing unparalleled high, at least if you compare it to any other
variety in India.
And Kashmiris can be quite strong, but they're not psychoactive in a way.
I wouldn't call them like they don't have that psychedelic kind of edge to them.
I mean, they're more like a, they're a different kind of high, I mean, which could more be
associated to like broadly plants.
But yeah, northeast India varieties, Manipur, eastern Manipur, Burmese specifically, I think
would be the most or the best in terms of high.
Yeah, really solid answer.
So the second question he asked was, do you think that the high elevation Himalayan cannabis
differ in effect from the tropical more sea level specimens?
And do you think that it's because of maybe the UV that it creates a little something
special?
And the reason why he asked is because he said he knows of some barbers who just want to
try to find cannabis from like the highest elevation possible.
Okay.
I think we did bring this up in conversation somewhere previously that, you know, about
the UV radiation when I was speaking about the highland varieties, which also grew in
the high latitude regions.
So they seem to be getting a lot more exposure of, you know, UV rays than any other place
in the world.
So is that something that makes the plant behave in a different way phytochemically?
I mean, I can't say yes or no to that because I don't have any tests to, you know, fall
back on or any kind of study.
But what I can tell you for sure is that the varieties that tend to grow at higher altitudes
or, you know, high latitudes, especially, they seem to, you know, they seem to produce
like we said before, a competitively dense coverage of resin.
And, you know, the resin glands seem to be bigger.
And, you know, it just seems to be more potent in the way, you know, overall in the way they
make you feel.
And this would, you know, encompass India in the way that I'm talking that when I say
highland high latitude, that would include everything from Central to Southeast Asia.
But in India itself as well, if you go to places like Northern Kashmir, you know, it's
at 34 degrees north and then you have altitude of like 3000 plus meters, just more than 10,000
feet.
And you definitely see that there are certain plants there, you know, which are just insane
to simply say the least.
So I think because those Babas that Bodhi is referring to, they have been to all of
these places because these Babas are just about getting, you know, getting to all the
places to heights of the mountains, to the lowest of the cities, you know.
So they know, they know the higher up they're out there is are the plant populations which
seem to have, you know, bigger trichomes and, you know, larger density of trichomes.
So if you're rubbing the plants, you can probably get the same thing done within 10
minutes instead of doing it in an hour if you're working with those varieties.
If you're working with varieties in lowland in places like Punjab, you may have to spend
like three to four hours before you can get anything at all in your hands.
So I think they tend to have that understanding, maybe not in a way that we would like to think
about it.
But, you know, as always, indigenous cultures and these primitive cultures, they knew so
much because they didn't have these distractions of, you know, all the societies and the markets
and these phones and laptops and whatnot.
So they could rely, they used to rely on their natal, their innate senses so much more often
than we do.
I mean, you know, we were just not able to, you know, we were not able to get the information
we were just not able to, you know, think in those ways.
So I think it's always a great idea to take advice from your elders and especially those
elders happens to be some, you know, Chilam smoking Baba.
I mean, you know, yeah.
And, you know, Bodhi knows, I mean, what's up.
I mean, he's been here, you know, so many times in India.
So he pretty much understands India very well because when he was here, I mean, you know,
he's not asking me that, you know, how to get around.
So he pretty much knows everywhere.
And in fact, when I was in the Mela, he was able to show me some of the things, you know,
that I would have missed, I think.
Wow.
Yeah.
I mean, what a testament to the guy.
So just to kind of wrap up this section on kind of the little trekking stuff, what's
one of the most memorable smokes you've had while doing the trekking around?
And as a follow-up, do you have any kind of crazy stories from while you were trekking?
Yeah, I'm just going to answer that all in one.
And this just happened now last year.
So last year, around the month of end of July or beginning of August,
India made a huge change in the way, you know, the things are in Jammu and Kashmir.
We kind of took hold of Kashmir entirely.
Our government, I'm not going to go into whether that's right or wrong.
I mean, that's their thing.
So there was a lot of tension there.
A lot of people, it was locked up for the longest time.
And I was there before that happened.
So it was like really hard for me to get out.
But I got out somehow on the 6th of August and I was home.
And I was really, you know, thankful I was able to come back.
But see, what happens is three months down the line, things got a little eased up.
On 10th of October, they said, OK, we're going to open it for the tourists once again.
So you guys can come.
And nobody's going to Kashmir.
I mean, of course, nobody wants to die.
And my friend is like, hey, so you guys are like coming over or what?
And I said, I want to come.
But I mean, the situation, I mean, aren't you watching the news and everything?
And he's like, yeah, these news guys are crazy, man.
There's nothing happened here.
Just come over.
They have officially opened for the tourism.
Should be OK.
I got the flight.
I went there.
We did the Srinagar thing.
It was fantastic.
Smooth sailing.
We went to Dachigam National Park.
Smooth sailing.
Got all the samples, pictures, everything.
Then we moved to northern Kashmir.
And I'm really happy I'm going to the Lollap Valley.
I'm going to go to those spots where my friend got the seats last year.
And I will get to see those in person as well.
Now, you have to, first of all, let me put things in perspective a little bit.
Lollap Valley is just like three to four hills away from Pakistan.
And not only that it's at the border, that's a de facto border.
What that means is that there is no actual border.
It's just assumed that there is somewhere a border in between.
And you just don't cross.
So very often what happens is that you wouldn't realize.
And you would just cross over.
And well, that would be a very bad story to tell in the end if you survive to.
But we were there and we were rubbing hash.
We were actually 12 people because we had an entire team from Lollap.
I had like seven guys from Srinagar and some from the Lollap locals.
And we were there.
We were rubbing hash.
And I was collecting samples.
I made several videos and even posted that.
When we were almost done and we were coming down,
there's an Indian army post there.
All right.
So they were wire.
I mean, somebody did a wireless to them that there are like about 10 to 12 people.
They can see on the top of the hill and they're like coming down.
And as we were descending down in the first meadow that came,
there were these two guys from SOG that is Special Operation Group.
And let me tell you something about Special Operation Group.
And they're just asked to shoot people if they think that they should be shot.
And no questions asked.
So they had their guns and they made us sit there.
And everybody just went around telling them that how they are just from this local place.
And even the guys from Srinagar had some relatives living in this place.
So they were like almost all off the hook.
I mean, it was natural for them.
OK, so you guys are not coming from the Pakistan or something fishy.
Then when they got to me and they asked me where I'm from,
and I told them that I've come from Punjab.
I've come from Punjab.
And these guys were absolutely, they just absolutely lost their mind.
They were like, well, man, like, are you not watching the news or like,
do you not live in this world or what?
Like you, first of all, you don't come to Kashmir in time like this.
And if you do come to Kashmir, you stick to the lake or to the Srinagar, to the southern part.
You don't freaking come to the northern Kashmir.
And even if you come to northern Kashmir, and this is exactly how he said, I mean,
not in English, but even if you come to northern Kashmir,
then you don't climb up the mountain and you don't try to get close to the border region.
And like, how dare you?
And he's like that I've been here for 10 years,
you know, serving in army within just the Kashmir.
And I've never got my family here to show them around.
I've never had the courage to got my family here to show them around.
And look at you, like, what are you even doing here?
And then we just kind of told him like what exactly I was doing there.
And, you know, I had to tell him because, you know,
I wasn't doing something that I wasn't proud of.
And the good thing there is like, they're not the kind of, they're not like police.
So they're not worried about hash or weed.
That's like none of their concern.
Their only concern is the security that who are you,
where are you coming from and why are you here
when you're not supposed to be on top of these mountains.
So that thing went on for about, I don't know, two, two and a half hours.
And, you know, they scared the shit out of me, you know.
But I think at some point I had like kind of understood
that they will eventually let me go because most of the guys
that we were there with, not only that they were local,
but their fathers are in army, you know, in certain different regiments.
So that helps them, you know, build on the confidence that,
OK, these people are not, you know, anti-social elements
or someone who's here to do something bad.
They're just young guys who want to smoke.
And, you know, that was one incident, I mean, one hell of an incident.
I mean, you're just sitting there and they took our pictures,
they took our IDs and they had this machine
where they could scan our IDs and they figure out, you know,
they could check that number with the data, government database,
whether or not these are like fake or these are like the real IDs.
So they did everything that they could and they took our phone numbers,
our addresses and it was only after that that they let us go.
The first thing I got down at the Lollap Valley floor,
I got into the car with my friend and we left and we only stopped
at, I mean, Srinagar, not before that.
It's about 120, 30 kilometers.
Although there were a lot of stoppages in between.
So this is like a very usual thing for Kashmir
that you travel like 10 kilometers, then you stop for the army
and then just happens like that everywhere.
But that would be one incident that I'm never going to forget
and definitely something to be spoken about.
Yeah, well, I think I would have been in the same boat as you, quite worried.
So I'm only just in this moment realizing that I haven't asked you at all.
Do you in general tend to prefer like more kind of uplifting highs
or more kind of sedating?
I like more sedative highs.
Uh, something, you know, that helps you relax
because I don't smoke much during the daytime.
I usually, you know, begin my morning and then I try to refrain from smoking
till, you know, six or seven in the evening.
And then I just gradually, you know, start hitting some bongs.
But when I really feel an urge, where I really feel an urge to smoke
is when I'm, you know, going to sleep because I have some, you know,
issues relating sleep.
And, you know, so I'm always just looking for varieties, you know,
that can help me accomplish or help me, you know,
just mitigate those issues that I have around the sleep.
So I'm always inclined towards finding varieties
which are more sedative in nature and, you know, would make you feel sleepy.
Which is also one of the reasons why I tend to, you know,
get some of my resin or geras in bulk and, you know,
try to cure it for the longer durations.
Because then even if, you know, the plants naturally are not,
or plant predominantly do not produce, you know, a narcotic effect,
we can actually cure the hash in a way and, you know,
get it to a point where it would induce that sort of sleepy effect.
Yeah, I think I can certainly relate to many aspects of that answer.
Something I wanted to ask you a little bit about was
kind of the general smoking culture in India.
And I guess specifically, is tobacco normally mixed with cannabis?
And as a follow-up, are there other things besides tobacco
which ever get mixed with cannabis and smoked?
Yeah, so tobacco is big, big, big in India.
I mean, there is no, you know, hash smoking
or even weed smoking in India without tobacco.
So, yeah, I mean, everybody smokes tobacco.
It's not a matter of who or where.
I mean, you could go to Himachal Pradesh, you could go to Kashmir.
And sure, the brand of the cigarette is going to change
or the brand of the tobacco is going to change.
But they all want tobacco.
I mean, it's the bread, you know, that we are going to spread the jelly on, basically.
So, yeah, tobacco is a very integral part of our smoking culture everywhere.
But there are a few other things that actually get mixed along with it.
And opium would be, you know, one of the things that do.
Because we have a lot of Ayurvedic opium, you know, preparations here in India.
So just to be sure not to confuse this with heroin in any way.
I mean, opium preparations, as in like, they're Ayurvedic.
They are mixed with some spices.
And then it becomes a medicine, actually.
And it's really beneficial.
So we have those getting mixed a lot with, you know, cannabis often.
But then again, the tobacco has to be there.
I mean, you know, without tobacco, you just cannot imagine.
I mean, at least I cannot.
So if I smoke without tobacco, and I've tried, you know,
because sometimes some people would give me that, what do you call that, dab.
And it just feels incomplete, you know, if you're not smoking with tobacco.
And I understand the underlying reason for that.
I mean, you know, part of that is that you eventually get addicted to the, you know,
substances in tobacco.
But I mean, if we were just to talk about the experience and the very typical Indian
experience of smoking, then it's just cannot be imagined without tobacco in any place,
no matter where you go in India.
Yeah, that's understandable.
And I'd certainly heard that.
So how do people tend to smoke?
Do they use chillums?
Do they use bongs?
Do they use joints?
What would you say is the most common?
Usually people begin with cigarettes.
I mean, they empty cigarettes and then fill them back up, you know, with the mix.
And then usually people graduate to smoking in joints.
That is, they start buying, you know, rolling paper.
And as people, you know, tend to grow a little more older, and I'm, of course, not talking
about everyone, but I'm just going to talk about the typical smoker, you know, middle
class, like a working class kind of a society that works in the ITUs and relate, software
related jobs.
So those people, then after a while, they tend to lean more to gravitate more towards
bong smoking because it's just more convenient and it's not that time consuming.
You know, you could just smoke, get a good high and get on with your curriculum.
So I think that contributes a lot in people, you know, gravitating more towards smoking
in bongs.
The chillum is more like a, it's more like a pseudo connoisseur environment in India
related to chillum.
So while you have a lot of people, you know, who smoke in chillum and they have very expensive
chillums as well, but more than often, and I'm not talking about everyone, of course,
more than often I see people, they are using or smoking a chillum only because they would
want the other person to see that they're smoking in chillum.
And you know, that is supposed to, you know, give you a high ground in their opinion.
I mean, amongst other smokers, I don't necessarily feel that way, but I can certainly see that,
you know, in people.
So while, I mean, you know, chillum smoking is morally, culturally confined within the
Babas, but the new generation that smokes in chillum, I think they smoke out of chillum
more, that has to do more with either, you know, either trying to, you know, experience
if what Babas experience in a way, you know, or just to be in a place where you have a,
you know, moral high ground or just a high ground over everyone that you smoke in chillum
and other people smoking bong.
It's weird, but that's how it is.
I mean, this is a thing in India, basically.
So if you have like an Italian chillum, you know, that costs like $200 and you smoking
in it, so you automatically become a connoisseur.
I mean, you may not know anything about cannabis, but if you have a chillum, then, whoa, man,
yeah, look out for this guy.
And, you know, if I'm just smoking a joint, then, you know, then you're just like everybody
else.
So immediately chillum will give you a status hike amongst the smokers in the circle.
But does it have an intrinsic, you know, property to it?
Then I mean, I'm not really able to see that to an extent that I can explain it.
And I don't much prefer to smoke in chillum a lot.
But when I go to Himachal Pradesh, they have some absolutely lovely chillums.
And I indulge in that fully till my throat is, you know, sacrificed.
But, you know, I enjoy it.
I love that.
What a great answer.
So I guess just as a really quick follow-up, is there that same kind of hype culture, maybe
more particularly in the younger people, like what we see in America where like, you know,
they want to try to use it as a status thing.
So it's like, you know, I'm smoking cookies in my chillum, look how cool I am.
Yes, exactly.
But in a much different way, I would say.
So, yeah, okay.
The way this works in India would be maybe that if you go to Malana, like I said, if
I go to Malana and I'm always like, you know, trying to smoke in different chillums, and
I'm not really trying to find a joint or just bong, just forget about it.
So why that happens is because when you're at a place, you know, where it's a common
practice, then as a human nature, you know, we want to gel in, we want to fit in.
And we don't want to be, you know, going around the village holding a bong and, you
know, look different.
Some people certainly like to do that.
But most people would like to gel in.
So it has that aspect to it, the chillum smoking.
And the high ground really, or the superiority that is imparted by owning a chillum or smoking
in a chillum really comes from one, that it costs a lot if it's an original Italian
chillum, and everybody knows that.
And second is that it is almost as if assumed or, you know, presumed that if you have a
very nice chillum, then you must have very nice hash too, which is not necessarily correct
again, because you know why.
And I mean, those are just really the things, you know, why people tend to have chillums.
Because of course, you go in circle, there are girls as well.
And you know, you want to look good, right?
You want to make sure that girls are like totally stoked on you.
So I mean, there are just so many reasons, but I just don't see it for the cultural reasons
so much.
So among the youngsters, with that said, there are certainly some youngsters who are, you
know, very dedicated and they would follow all the rituals, you know, pass it to the
right and, you know, pray before, you know, smoking it.
They take care of everything.
And I absolutely love to be with those people sometime and smoke.
But as you move out of those circles, I mean, most of the people you see are just the rich
people, you know, who can afford to spend a lot of money and get hold of these things,
but they don't actually appreciate them in a way that, you know, a Baba would do or another
youngster is doing who is following all the rituals.
Yeah, of course.
And I guess, understand all there's a natural kind of distribution there.
So one of the other things I noticed on your Instagram that I wanted to follow up on, which
seems like it's kind of more of a local thing, is that you posted a photo of what you said
was a traditional Kashmiri corn wrapped and baked hash.
Please tell me a little bit more about this.
I've never even heard of that.
Yeah, so that's a really special one.
In 2018, first of all, let's talk about, I mean, how that came to be, I mean, like how
we were able to document it.
So in 2018, I invited my friend from USA to come and, you know, let's go to Kashmir and
see if we can come back alive.
Right.
So we went there and once we were there, the guy that was supposed to take us around and
my friend, they said, you know what we can actually arrange because we have material
we can arrange for making hash right now.
And if you want, you have mobile phones, you could like, you know, capture it and then
it could be made into documentaries.
So when I was in college, because, you know, along with psychology, I also was part of,
you know, mass, you know, mass communication team.
So I know a little bit of editing and softwares like, you know, Final Cut Pro and Sony Vegas
Pro.
So I thought, yeah, that's a great idea.
I could just take that footage and I could make it into a small, you know, documentary
or a short film kind of thing and show it to other people because, I mean, showing is
always, you know, better than telling.
So we covered that and, you know, I myself didn't really know a lot about it, even though
because I live in, I live near Kashmir, you know, so we often get that here.
I mean, we get that kind of hash here, but we never tried to really, I mean, you know,
reconcile what this is and why would this hash be like this and, you know, just so many
other things that could be thought of.
So when I was there, it was happening in front of me and I was able to see the entire process.
I was even like asking them the things that I could not, you know, readily understand.
So what this process is, it's very interesting.
It's a mix of, you know, a few cultural phenomenon, a few techniques which are apparently not
from Kashmir, has been brought, you know, from other countries like Afghanistan.
And then you have a few things happening which are really, really local to that place.
So how people usually go about it.
So this is happening mostly in Srinagar in the Southern Kashmir region.
Okay.
So Northern Kashmir, they're not doing it so much because it's really wet out there.
In Southern Kashmir, what they do is they don't have a farm population of cannabis out
there.
So they would just go during the season and as soon as they find a good plant, they break
it.
They break it and they leave it there.
They break it, they leave it there and they mark the plants.
They remember where I broke the plants and I have to go back to those places.
After a few days or a few weeks, they would go back with a big polythene and they would,
you know, then collect all of the material that's on those plants and just bring it back
to a place where they're going to, you know, go about the rest of the process.
And the first thing that is done is they just spread it out in the sun, let it dry, let
the material dry completely in case there's some water, you know, some moisture in it.
Once it's completely dried, they just simply go about how people usually or traditionally
dry.
So if they take a cloth and you tie it over a plastic sort of like, what do you call it,
plastic sort of tub.
And then they just, you know, sieve the dry material over that, you know, pile after pile
and the resin is collected in the tub.
So that process is pretty much, I mean, similar to what you see in places like Afghanistan
and Pakistan, and I'm pretty sure this process has come from there.
But the interesting part and the part that is not seen or heard anywhere else is what
happens after that.
I mean, they don't actually stop there.
So what they usually do is they take that dry sieved resin and they will make it into
a ball.
I mean, they would, of course, just press it into a, you know, ball like thing inside
plastic and they would let it sit and, you know, cure a little bit so that those lipids
and, you know, cannabinoids can be, you know, separated and it'll be easy for it to, you
know, process it later.
I mean, not that they're thinking in those ways, but usually what happens when you're
curing it.
Now, after a few months, if you're doing it proper, then you would do it after a few
months.
If you're like, you know, a youngster from Srinagar who is just trying to, you know,
make some hash, they usually do it the same day.
So on that particular day, they did it the same way.
They took the hash and you need corn wraps, you know, the corn husk and they need to be
dried and they need to be cleaned before you're going to put resin inside them.
So what they do is they take the dry sieved resin and they completely, you know, just
muff them, just fill them up and tie it very tightly, you know, bound it in a way, wound
it with a thread.
Then they would put a cloth over it, which is a little wet or rather wet.
And then they would bound it again with, you know, some kind of thread.
Then they would light a fire and they are thrown into the fire, like directly to the
fire.
Now this fire is not being controlled.
You have no idea what temperature it is on.
You have no idea what temperature your hash is going to go up and down to.
And it's just all a matter of experience from that point onwards.
I mean, once you throw that, you know, little thingy into the fire, then you just have to
know when to take it out and just beat it into a snake like shape, which they do later
on.
And if you're late, then it'll be all burned.
And if you do it early, then it's just going to be a really messed up thing, which is not,
you know, properly homogenized.
But if you do it just right and you let everything just go to a liquefied form, but at the same
time, you bring it out and not let those cannabinoids and terpenes degrade to a level that it won't
even make you high.
Then you can do a perfect job because once it cools down, it comes out of the fire.
It is perfectly homogenized because you break it open and you look at the layers.
I mean, that tells the story.
I mean, pretty much that how well it's done.
So it's a very unique process.
But what I really felt, I mean, because somebody asked me a question that why would they do
it?
What would make them do such a thing?
Why could they just not cure it like they would do in Pakistan or Afghanistan, where
they just like, you know, pack it and store it and, you know, leave it for months on end?
Well, there's a good answer for that because, you know, you are in Kashmir.
I mean, this is not Pakistan or Afghanistan.
And, you know, things and the culture has been so much different.
And, you know, smoking hash is not seen something, you know, particularly good.
So these people have a pressure to not only harvest these plants, but at the same time,
process them and process them fast in a way or get it to a form where it does not smell
a lot, but it still gets you high and it's ready to go from the day one you make it.
And I think because the decarboxylation process is happening, you know, while you're heating
it and you're just speeding up, you know, that curing process, although it's very rough
and you shouldn't be doing it.
I mean, because you're just going to end up, you know, burning a lot of cannabinoids and
especially terpenes.
But that's the only way these people know.
And when they do it actually well, it comes out beautiful.
And it's like nothing else that you've ever had.
And as a matter of fact, when I met Bodhi in Allahabad, you know, in 2019 January, I
was able to bring some of the hash from Kashmir, which was in the powder form and some hash,
which was then made into this, you know, this corn husk hash, baked hash.
And then I also got some, which my friend, you know, our geek serpent had pressed in
in the modern ways with some heat and, you know, pressure.
So, yeah, I mean, it's a good question you ask, but we don't really understand.
I mean, what drives the whole thing, why they do it this way and not any other way.
But there certainly seems to be a cultural pressure and the way things have been evolving
in that place that they have an urgency to process everything quickly and just get it
to a condensed state, which is easy to hide and everything.
Yeah, of course, makes sense.
You know, different historical situation, they're going to do things a bit differently.
So, kind of in that same vein of historical things, I noticed in one of your posts, you
were talking about how sugarcane and cannabis have a very intertwined history.
And you go on to talk about how it was kind of transported by a lot of slaves that were
a part of the European colonialist kind of settlements.
Would you be able to just talk a little bit about that?
That's a really interesting point, I think.
Yeah, of course.
I mean, if you look at all the varieties which are going in West Indies, I mean, when I say
West Indies, so let me just make this clear, I'm speaking of Caribbean islands.
So, in India, we usually do not say Caribbean or Caribbean islands.
We refer to them as West Indies or West Indies islands.
So, when you look at the West Indies islands and, you know, and I'm just going to speak
about those places.
There are so many other places that could also share the same history, but we're just
not sure of them.
So, I'm only going to speak about them.
The cannabis varieties which are growing there, and I'm not aware of the many which are,
they seem to be, you know, a product of, you know, history, you know, what happened in
history.
Because when we had, you know, the colonial rule from, you know, the Britishers, so, of
course, you know, they had just figured out that, hey, you know what, the sugar that is
so expensive back in Europe, and it's almost like a luxury, like every goddamn person is
eating here.
I mean, the guy who doesn't have anything on him can still have some sugar.
So, they thought, you know, what they need to do is they need to produce it a lot more
so that they could make it abundantly, you know, available in their country, in their
region as well, so everyone can enjoy it.
And rightly so.
So, they started, I mean, of course, doing the surveys and they understood this is a
crop that would grow in tropical regions or subtropical regions.
And they started looking for those places and it just so happens at the same time they,
I mean, they had colonies at the West Indian Islands and they thought, wow, this is a perfect
place and these are islands, you know, we could just bring slave from, you know, these
places and put them here and make them grow sugar cane and, you know, just, yeah, I mean,
things really went in history, you know.
So, what they did was they got some people from Africa and some people from India, which
both were their colonies at that point in time.
And, you know, they put them there in West Indian Island and said, hey, you know what,
go ahead and just, you know, do our thing here at the farms.
They already had the farm set up and they started working there.
But just imagine this, these people are being taken on the ship.
So, it was only, you know, it only made sense to these people that, you know, we're not
coming back.
So, we have to take everything with us that, you know, we like to do on a daily basis.
And cannabis seems to be one of those things.
And this is a fact because we know that because if you go back into the, you know, the British
Commission report that they did on hemp and drugs, I don't remember the name exactly,
but there's a report that was published by the Britishers about the India and about the
use of cannabis in India and the cultural effects and the physical effects as well.
So, that tells us that, you know, even before that, there was a widespread use of cannabis
in India.
So, we know that these people took these seeds along with them to the West Indian Islands
and they started growing it.
And, you know, those seeds, I mean, those varieties readily acclimatized to those regions
because why the whole reason they were brought to West Indian Islands was because the temperature
and the climate was pretty similar to that of where they were living in South India.
So, most of these, you know, slaves were taken from Southern India and very rarely from Northern
India.
So, the cannabis varieties that they brought with them just readily took off.
And over time, I'm sure they must have adapted in a few different ways.
I've never been there, so I don't know what they look like or any idea.
So, that's the connection between them.
And, you know, even you could just see the same thing happening in the people as well
because they got people from Africa and India.
So, you had people in Africa, you know, who were like turned into Christians, okay, earlier
when they were in Africa.
And then you had Indians who were just Hindus.
So, now you have people in West Indies right now who have a lot of people.
They have very weird names which are half English and half Hindi like Shiv Narayan Chandra
Paul.
They have a Paul in their name, they have Shiva, they have Chandra.
And there's just so many examples, you know.
So, you just see the cultural amalgamation and, you know, the way history played out
in people and in their names and in their languages and, you know, the plant that they
grow there.
So, yeah, they sure can and cannabis go back a very, very long time in fact.
Wow, okay.
And so, do you think that this is kind of a bit of a two-parter, but do you think that
given many people consider some of these islands to have their own kind of native land race,
do you think that that's proof that it only takes, you know, a couple hundred years for
a land race to readjust and become a whole new land race?
Yeah, because see land race is a very broad term again.
I mean, it could cover, it could basically cover a lot of things, right.
So, if you go just by the word definition, it says that any domestic, any traditionally
domesticated variety at a certain, you know, geographical locale, right.
But at the same time, there are plants which were not domesticated, which were there even
before we were there.
And we know that for a fact, the plants have been in the forest like way before us when
we came here.
So, how do we account for those varieties?
So, those are the primordial land races.
But yes, if you're saying about, if you're talking about the regional land race varieties,
which I think would be a more appropriate term to use here.
Yes, that happens in as small of a time as 200 years, you can see these plant varieties
evolve and just become completely different varieties because of the selective environmental
pressure.
And of course, human beings are just all around this plant all the time.
So, you really have to track all the activities and understand their culture for you to really,
you know, paint a picture that what could have happened with this plant for it to become
like this today.
And once you understand their culture and you understand the environment and the history,
I mean, you can just paint a very comprehensive picture that how things came to be.
And that might just also give you a theme or an insight into, you know, how a cannabis
plant basically adapts to different terroirs.
And we just need a lot more data and a lot more studying from a lot more people.
But I mean, this is not something that cannot be done.
Yeah, certainly.
So, I mean, this is a bit of a weird idea I've had, but I'd love to hear your thoughts
on it.
But basically, I'm wondering if you've ever noticed that in areas where historically cannabis
was grown with other crops, like maybe say maize or sugarcane, like they were kind of
grown in the same general area, maybe even the same field.
Have you ever noticed that maybe those plants have increased IPM?
Because what I kind of wonder is like, were these two crops, be it corn, maize and cannabis,
were they ever grown side by side because maybe they benefited each other in an IPM
sense or have you never really seen much like that?
Sorry.
As far as the IPM is concerned, I think it might be the other way around, because even
if you look at the plants which are of the same family, like the cannabis family, you
look at stinging nettle.
I mean, nettles are of the same family as cannabis.
So, you do see that both of those plants are getting affected by similar pests.
And but that really, I mean, but that's not a thing like because cannabis plant was there,
that's why the pest must have gotten onto the nettle plant or because the nettle plant
was there, they made it the vector to ultimately reach the cannabis plant.
But I think the way it really works for a lot of other crops that grows along with it,
like maize and you could say wheat or even potatoes, that they may have certain benefit
in terms of like fixing nitrogen or something of that sort.
But as far as IPM is concerned, they do not because cannabis, as we know, is one of the
plant that produces aromatic compounds.
And some of the plants that we're talking about, like potato, maize and all that, they
just do not produce aromatic compounds like cannabis.
So, they just do not have the kind of protection against the pests and other insects as cannabis
as a plant has.
So, maybe cannabis provides them security from the pest.
But again, I don't know.
I've never looked into that, never thought of it, but definitely a great thought.
I'm going to make a note of it right now.
And next this year when I go out, I will try to look for that.
I will try to look for some conclusive data that could show clearly what's happening,
whether cannabis is helping the other plants not get a lot of pests or actually they're
using it as a vector to get onto the other plant.
So, I'll try to collect data and definitely get back to you this year.
Yeah, awesome.
Thanks so much for that.
Now, let's move on to some viewers from our questions that we had submitted just a couple
of hours ago and we got some good ones.
And so, the first one, I think it's going to be a little hard, but first question is,
do you think there'll be a time in the near future where Americans will be able to travel
through the farms of Pakistan and Afghanistan?
I mean, they're doing right now.
I mean, I don't really understand that question basically because people are doing right now.
It's only a matter of finances and it's only a matter of courage because see, nobody's
going to stop an American from getting a visa for Pakistan or Afghanistan.
I mean, if anything, it's the other way around.
It's hard to get an American or a European or Australian visa for people who are in Asian
countries, especially India, Pakistan, Afghanistan, right?
So, I think it's only a matter of courage and resources, I guess.
You can go there and you can roam around.
I mean, I've certainly seen a couple of French guys who are there.
They took some pictures, got some seed for some of the European seed banks recently.
But if you're maybe referring to it in a way that when things would legalize, then I'm
not sure if things are going to legalize very, very soon, but we don't know what's going
to happen in future.
And all we can do is just stay hopeful that it does happen and everybody could be out
in the open and flaunt their weed on Instagram without having to fear about getting abjected
or taken into custody.
Yeah, of course.
So, the next question is, have you ever found any land races that kind of have a strawberry
smell to them and specifically any Pakistanis with the strawberry smell?
I have smelled a few plants in highland regions, which is around Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh.
They had a distinct smell of strawberry, but they were just one odd plant which were growing
in a very variable population.
So, I didn't really think of getting those seeds and didn't really think that it's going
to help me get to that terpene profile.
But if you talk about Pakistani, I'm going to say no, because most of that stuff is like
really acrid and spicy and like toluene-like smell, like phenol-like smell.
Do you guys use a disinfectant?
It's called Ditol.
It has that phenol smell in it.
And you get that a lot.
You get that a lot, a toluene smell that comes from the whitener, the correction whitener.
People even use it to get high sometimes.
And so, those smells are pretty often found in Pakistani varieties.
But I think there was one Balochistani variety which came from our Balochistani friend that
he claims has apples and strawberry-like smell.
Now, I haven't started growing them yet.
So, I'm not going to go ahead and say if yes or no, but we'll see.
But I have complete faith because we're not talking about a cross-pollinated population
here.
These are the plants which have been selectively inbred by the family itself and they keep
it within the family.
So, I mean, if he's specifically pointing towards strawberry and apple, and they seem
to have a very good understanding towards the flavors because they're eating so many
different fruits over there.
So, I think I'll trust him and we'll see if it does come out exactly like strawberry.
I mean, that would be amazing because I've never had anything that is even close to the
strawberry.
And that's kind of, I wanted to ask, in fact, I wanted to ask you a question and I asked
that question to everyone that I speak of from the Western society that it's the
smells that people talk about.
I mean, often people talking about like smells like banana and people are talking about smell
like rubber.
And I've never smelled those things on plants.
I've never smelled a plant that was exactly like a banana or like exactly like rubber.
So, could you maybe tell me, I'm sorry, but I'm just curious.
I want to know, I mean, are there plants that really actually smell straight up like that?
Yeah, that's a really good question.
So, in terms of the banana one, I've smelled the popular clone only banana roji and stuff
like that in the States.
It smells like a candy banana, not like a real banana.
So, I can understand why you would say I've never smelled anything like banana because
I think the reality is no one's really smelled anything that smells like an actual banana,
but people have smelled things that smells like a candy banana, which is just probably
two or three of the main terpenes that come out of a banana, but obviously not a full
spectrum picture of what it actually is.
And then in terms of the rubber one, I hear people say that all the time, but I myself
have never smelled anything that smells like rubber.
I think maybe it's just a general term people use to describe a more acrid, maybe kind of
offensive smell.
But yeah, I would agree with you.
If we're going to be very strict about it, I've never smelled anything that smells like
a real banana or like real burnt rubber.
Okay, because I was really curious about that.
I had a word with, again, I don't know his name and I'm really bad with this.
I don't ask people's names.
Pip Sweet, you must know him.
He must be your friend.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I like Pip Sweet.
He's an amazing guy.
I mean, I've been speaking to him for some time now and I was really interested because
he had this variety that's called Rubber City and I just asked him, does that really actually
smell like rubber?
And I think what he said was really interesting because I think he said pretty much similar
to what you said that, well, it's not exactly closing your eyes and that you would be able
to imagine rubber like smell, but it's more like an oniony offensive smell that could
at times be felt like it is coming off as a burnt rubber.
So, I had to get a pack from him and I'm just going to grow and see what exactly it's
like.
I'm really curious.
So, I really want to see.
Yeah, yeah.
No, that's an interesting one.
I mean, I got a little follow-up question for that.
Do you have any issues getting seeds in from like America or the EU?
Seeds, I mean, like getting seeds from America to India or to India?
Yeah, yeah.
Like if people send you stuff, do you ever really have any issues with it or it usually
always makes it?
No issues at all.
I mean, India is very, very cool.
I mean, especially if it's coming from America or Europe, Australia, New Zealand, I mean,
these great countries, I mean, we don't really bother about that.
Yeah, if I'm getting seeds from Pakistan, Afghanistan, that's when we really tend to
have issues.
Yeah, understandable.
Okay.
Well, the next question I think is a really good one and the person says, what is one
of the land races that you've experienced?
I guess we should say regional cultivars if we're going to be correct.
That you've found that you would recommend for like kind of a home grower who's just
looking to start out with a land race.
They don't want anything that's going to get too unruly or really out of control, like
just to help them get their feet wet.
What would you recommend?
That's an amazing question.
I mean, because I think about it all the time because I mean, as much as I want to, you
know, motivate other people and talk about preservation, the ground reality is that people
have responsibilities and people have to feed their families and they have to, you
know, manage their space and do other work as well, right?
And that's what life is all about.
So in order to strike balance, there has to be some varieties, you know, who would let
you preserve a land race variety or an heirloom variety or like a regional variety.
But at the same time, it will not bother you a lot that it would interfere with, you know,
your work.
For an example, let's say you only have one tent, which is four by four and you're going
some OG Kush in there and you have Kerala Gold.
It's going to grow really wide and tall and eventually you would be forced to lift your
lights up.
But your OG Kush may not grow that tall and then it would have to be, you know, lifted
up or you would have to do some kind of makeshift arrangement.
So it will be a constant improvising, you know, which is not really a big problem though,
but everybody does not have the kind of schedule to be in their, you know, grow room all the
time and do these adjustments.
So I think as we discussed earlier, the Pakistani varieties are perfect.
I mean, they bring, you know, both, the best of the both worlds, you know, the narrow slim
leaf and, you know, the broad leaf varieties in a way that is just unparalleled.
And again, the variety and the variation is still there.
Nobody has selected it for anything.
Specifically, so you can pretty much, you know, turn your magic on them.
So Swabie would be one of those things, one of those varieties.
I mean, it has an amazing high, amazing high for a variety, you know, that people have
not heard of so much.
And it's very easy to grow.
I'm going to say that.
And, you know, it's not going to get, you know, all unruly and it's not going to become
like a swamp monster inside your tent.
You'll be able to control it.
So I think just, you know, keep an eye out for that Swabie line that's going to come
out.
He's going to, Mass Medical is going to, you know, release them pure in the long flowering
and the short flowering version.
And I'm sure he'll be working on some hybrids.
That's like his thing.
But yeah, those would be really good options to bounce on to if people just want to get
into and not really get into very deep waters straight away.
Straight away.
This is a great way to get a taste of it and not get into trouble.
Yeah, what a great answer.
So the next question we have from our viewer is, how do you know Baba Koh?
Okay, that's a very interesting story because initially I met him over the Instagram.
I came across his account, but I never really did send him any message because that's usually
how we were not working.
We had like stopped sending messages to random people and, you know, getting random seeds
from them.
So we were kind of like traveling out to places more, working more like that.
So at the same time, I had a friend in Delhi, you know, who's basically a South Indian,
but he was in Delhi at that point in time.
And he was also following him somehow.
I don't know what the connection was basically.
But Baba, he came to India because, you know, I'm not going to go into the details of his
affair because he was there for some kind of hospital related thing, you know, that
they have to come because they don't have that kind of services in Afghanistan.
And, you know, India just seemed to have a little better when it comes to, you know,
medical services, doctors and all.
So he was here for that and, you know, he wanted to smoke.
So he basically called, you know, the guys, you know, who live in Delhi, guys who are
usually doing the Balana stuff.
And, you know, they offered to give him some hash.
But I think because it was very costly.
So, you know, he was not sure whether or not he's going to get it.
So then subsequently, he contacted me and he told me, you know, hey, you know what,
this guy is from Afghanistan and he's in Delhi.
And, you know, this would be a great opportunity.
You guys can connect and see, you know, if you can guys can get some kind of trade going
for seeds.
I was like, sure, sure.
Give me the phone number.
And he gave me the phone number.
I sent him a WhatsApp message.
I was like, hey, how are you doing?
I follow you and I've seen some pictures, you know, cannabis, you're from Afghanistan
and whatnot.
And I told him, hey, you know what, like you're welcome to India and I would like to make
sure you're taken care of.
Just call my friends in Delhi and, you know, told them to get some hash to him ASAP free
of cost, of course, and make sure he's taken care of.
So that happened.
And, you know, he said, I'm going to remember that.
He went back and he did.
And, you know, he said, OK, you know, if you want seed, I could send you seeds.
And I told him that, you know, this is what we do.
We actually take seeds from indigenous communities or farmers directly.
You know, we give them out to other people who need it in the best.
And, you know, they kind of pay for it.
And, you know, that money could be distributed amongst people who are collecting it and people,
you know, who are connected to the operation in many different ways as they deserve.
Now, he was he was really game for that because, you know, of course, everybody needs some
financial help at the end of the day.
And, you know, I set up, you know, I spoke to these people at full power selection and
told them basically, you know, we're going to do this and we're going to do a preorder
and seeds were on its way.
And next thing you know, the seeds get busted.
So seeds didn't make it to India.
This is this is happening like beginning of April 2018.
OK, I got really nervous.
I was like, I have to get these seeds.
And again, you know, Baba told me that, hey, man, I'm game for this.
I mean, I will do anything.
You just tell me what I have to do and I will get this thing to you.
I mean, I absolutely have no problem.
It's just the way government works.
And what we realize at that point in time, the only way around it was to actually get
the guy, you know, actually fly the guy over to India and, you know, ask him to simply
just get the seeds because they're not going to take it out on the airport, because basically
to possess seeds is legal in India.
Because of the religious, you know, things attached to it.
So that's exactly what he did.
He flew along with so many different varieties and, you know, we picked him, we picked him
up and came to Delhi and from Delhi, we got him to, you know, our headquarters somewhere
near, you know, Punjab, Shivalik.
And, you know, we sat, we spoke.
I tried to understand the culture as much as I could, because, you know, language is
a little bit of problem, not much of a problem.
Because he does understand Hindi, you know, which is our language.
And but I don't seem to really understand, you know, the Arabic language or the Farsi
language that much.
So he speaks English, you know, as well, not as much, but, you know, as much as you could,
he could make you understand what he's trying to say.
So that was great.
We sat there for about a week and, you know, we went out to a few places, you know, roamed
around Punjab, had a good time.
He gave me the seeds and then, you know, we sent him back with all due respect.
And, you know, that's where we really started to work with those seeds.
And I think I did get to, you know, send him like a couple more times.
There were a few different varieties.
I went ahead and documented those varieties for him, you know, so that, you know, that
so not just seeds, but information could also become, you know, available to people so that
when they're growing it and if they see something peculiar, they can fall back to that cultural,
historical, geographical data and see if that has any relevance to it.
I mean, that's basically how the findings are made.
And yeah, that went on for about a year.
But then, you know, of course, we are a small collective and you got to understand, I mean,
you know, full power selection, even they're just like a couple of my friends.
So we can send out like a lot of orders.
So we have to, we can only do a limited amount of work.
But, you know, he had a massive amount of seeds and, you know, he had so much more coming in.
So, you know, it was only the best that, you know, he got in contact with, you know,
bigger seed banks who have the ability to take more orders and the ability to,
you know, send out more orders readily.
And, you know, that's exactly what he's doing, which is fabulous.
And I'm really happy, you know, that he's been able to do so much for himself.
And, you know, all the credit is to him.
I mean, like, you know, it's all been him.
He collected those varieties, he understood they need to preserve.
He took immense amount of risk getting those varieties out to these different places.
So, you know, I have a great amount of respect for him.
And, you know, he has really been a central figure in this whole movement.
And I think I was pretty lucky to have met him at certain point in my life.
Yeah, awesome.
What a great little recount on that introduction.
So the next question we had was,
what's the single most surprising smell you've come across from a regional cultivar?
Yeah, the single most, you know, weird or I would say weird smell was there was this
one plant that was growing in Baling Valley and it has a smell which is straight like ammonia,
like hydrogen, you know.
Should I say it?
I mean, in India, they use a cheap, you know, derivative that is, you know, used to color the
hair, you know, to bleach your hair as basically hydrogen, I think, if I'm not wrong.
And it has that stringent ammonia like smell to it, right.
And, you know, the same smell that comes from urine as well, because there's ammonia in it.
So I could smell exactly the straight ammonia smell from a plant.
It was a really ugly plant.
I have, I took a picture of that and I made a post about that.
And back in 2017, if you go down my, you know, feed, you can actually find that post from 2017.
And you can also look at the plant.
It looks weird.
It does not look at all like any of the plants which were growing there.
And, you know, the smell was something, I mean,
it was just awful.
I mean, awful in a very good way, straight ammonia.
Yeah, it sounds like you found like the regional cultivar equivalent of the roadkill skunk.
But there you go.
We'll have to look more for it.
So, the next question we had was, do you have any tips or tricks for people who are trying
to grow high altitude cultivars at sea level?
I don't really think, I mean, given that, you know, cannabis as adaptive as a plant
that it is, and rightly so, it's called the weed, you know, for that reason.
You never, what I've experienced from my growing, and I don't have a lot of experience,
but this is what I'm going to tell you from my experience, whatever I have,
that cannabis does not require like very special things.
You don't have to make it so hard on you and, you know, your growth.
You grow.
And if you keep it simple, I pretty much believe every plant does pretty much good,
as long as you're growing it in a 22 degrees to a 26, 27 degrees Celsius range,
temperature range, and, you know, relative humidities somewhere around like 50, 55, 60.
And, you know, you have a decent soil medium.
You don't really have to, you know, worry about things at all.
But on the other hand, if you are growing an equatorial variety,
and you happen to be living in a place which happens to be higher up in the latitude,
that means you can have a shorter season for flowering.
So then you have to, you know, then you have to ensure that, you know,
either you're working with a variety that's not going to flower, you know, past November,
or you just have to grow it indoors and, you know, put it into flowering straight away
instead of giving it veg time.
Because even if you grow those equatorials or highland narrowleaf varieties,
you know, straight away under 12 to 12, which is basically what induces the flowering in them,
they still go on to grow pretty much like four or five, six feet.
And if you veg them, then, I mean, it's really going to be a problem if you're not expecting.
Yeah, right.
They just get out of hand all of a sudden.
Cool. Okay.
So the final question from our viewers that they've submitted is,
have you ever made your way over towards kind of Thailand and down that way?
I have been to Burma.
I mean, I have to, you know, you can actually go to Burma, you know,
without a visa and without a passport.
So I've been to Burma, but I'm planning to go down Thailand this year.
And, you know, I have a great friend there.
They have a beautiful collective, you know, they're preserving
and, you know, other land races from, you know, different regions.
So I really want to go there and meet them.
I do have friends in Laos as well.
I have friends in Cambodia as well.
And, you know, I'm really meaning to meet them because I did get seeds from them last year
and I was able to help them.
I was able to, you know, give back to them.
And they were really happy, you know, that I told them something and I came through and,
you know, they kind of trust me with it.
So I'm just going to go and meet them in person and, you know,
establish a deeper relationship and try to collect some data as well first time.
Wow, that sounds really cool.
So now on to our last little quickfire questions before we wrap things up.
So the first one I had for you was, in your opinion,
what kind of little pocket or region of the world has really fantastic cannabis,
but just doesn't often get recognized for it?
Cold desert regions, which are basically in the Trans-Himalayan ranges.
I don't think, I think they're completely unheard of.
Nobody talks about them, yet they seem to have plants, you know,
which would rival most of the, you know, modern varieties only in terms of,
you know, resin production, not in terms of high or the structure,
but in terms of the amount of resin that they can produce.
They can pretty much be at par with some of the, you know, modern varieties.
Wow, yeah, you bang on right.
I hadn't heard of those at all, really.
So the next question is, what's the one type of cannabis that you've always been looking for,
but you've never really found, you know,
is it like a certain smell or a certain look?
Like, what are you still chasing?
I mean, I'm pretty much not, I mean, I'm not trying to say that I'm a big fan of cannabis,
I'm not trying to chase like a specific flavor or a specific kind of plant,
or what I'm rather trying to chase is as many places as I can, you know,
so that I have a rather complete picture of the evolution of this plant,
or at least I can, you know, forward this data to people who are competent enough
or have the scientific abilities to put a bigger picture together of,
how this plant evolved into these different types,
because although we can classify them and we can do all the labeling we want,
but that doesn't really tell us, you know, what actually happened,
how they evolved into these different and branched off into these different plants.
So what I'm really after is, you know, if I can just somehow get to all of these places physically
within this lifetime, and then, you know, concise that data in one,
like a book kind of thing, or I mean, not necessarily, but in one place,
and then, you know, other people can take that data and then they can,
you know, develop it further as we advance and, you know, as more scientific people
will be, you know, coming into the industry because it's no longer a stigmatized industry.
So what we're seeing, you're seeing a surge of, you know, scientists and, you know, engineers,
and even, you know, one of my friends is a software engineer, so they want to do it,
they don't feel like it's wrong anymore. So this is the time when we are going to
really see a very steep curve of, you know, the advancement in the understanding of cannabis
all across the world. But, you know, what is really going to be of the prime importance here
is going to be that data. And I mean, if you don't have that, if you don't really have the data and
those things are gone, and it's going to be really, really hard to really reconcile the complete
picture. Yeah, very valid answer right there. So, what is your favorite cannabis that you've
ever had, be it flower, hash, what's the single one that stands out the most in your memory as
the best ever? Best ever for me would have to be Lollap Valley. I mean, the Lollap Valley is,
I mean, I don't have words and I'm not even going to attempt to explain it in words. I'm just going
to say this is the best kind of effects, if I'm only speaking in terms of effects and nothing
else, the way it makes you feel, the place it takes you as a person when you get high on this.
So I like that place a lot. And, you know, other cannabis also takes me to these different places,
and I like them. But, you know, Lollap Valley, Northern Kashmiri varieties take me to a place
that is just unparalleled. And, you know, I just love it. I mean, you just get some seeds from me,
if you want, and grow them and smoke them. And you'll know what I'm talking about.
Music to my ears, my friend, I'll have to take you up on that. But I want to give you a good little
remix question. So, often we hear people talk about, you know, I got to try this Landre strand,
it wasn't really that good or something to that effect, you know, like standard Western person.
So here's the remix for you. Have you ever tried a more modern strand,
maybe like a Cali import or something, and you were like a bit disappointed?
I was, but I think that was primarily because it was not grown by me, it was grown by someone else.
And I felt that, you know, had it been grown properly, I mean, it would have certainly lived
up to the expectations. Because see, like I said, in the beginning in India, I mean, hybrid
weed sells for anywhere between 800 to $1,500 or $1,200 at least for an ounce. And the biggest
reason behind that is the potency that you cannot find in the regional varieties here. You just
cannot. I mean, the high is unparalleled in the hybrid repertoire that you guys have over there.
So it's very hard to be disappointed. I mean, I don't really understand, I mean,
you know, how can somebody be disappointed, but then at the same time, I can understand if
all you have is all of this good weed, then you tend to have a relative scale, you know,
which is mapped against some of the best varieties like CamDog or OG Kush. So then people tend to,
or headband like things, then people tend to like, you know, compare everything to that.
And by the virtue of that comparison, you know, some of the people who are regularly experiencing
these things could say that, you know, that this thing is not going to get you that high,
or it's not that enjoyable, or this is crap if somebody chooses to talk that way. Then,
but for us, it's really hard to say a hybrid sucks because I mean, we're like smoking varieties
mostly, you know, which are not that potent. Okay. So, you know, it's hard for somebody from India
to just smoke hybrid and say that it is not good, especially if it's coming from USA, because I see
a lot of good work happening in USA and there are so many people doing it. I mean, I think the plant
is in very good hands in America. Yeah, hard to argue that they're not progressing things forward
in a lot of ways. So, final question of the interview, this brings us to it, and this is
the one I wanted to ask you the most. If you could go anywhere and select seeds from any area,
any point in time in history, where would you go and what seeds would you want to get?
Okay. If I could go back in history and I could like, well, that's a good question. I'll have to
think about it because I've never thought about it before. So, just give me a second.
Take as long as you need, my friend.
Okay. Where would I want to go? Yeah. Okay. I think I know. What I would like to do is,
okay. And you could only go to one place? Yeah. Just one place.
Okay. Then I would like to go to that, you know, near that cave at exactly the same point in time,
you know, in Tibet, where they just found this evidence for, you know, some cannabis
which was used by, you know, some people some hundred thousand years ago. So, I would want to
be at that point in time and get some of those, grab some of those seeds while those primitive
gentlemen are, you know, smoking on their cannabis. I just take my time machine and come back.
Hell yeah. Just get that primordial stuff. Yeah. I'm all for that.
Yeah. I'm all for that. What a brilliant answer. Well, that just about brings us to the end of it.
Did you have any comments or shout outs you wanted to make? Oh, no, not really. I think
you were really able to, I mean, just walk over, I mean, all these things and then you asked some
things which I hadn't even thought about. So, really, I'm just all empty here, man,
like unless you have a question. No, no, no. That's awesome, my friend. Well, I mean,
thank you so much for joining us on the show, Irizing, and, you know, dropping all the knowledge
about the land races and the local cultivation. I think people are going to really love this one.
Thank you so much. I really want to appreciate you from the bottom of my heart because, you know,
I'm a big fan. And let me tell you before we go, I mean, 2017, I think was the year that
I heard your podcast for the first time, man, you know. So, I've known about this thing for
such a long time. And, you know, it is an absolute privilege to be here today and be
able to speak to you and share my thoughts through your reputed platform. Thank you so much.
Oh, man, the pleasure is all mine. And there we have it, guys, a four-hour block of pure
information download straight to your brain from your boy, Irizing.
I'm so appreciative.
So much I didn't know about Indian stuff. I hope you guys have learned a lot. And like me,
I hope you're excited to go to India, do your own land race hunt now.
As always, huge shout out to Corporate Biological Systems, best predator,
mites, microbial products, and artificial feeds in the game. Huge shout out to CT now,
guarantee on satisfaction, not just germination. And as always, big love to the Patreon gang. You
guys are the best. Dragonfly Earth Medicine, we love you guys. Long time.
I'll see you for the next one, guys.
