Hello and welcome to the next episode of the podcast. A cannabis podcast for budding enthusiasts.
This episode as always is brought to you by our amazing sponsors.
Seeds here now, your number one seed bank in the game.
Check them out, not just for guarantee on germination but also satisfaction.
Why would you mess with anywhere else? They only stock the best.
Also 420 Australia, your number one store for 420 lifestyle and apparel.
And finally, our big thank yous to Organic Gardening Solutions, your number one stop for all your organic gardening needs.
As always, big shout out to our friends at Dragonfly Earth Medicine and to the Patreon gang. You guys help make this show happen. We love you so much.
On this episode, we're joined by our friend from Europe, Karma, to answer all those questions about OGs, Sours and the old school Dutch genetics.
Stick around guys, this one's a good one. Let's get into it.
Alrighty, so a big thank you and welcome to the one and only, the OG master himself, Karma. Thanks so much for joining us today.
Hello, good to be here.
So, the first thing I wanted to ask you, what are you currently smoking on?
I'm smoking on some sour mamba at the moment.
Ah, what's that one again?
That's a mamba cut times a sour diesel.
Okay, and how do you find that one? More sativa, more indica?
This pheno is a bit more on the sour side, but it's like typical hybrid weed. I wouldn't call it sativa, even though it flowers a bit longer, it's a bit looser in bud structure.
Okay, and overall, would you describe yourself as more of an indica or a sativa guy?
No, I really smoke the whole spectrum.
But, like, it depends on what I'm doing. Like for every occasion, yeah, there's like a different weed.
So, I do like smoke sativas. I smoke sativas more during the day or when I'm going into nature, when I'm doing artwork, things like that.
Then I like smoking sativas. In the end of the day, in the evenings and stuff, yeah, then I'm all about OGs and heavy indicas.
Yes, I can very much relate on that point. So, take us back. What was your first experience with cannabis?
Well, let me start off with that. I'm Dutch. I was born in the 70s. So, yeah, when I was pretty young, it was pretty accepted in Holland.
So, I smoked my first joint when I was like 13. It was Moroccan hashish.
Ah, hell yeah.
Because in those days, there wasn't even that much weed here yet, even. There was like Jamaican and Thai weed, a little bit of the first Dutch type grown weed, yeah, which was not that impressive, to be honest.
So, yeah, most people smoked Moroccan hash in those days. So, yeah, I got a little piece of Moroccan hash and tried smoking it.
And was it in a joint or just through like a pipe or something?
No, it was in a joint with Dutch tobacco and, yeah, it wasn't that good, to be honest, either. I had to cough a lot because I never smoked anything before that.
So, did you get high the first time you smoked?
Yeah, I did get high. I did get high. But I was really nauseous as well, I think, from smoking tobacco first time.
Yeah, definitely. It's interesting how interlinked tobacco and hash are within the Netherlands scene. Is that a trend you continued to do as you kept smoking?
No, I smoke my weed pure now these days. I still smoke like Moroccan and Nepalese hash. I do smoke that with tobacco. I smoke weed pure because tobacco like, it ruins the whole flavor of it, I think.
So, I always smoke weed pure. I smoke mostly bongs, not so much weed in joints.
You're a man after my own heart. We need to have a sesh. You're hitting all the points that I do.
So, what I found very interesting is my first ever weed experience, I think it was 2009, 2010, I went to Holland and I tried weed. And this was before I was really into weed seriously.
It was just when I was starting. So, I don't remember too much. Sadly, I didn't try all the different strains, all that type of thing. But I remember trying the hash and I tried it with tobacco.
And there's this undeniable, how should I say, kind of romance within when you mix tobacco and hash. And though I'm pretty strictly anti-tobacco, I'll let people off if they're smoking hash with tobacco.
Why do you think it blends together so well?
Well, in Dutch culture, the first hashish that came from Morocco and Nepal and Afghanistan, there they all smoke it with tobacco. So, I think that has to do with what started it off.
These days, people here, it's just how they're used to it as well. So, there's not much people that smoke pure weed here even. Most people here still smoke with tobacco and that counts for a big part of Europe as well.
The last years, it starts to change a little bit.
Yeah, okay. So, I mean, Bodhi raised this point many, many moons ago. The art of mixing or blending different herbs together hasn't really been explored too much, especially outside of Amsterdam if you rule out hash. Do you think there's something more there that we could learn, kind of in the way that concentrates evolved or do you think it's kind of limited?
I definitely think different herbs in combination with cannabis can give different effects. I mean, the tobacco, even when you smoke weed with tobacco, you get a very different high than when you smoke weed pure. It's very different.
The Moroccans used to say that if you wouldn't mix tobacco with it, you would fly away. They say that it keeps you on the earth.
I like that. That's a cool idea. So, what type of hash is your favorite then?
I would prefer high quality Nepalese, but that's very rare these days. Also here. But Moroccan, I still smoke mostly Moroccan. I'm very picky though. So, from what's here, I probably can only smoke the top 5%.
Yeah. No, I think a lot of people can relate to that point, even if it just came down to flour. But I guess I'd love to know from you, what are your top picks for the coffee shops in Amsterdam or do you just not even go to them?
These days I almost don't go to them anymore. But for good hashish and nice hazes most of the time, it's the old Damkring on the Handboogstraat. That's a great coffee shop. Very fair price. The names are real. You get really what's fucking on the menu.
Who else? If you like all the modern stuff, one of my young friends, he does the plug. He has all the modern new stuff that all the younger people like. Who else is good? Voyager. Voyager is really nice. They have a smaller menu, but it's always nice. They care a lot for what they put on. Those 3 shops are probably good ones to visit if you go to Amsterdam at the moment.
Solid advice. I can never say it right. Is it the Damp King? I'll just probably cut and paste your one in.
It's the Damp King. That's what they say in Dutch.
I hear about it all the time.
It's a smoke circle. If you translate it.
How do you think they became the cream of the crop? Because everyone talks about them.
They've always been very good. Now a friend of mine runs the old Damkring. He's just a guy that cares a lot about all of it. He cares a lot about it. He's been in it really long. He has a great network. He's very honest and he cares about it. He's willing to pay a bit more when it's really good.
He's just a fair guy. For a lot of the Amsterdam coffee shops, they're so commercial now. They'll put on names, all kinds of stuff. This is still an old style, fair, honest menu. Also, good people running it.
That's really good to hear that there are a few shops who are still embodying those good traits. I'd love if you could just take me back for a minute. What was it like through that renaissance of the cannabis scene? Probably late 80s, early 90s when all of the big Dutch companies were still in existence. Neville was there doing his thing and all the rest. Were you a part of the scene back then?
I started growing in the late 80s, early 90s. Those first times were just a few plants outdoors. I was still pretty young at that time. From 95, I really started to kick it in.
The fun thing is, these days here, it's not as free as it used to be. I remember back in the day, I could have cannabis plants in the front of my house. I was living behind the police station and there was never a problem. Now, you can't do anything like that. That's definitely not possible.
Was there good quality genetics floating around at that time or was it still a bit limited?
No, I think that until early 2000s, there was quite a lot of diversity. That's because there were a lot of small growers.
Like moms, people that only live in a small house, do a little bedroom. You get a lot of people that are home growers that do small rooms. You have a lot of diversity and also a lot of quality.
Then they changed the rule here that they could kick you out of your house. Then all these small ones stopped, which was in early 2000s. That really changed it. I think there was more diversity before 2005 than after. Then it started to go down.
What were the first strains that you were growing?
My first things were Viking, Early Girl, Silver Pearl. Those were some of the first things I grew.
It's very interesting that you mentioned Viking because that's one which gets thrown around a bit in Australia as one of the possible strains that's used for the commercial cash cropping scene. Did you get the impression that that's what the strain really was?
That was a pretty early finishing outdoor variety. It was very wild, so it's very leafy. It was very strong. It makes huge buds as well. It did yield a lot. We grew it outdoor. That's what it was for here at the time. I got it as a clone.
Interesting. Were clones passed around rather freely back at that time?
It was even legal. You even had ads in the newspaper and stuff.
Do you think that this may have led to people getting questionable clones?
Those days it was not that commercial. Everybody that ran it, they were like old hippies and the hippie people. It was a very different type of scene in those days as well. Now it was all positive.
It was all positive.
Wow, what a different world back then. When was the first time you started to look at the idea of breeding?
That was when I was working in a coffee shop for a couple of years. The things you get offered to buy, because that was my job. I used to stand at the back door as they call it in Holland.
There wasn't that much diversity. The grow shops, which is where the clones were sold in those days, they only had two or three different things you could pick from. Everybody in that neighborhood would grow only those two or three things.
The Dutch people didn't grow with seeds a lot. They were so spoiled by having those clones from early on and just getting them at the shop where they needed to buy their light and everything else as well. That's when I started to grow from seed. After I grew from seed, then it went really fast.
Do you think that having an environment where clones are freely available does hamper people popping new seeds and finding new genetics?
It definitely makes it so that less seeds are popped. People are lazy, I guess. Or they think it's easier. Or they're scared. If people have never grown from seed, they're a bit scared for it as well.
I can see that with some of the Dutch people. I know people that have been growing for many years and they've never germed a seed. They're just scared of it. They're like, oh no, I heard about you can get a male or you can get a hermie. Then everything can be full of seeds. They're scared.
Which they should not be, to be honest. Even though I always advise people if they do selections to do it separately from your cash crops and your income type things.
It raises an interesting point. How do you feel about people who live in countries where cultivation is illegal and they don't want to pop new seeds because they're too dependent on the money for their livelihood?
I guess in general, do you feel like people should try to keep an external job to cannabis if they live in an illegal country so that they have the freedom to experiment with their grow or it's okay to be locked into that production mode?
I think it's okay to be locked into a production mode. If you can spare one light, that's all it takes. You can just pop seeds even in a little tent with just one light. You can just keep on popping seeds there in the corner.
If you only have one light, then you're not the type that will keep moms. If you like diversity and it's for your own smoke, then I would always go from seed. I would just keep on popping seeds and you get a lot of diversity. You see all different kinds of things because cannabis is so wide. Most of us have not seen a lot of things that are there.
Yeah, most certainly. So, if we just loop back to yourself again, what was the first ever cross you made when you did start breeding?
I was just starting with regular seeds from Sansi and just starting to in-cross them and stuff. Not even crossing them out to anything else. Just keep making seeds every generation and just playing around and stuff. I was just learning it myself. That was probably the first.
Okay. Were you aware of how good the genetics around you were? I'm assuming it's 1995, you had access to Sansi stock. This is often regarded as the golden period. Did you feel that way at the time?
I think at the time, all I knew is that that was the standard. At that time, I didn't think. I mean, I popped other things that I didn't like as well in those years. But if I look back now, there's a huge difference that everybody knows. Since the law changed here and they were not allowed to grow for seed anymore.
A lot of people lost a lot of genetics and a lot of moms and stuff when it all had to go underground. So, that's why a lot of that changed, which is a big pity. I mean, the Dutch are very good at doing these things. But if it becomes small and illegal and you lose moms and stuff, which happens, then it can be really hard.
And what do you feel was the ultimate downfall of the Dutch breeding scene, given it was at the pinnacle at that time?
They couldn't even say that, of course, as well. They're not going to make a public statement saying, oh, yeah, well, we're doing illegal stuff and we got busted. So, they never told the people that it changed.
Yeah, I can understand that. And so, I guess the question has to be asked. Do you feel like any of those really, really elusive old school clones are still around or do you think they're all just gone now?
No, there's definitely still some old plants still alive. I mean, I keep some of these, the old nettle cuts. I keep those for a long time already. I have a really old Hindu kush cut, which is more than 30 years old. I still keep a K2 cut, which is from the late 90s.
No, there's still some plants around that kept the time and stuff. But they're cared for by a little group or cells. Things always need to be in multiple places for it to survive longer times because everything goes wrong sometime. It's that simple.
Yeah, definitely. We'll have to loop back, have a chat about those nettle clones in a minute. But just to kind of keep the linearity of things, when you were doing your breeding and you were kind of first starting out, was there anything else besides just that allure of new variety, which attracted you towards it? Did you kind of think, oh, you know what, I think I could do probably a better job than what's been done thus far?
No, that didn't come until a few years ago, to be honest. I thought, fuck, I think I'm pretty okay at doing this. That only came when huge numbers were grown out in the States.
If you grow bigger groups of all of them next to each other, then you can see the difference, which was a bit more vigor, less phenovariation, things like that.
Yeah, certainly. So, when did you think to yourself, you know what, I'm going to take this seriously, I'm going to pursue it kind of full time and I'm going to make this my new gig?
Yeah, I always was just breeding and I was on the forums and stuff and it was all hobby. I shared some seeds with some friends, but I didn't want to sell anything. Then I entered an ICMAC Cup because they asked me.
Then the guy running that, he said to me, you got to sell seeds to me. So, that kind of pushed me and that kind of started it, to be honest.
Yeah, that's later, like 2007, probably, maybe even 2007, 2008. Before that, I never sold a seed. I made a lot of seeds and gave them away and all my friends and we all grew them and people on the forums, I shared them and things like that, but they were never sold before that.
Okay, and what was the first project that you created that caused you to go down the rabbit hole and you kind of thought, you know what, I might work this one a bit more forward?
The Happy Brother, which is that old Hindukush cut, that was a thing that was a clone only thing here. I thought, oh, this needs to be in seed. So, that was kind of my first really aimed project I did, which to be honest, in my eyes, was not the biggest success.
That's why it's not there anymore. I'm going to restart the whole project from zero.
Okay, it's interesting you bring that up because I had some questions about that because I've actually got the genetics in front of me in terms of what you did with the Happy Brother and to my surprise, you paired it with the ChemD, which I mean, that's not too surprising. But what I found surprising was that like people in the past, you had felt that like the Hindus or the Afghanis in general were a good match for the ChemDog genetics. Do you still stand by that?
If I had to do it today, I'm probably going to restart it. I would definitely use something different. But I will use an Afghani though. I think an Afghani would be good to be honest.
So, like an Afghani ink cross type of thing?
Yes.
And how would you describe the Happy Brother clone in general?
Well, at the time, that was the strongest tasting weed that I've ever smoked at that time. Now, there are a few things that went over it. But at that time, it was extremely strong. It was like really hard, small nuggets. And it was really strong. Like really, really strong.
It kind of has a little bit of an OG type structure, but it's more leafy. It's very resinous, light green. It has a very specific flavor as well, which I don't see in cannabis a lot, to be honest.
Do you think it's one that's just not quite valued and has fallen by the wayside or it's just that unique?
No, I think there's someone, must be a few other people that still keep it as well. Yeah. So, no, it is a very, it is pretty unique plant from what I see today. And from what I have seen myself coming from seed, from all kinds of sources.
But I've never grown certified Hindukush landrace seeds that are like 100% Hindukush landrace, yeah? Which is hard to find any certified landrace today, to be honest. Yeah. So, there's no material for me to compare it with on that.
So, if you could just kind of click your fingers and get access to any landrace you wanted, which one would you want to work with the most?
I'm probably going to have to pick two and that'd be Afghani and Thai.
Oh, good selection. Did you ever get to try any of the old school Thai?
Yeah, we used to have a lot of Thai imports here in the old, older days. So, yeah, I would definitely do Thai. Thai is all about, by the high, yeah? And then the Afghanis would all be about their power, yeah? And also I like the flavor of, I think a lot of the strong flavors and smells that people like in some of these strains are Afghani based, yeah?
Yeah, certainly, certainly. And so, just Afghani in general or is there one specific you kind of gravitate towards? Because these days it seems like we're starting to see more diversity within Afghanis and they're not just one group, they're kind of subdivided into the different regions. Is any one region particularly calling out to you or you're just happy with whatever?
No, I do like, well, I wouldn't go for Pacific region, but I do like the shorter, broad leaf type versions, yeah?
For sure, for sure. I think that's kind of the ones that speak to me as well. So, perfect little segue question. What do you think about the history of OG overall? You know, you kind of made the reference earlier on that the Happy Brother reminded you a little bit of OG in some ways. What do you think is the backstory behind it?
Yeah, that's, well, all these years, yeah, and all the stories and everything and stuff. I wasn't there, yeah? So, there's not much I can really say on it that would be like genuine and certified. All I can say are things that I hear, read or have been told, yeah?
Yeah.
And I think most of those things are already like open in there, yeah? I do 100% think it's genuine that my friend Josh was one that grew it the first in California and stuff and blew it up there. But yeah, it came from Florida. Then what happened before that, I don't know, yeah? And what it is, I don't know at all.
Yeah, definitely shout out to Josh D, really nice guy. I was going to follow this question up by saying, you know, we've seen that the whole TK Origins crew is slowly coming out of the woodworks. Do you tend to believe their story? I remember I spoke with Josh at the Emerald Cup and he said, yeah, he's pretty sold on the story.
Yeah, I don't know. Like I said, I wasn't there, so I have nothing to verify anything that anyone says about it, yeah? I mean, I know Josh well, but I don't know anything before that kind of thing, so.
Okay. And so, how do you think we went from having, let's just for argument's sake say that the Josh D cut was the original or the TK, they're kind of very similar. Let's say that's the original. How do you think it went from there to the point where we've got all the different OG cuts? Do you think that they were just like crosses made with the original or it was just stuff locked within it and they were kind of bag seed? How do you think we got there?
Well, there's multiple things happening there at the same time. One is, it did make, like every pound would have probably like four seeds or whatever, yeah? When Josh and his crew and everybody grew it, yeah, in the beginning. So, those seeds would be germed, yeah?
And then there were a lot of people when the cut kind of was shared with other people and stuff, yeah? People wanted to know like, this is my OG, yeah? I grew this, yeah? This is mine. So, they all started to name it different as well, yeah? So, that's where kind of the mess started to be honest, yeah?
And then you had that people started calling the bag seed the same thing as the plant, the bud they found it in and not labeling it like that, yeah? Which you see a lot today as well. So, yeah, then it all gets like so messy, yeah? And because this is all like underground and everything, yeah? It's going to be hard to really find a solid or like a hundred percent proven type of thing yet, yeah?
It will always just be people saying things now.
Do you feel like that does explain why some of the OG cuts are really lemony and yet, you know, the Josh D cut, it doesn't really have any lemon at all or do you think it was just locked inside it?
Well, there is another thing, yeah? Some people will call some smells lemony while other people say that's not lemon as well, yeah? I see that when I give like weed and some OG nuggets, yeah? To a few different people, let them all smell it. And some people that almost never smelled weed like that, they say it smells lemony while the other ones that smoke OG say, oh, this doesn't smell like a lemon, yeah?
Yeah.
So, I think it's pretty hard with that even on that part as well. There is more lemony type OGs, more pine soul, more piney, more earthy, yeah? All those flavors and then in different percentages, yeah? They're all OG, yeah?
Yeah.
Yeah, definitely. And I can't remember who said it but I think it might have even been Caleb from CSI, forgive me if I'm wrong. But basically, someone told me something along the lines of like they rounded up the OGs and they said, oh, yeah, we're going to give them the same OG clone.
Yeah, definitely. And I can't remember who said it but I think it might have even been Caleb from CSI, forgive me if I'm wrong. But basically, someone told me something along the lines of like they rounded up all the different OG cuts and grew them all out and there was really only like two or three different OGs across what was meant to be like 40 different cuts.
They were just, as you said, just different grow conditions, different noses, describing different flavors. Would you be happy to believe that that could be true?
Yeah, I'm a bit surprised though that on 40 it would be only three different things, yeah? I would have expected a little bit more but yeah, they're definitely multiple the same, yeah? Under different names, 100%. If you collect all kinds of OG cuts from everywhere, you'll definitely have the same clone under different names.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. I think I might be mistaken on some of the finer details of that. But yeah, I think you got the point more or less correctly. And I think one of the things people say to me is that the SFV cut, so to speak, people will call that a myriad of different names.
People have said to me that the Larry is definitely different to the SFV and there's a few others that are definitely different. But some of those other ones you hear about with a little bit more obscure that they're all just really the same thing, just like a lemon OG.
Yeah, like with Sjoerd, we grew probably like seven or eight of the cuts at the same time and they were different, yeah?
Yeah.
They're all a bit older type cuts, yeah? They were all different. They were all different. They were all straight OG but they were all different, yeah?
And then sometimes I think as well, if a clone is not kept right, yeah? Or it's in too hot of a room for a long time, all these things, it gets like PTSD, yeah? And then it changes. Some people call it genetic drift but I don't think it, I don't call it genetic drift, yeah? Because if you keep that plant really well for a year and you treat it really well, it comes back by itself as well.
Hell yeah. So that's an idea which has been kind of expressed by a few of our guests in the past. Do you believe that there is a way to rejuvenate the plant indoors? Because most of our past guests, when they kind of echo that sentiment you just expressed, they'd say, oh, you kind of got to get it outside, get it under the sun and that'll really rejuvenate it a bit. Do you find you're able to do it indoors, just in a really well-maintained environment?
No, I did it with all the old cuts I have, they go outdoor every year.
Yeah, okay. Really reinvigorates it with that life.
Yes, yes. Very rich soil.
All right.
And then like a week before flower, that's when take off new cuts and then move them inside again.
Yeah, definitely. Well, we'll loop back to that in a minute. I guess the last question I wanted to just quickly ask on the topic is, how do you feel about the rise of tissue culturing and kind of the meristem culturing as a way of rejuvenating these plants and getting them back to their former glory? Do you feel like it's something you'll explore more or are you still just kind of waiting to see how that technology pans out a bit more?
Oh, that's the whole future, yeah. No, it's perfect. It's great. It works really well as well.
Do you see the price point coming down to the point where pretty much every old clone will be tissue cultured eventually or it's just those really select standouts?
Oh, no. I think there will be huge genetic libraries made into tissue culture, 100%. Yeah, 100%. And the more legal it becomes all over the world, I think the whole future will be just that, yeah.
If it would be legal in the whole world, it would push away a big part of the seed market, 100%. You would sell a tissue culture, yeah. You would create and breed things, but you would sell the tissue culture to people then.
Yeah, it's definitely a future outcome which isn't really discussed as much.
No, but you look at it from a client's point, it's very logical, yeah. It's very logical.
Yeah, I agree. So, this brings us to the first big question that I think people were waiting for. When and how was it that you came about to decide that the Helz OG was the OG that you wanted to work with?
Well, those cuts I got in, let me think, must be 2008, 2009. I had that and the SAV, yeah, but the SAV died. So, this was the only original, well, one of the older OG cuts from the US I had at that time as well. The rest I had was all from seed.
So, that was one of the reasons, to be honest, yeah. Apart from that, I like it a lot, yeah. It's very strong. It's got a serious kick to it compared to some of the other ones. It's not as light green as most of the OGs.
The cut itself doesn't show much purple, but the gene pool definitely has quite a lot of purple in it. Yeah, and the cut that I got did have some PTSD problems and not that much vigor and stuff as well, yeah. It took like almost three years before it really came back to good power. So, yeah, seeds are always a good thing then.
Definitely. I mean, limited availability can often be the reason for a lot of things. You mentioned there's not a lot of purple in the gene pool and it's amazing you mentioned that because I had a question specifically about that where I was saying a lot of the Biker or the Helso OG lines that you've worked, they tend to be pretty green. There's not a lot of purple in them and it's kind of like a bit of a polarizing thing for people.
Some people see purple and they just put off. They think it's weak, can't be good. Do you tend to fall into that same camp or do you think, no, it's just purely a genetic thing?
Well, I think the strongest weeds that I've smoked were not purple, yeah, and there is definitely weaker purple things just as there is weaker green things as well. So, yeah, there's some strong purple type things, yeah. Like even the cookie type gene pool and stuff, yeah, that's not weak weed, yeah.
There's stronger, much stronger stuff but it's not weak, yeah. So, then there's some other strains which I think are pretty weak. They are purple. So, I understand why people have that thought or say things like that but I don't think it's that easy or you can put it over like that easy, yeah. There's definitely strong purple weed as well. It's that simple.
Yeah, okay. I agree with you on that one. So, just to quickly loop back to the Hells OG, if you weren't able to work with the Hells Angels OG and you were still limited by that selection you had, which OG would you have opted to work with next in line?
The OG, JG cut. That's the, some people call it Jew goals.
Wow, that's a rare one. We don't hear about that outside of the DNA crew.
Yeah, that cut comes from a friend of mine, a BB. He's from Kali Kush Farms. They are the originators of, they have that cut since the old days, yeah. And it has that name because when one of, a kid in their crew, when he grew it, yeah, and he's a Jewish kid, yeah, then it was word gold, yeah, because he just grew it the best.
That's why it was called that, yeah. It was the little kids, they called him the Jew, so it was the Jew's gold, yeah. That's why it's called that, yeah. It's not negative at all. That's just a very flavorful, very strong, it yields really nice as well, yeah.
That's just like, for me, that's an all-rounded OG, yeah, that I personally like, probably like the most of all the older OG cuts.
Yeah, it's an interesting one. I've spoken to many people about it and I mean, the first kind of point of view I had expressed about it was that some people kind of doubted it existed, like in the sense that no one disputes kosher as a good strain, unquestionable.
However, when I was asking some people about the Jew gold, they were like, oh, you know what, you never really saw photos of it or anything until well after kosher was out. And some people had even thought, well, maybe, you know, the original was produced just to explain where things came from, if you get what I mean.
No, it is a clone. I don't know the background much before that, to be honest, but they've been growing that for a fucking long time, yeah. Way before DNA entered it and then made the kosher kush seeds, yeah. Way before that. That cut's been growing a long time before that. I smoked it way before they entered it, that's why.
Yeah, okay. And so how do you feel about the DNA crew? They're quite polarizing in many people's eyes.
Yeah, I have no problem with DNA, even though like this kosher thing, there's a lot of, I don't know, those are not things that I, I'm good with everybody, yeah. So I don't like to go into those things. I know everything. Let me put it that way, yeah. I know all the backstories and everything that really happened and things like that.
I just don't like talking about that stuff.
Yeah, okay. What about some of the more blatant kind of questionable breeding practices that have occurred? Like, for example, we've had guests on in the past, such as Breeder Steve, who have had their issues with Barney's Farm, given that, you know, they're blatantly ripping off one of his strains. How do you feel about those situations where it's a little more clear cut?
Let me just be honest about it, Dan. Yeah, about almost the whole Dutch thing and what these companies do kind of these days and what a lot of them kind of are, yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, they'll find something from someone and then just make it theirs. That's what happens, yeah. It's the same with the kosher thing. Yeah, they bought that wheat, they entered it and then made the fucking strain out of it. And then called it that. Yeah, they didn't even have to cut. So that's how those things go. And then, yeah, Barney's, there's loads of them. I don't even like to call the names because then I'm like pointing at them. Yeah, but they all do this type of stuff. Yeah.
And they've been doing that for many years. Most of these things are not bred by them. Yeah. They'll find someone like you or someone else or like me or whatever. Yeah. And you showed him something. Yeah, they'll take it.
Certainly not a point of view we're hearing for the first time. A lot of people have said things along this line, but it's nice to get clarification from someone who's so, you know, kind of connected with that scene.
Yeah, no, I'm connected. And like I said, I'm in all these different lines in the scene. Yeah. So I'm still connected to everyone in the down market, in the shade. But I'm also connected to people that are standing in the spotlight. Yeah. And all of these people love cannabis, though. Don't get me wrong. Yeah.
It's just that I think the commercial and then the pressure and everything like that. Yeah. Made it go that way. And you also have to be honest. Yeah. You have to start somewhere. Yeah. Genes don't fall from the sky. Yeah. So you always have to get it somewhere or from someone as well. Yeah.
Yeah, most certainly. Most certainly. So I guess my next question is, it's a little different, but I'd love to get your perspective on it. How did the Dutch scene react when Cookies first came out? Because it kind of, you know, took over a lot of scenes. Was that the same case in Holland?
Well, the first time Cookies came here is when Jigga came over here as well. I don't know which year it is. 2013 or 2012 or 14. I don't know. It's one of these years of the high times Coppy came here. That's when he showed people a lot of the people that didn't go to the US had not seen it before that.
But when he was away that same year, you had Girl Scout Cookies on menus. Yeah. But it was not Girl Scout Cookies. Yeah. It was weed that was purple. I think it took like probably three years, something like that. When the Girl Scout Cookie Forum cut kind of went to Europe and things like that, then you started seeing it. But it's more like in the still in the underground. Yeah.
With like smaller growers and the forum people. These days, yeah, you can get by Cookies. These days it's like, yeah, it's there. Not many Dutch people grow it though, but they don't like it because it doesn't yield enough for them. They're used to growing amnesia, which yields a lot. Yeah. It's very easy to grow no matter what you do. If you feed it too much, it doesn't matter. So yeah, they all grow amnesia here.
How do you feel about the fabled Core Cut of Amnesia? Is it a staple for you or it's just a bit eh?
Yeah. Okay. So it's just kind of that nice balance of all things.
Yeah. It's a really good plant. Yeah. It's not my favorite weed, me personally. Yeah. But it's easy to grow. It's very strong. It can take a lot of abuse. It has a high THC percentage. Yeah. It breeds pretty nice as well. Yeah. If you like that stuff. Yeah. So it's a good overall clone and plant. Yeah.
Yeah. Okay. So if we jump back to your own breeding for a moment, it seems to me like your first major cross that kind of started to get you widespread attention was the Biker Cush. Would you agree with this analysis and how did you feel when it initially took off?
Yeah, I think OG is definitely the thing that made me noticed. And I think the reason was at that time, yeah, when that came out, almost every OG seed that came out, no matter if they were regular or whatever, they had like a lot of herm problems. Yeah. And this line had way less. Yeah. Like it's just a small percentage. Yeah. And I think that's the thing that got noticed.
Yeah. So do you feel like crossing OG with things, there is an intrinsic risk with it because there's this debate which surrounds OG and how it's a little bit hermy prone and people often give the example of, well, you should never cross Girl Scouts and OG together because it's just guaranteed to get your hermies. How do you feel like about that idea? Do you feel like it's intrinsic and inevitable that you're going to get some hermies with OG and would you ever cross it to Girl Scouts?
Well, the Girl Scout gene pool, if you take one of those old cuts, they're way more terrible for herm type things. Yeah. Cherry pie is even worse than that. I think if you clean up an OG line, yeah, meaning if you do like back crosses and in crosses and every time you select away from it, you can lower the percentage. Yeah.
OG is not as bad as some of the chem and the sour gene pool war at start. Yeah. Girl Scout cookie, cherry pie, those two are like I haven't been able to get those really clean. Yeah. So I don't like to work too much with those two lines.
Oh, geez. I'm very confident these days with my own lines. Yeah. So I dare to cross it with all kinds of stuff and I'm not worried about hermes coming from that side. Yeah. Okay. So what would be the big no-no for you in terms of crossing genetics together? Would it be OG and cherry pie?
Yeah, that's I mean, I did head stash, which is Girl Scout cookie, cherry pie and OG. And that's the only line I have not been able to clean. Yeah. So yeah, no, I don't I try to stay away these days from the Girl Scout cookie, cherry pie things.
Okay, so let's just say that you didn't create the biker OG line, which out of your own creations would have been next in line for you to consider working forward or using as kind of a line you wanted to represent yourself?
Oh, it definitely would be the headbanger. I think it's the strain that's became most popular from me. And that was all because everybody wants sourdough, which is normal because I think it's some of the best weed in the world. So yeah, it's kind of the headbanger. Yeah.
And then that's kind of what I did now with like the back crosses to that sourdough cut. That's what people always ask for kind of, but I didn't ever did it before.
Yeah. Okay. And so do you feel like sourdough just totally overtook the OG craze when it came about?
I think OG is way easier to grow than sourdough is. Yeah. Sourdough is not easy to grow. A lot of people won't have the big success right away with it and stuff. Yeah. It needs a different feeding than most other plants. Yeah. So.
It's certainly one of the more unique ones. And what do you feel about the history? It's almost got a more disputed history than OG itself.
Yeah. That one's like even a bigger mess than the OG background. I've been so interested in trying to find that out for so many years. At the moment, I don't even care that much anymore. Yeah. And I think people really care when they don't have it.
Once you have it, that's kind of the most important thing. Yeah. Even though you would still like to know what it is, it's less important than you smoking it.
Yeah. I can certainly agree with that point. That's a good one to make. So, it's interesting because as I'm sure you're probably well aware, there's a bit of drama that surrounds your sourdough clone because it specifically comes from a Rezdog release, which kind of adds an extra layer of complexity to the whole situation.
How do you feel about working with people's gear who other people may not drive with or be as willing to work with?
Well, in this case, I understand 100%, which is one of the reasons I didn't back cross it before either. I mean, that's why I even try not to call out his name too much. But this plant is so special. This plant is so fucking good. People just deserve this. That's simple.
These seeds just need to go fucking everywhere and then everybody needs to have this. Everybody needs to have smoked this at least once in their life. It's just that's so good of a weed. If I had to pick one thing that I could bring to me to an island, I would bring that 100%.
And so, how many seeds did you pop when you initially found this clone?
I popped two packs.
Wow, that's a good answer. I guess that goes to show all you need is one or two packs and you can find something really special.
Yeah, of course. Definitely. And those seeds then, this is very simple. You get lucky sometimes. It's that simple. I got really lucky. And why did I get lucky? I got lucky because this plant did not harm and its offspring doesn't harm almost either.
Which is very rare for all those seeds from Rez and from those days. Because they were pretty messy if I'm honest. There were like hay phenos, there were herms in it. It was just messy. But then there was some diamonds in there as well.
My cut comes from the same batch that another cut that's around in Europe comes from, which is the Riri cut. That's from the exact same seed batch, which is the first time he released his Sour D IBL, which is not an IBL by the way. It should not have been labeled IBL. But that's 2006. I popped them in 2007.
Do you feel like people tend to view Rez's work with kind of rose shaded glasses? A lot of people acknowledge the controversy surrounding him, but at the same time, a lot of people won't deny that the gear was really good or at least so it's said. Do you feel like people gloss over the fact like what you just mentioned that there were a lot of herms and a lot of junk in there?
I think for that time, those genes were not spread. When things go into seed, they go over the world and it goes really fast. So just for people seeing that for the first time, the good things that were in there, that just made it like that. The time and being the first with that, that just made it to what it is.
Because he was not a nice guy on the forums either. Not before all the snitch problem and all this other stuff happened either. He was not a nice guy. He always was cursing at people on the forums. He was not a nice guy. It's that simple.
We've seen him pop his head back up probably about a year or more ago now on Instagram and then he quickly kind of ducked out again. Just to play devil's advocate, how would you feel if say Rez Dog came back and he bought five or ten packs of your sour DBX2 and wanted to work that forward? Would you see that as an honour or an insult?
You've got to see that as an honour, yeah. Because that means he fucking admits that I did it better than he did, even though I started with his stuff. I cleaned it out. It's that simple. There's almost no harm in it.
If you pop these back cross two seeds, if you look at my Instagram, there's so many people I had them grow out before they were even released. You can see it in there. Every female is sour D. There's variation in that of course. But they all have that smell and that stink. And most of them have the high, which is very important about it as well.
If you pop two of these pack of seeds, you'll definitely get a better choice of what you want to keep compared to what it was then.
Yeah, that came out really well. The back cross one I didn't release. That was kind of iffy. That was not good enough to be sold as a seed yet. There were quite a lot of weaker plants in it.
I think the headbanger male I used probably was not the best pick. That's probably why. That's what I started it off with. Then from the back cross one, I found some really good males. I used multiple males as well in this back cross.
Hell yeah. So, what do you feel is the proper breeding etiquette for using someone else's work? Do you kind of think that if you bought it, you don't really owe them anything? Or how do you like to deal with other breeders when you're using some of their work?
Well, what I did here is normally wrong, yeah. I think it's wrong if you buy seeds. This is all about commercial sales. If you do whatever you do for yourself, your friends, and trade, that's a totally different thing. But if you buy someone seeds, you don't in-cross them and then sell them like a pure version. That's kind of a no-go thing.
But out-crossing, hell yeah. You buy those seeds, they're yours. So, when you buy my seeds, cross it with whatever you want. That's it, of course. You can sell it as well, that doesn't matter at all. That's freedom. If you don't want people to do that, then you shouldn't sell seeds. It's that simple.
Yeah, most certainly. Do you like to, if it's at all possible, open lines of communication with someone if you were going to use some of their work? Or you just tend to use it and do your thing?
You look like Sour Power, OG, Hordy Lab gives me that cut. Yeah, I'm very good friends with Camerado. He gives me stuff to do things with. Yeah, I do it the same the other way. I mean, I share a lot with a lot of people, yeah. Also a lot of people that have seed companies and stuff. I share stuff with them which is not for my own work as well, yeah. I have a very big genetic seed stash, yeah.
I shared stuff from that through the years with a lot of people online and a lot of people made things with it, started lines with it and stuff like that.
Yeah, most certainly. So, it's interesting that you bring up the Sour Power because I think it's an interesting strain for mostly one reason but it's probably more. How do you feel about undisclosed genetics and would you ever release a cross where you didn't release the genetic information around it?
No, if I know it then I'll always tell it, yeah. But because with how things are you sometimes don't even know, yeah.
No, I think you really don't know.
And the other question about them I wanted to quickly ask was I had heard some whispers saying that old Dave Watson, skunk man Sam is the mastermind behind Hordy Labs. Do you know if that's true or not?
No, I know the guy behind Hordy Labs, that's not David Watson. He knows him though, I mean he knows him though, I think he knows him. I mean David is in Amsterdam, Hordy used to be in Amsterdam a lot as well.
They have an acquaintance, you know, so yeah, they must have met each other a couple of times but he's definitely not behind it, yeah.
Okay, cool. So, the Sour Power OG, your work with the Sour Power is a line which definitely gets a lot of attention and I mean the photos on your Instagram, they're gorgeous. How do you feel about that cross of yours? Is it one of your ones that you're more kind of proud to put forward or do you feel like there's kind of other ones that you'd be more looking to get people to grow if they had a choice?
I think flavors are always very personal, yeah. I mean I like sour tea most of everything and so I kind of always pick something that has, I mean Sour Power OG has sour in it, yeah, but Headbanger is way more like a sour tea type hybrid, yeah. So, I would prefer personally to smoke that.
When it comes to growing, Sour Power OG is a very sturdy plant, it's very easy, very resinous, yeah, it looks beautiful as well and it's pretty powerful as well, yeah. So, a lot of people find things in it they keep and they can produce, yeah.
Definitely. So, if we just jump back to Barker Cush for a moment, I noticed in an Instagram thread you said that the initial mail you used on the Hells OG was an SFV BX2 that you actually got from Swerves Gear. Swerves is a guy who gets a bit of flack from some people in the community so I'd be interested to hear what's your opinions on the CaliCon and Swerves Gear in general?
Well, let me say I got those seats from Captain Crip, yeah, but Swerves said he makes them. Those two people used to work with each other so whatever it is, I don't know, yeah. As for Swerves, I know him as a person, he may have made some mistakes here and there, he was young.
I don't know, when it comes to the breeding or how he runs his business or how he named some of his strains, I have a very different philosophy on that, yeah, and how I do things, yeah. I would never call a cross the name of the clone, yeah, because when the people grow them out after that, yeah, everybody starts to call it that and that's where all this mess comes from, yeah.
Like in Europe, there are so many people who say I have SFV OG, I have Larry OG, yeah, and this Larry OG is Larry OG times whatever it is, yeah. So, yeah, I have different views on things and stuff. He's definitely not a bad guy, yeah, at all. As a person, he's a really nice guy.
Yeah, for sure. So, when you're thinking about OG in general, I mean, I kind of already asked this question in relation to Happy Brother but in specifically for OG, what in your mind is the perfect partner for an OG cross?
I think OG does not cross well with like very Stieva type things like the real hazes and stuff, yeah. I don't think that crosses well. What I think crosses well with OGs are, to be honest, kind of tighter bodied type things, yeah, like
What's a good example? Like OGs, chems and sours, yeah, which are all kind of pretty, maybe even related, yeah. Those things all mix with each other pretty well as well, yeah. It makes yields go up. It does keep the flavor kind of pure. I'm not the biggest fan of crossing them out to like fruity things and stuff. It's kind of like most times it weakens both of them, yeah.
Yeah, definitely. I would tend to agree that the chem and the OG do tend to blend pretty well together and what a perfect segue in terms of talking about that collab you did with JJ from Top Dog. How did you find the Road Dog came out and did that stimulate you to want to look into the chem genetics a bit more?
I like chem genetics a lot, yeah. I prefer chem 91 probably most because probably because it's more gassy, I guess. I think chem D is one of the strongest. That Stardog that I used, that's from one of his earlier releases as well at the farm. That's the own selected card as well.
I like the outcome of that a lot, yeah. It's very gassy mostly, most of them. The only problem with that line is and I think with some most of these chems, yeah, is they don't have that long of a shelf life.
So, if you make a lot of flower of it and you keep it for three, four months, it tends to like get a darker tint and stuff like that faster than a lot of other strains. So, I kind of like to smoke it a bit fresh as well. I like to smoke it three, four weeks after it comes down.
Yeah, most certainly I can attest to the more fresher stuff just being so punch in your face strong. So, with that comment being said though, what strains do you think have a good shelf life and that longevity within the flower?
Oh, that's The hazes, they're really good at like they're even better after six months. And if you take them out of the bag or out of your jar after two years, they are still a hundred percent dead, yeah. Sour D does really well as well. Yeah, you can jar that up for a long time, yeah.
Yeah, very, very interesting. I think it was in fact AJ who put a post up yesterday of some six-month-old sour and he was saying, yeah, it definitely tastes better.
Yeah, the longer sativa type things or more sativa genes, they tend to cure better for long term. I have the same with OGs. I like my OGs to be smoked within six months after harvest.
Yeah, okay. I think I've sadly never had the production capacity or patience to wait that long to smoke any stuff I've grown, but I've got a new benchmark.
Yeah, you'll see with most like tight indica type buds, yeah, they are kind of better smoked a bit faster and then the hazes, they are kind of better if they've laid like at least three months.
Yeah, okay. And so in general, what are some of the other strains you find that are best fresh off the bat, you know, just a few weeks after coming down?
I think like these more fruity type things, yeah, that people like a lot these days, yeah, that type of stuff doesn't cure well for long term as well, yeah, which is also kind of why the live resins and everything of them are way better than their cured resins of those type of plants a lot of times as well.
Yeah, I can definitely agree with that. The live resin from some of the fruity stuff is off the chain. So just to jump back to some of the collaborations you've done before, I noticed you've done a plethora of collabs. It's quite impressive.
Out of all the ones you've done, what were you most surprised with? And I shouldn't say surprised, but which one were you most pleasantly surprised to see the end outcome? Like which one was just really good and you always go into something thinking it's going to be a good outcome, but you were just blown away by the result.
I like a lot when the Camarado OG came out, even though it's OG and I already had a lot of OG. I just like that a lot. Apart from that, something which is not that known yet is African Dream, which is JJ's Nigerian Haze times Wide A5. That came out like wow as well, yeah.
Yeah, I mean that's a really diverse mix of genetics in there. Like the Sativa African with the A5 Wide, that's got to be special.
Yeah, those are really nice. They're very Sativa-ish style in grow and stuff like that. So they'll be mostly 12, 14 weeks.
Yeah, okay. So only for the truly committed Sativa heads.
Yeah, if you want to grow real hazes, you got to be accepting to go between 12 and 16 to 17 weeks sometimes even.
Yeah, okay. So this kind of brings us to one of the questions I've been most excited to ask you about going into this. Little Birdie told me that you have some projects in the works with Bodhi. Would you be able to elaborate a little more on that for us?
I don't know that much about it yet to be really honest. My friend is setting that up. So that's not fully worked out yet. So there's not much I can say yet to be really honest. Your bird flies fast. Your bird flies really fast.
Yeah, I got little birds everywhere. But the question I'd love to ask then is in your kind of dream situation, what types of things would you want to bring to the table? And what types of things do you think that he has that would be cool if he was bringing that side of the cross to the table?
I'd love to have some involvement with his Nepalese gene pool. That's what I would. Yeah. What would come from me? Knowing him and what interests him, I think it would be the hazes though. I think that's what probably I have that probably interests him the most.
I mean OGs and Sour, he has it all. So I think he would prefer those gene pools more because he did the band-aid haze, which was done with the A5 tie, those seeds I sent all over the world years ago. So I think it would be like probably that gene pool, A5, C5, those hazes.
Yeah. Okay. So funnily enough, this is a good segue. I heard from a different little birdie that, and you referenced it before, that you might have access to some of Neville's original breeder cuts, like the C5 and the A5, for example. Is this true? And what plans do you have with them?
In the early 2000s, I used to make a lot of clones of all these plans for that group. I've been kind of part of that Southern, which is where I live as well. Yeah. I live in South Holland. So I've been connected to this group since I was really young.
Okay. And they're the crew who kind of safeguard the C5 and the A5?
Yeah. They worked with Neville's as well when he was here.
Okay. So I guess the thing which maybe a lot of people might be interested to hear is that a lot of these breeder cuts do still exist, which I was surprised to hear myself initially.
Yeah. Now these cuts are, well, some people call them breeder cuts. They come out of his breeding. So C5 is the NL5 times the haze male C. The A5 is NL5 times the haze male A. There's not just even one cut yet. There's more cuts of it as well when that selection was done. But most people only know one or two.
Then there's HPH, which is the hash plant haze, the AG13. There's a couple more even. Like for instance, the A5 is what most people are interested in. There were five cuts of that. They're labeled one to five. Number five being the most sativa.
The number two is what some call the diesel cut, which is the cut I work with, the cut that I gave to Sammy and which went out a little bit to some people. That's the number two. The number four is still around as well, but that never got grown that much. It's way more hazy.
Do you feel like these are really the benchmark to try to aim for with breeding or do you think they're just impressive for when they were produced given it was 30 years ago?
No, those cuts are very special still. 100% very special. I think it's the combination with the NL5 and those haze that really makes it. That haze pure from those days kind of tickles me way less than these two plants.
The A5 is the really special one to be honest.
I remember I was lucky enough to try some of the C5 when I was hanging out with Bodhi and he too said that a lot of people think the A5 is a little better.
Yeah, the A5 is very strong weed. It's the type of weed you kind of need to smoke quite a lot of it and then you can get to a level you don't get with other weeds these days at all. It's a lot about how it works, how it makes you feel. That's very important with that weed.
Like the C5, if you smoke a lot of that you almost won't be able to sleep. You won't be sleeping well at all. Some people get very paranoid of the C5 as well.
It's also people that only smoke Indica, if you let them smoke A5 they'll be like bladdered. They don't know what happened to them. They'll be like out of it. It's really funny.
Sometimes when I go to one of these coffee shops, I'll bring some of that and all they smoke is Amnesia and OG today. You let them smoke two or three joints of that, they're all flat out. It just makes them feel so different. They're not used to it.
I love it. The sample I got to smoke was actually seeded so it's probably nowhere near as potent as the Sensi but that C5 I can totally agree. It was so uplifting and stimulating that paranoia was the next logical step if you kept smoking it.
Then I got this cut, the Band-Aid Hay 7 which Bodhi bred the line and then Doc selected that cut. I've smoked a couple of hundred grams of that now. That got a really good high as well. That's comparable to a CA5. It really is on that level. That's a really nice plant. They did that one really well.
Definitely. Shout out to Doc and Bodhi. That's another really good one which I don't think is on the radar of enough people. Just to jump back to where we all started this question which was in regards to Neville. Where do you think Neville rates in terms of the great breeders throughout the Dutch history and of all the breeders throughout history, who has had the greatest influence in your opinion?
I think if you really look at all the work that people have done. He did quite some work in his very early days as well. It's just him and a few other people as well when it comes to the seeds that go out and get sold. Those plants are very special and he's very knowledgeable on it as well.
I think Simon from Serious Seeds. That guy really did a lot and still does it. He's really good. Someone that most people don't even think or know about anymore. Casey Brains did some nice things as well.
There's a couple of people. Most of those people are not that known yet because they're not the ones out there or doing the seed company.
Casey Brains is a very interesting one because he's famous for never releasing any of the information around his genetics. In some instances he says himself he doesn't know and in other instances I think it was just also the way he named his strains. How do you feel about his strains? I think earlier on you mentioned that you've got a special K2 clone. Does that come from him?
No, that's not from him. His strains, even though some of them have quite a lot of variation, his seeds from what I've seen, it's been a little while, I just had new ones so I'm going to germ them all and see if they're still the same. He says they are. He says he's still using his old moms.
He has some very fruity interesting flavours in there. If you like all the fruit things, it's definitely a really nice source for all kinds of different things to be honest. He uses a lot of Brazilian and Afghani genes.
The Brazilian is one which doesn't really get explored outside of his work. Do you think there might be something in there that we're just brushing over and missing?
Yeah, I have a couple of Brazilian friends here. I think that's why I'm doing this project with them. I'm popping all those seeds with them because they know all the old Brazilian things that were around. They definitely say there has been a lot of lime and melon, those type of terpenes and smells. They were there long ago.
Yeah, okay. I think most people, at least when I talk to them, the only real exposure they have to the Brazilian genetics is that mango beishe from B. I think that maybe sometimes it gives things a bad rap. How do you feel some of these genetics would go if put in people's grow rooms? Do you think people would give them a second chance or they're still not quite refined to the polyhybrid level where you used to?
I think some of Casey Brain's ones definitely could be being commercial produced for today's market and being really wanted by the people that smoke it afterwards as well.
I think it's very open. I think I just opened a little hole for everybody to find a lot of... I mean, everybody wants all these fruity type flavors and things like that. Well, this guy definitely has a lot of it.
Yeah, okay. So, getting back to a point I've been bringing up in recent interviews, do you see this as a way to reinvigorate modern genetics? Like a common complaint is that we've worked ourselves into kind of like this dead end polyhybrid type of thing where there's this same, same quality amongst a lot of strains. Do you think that we need to go back to basics, to some of these land races or just some of these more unworked lines and generate new hybrids?
Oh yeah, definitely, man. I think a lot of people have... It all depends with the goal you're making seeds for. And most people that do it today or start today, they make those seeds to sell them and they look at what the market wants or that's easy for them to sell and they get noticed for that.
Everybody wants cookies, so they all cross it with cookies, yeah? Which kind of takes away their personal creativity. For me, a breeder is like an artist, yeah? Like a painter. So, if everybody starts to make similar paintings, it kind of gets boring very fast.
I think today's gene pool and the seeds that are on the market, there are so many of the similar type things, yeah? And that's because everybody just takes all the cuts that are shared and then pollinates it with something that's just been released for a year or whatever, yeah? So, yeah, you just get everything crossed with each other now, yeah?
So, yeah, I definitely think it's good for people to... Or seek a goal in like a terpenes or whatever you want to make lemon. Then find as much different lemon genetics as you can. Doesn't matter what it is, what the name is or whatever. And then start searching and edit yourself, yeah?
Same for all kind of other terpenes or other things you want to do, yeah? If you want to make a haze, try and find as much different haze genetics as genuine as you can. Germ the mole, forget all the names and just pick what you like and start from there.
Yeah, that's a good idea. Would you actually do that yourself in terms of say like popping like a hundred seeds, just losing all the name tags and just seeing what came out?
Yeah, I'd love to do it to be honest. I'll be honest, I've never been as bold to really do it in the end. I always put the tags in though. But yeah, that's the best way to be really honest, yeah? You should just put a number on everything, write it on a paper, lock it up, do the whole grow, do your selection, pick what you like most and then look what it was.
That's kind of the fairest and the honest thing to do as well, yeah? We all get influenced otherwise, yeah?
Yeah, I mean names can have a really powerful effect on the way people perceive them. How do you feel about the whole Candy Rain situation from Cookie Fam? Do you feel like they really dropped the ball on that one?
Yeah, they definitely dropped the ball. That's just a fact to be really honest, yeah? I mean I'm not scared of germinating, I call it messy genetics. I'm not scared of everything. I'll germinate by the thousand, I don't care, I'll kill all the intersex or whatever and things like that. I'm not scared for those things. But those seeds clearly were not even tested, yeah?
Yeah.
Otherwise this could never happen. It's that simple. So everybody knows I'm very strict on everything needs to be tested. You cannot just make seeds and start selling them, yeah? For me that's not even possible to do, yeah? Even though in today's market that's probably more than 50%.
Yeah, okay.
People can't pay to be tested.
Yeah, so how do you feel in general about the price that was charged for those seeds? Whether they had issues or not? Do you feel like it's an ever-growing precedent for there to be these premium price seeds or do you think it was just a bit absurd?
I think it's absurd. I mean look what I sold the sourdough, back rust, I could have sold those for whatever I wanted, yeah? And people would have bought them right away. I sell them for a price that I think is like almost the max of what seeds should be costing, yeah? I don't think seeds should be going above $150. I think that should be kind of a cap, yeah? Even though that has changed totally today.
But I personally prefer not to sell anything above that.
So do you think that there should be kind of like, I don't want to use the term but there's nothing else that would fit as well, but kind of like a union for breeders where you agree on price ceilings and price floors and kind of like structure among seed pricing like an F2 you can charge this much, an F1 you can only charge this much. How would you feel about that concept?
I think it's got to be a free market. I mean every other product is a free market, yeah? You can buy sunglasses for a euro. You can buy sunglasses for a thousand euro, yeah? You know what I mean? I don't think that should be a stand rule. I think it's a principle, yeah?
I think seeds are worth that and you should, if you take a lot of time breeding something, you're not going to sell it for once, yeah? Or only sell two or three hundred packs, yeah? You're going to do that for years, yeah? So you don't need to ask $500 or $300 for a package of seeds, yeah?
Then these days all they do is like, oh this is limited, yeah? This will never be there anymore. These are very rare, all these things and then it should be expensive for that, yeah? No, that's not the way it works. Only thing that can be more expensive are seeds that are harder to make, take longer to make, things like that, yeah? Or that took a lot of money to make, so a lot of breeding steps, yeah? So, yeah, then it needs to be a bit more expensive to recoup your investment.
Yeah, I mean that certainly makes sense. So, on a slightly related topic, I noticed on your IG that some of your new seed packaging, the pack I noticed specifically was the Guava Gelato Cross Sour D, sounds amazing by the way. But I noticed on it that it said premium seeds and it got me thinking about this idea of like breeders having different tiers of genetics, like a premium line where like kind of like more work had gone into it or just kind of like more of like a quicker project but it was still ready for market.
Do you think you'd ever look into something like this?
Yeah, certainly. I mean, just to clarify, I'm 100% in favor of the free market approach. So, a question which I get drilled by the fans if I don't ask it and I'm not going to ask it, but I'm going to ask it.
And heck, I'm interested as well. What traits do you look for when you're trying to find a good breeding male?
I've never grown these seeds that I have in my hand now. I may have grown Afghanis but that doesn't count. So, I'll pop these seeds. I need to grow quite a lot of those before I really know the percentages of everything that pops up, how common it is, all these things. And you get a relationship with that gene pool then as well.
So, you recognize things even without being able exactly to say, oh, it's because of these leaves. Oh, it's because of that. Because you grow them, you know that family. You need to have that before you can really select the male and predict all the traits that it's going to give. This is going to make your chances way bigger of picking the right male easier.
Then of course there is the stem, the structure, all these other things. I always say with breeding and selecting, the most important thing is killing a lot. You don't start by picking the best thing. No, you start by taking everything out that's not good. Whether it's weaker structure, not strong against illnesses, all these things. And then what you're left over, that's where you're going to pick it from.
Yeah, definitely. And so, are there any particular techniques or traits that you're specifically looking for? Like, I mean, a really common one we get told on the show is the old faithful stem rub. Are you a fan of the stem rub?
I always do the stem rub as well. Another good trick we use works with a lot of lines. When you've grown everything before, like I just said, the females you like the most, if you write down the day exactly on when it started to throw pistils.
And then when you look at all the males, and you look which one is closest to the same day starting its sex, and then you compare all the leaves, shapes as well between these females, then you can kind of pick a male which has similar genes to that female. Just by picking the day that it started to flower.
Yeah, definitely. So, with that being said, have you ever considered or done a male reversal before where you turn it into the female so you can smell the smells, look at the structure and whatnot?
No, I haven't yet. I'm very interested in doing that though. And then it would be mostly for smelling it.
And do you feel like that there would be a good chance that that smell would correlate to what the male is actually passing on?
If when you grew that gene pool and you grew all those seeds before, and you've seen that smell being a higher percentage in that group, yes, then yes. Because then you have a big chance that it's a dominant trait.
Yeah, okay. So, I mean, while we're on the breeder topic in general, I mean, you could probably say that about the whole interview, but in just relation to that candy rain situation we mentioned a few minutes ago, what do you think is a breeder's responsibility in regards to seeds? Do you feel like it's, you know, the breeders responsibility to replace seeds that have poor results? Or do you feel like their obligation ends at the wholesaler?
Well, I think that if you release seeds and you tested them and stuff, then you know what's not wrong with them. Yeah. So if then someone comes and says, Oh, everything herms or everything does this. Yeah. You know, that's not right. Yeah. Or you know that person did something wrong. Yeah. You can do something wrong and everything herms, by the way. Yeah, that's, that's really difficult. Yeah. So if everything herms, there's a problem with those seeds. It's that simple.
Yeah, definitely. So, I mean, just to really play the devil's advocate, if someone comes to you and says, Oh, you know, I grew out a pack of your seeds and I had one herm out of 10, I'm not real happy. Would you try to explain that that's like a possibility? Or would you just be more inclined to just try to make the problem go away, so to speak?
Oh, I would definitely say that. Yeah, that's I tried to find out why first. Yeah. With him. Yeah. Because if it's something to do with the way it was grown, or he triggered it. Yeah. Then it's nice for him to know as well. Yeah. Because then it won't happen in the future. When it's like one herm in certain strains. Well, it comes with a territory as well then. Yeah. So but I if people are unhappy, I always give them seeds. Yeah.
That's, that's, that's not even a question. Yeah. But I if I think it's right, if one plant herms in a pack, like for instance, with a cookie or think hybrid. Now that's to be expected. Yeah. Most people won't complain even about it when it's those those those gene pools. Yeah, because people know it already. Yeah.
I mean, I have the same when I pop someone else's seeds. I it doesn't matter if there's two, three herms. I would never complain about it, to be honest, personally. Yeah.
Yeah, I certainly feel like it's, it's part of the territory a lot of the time. So a topic I really wanted to ask you about is just in general, the concept of Cali import. How do you feel this affects local markets? Like I mean, in the UK and in Holland, I'm sure that there's plenty of Cali import. Do you feel like it hurts local producers or it's too simplistic to view it like that?
No, I was at the Spanabus this year. And what I've seen is that the higher quality local grown. Yeah. That price went way up. And the only reason that went so up so high is because that import weed that was there before. Yeah. Because that's so expensive. It kind of changed the market price. Yeah. So I think if local growers grow really good weed, they get more money for their weed because import was there.
Yeah. And that changed the market prices.
And so how do you feel about the hype strains in general? Do you feel like it's a good or a bad thing that certain strains just get these mind boggling mass followings?
Oh, that's that just it's like fashion. Yeah. That's just like fashion. A lot of times it's not the best weed. It's not the best flavor or things like that. Yeah. It has to be decent for it to become a hype though. But yeah, some things just look good. Yeah. Like a purple punch. Yeah. It looks great. Yeah. I don't care for it at all. Yeah. But it looks great. So yeah, people like that.
Yeah. Then you have to think about a lot of things that get hyped is by the younger people as well. Yeah. What have they seen before? What is the knowledge they have? Yeah. They can only learn from the things that they see. So if only thing they've seen is that OG, that gelato and that cookie, which is better than the local swag or whatever. Yeah. Then I understand that that's gold. Yeah. At that moment.
Yeah, most certainly. So while we're on the topic of hype strains, it feels like GMO and even Mac have kind of had their time in the spotlight. What's your prediction for the next strain that's going to take the international stage by storm?
I think the Skittles and the papaya are doing really well on that scale, to be honest. About something new. That's hard to say. Yeah. Because it's like a fashion or like a music number one hit. Yeah. Never kind of know where it comes from.
Do you ever try to predict what will be the next big thing and almost get ahead of the curve in that regard?
Yeah. I've tried to know all of them before. So yeah. So I just did that gelato crossing. That's kind of bad as well. Yeah. It's taking some of the hype. Yeah. And I'll cross with it what I like more. Yeah. So I crossed it with sourdough.
Yeah. So yeah. Now I definitely use some of the hype strains, but I'm not trying to like when something new is the hype and it's not my hype, that means it's from someone else. Yeah. I'm not the type of guy to then take it fast, make it and be the first to throw those seeds into the market. Yeah.
Yeah. Of course. So if we just loop back to the Mac for a moment, I noticed a while back on your Instagram, you put a post up and you had managed to accumulate 10 packs of Mac. How did that go for you? Did you ever get a chance to do it yet?
I think I didn't have 10 packs of Mac one though. But yeah, Cap sent me and my friend Sjoerd multiple packs. Those selections are just happening now. Yeah.
Okay. Are you excited for that one?
Oh yeah. I'm definitely excited for it. Definitely. I haven't seen them yet. Yeah. My friend is running them in the States.
Awesome. And so what type of work would you want to pair with that?
For me, that would be too early to say. I got to see and smoke those before my mind starts to work and picking the combinations and stuff. I mean, next coming one and two years, I'll be crossing a lot with the Sour D line. Yeah. So everything that really interests me probably also gets crossed with that for one thing.
I don't know. I think the Mac is a pretty hashy type strain. I know he did a bangers and Mac, which is my head banger times Mac. I'm very curious to see what comes out of those.
And how did you feel about the Mac in general? I'm sure you've had a chance to smoke some of it.
Yeah. Cap came to bring me some when I was there. I think it smokes very smoothly. It is not my personal type flavor and things like that. It's very strong weed. It is strong. Looks great. Nice nuggets. Everything about that is really nice. It's not 100% my flavor. That's the only thing.
I think it's pretty hashy in the way it smokes. It burns really nice. When weed looks white, that means that the stalk that the trichome is on most times are longer. That makes the weed look white. It's not the trichome itself.
But those type of strains that have a longer stalk, they seem to burn different. So they smoke really nice for that. The sour D has really short stalks. It has a lot of trichomes, but really short stalks, which makes it a good strain for dry screening. The strains with longer stalks, they get more dirty, dry screen easier. So they're harder to screen clean.
I think the MAC could be a good strain to grow in Morocco for hash fields and stuff like that, to be really honest.
I think that's possibly inaccurate. Most notably the Colombian aspect. It's kind of been suggested by a few people that it just could actually be some sort of super silver haze cross. Most of the evidence from that derives from the fact that by Cap's description, it just doesn't seem to fit the flowering time of Colombians. It's just too short at nine weeks. Did you ever suspect something like this or do you have any opinions on that one?
I think that the plant that he calls the Colombian, he got from a family from Colombia. They said they were very special. So it's not 100% sure that they're a Colombian land race. I smoked it, by the way. He brought me that as well.
It definitely has a recognizable thing with super silver type terpenes that I know from Holland. It definitely had a similarity to things like that. I think Cap's very genuine though in where he got it from and what it is and what he thinks it is.
I don't think it's like what the Colombian, like as most people know. It could be some hybrid seeds that came over from Europe before there. That's why the person says they're very special. There's a lot of possibilities in it.
I agree with you in the analysis that I believe him when he says that that's what it was given to him as for sure. The other little caveat, when I was at the Emerald Cup and I got to smoke some Mac from Cap, it was by far the standout of the cup. Good smoke, no question.
He grows great. His crew, they grow great weed. They grow such nice weed.
Especially in the context of anyone who's ever had some Mac from him. There's no dispute. They're like, yeah, that's some of the best weed I've ever had. But then other times you get other people who have grown the Mac one and it's really just not even in the same ballpark. To me, that highlights the skill that they've got over that plant.
Oh yeah, 100%. That's what a lot of strange. Some of them have a certain way they need to be grown. Or best way to say it is when you select plants for a greenhouse or indoor grow, you select them on that system, which make that plant very perfect for that system as well.
You would probably pick a different plant if you grow an indoor on soil than you grow indoor on hydro.
Yeah, definitely. I mean, I tried some outdoor grown Mac and it just wasn't the same.
No, but if you would have selected a Mac outdoor, you probably would have selected a different plant as well.
Yeah, certainly. I definitely agree with that. It's very catered to what it was selected in.
Yes.
So, last little kind of hype question for this little block. Did you ever get into the tangy craze?
I did do some things with orange type strains and also tangy, jelly bean. I'm personally not the biggest fan of orange flowers. They get sickening really fast. And the extracts of it are amazing. The extracts are always amazing. But I'm personally not the biggest fan of the orange flavor.
I think it's a very good, strong terpene. I think it's very nice and unique. It has a lot of character, but it's not my personal smoke.
Okay. So, with that being said, what are your favorite terpenes?
I like to smoke sour teas, chems, OGs. I gotta be honest, I kind of enjoy Skittles as well the last few years. Smoking that during the day. What else do I like? I like Afghanis that have that hash type flavor in them. That anise-y type thing and stuff as well. I like those as well.
So, with that being said, what are some of the terpene profiles that you really wish were still around but have seemingly vanished?
Back in the day, I used to grow a plant that really smelled like a blueberry candy type smell. And I've tried to find it. I've grown so many different blueberries from different people, from DJs, and I never found that typical terp like that ever again.
Yeah, it's such a common point made, you know, that everyone knows and recognizes DJ for the amazing work he's done. But at the same time, it's so goddamn hard to find that bang on blueberry feno, which most people have had once in their life. And so, you know it exists, but it's just like, God, where is it hiding?
Yeah, it's exactly like that. And I'm still looking for a Jack Harrow. There used to be a Jack Harrow cut here in the south of Holland, which was selected by Nevels. He sold that cut to a group that runs a coffee shop. They lost it, they bought it again. Nevels didn't keep it, and they lost it again.
So it was extinct. And that cut of Jack Harrow is nothing like I've ever found in the seeds, not when I'm breeded with it or anything. And I just got some seeds, bag seeds that came out of that time from that weed in that coffee shop. So now I got hope again to maybe find and revive that one.
Yeah, that one smelled so strong of fucking church incense. Yeah. None of these other hazes have such a strong incense smell as that had. And it was not a high weed, it's a very strong stone weed, which doesn't really fit the haze profile either. It's a bit faster flower as well. Yeah, it should be done 11, 12 weeks.
Yeah, wow. I mean, I've been lucky enough to try what's referred to as the 10k Jack Harrow cut. To other people, it's known as just Jack Harrow's personal cut of Jack Harrow. But it sounds quite different to what you described, but I mean, everyone knows that good Jack Harrow is kind of unbeatable.
Yeah, this weed, when it was here, you could only max buy two grams of clients. Yeah. Because otherwise they would run out too fast. Yeah. So everybody, every day went back to buy those two grams. Yeah. And you would try to get your friends to buy you two grams as well. Yeah. It was like total craze here in the city. Yeah. Yeah, that was a big hit.
Everybody in this city that's my age still remembers that like one of the best weed that was in town. Yeah.
Yeah. Okay. So brings us to an interesting question. What is the best bud you've ever smoked ever? Period.
Sour Diesel.
Easy answer or is there a close second?
No, that was the first thing I thought of, but then I thought, let me think about, let me go through all these things in my head. Yeah. But there's nothing that can top that to be honest. It's got all the flavor. Yeah. And it's really strong as well. Yeah. Yeah. It's hard to beat.
For sure. For sure. So something we've touched on loosely, but haven't really delved into thus far. How do you feel about concentrates and you know, the rise of all the different Connoisseur concentrate varieties?
I like it a lot. I think it's a big part of the future as well. Yeah. I definitely like all the solvent less stuff. I like smoking that as well.
Yeah. I also think that it opens up a whole new window. Yeah. Cause when live extracted, yeah. A lot of these fertile terpenes and stuff. Yeah. So you get the very different product as well. Yeah. Which kind of makes that, that flower, you can change it in different type of tastes and stuff as well. Yeah. Even though it's the same source.
I like that as well. I think medically it has a big purpose as well.
And so I guess the extension of that idea, how do you feel about vape pens and the way they've seemingly kind of taken over the casual enthusiast community, especially within the States? Do you feel like it's a good or a bad thing?
I personally don't smoke any distillate. Nothing.
Okay. And what's your reasons for doing that?
Oh, a lot of it is not. I don't like the way it smokes in these pens. Yeah. Makes my throat tingle and stuff like that. I know today there's like very clean distillate. Yeah. A few years ago, most of it wasn't even fully clean either. We all know where to get made from. Yeah.
So no, that's not my product to be honest. I would prefer a solventless or I do smoke some of these sauce pens though. Yeah. But a distillate I'm not the biggest fan of to be honest.
So what's your favorite type of concentrate?
For me, that would be fresh frozen isolator.
And so what do you tend to do with your trim when it's ready to be processed?
I mean, when I have seed crops, I dry screen everything before the seeds are taken out. Yeah. So I most times have more dry skin to my disposal than other things. But the fresh frozen washed hash and then freeze dried. I think that's a really nice product. Yeah.
Yeah, definitely. I mean, a lot of that really high quality concentrates made in that regard. It's not really available in many countries outside of like, say, America and Holland, maybe Spain.
Yeah, no, it's true. I think Spain is even way more than it is in Holland, that type of hash. Yeah, no, it takes a lot of material as well. Yeah. It's an expensive product when cannabis is very expensive in your country or when it's fully legal.
Then you're probably better off smoking flower when it comes to worth for your money kind of thing. Yeah. Because these products get very expensive, of course.
Certainly. So in line with our comments made about the vape pens and kind of how they're taking over the amateur consumer market, do you feel like it's going to more or less be inevitable that we'll see the takeover of corporate cannabis? And is this a bad thing per se?
We will definitely see. We're already seeing a takeover of corporate cannabis everywhere. It's legal. I personally do think that in the coming years, that market will even out a little bit. Yeah. They will first take everything over and they'll kick everybody out kind of thing. Yeah.
But then the people are not happy. Yeah. Because then they only kind of get the mids to smoke. Yeah. It's that simple, to be honest. And don't get me wrong. There are some big people that do it well as well. Yeah. They're not the biggest. Yeah. But in the midsize, there's a lot of people growing really good flower on a big scale. Yeah. As well.
And don't get me wrong. When it's legal, there's a lot of weed that's needed. Yeah. As well. So even though we all want it to be all small home and mom and pop type grows, I don't think that's realistic when it's like a fully legal market. Yeah.
Same thing when you look at beer and wine. Yeah. A real wine drinker. Yeah. He would like the wines that get produced on smaller scale and very special and things like that. But then the big masses. Yeah. They only care for that cheaper red wine. Yeah. They don't mind that much. You understand. It's going to be the same with the cannabis market. Yeah. The big masses. Yeah. They're not like all the really cannabis heads. Yeah.
They're not the ones that are really like passionate and totally into it. Yeah. So they don't even know that many strains or whatever and things like that. Yeah. Not everybody is smoking every day or like we do. So I think that's the biggest part of the public that will smoke. Yeah. So there will always be a place for big corporate and for as we call it, mid-sweet. Yeah. It's that simple.
I think the market for the high, high quality and the specialized things. Yeah. It's smaller than most people think in the big mass.
Yeah. Of course. So how do you think the connoisseur community will survive and adapt during this inevitable takeover?
A while I think. Yeah. Because in these legal places it's not possible for every, these licenses in some places are so expensive. It's so hard to get them. You have to go through so many things. Yeah. You already need capital to even start it off. Yeah. Which needs to be a legal capital as well. Yeah. So it's not like, oh, I made a hundred thousand growing weed legally. Now I'm going to start go legal and I'll use this hundred thousand to start up. That's not the way it works. Yeah.
Legal money needs to come in for something big to happen. Yeah. So there's kind of no other roads than there is. Yeah.
So how do you feel about the idea of companies or even individuals like say breeders who want to patent their work? Do you feel like this is just an inevitable fact of the legalization or do you feel like it's a significant step in the wrong direction?
Well, it's always been free because it's illegal. So you wouldn't copyright anything. But if you look at any other seed or breeding with other plants, it's very normal kind of, to be honest. And I can understand for some people as well. Yeah. It's going to be abused though. That's what everybody's scared about being abused. Yeah. And I'm scared about that as well. Yeah.
So all these bigger people just taking shit away that other people made and things like that. Yeah. But if you really worked for things for many years and you could, I can't fucking be angry at people to be honest for that. Yeah. There always will be a huge fucking free market anyway. Yeah. Because anything that's already been sold or that's already won a prize, then you cannot copyright that anymore. Yeah. It's already a free for all. It's that simple.
So to copyright a strain, it's not as easy as it looks. Yeah. It needs to be unique. You need to prove all these steps before. So yeah, a lot of these things can't even be copyrighted. Yeah. It's that simple.
I agree. I agree. They're kind of already in public domain. So just jumping to a slightly different, but related point, how do you feel about the rise of celebrities jumping on the cannabis bandwagon? Like specifically, I'm sure you've seen that Seth Rogen has launched his own brand and we've had that Dan Bilzerian guy hovering around for a while. Do you feel like this is good in the sense that it's just giving greater exposure to the masses or do you think in general, it's just a moving target?
I think it's both. I think it's very good for the big public opinion and making it accepted for like all the public that didn't accept it before. Yeah. I think it's very good for things like that. And no matter what it is, that's going to make money. People that have money invest their money in those type of things. Now, if you smoke weed, yeah, I understand they will invest into weed type things. Yeah.
We all know that if you're a good actor, that doesn't mean you have a good cannabis company. Yeah. That's, I mean, if you're good before the camera, that doesn't mean you can grow good weed. Yeah. But if you have good people, the weed can be good just as well. So I guess we just have to test all of them. Yeah. It's that simple.
Yeah. Okay. And would you ever buy cannabis that was labelled simply as hybrid or indica?
No, it needs to have something more than that. It needs something more than that. I hate buying weed that I cannot smell or touch to be honest. Yeah. I understand you can't touch weed in the dispenser or in a coffee shop anymore today, but I want to feel and smell it before I buy it.
Yeah, of course. It's a very understandable sentiment. So sadly, I missed you at the last Emerald Cup we were both at, but I'd love to know your opinion on the event overall. And what event do you enjoy the most?
I loved the Emerald Cup when I went there. I was so, I didn't expect it to be like that yet. I thought it was very crowded. Yeah. Maybe a little bit too crowded for the space there was. I've never seen seed sales as happened at the Emerald Cup. I've never seen anything like that before.
The Spanabyss is not like that. Spanabyss is a really nice show. Yeah. It's really good for seeds as well. But the Emerald, wow. I've never seen anything like that.
And what was the most impressive cannabis you saw at the Emerald Cup?
I'll be honest. I didn't see that much. You have to understand when I go to these events, there are so many people that want to see you or you're trying to meet or having a little talk to you. The days just fly by there. And I almost never can see the whole expo.
Yeah. No, don't worry. I can definitely agree with you. And the interesting thing is that you would expect pretty much everything that you get shown is pretty good. But sadly, there's only a few standouts.
Oh, yeah. Definitely. Definitely. Definitely. It's always the private weed. Yeah. So, it's kind of people that are visiting that grown out stuff. Some of those people will have the best most times.
Yeah, for sure. So, what do you think is one of the most underrated clones? And why do you think people seem to flock to specific clones like Cookies given that even by your own admission, they've got a lot of downsides like the yield and the stability?
Yeah, that's just hype and market value and people need to have it. That makes it still bad. Yeah, the cookie thing.
So, what do you think is one of the most underrated clones in your opinion?
I think a clone that has a very bad name. But if you look at all the concentrates from today, it kind of should be in there. It's the critical.
Yeah. Well, I was not expecting you to say that.
No, it's a really nice fruity weed. Yeah. It's not my personal thing, but I put extract and it's fast. It yields. It's really easy to grow. I'm surprised that's not a big thing to be honest. Yeah. Everybody hates on it because the Spanish always use it to reverse and hit everything with it because it produced so much pollen when it's reversed.
And it doesn't give much hernia offspring. So, that's why they love it so much and they cross it with everything. But on itself, pure, that's cut, that's everywhere in Spain. Yeah. Life resin from that has got to be really good. Yeah. So, I don't understand why that's not being grown in fucking piles in the US.
Yeah. I can certainly attest that I've had some critical jack in the past and that was extremely memorable. Really good smoke. So, with that being said, what do you think overall about the Spanish scene? Is it something you're looking to explore further yourself and do you think it's going to be the new big place to be?
I lived in Spain in 2007, 2008. It was very different then than it is now, but I've always been coming there. I come there a couple of times a year. I have many friends overall of Spain. The scene there is really nice. Yeah. It grows every year. The vibe is like it used to be in Holland now. Yeah. Because all these smaller passionate growers.
So, for that, I think it's making a lot of progress and I think from Europe, it's definitely the place most things happening at the moment. So, yeah, that's really nice. It's still everything is illegal. Yeah. People think it's legal there. It's not. You can grow some weed for yourself, yeah, but not in the way most people do.
Yeah. So, do you think that a lot of amateur people have the wrong idea in that it's a common idea or sentiment to hear people say, you know, I'm going to pack my bags and move to Spain? Do you think that that's a bit of an ill-conceived thought?
Yeah. So, even though it's illegal, the chance of getting caught or getting into trouble is way smaller than in almost every other country in Europe.
Yeah. Okay. So, there's still some hope there.
You can grow really good outdoor weed there. Like really good. Yeah. So, that's a cheap way for people. So, making this step, even though you're not having a lot of money and stuff, yeah. Spain is not that expensive as well. Yeah. So, a lot of times it's cheaper to live there than where people live in currently. Yeah. Then if they can grow some plants outdoor, that doesn't cost much money as well. Yeah. So, the possibility is there for a lot of people as well.
Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So, Spain, commonly known for its feminized seeds. Will you ever offer feminized seeds? I know you've been asked this in the past.
I do some feminized seeds. I've only sold them in Europe. And I am currently making feminized seeds as well. Everybody knows I'm all about regular seeds. But the market definitely demands feminized seeds. Yeah.
Like most companies, they only sell like 5 or 10% regular seeds, yeah, if they offer them. And then the rest is all feminized. And that's not because they make that, but that's also because that's what people buy in Europe. Yeah.
Yeah, certainly. And so, do you think that there's a misconception within the community that feminized seeds are better for growers?
I think the reason why they sell so well in Europe is because a lot of people only want to grow a few plants and they grow with like one light. So, they cannot keep moms. Yeah. They only want to have five. Like in Holland, they only want to have five plants. Yeah. Because if they have five plants, they won't get any punishment if they are caught. Yeah. So, yeah, then they prefer feminized seeds. I can understand that.
If the plant number is not a problem, I personally prefer to just pop twice as much seeds and pop regular seeds.
Speaking of growing, what is your number one grow tip for our audience? You know, what's something that you commonly see that gets overlooked or an aspect of growing which is fairly underrated?
Well, the thing I see here in Europe a lot is people only really start to concentrate on their yield and their flower once plants are in flower for four weeks.
The most important thing about growing cannabis is the start, is the roots. It's all about the roots. If you don't have any roots, you cannot get a lot of fruits. It's that simple. So, I think people should concentrate a lot on rooting their plants really well. Yeah.
Yeah. A point that I've discussed with the legend himself, Duke Diamond, a lot is that people don't pay enough attention to the root system. And even a way in which people can select males is when you're doing the selection of the males to literally tease the medium out of the root ball and take a look at the root ball. I kind of see the male that I think is the best. Does it have a big root ball? Because I think that that's an interesting idea.
I think it's a very interesting and very good idea as well.
Cool. So, the inevitable question. What medium do you prefer to grow in and what advantages do you think this has?
Okay. Me, I grow all different mediums, but I mostly grow cocoa at the moment. When I look to my group and my friends that are the people that I work with, I have one group that only grows hydro. Then I have one group that only grows in greenhouses. They grow mostly organic.
As when I grow for myself to smoke, I prefer soil, but then I'll grow like 80% organic and 20% mineral.
And do you feel like you're getting the best of both worlds? Because I know some really good growers who do exactly that.
I'm a very strong advocate of always telling people like, or I grow 80% mineral, 20% organic. And that would be on cocoa or a hydro system. When I grow on soil, I'll grow 80% organic and 20% mineral. You take the best from both.
It's very smooth weed, it's very clean. You get a lot of good, a lot of flavor points and stuff from organic weed. But you can get a lot of strength and nice structure and things like that very easily with a mineral supplement.
So this might be a bit of a hard question for you to quantify, but over the years, how many different plants do you think you've grown? And do you think exposing yourself to a wide variety of genetics makes you a better grower or a better breeder?
A better breeder, I definitely think, yeah. Because it's just like a cook. The more different food you've eaten and tasted, the better you can work with flavors. So how many? I wouldn't even dare to put a number on it.
But the last years we did such big germinations of so many different seeds, it really flew up the last years. I must have grown more than 500 varieties. More than 500 for sure.
Jesus, that's a lot. So when you're popping a new strain, whether it be yours or someone else's, how many seeds do you like to pop to get a feel for it? And the reason why I ask this is because often in Australia, where I'm from, which a lot of people probably already know, you see people popping like three seeds out of a 10 pack. And I just, you know, I try not to be harsh, but like, I just have to shake my head.
Then you only see like, that's like opening a box of bonbons, yeah, which are all different. And you taste three, yeah? It's the same thing, yeah? Let me, it all depends on the source of the seed as well. Three seeds are not enough. But let's just say most seed packs are like 10 seeds, yeah?
If you pop that, you should see a part of the whole gene pool, if they're good seeds, yeah? If you want to see everything that's in there and they're really good, stable seeds, then it's probably like 200 seeds, yeah? And then it's already good. If you grow like a land raise, yeah? You probably need like 5,000, yeah?
Yeah, I can certainly agree. And it makes me look back at some of the work that earlier guys did where they had to breed things for multiple generations just to stabilize it before they could even think about outcrossing it.
Oh yeah, for sure. For sure. Like if you start with like really raw land-raised seeds or even hybrids that are like messy, yeah? That's what I call it, so they have a lot of variations and herbs and everything in it.
Then you need to grow a lot of seeds, yeah? To make a group out of those that all don't have those bad things in it, yeah? And you need to cross those with each other, the whole group, and then germinate them all again, yeah? And then the percentage of all the problems should go down and down.
That's why you can start only, yeah? So it all depends on your starting point how many seeds you need to germ, yeah? If you want to be really serious and want to do it all at once, I think with modern hybrid seeds, if you pop 500 seeds, it should be enough. You don't need 10,000 like with land-raised seeds or 5,000.
Yeah, so with that point in mind, what requirements do you place on your own strains before you deem it ready for market? And what type of things would make you reconsider whether you're going to release a strain or not?
Okay, my aim is to, when you pop one or two packs of seeds, that you find the type of plant that I wanted you to find, yeah? That what I think the strain represents, or that is like the cut that I picked myself. That's what I try to do.
That's not on every strain, yeah? But I have quite a few strains which are like that. Yeah, that's why I like the back crossing so much, so I can corner some traits and phenos in that gene pool more, yeah? So that there's less variation and you have a bigger chance to find that thing in less seeds.
So like, for example, the headbanger, yeah? If you pop two packs of seeds, some people have a hard time to really pick what they want to keep, yeah? There is some variation in it, but it's not all over the board, yeah?
Every plant is clearly the same strain. With some of the seeds of today, if you pop them, some things for me as well, like let me give an example, skullcap, yeah? That's a sour head stash times biker, yeah? That has way more variation than a headbanger, for example, yeah?
So you will find a lot of different things in that, yeah? So that's not like what I would normally sell or release, yeah? But people do love the variation these days, yeah?
I think there's also a very big difference in the market. Like in America, people germinate these seeds to select a plant, a clone to keep as a mom to be cropped, yeah? For production, yeah?
Here, it's a lot of times not like that, yeah? So people kind of want to buy a pack of seeds, grow them, and then two, three years later, they think, oh, that was nice, yeah? I'm going to grow that again. And they want to buy a pack of seeds and find the similar things that they found before, yeah?
So, that's a bit of a difference, yeah? When it's for selection and for commercial market as a producer, people try to have their own thing, yeah? So then they want kind of more variation today when it's to American people and stuff.
Yeah, most certainly. So, what would you say would be a kind of a deal breaker for you with a strain? So, the hypothetical I like to give people is, if you had a strain and you just thought it was amazing, it was unique, it was going to take the market by storm, but the downside was that there was like one Herme in every pack just on average. Would that be a deal breaker for you?
And if not, what would be the definitive deal breaker if everything else was just perfect, so to speak?
If in my own test grows, like if it would be one Herme in a pack, that would be like 10%. I probably, that would probably be the max, yeah? I would probably still release that. It would be known, though, before I release it, yeah? Because I'm very open about every test grow, all these other things and stuff. So, everybody, I would clearly state it as well.
When I don't like to release strains is when the outcome is weaker than both parents or the goal, because I most times breed with a goal before I even start selecting plans and doing things, yeah? If that goal's not met, I'm kind of not really, I lose interest. I don't want to release it, yeah, as well.
And when I really don't like to release is when you get like females in those seed packs that are like really not worth smoking, yeah? Then I don't like to release it, yeah? Even a bad plant in it, yes, should still be okay, yeah? It should still be nice, okay to smoke and things like that.
Because for people, when they only grow like five or 10 plants and there's like two plants that's just not enjoyable to smoke, yeah, that's terrible. Yeah, that's just terrible.
Yeah. So, while we're talking genetics, what is one strain or just in general line that you'd love to work with but you just don't have access to?
I gotta be honest, yeah. I've been in this, I've been growing for almost 30 years now. I was in the forums very early as well, yes? I have like a really big wide network and I traveled a lot as well.
Most times if I think of something, yeah, and I really start asking, it kind of almost always really comes out, yeah? But then there's some things that are probably like maybe not even true, yeah?
Like, they used to be talking about this guy called Asia Fantasia, yeah? I never seen that. I would be interested to see it if it's even real. Outside of that, no. Well, maybe some land races but then I just don't know, I'm looking for them yet.
So, is there any land race that you don't have access to that you wish you did?
I have different Nepalese, yeah? And I have something with Nepal as a country, yeah? I've spent there months before. But it's so diverse, yeah? All the weed that I've seen there in different places, so many different smells and things, yeah?
That someone says Nepalese, well that could be so many different things, yeah? But yeah, that definitely intrigues me a lot, yeah? And it's something I haven't digged or spent a lot of time in germinating seeds from Nepal. So, that's definitely something I want to do. I don't think it has a huge commercial aspect though. But it definitely has a big personal interest.
Yeah, of course. And I guess that just reinforces that point you made about B and what he could bring to the table. But with that being said, are there any countries you would love to go and do your own little seed pilgrimage in?
Yeah, I'd love to go to Afghanistan, to be honest. I'd love to go back to Nepal as well. And Hindukush, yeah? I'd like to do Yeah, I like that region. I would like to It's not the time to go there now, yeah? For me. I would love to search around there.
Yeah. So, do you feel like there is still some really good stock to be gained from these areas? Or do you feel like it's already been watered down? And as an extension of that, how do you feel about the actions of some of the people who have gone there in the past and diluted the seeds with more modern genetics?
As for the Well, I think some of these places are not that welcoming at this time, yeah? Those places, there will be loads of little cells and stuff, yeah? Which are now kind of hard to get to, yeah? There's definitely a lot of stuff there, yeah, still. I'm 100% sure. Also untouched, yeah? When it comes to Afghanistan. Definitely Nepal, yeah?
Because you have to understand that those are the mountains in the Himalaya, yeah? So, even when you bring in seeds, yeah? And then most bigger growths are always in the valley and not on the top. That pollen doesn't travel as far as in like a flat, dry country, yeah?
So, and it kind of breaks itself out as well pretty fast in most places as well. Like in Morocco, yeah? If they would not bring any more of these seeds in there, yeah? In a couple of years, a lot of things will turn back as well, yeah? Which has to do with the different flowering times of these genetics, yeah? So, they kind of start to separate each other as well if you just let it go.
Where would be the highest chance of getting pure land race?
So, yeah, I mean, Afghanistan used to be very open and very welcoming and stuff. You can still go there, don't get me wrong. But a lot of people won't go there now, yeah? So, yeah, then it's protected more as well, yeah?
Yeah, most certainly. Let's just jump back to the modern world of breeding for a moment. I was cruising through your IG last night and I saw some photos of the white OG. God, they looked awesome. Reminded me of the old school photos of Deep Chunk from Tom Hill. So, two part of question. What did you think of the white OG and what do you think of Tom Hill?
Tom Hill, I grown Deep Chunk before. I liked Tom Hill back in the days on the forums and stuff. Very knowledgeable guy, yeah? Someone that did it kind of real, yeah? And also, teached a lot of us all kinds of things, yeah? So, yeah, I have big respect for Tom Hill.
White OG, that's the strain that I had my first prize at High Times Cup with, I think in 2010 or 2009. After that, I lost that original male, yeah? In a police bust. So, I made a new version, yeah? Which is the V2, which is what's everywhere now and what I've sold all the time.
Now, that won almost every first prize in Spain years ago, yeah? It's a very good strain. It kind of came out a little bit after the white fire from OG Rascal. That was a feminized thing. This was like a regular OG times the white, yeah? At that time, there were not that many of those things around, to be honest, as well. Now, there's a lot of OG times the white.
Yeah, certainly. Do you think that if you had, for example, Jungle Boys do a massive Fino hunt of your strains, it would help put you on the map a bit more?
Oh, yeah, of course. Everybody looks at that, yeah? And they're very good at that as well, yeah? No, of course. If someone like Jungle Boys or if Burner or some of these other promoting people that really get looked at, if they grow your things, it always makes you noticed way more, of course.
And so, how do you feel about companies like Jungle Boys and even Cookie Fam who are expanding out into kind of the clothing domain and becoming more of a lifestyle brand than just a cannabis brand? What do you think of this idea and would you ever consider it for your own brand?
Nah, not me, man. I'm like a garden guy. I'm not even a business or a seed company. I'm not that good at all that part of it, even, yeah? So, no. With me, that won't happen, for sure. And I'm way too sober. I'm like a sober Dutch guy, yeah?
So, nah. I go to Hollywood and LA a lot and the difference is too big. I cannot become that, yeah? It's just not possible, yeah? It's not in my nature. But, yeah, I think it's good that they do that, to be honest, yeah? I think it kind of fits a rapper more to be busy with a clothing brand and lifestyle than a weed brand, if I'm honest.
Yeah, of course. Of course. So, with that being said, what would be your advice for a newly starting out breeder? What's the best way they can kind of get themselves and get their name a bit more exposure?
Well, the first thing I think, if you want to, like, I get this question so much, yeah? People want to become, start a seed company and want to begin breeding and things like that, yeah? Now, if you want to sell seeds commercial with how the market is and how the public looks at it, yeah? One, you have to be a little bit more original than it is at the moment, yeah? That's one thing, I think, yeah?
The other thing is, if you're going to make regular seeds, put some effort in your mail, yeah? Because the mail is what it's all about, yeah? You've got to breed your mail. You don't pick a mail from someone else's seeds. You always create your own mail. You can create it with stuff you buy from different people and things like that, but you create your own mail by crossing things a few times or things like that, yeah?
Then you have a unique mail as well, yeah? Which also makes it you don't get copied the same thing like all these other people are, yeah? So, I think that's very important. Then I personally think it's always best to select everything from seed that you use, yeah? If you just use the cuts that everybody used, you're just going to be one of the rest and you're not going to be noticed that much either, yeah?
Now, by doing that, you do have to prove more, yeah? Because people say, oh yeah, well I don't know what that is. Oh yeah, that's from seed, yeah? What a lot of people say these days, which is of course is nonsense. Every clone comes from seeds.
Then I think you do need to enter some cups, yeah? Because that's kind of the starting rolling point. That's what these cups are still good for. If no one knows about you and you win these cups or you win one or two of them, then it does get the ball rolling, yeah? That will get a few good growers interested to try out your seeds.
Then when good growers grow your seeds and they post it over social media and things like that, then the flame really starts to burn.
Yeah, what a fantastic sentiment that kind of echoes my exact personal views. So, a question I do want to quickly ask though, how long or what process should someone go through before they start to label themselves a breeder? It seems to me as though as soon as people first get the idea that they would like to breed, they're immediately a breeder. Do you care about things like this and what do you think are kind of the necessary steps before you can really start to label yourself as such?
I didn't label myself a breeder until a couple of years ago. I mean, when you cross things, you're breeding, yeah? So, in all honesty, yeah, they are breeders, yeah? Even when you start, you kind of are a breeder, yeah?
I think if you use it as a classification, yeah, you got to have some experience and some knowledge though before you put that on. I mean, I hate the name master grower, for example, yeah? So, master breeder, that's like a no-go for me. That's like a no-go. If anyone calls himself a master breeder, yeah, no, I don't think people are capable to learn all of that in even one life.
Yeah, most certainly. I had someone email me asking if they could get on the show and I was like, oh, no, sorry, the show's really just kind of for breeders and as tongue-in-cheek, I was like, oh, and also master growers and they replied and they were like, well, I'm actually a master grower. I was like, dude, I was joking.
Yeah, no, that's a terrible term, master grower, yeah? We call them head growers, yeah? I think that's a good name for it. In these bigger operations, if you're like that guy that has to manage everything and are the one and responsible and stuff, then you're a head grower, yeah? That's a good term for it, I think. A master grower, that's like a kung fu movie, yeah? That's not the way it is.
I think it's kind of like you don't acknowledge that we're all students, you know, there's still more to learn.
Oh, yeah, this is so young, yeah? Definitely now it gets legal and open, yeah? You see everything moving way faster, yeah? Oh, there's going to be so much in the coming years, yeah, that's going to change, yeah? So, oh, yeah, none of us know it all yet.
Of course, of course. So, what do you think about clone hoarding? Do you think it's kind of a necessity when you're breeding to just keep certain things to yourself or at least out of the hands of public so that it's kind of like makes your work a commodity? Or do you think overall it's somewhat a hindrance to the community?
The only thing I don't like as much is like when all your clones get into the hands of these other seed makers, yeah? I kind of like it if my breeding clones get grown for flower and the flower would be everywhere, yeah? I kind of like that, yeah? But you have to protect something sometimes when you're a commercial seed company, though.
Outside of that, I like to share stuff, yeah? I've shared most of my things with a lot of people.
So, a question I wanted to quickly run by you, I probably could have segwayed it in somewhere earlier, but here is as good as any point I figure. Would you ever consider working with companies like Phylos? And do you have any concerns about these kind of genetic mapping companies and the potential implications in the future of what could happen with this data?
Well, my friend, Sjoerd, he had some things tested from me by them as well. And we are doing like a breeding type thing with them now. But then I did pick what we're going to do and which gene pool kind of carefully as well, yeah?
So, I picked super silver haze because it's so widespread and there's nothing to protect about it, but it's very special, all those seeds. So, I thought that'd be a good one to use for that. I did not enter all my special or unique things in there, though. And I'm not going to do that either.
But there are some clones from me that did get into Phylos. I'm just not the one that entered them. The A5 cut is in there now. One that I know is that came from me and went to someone and that person gave it away to someone else and that one entered it. And I know that one's certified, yeah? That came from me. So, I know that one's genuine, yeah?
That's A seeds, they entered it. So, you can check that up. Then my melon cut is in there as well. There's the mom of the seeds of the melon. That one's in there as well. And I think there's another one in there as well.
Yeah, do tell us a little bit more about the melon or the melon cut itself because I saw that one when I was looking at some of your strength and I was like, melon's one of those terpene profiles you just don't come across as regularly, you know? It's kind of like a hot commodity. What do you think of the melon cut?
Well, let me just say, I named this cut melon, yeah? This is 2013 probably, yeah? And people always ask me, what is it? I say, well, they come from seeds that I traded on Overgrow and they were labeled fruity skunk number two or three. I had a few different bags with different numbers on them.
There's definitely no skunk in it at all. It has more OG type thing to it. And then this one had like a green melon candy type smell and flavor to it, yeah? That's very unique. My other friend says it smells like lychee, yeah?
It's not the watermelon or the genes that afterwards came into Cali and stuff like that. This was there way before that.
Do you have any plans to work it further at all?
Oh yeah, 100%. That weed, I used to always only grow it myself and smoke it myself. It's like one of my favorite indica's to smoke. So, if I could only pick two weeds, I'd probably have that as my indica and then I have my sourd as my like sativa type hybrid. Yeah, I'm definitely going to work more with it. I'm selecting males at the moment.
Yeah, okay. Interesting, interesting. So, I just wanted to jump back to a point you didn't specifically say, but I think you're alluding to it before. You've been working with the Dutch consulting company. How's that been?
Yeah, so that's a company I've put up with two friends and another person. That's like the financial backbone of it. Yeah, that's really great, yeah? That's really great. That's me, Sjoerd, Tam and Roger. Yeah, that's companies like one was needed.
I think it's a big success and it's only just started that as well. Yeah, so, yeah, no, that's a match made in heaven there.
Fantastic. And what types of things can we expect from you guys moving forward?
So, we do consultancy for most times it's bigger, bigger projects. Yeah. A lot of times it's projects that already been running and then kind of don't work. Yeah, so we come in and fix the problem kind of thing.
Now, I'm a genetic consultant and genetic guy. Yeah, so I'll bring in a lot of these seed batches, not just from me, but from friends and everywhere. Then Sjoerd, which is GeneFinder OG on Instagram. He's like our growth specialist. Yeah, he's very special.
Then we got Tam, my other partner. He's like, he's our business guy. Yeah. He's the guy to sit at the table with all these corporate type people and stuff like that.
Roger as well. He's just like a banking background. Yeah. So, there are, I call it our bridge between our group and scene like more the alternative hippie really garden cannabis type guys.
And then they're like the bridge in between us and the guys that don't kind of don't grow weed. Yeah. And it's it behind the desk. Yeah. So, that makes it work. Yeah. You need that bridge in between it for it to work better. And that seems to work really well.
So, when you get brought in to help fix up some of these problem operations, what's one of the most common things you see that they're getting wrong that you need to fix up for them?
Well, all the things that we've done now, they're definitely the genetics was like very boring and just like what you see all these big people grow. Yeah. They all grow a lot of Gorilla Glue for Blue Dream, all those type of plants. Yeah. So, you can already make a big change in that.
Then IPM is always a huge fuck up. All these grows most times are too dirty. Yeah. And don't get me wrong. It's very hard to grow clean, good cannabis on a big scale. Yeah. It's very difficult. It takes a very good management and system. Yeah. For that to work. Yeah. Because you work with a lot of people.
It's not easy to do. Yeah. Once you turn it around, it's like a huge difference. Yeah. It becomes a huge difference.
Yeah. Okay. So, when you're dealing with these large commercial operations, what's the type of lighting technology you're usually advocating for? And does that differ from what you would use on a small homegrown level?
No. It would be pretty simple. Now, that aspect would be a responsibility for not for me, but for GeneFinder. Yeah. That would be his part of the thing. He's like way more knowledgeable on all those things than I am. Yeah. So much test experience with all these different things as well.
Me, indoor. I run Govitas. Yeah. If I put up a room somewhere. But in the bigger greenhouses now that we're running there, we're putting in LED lights in the one in California. Seems to work well as well.
Yeah. Okay. And do you have any concerns about the Govitas and how they were bought out by Bayer or whatever the Monsanto, whatever it was a while ago? I heard rumors of that.
I don't like it when it is like that. I'll be honest. I got ones that are very old. Yeah. They're from way before that time. But now it sucks if you support something wrong. Yeah. And there is different ones these days as well, which are just as good. Yeah. As long as the double-ended and the 400 volt technique is what really makes the difference.
Yeah. Definitely. So with that being said, I wanted to ask you a bit more of a general question. What do you think is one of the most commonly misunderstood parts of breeding?
I think like today, everybody is like, yeah, no, that's an F1. It needs to be an F4. I'm like, well, what does that mean then? Yeah. None of those things mean anything. Yeah. It's all about the selection and the stability of the parents used. Yeah. Like there is not even that much of the true F1s for sale in the market. Yeah. Everybody calls across an F1 these days. Yeah.
Yeah. It's not a true F1. A true F1 is bred by two stable parents. Yeah. That don't give a lot of variations on themselves. Yeah. So, and then they think the F2 would be like more stable and F3 would be more stable and F4. That all depends on how you select on the guy that bred it and how he did his work. That number doesn't say much like that. Yeah. So I think that's a big misunderstanding at the moment.
So what type of labelling or nomenclature would you want to use for kind of the polyhybrids where it is just, you know, two unstabilised things whacked together? Is that like a, we can't say P1, but maybe polyhybrid one?
No, we can't call it a P1 because that's what we call a stable parent. I don't know, to be honest. Yeah. I think they should not. It should be. It's just a cross. Yeah. It's just a cross. That's what it is.
I think they shouldn't even be labelled. They should definitely not be labelled an F1 or we should label the true F1s, true F1s like TF1.
Yeah, certainly. I mean, I always think about this in the context of like someone like DJ Short, who's very much worked his lines from the bare land races. It's like, it must be frustrating when you're seeing people label things and yours is the only thing that actually complies with it.
Oh yeah, for sure. Oh, for sure. For sure. For sure. Like IBL, I hope to in my life make two IBLs, yeah, which will just be like working on the lines that I'm already have. Because how many IBLs you think you can make in a lifetime, yeah?
Yeah, I mean, if we go back to Afghanistan, right, it took families many generations to do it. So.
Yeah.
Yeah. Okay. So, with that in mind, what keeps you motivated to keep breathing in an ever more challenging environment?
I will never, I always say you only lose when you quit, yeah. Trust me, in all these years I've bumped into a lot of problems, yeah. I lived the life of the snake and ladder a lot of times, yeah. So you climb up and you get, trouble comes and you fall down to the ground again, yeah. But I will never ever quit, yeah.
I sell seeds so that I can do more breeding, yeah, because it costs a lot of money. The passion is bigger than anything in it, yeah. Like I've go away from my family for months, I've taken risks, all kinds of things, yeah. And then people think, how the hell can you do it? I just have to do it, yeah. It's the passion in it, yeah, the drive, yeah.
I would do anything to keep on doing it.
Yeah. Okay. So, you can't take the plan out of the boy.
No, no. It's one of the most important things in my life. It's that and then my family, yeah. That's it. Those things are like, they're almost equal to me.
Yeah, no, I agree. So, next question I had for you. Who is your favorite breeder who's currently active and have you ever considered doing a collab with them?
I have a couple of breeders that I really like, yeah, and I respect. All of them are pretty different as well, yeah. Like, I have a lot of respect for Simon from Serious Seeds.
Then two of my friends, which is JJ and Camerado, I like them a lot. And then Bodai as well, yeah. Those are people I really like and I grow a lot of seeds from as well, yeah. And then when people ask me or my friends, I say, oh, you got to try some of this guy and that guy. Those seeds are good as well, yeah.
So, those four people I really think are definitely deserve a lot of recognition.
Yeah, for sure. So, with that being said, I noticed that in the past you've done a collab with Mosca using the C99 BX. So, the first question that jumped to mind was when Soul and Duke re-brought back Brothers Grimm, did you immediately think to yourself, oh, cool, let's redo that project with the real C99 or was it very specific to that relationship you had with Mosca?
Yeah, I know Mosca for a long time personally. So, and at that time there was no other, he was the only one offering C99 at the time as well. It was what he was known for at that time on the forum as well. So, that was the thing to do if we do a co-op, that it was very obvious it needed to be that.
I have not grown the re-releases of Brothers Grimm's C99 yet. I still have to do that to be honest. So, I haven't grown them yet.
Really good. Duke did an awesome job bringing that one back. So, my next question is, do you think it's possible to selectively breed cannabis for specific medical properties? Like for example, do you think you could set out to create a strain that's going to help with like Crohn's for example or do you think it's just kind of luck of the draw in terms of if the strain happens to be specifically good for a certain ailment?
No, I think with lab testing these days, I mean it needs to be tested. People need to test it, yeah. And then when they found out this works way better, yeah, and we have that happen with a couple of different strains, then we can compare all these lab tests, yeah. And then we can see which terpenes or which cannabinoids are like similar in those different strains. Then we know what to breed for and what to select for.
Then we can make it way stronger for that. So, yes, then we can breed strains specific for certain illnesses and certain things.
And so, if you had the time or the space, what ailments would you most want to try to breed some cannabis for? Is there anything that's on your list that you feel is not currently being catered to?
Well, I think like me personally, I have like ADD which is like a raising brain syndrome. I would like to make something for that but I think it's a pretty difficult one. It needs to be in a Tifa type gene pool, I think. It's probably going to be found.
So, I have like a lot of thoughts that go really fast inside my head. It's like a ping pong ball, yeah. I'm looking for something that gives me like a rest in my head without losing any energy, all those type of things, yeah, which kind of only get with some of these hazes.
I think some of these hazes are like very unexplored on the medical part and I think they definitely keep some very strong medical value which has not been used.
So, a bit of an odd question but I love to throw it by all I guess. How important do you find it is to engage with social media as a breeder? Because we see breeders on both sides of the fence. Where do you personally sit?
I think social media is a very valuable tool. It's definitely not as pleasant as it sometimes can be but that happens everywhere. It happens on the forums. I've been online so long on all these forums and stuff that I'm pretty okay and pretty good in handling like all the negative type things and stuff, yeah.
Which if you handle it the right way, it doesn't become too big, yeah. But then again, I'm not that straight. I don't always tell my opinion or things like that, yeah, just because you don't feel the freedom for it, yeah.
And on these days on social media, you constantly have to prove yourself or you have to be used to answering the same questions like every day, yeah. Like I'll get the same questions every day from different people. Where can I get this or what is this?
And it doesn't matter if you said it five minutes before, yeah. People don't see that well on Instagram, yeah. So, no matter what you put on there, that info is gone kind of in 24 hours, yeah. So, yeah, you have to repeat yourself a lot on social media.
Then how do you feel things online rate these days compared to back in the day when the forums were much more active and popular?
Oh, the forums in the old days, that was, yeah, like overgrow when that was almost the only thing and then definitely in the earlier years of it, that was like so special, yeah. That was the first time a lot of underground breeders connected with each other, yeah.
That normally would have never ever met each other and we learned so much from each other then in such a short time, yeah, that that gave a lot of friendship and a lot of connections that are like still solid today, yeah.
And people wanted to share everything with each other, yeah. Everybody sent seeds and clones and explained exactly how their system worked and stuff to that to each other, yeah.
That totally changed, yeah. Now, if you want to do that, you get everybody in saying how you should do it or like complaining or saying something's not right about it and stuff, yeah. So, people are not, it's not enjoyable for people to tell and do that anymore, yeah. So, that changed a lot, yeah. That changed a lot.
Yeah, definitely. It's a whole different world now, isn't it?
It is, it is, it is.
Alrighty, so that brings us to our last little lot of questions that I like to call the quickfire questions. So, let's jump into them. First one, what's your favorite food?
India food.
Like curry?
Yeah, like lamb's curry, yeah.
What type, man? Madras, butter chicken?
I like the one with the spinach a lot, yeah.
Dhal?
Yeah, dhal as well, yeah. Things like that, yeah.
Cool, cool, cool. We can get down to some food together by the sounds of it.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. That's good, that's good.
I like to go for everywhere with all the traveling and stuff. Yeah, I love to go to really good restaurants and things like that. I think that's one of the big joys in life.
Yeah, definitely, right. Good food, good smoke, that's what you need.
Yes.
So, next one I wanted to ask. What is one of the most memorable smokes you've ever had?
That's probably a Happy Brother dry screen. No, the A5 dry screen topped it off. Yeah. Static-cleaned A5 dry screen is like very special.
Hell yeah.
It almost makes you trip. It almost makes you trip. It gives you a color view and stuff like a mushroom type effect and stuff, which I never get with smoking cannabis.
So, on the other end of the spectrum, what's the strain where you've smoked it and you haven't thought it was very good? Kind of the least agreeing with you.
Well, I once grew some plants and one of them smelled like human shit. But it also tasted like so gross that you really could not smoke it. And none of my friends could smoke it either.
When you just lighted the joint and you took one pull, it almost makes you gawk and stuff like that. It was just not smokeable. You just can't smoke it.
That is truly an interesting one.
It was awful.
Yeah. So, out of all of your strains that you've got coming out in the near future, we're going to exclude the Sour BX from this one because we've already spoken about it.
So, outside of that, what are you most excited for to release in the future?
I think people are very waiting for it. I'm making A5, S1s. I think people are very waiting for that one.
Myself, I'm doing some Skittles things, which I think are going to be nice. And then some of the Brazilian stuff. But that will be a little while before that comes. That's probably next year. But that A5 will come this year.
Put me down on the list. I'm already sweating thinking about it.
Yeah, I'm crossing the reverse pollen with the other cuts as well. So, I'm doing a C5 times A5. I'm doing the old school Haze, which is from the Sativa Seed Club. That old cut from them. That one times the A5. I got an HPA Skunk in there as well.
I might throw in the Amnesia, because everybody wants me to do that. So, I'll probably do Pollinate that as well.
Yeah, definitely. So, on the breeder end of the spectrum, who's an up and coming breeder who you think might be one of the next big names?
Let me see. I'll be honest, I'm not that up to date most times with these things. But let me see. I think most people know. You know Thunderfudge?
Yeah, Thunderfudge.
Oh, bro. His stuff is fucking the bomb. His shit's the bomb. He's a really good guy as well. His stuff's good. All the Sour Larry stuff is incredible. His Ultimate Cam is incredible. He did really good stuff in reviving all of that.
If anyone wants to buy some seeds that are not that known or out there, his stuff is really good.
Hell yeah. So, we're now on the desert island. You can pick three strains to take with you. Unlimited supply. What three?
Sour Diesel, A5 and the Melon.
Ah, what a nice little well-rounded selection.
I need something for every different part of the day.
Okay, so final question. If you could go to any place, anywhere in history, any time, presumably to collect some landrace seeds, what time period and where would you go?
I think I'll go back really far. Like early 1900s and go to Asia, China.
Hell yeah, get some Jurassic shit.
Go all the way to the fucking where it started. If you have the chance to go back, then you better go back to where it started.
Yeah, I feel you. So, with that being said, did you have any shoutouts or comments you wanted to make before we wrap things up?
Yeah, I want to give a shoutout to all the people I've been working with the last years. Gene Finder, Tam, Kali Koush Farms.
Extra big shoutout to Emmet from Pure Sativa who makes my life so much easier. Without him I wouldn't be selling seeds anymore. I would have quit already.
I just don't like selling seeds. So, those people really made it blow up and without those people I wouldn't be doing it anymore.
Hell yeah, some solid names in there. So, a big, big, big thank you to the Dutch OG wizard himself, Karma, for coming on the show and dropping all the knowledge on us.
Thank you, thank you for having me.
So, a big, big, big thank you to our friend Karma for taking the time to chat with us. And thank you to you for sticking around until the end.
As always, a huge shoutout to Seeds Here Now. They're the best, you know it, check them out, it's the only option.
Our friends at 420 Australia and Organic Gardening Solutions. If you're in Australia, it's a no-brainer.
Big shoutout to our Pure family at Dragonfly Earth Medicine, spreading that good news to everyone.
And also to the Patreon gang. Check it out if you want that extra content guys, satisfy that craving.
As always, I'll see you again next time gang. I'll see ya.
Outro Music
