Hello and welcome to the next episode of the podcast, a cannabis podcast for budding enthusiasts.
As always, these episodes could not happen without the fantastic support of our sponsors.
Seeds here now, you know them and love them.
Best in the business if you're looking for a North American based seed option featuring
the latest and greatest breeders, all the hottest drops.
Guess what?
They got an incredibly shmick new website with fantastic new prices.
They've been slashing the cost of everything to give you the best deal while still offering
their guarantee on both satisfaction and germination.
Don't delay, best in the business.
Thank you so much.
Likewise huge shout out to our friends Simply Souvenirs, our homies holding down the fort
in Europe.
If you're in the UK or Europe and you're looking for a hand selected range of boutique
genetics from both local and international breeders, check out Simply Souvenirs.
They have the best customer service in the game as well as new drops occurring on the
regular including some amazing smoking accessories, vapes, dab accessories and rigs, so much more.
Check them out, Simply Souvenirs.
We appreciate you guys.
In order to make a name for yourself, you not only need to find and make some good genetics,
you need to run them properly.
Check out our friends Copert Biological Systems.
They have all the best solutions in the game for all pests and pathogens.
The best way to keep your garden happy, healthy and pumping on all cylinders is to be proactive.
Don't wait for an infestation guys.
Get onto it now.
Grab yourself some AcuparM if you're worried about aphids or some Spidex Vital if you've
got spider mite issues.
I promise you guys, knowing that your garden is pest and pathogen free is next to heavenliness.
There's nothing better than a high quality crop that is 100% free of contaminants.
Shout out Copert Biological Systems.
We appreciate you guys so much.
Likewise, you got to make sure you're getting the most out of your garden.
And for that, we need to give a big shout out to our friends at Pulse Senses.
If you're after more yield, more resin, higher quality concentrates and flowers, you need
to get serious about your growth.
So get a Pulse.
There are many hidden variables that can hold your growth back that you simply may not even
be aware of.
VPD is a common one.
You can't feel it, you can't see it, you don't know about it.
But let me tell you, your plants do.
If you get a Pulse Sensor and dial the parameters in, you will see your plants responding in
front of your eyes.
From a single tent to a single room to a multi-facility operation, don't hold your next crop back.
Get serious.
Pulse Sensor.
A huge shout out to the Patreon gang.
If you guys want to get early access to upcoming content, unheard exclusive interviews with
some of your favorite guests, as well as access to ad-free content and genetic giveaways going
down monthly, check out the Patreon.
www.patreon.com forward slash the podcast.
All right, all right, all right, my friends.
Let's go back for part two of this special installment with Snow High, the incredible
genetic genius behind Snow High Seeds.
I hope you enjoyed part one.
If you haven't heard it, go back and jump into it before you hear this one.
It'll make more sense.
So without further ado, let's get into it.
So you just referenced the OG and the Skywalker.
I've heard rumors of a few different Skywalkers going around.
I've heard one that it's like just a straight OG, but I've heard that there's another one
that goes around that's actually like the original one, Crossed to Bubba or something
like that.
And that's also called Skywalker and it's very good.
Do you know the one you're fond of?
Is that like the very straightforward OG or does it seem a little different to you?
Well, when I was growing these and breeding these, this was like the height of the OG
Kush crazes, you know, as far as the medical clubs having them.
It was like the height of the medical club scene.
I have, you know, I got them before they were like super popularized.
The Skywalker, also a lot of people thought there was one done by like Barney's Forum
or something, which is like Blueberry and something, Mizarro and Blueberry.
That's not Skywalker OG.
Skywalker, it was meant as, you know, a high flying OG, you know, that's why it was
called Skywalker, not because it was part of like some Dutch hybrid.
Skywalker and some of the OGs, they're different than each other.
So there's like the Triangle Kush out of Florida.
There's OG Kush out of Southern California.
There is the Tahoe.
They all look different.
So what is happened is these are all strains that are very familiar to each other because
the genetics are very similar, but they are definitely different.
They grow differently.
They look differently and they smoke differently.
But they have similar characteristics.
So a lot of what people call OG Kushes are different lines that are similar.
They are Afghani, Pakistani lines with maybe some tie-in involved in there.
It's hard to say exactly, but the Skywalker grows and looks differently than the Tahoe.
Tahoe looks similar to like pure Kush.
The San Fernando Valley looks similar to Bubba, but they're different.
Master Kush looks similar to San Fernando Valley and G13.
But, you know, there's different varieties that are very similar to each other, but
they're definitely different.
And the problem is a lot of stuff that was popularized was from bag seed.
So a lot of people got bag seed and they grew those out as a strain.
And then that was what most people got their hands on.
And even with bag seed, the plants will look different than the mother.
You'll have different variations.
Or it came from impromptu fertilization of different lines that were growing.
It hermed on another clone that they had.
And then you have some multi-poly hybrid of a Kush variety.
So the problem is there was no real breeding done with a lot of these varieties.
So it's hard to say what it was.
That's why I breed with certain land, race, and heirloom lines.
So I create lines that I know the pedigree.
Otherwise, a lot of people are arguing like, oh no, that's my clone.
That was my work.
It's all hearsay.
But, you know, and I don't want to fight with people.
There's no point to it.
So if you want to create something, create it from original lines.
But, you know, at this point, there's been so much mix that they call Oji Kush.
But Oji Kush is actually several different varieties that have the same effects and same looks and tastes.
Yeah, that's a good point.
I guess I'm wondering, you know, can we expect to see you then work with any of the other more sort of modern strains?
I know you've done a cross with cookies before, but I haven't seen any Runts or Gelato.
Do you think you'll incorporate more of the popular stuff or just stick to the more old school?
I could do the other lines.
Like Girl Scout Cookies, we grew the first cutting available at the time.
I call it Panty Dropper.
I didn't release the seeds much.
Some people got some packs, but there's the Panty Dropper and the Panty Dropper Special Edition.
So, yeah, it's Girl Scout Cookies with the two males that created the True Gangster Kush.
That's the Panty Dropper.
And the Special Edition is the Panty Dropper with the Hell's Angel line,
which is the Oji Kush with the True Gangster Kush line.
And those need to be revisited and kind of worked out because the stability of the Girl Scout Cookies was,
it was, you know, Dribbent Poison and Oji Kush with the Cherry Pie and there was some bag seed issues.
You know, it was created from hermaphroditic reproduction.
So, unstable to begin with.
And that's not kind of great for, you know, creating lines from.
You need to stabilize the line and then release it.
If I'm going to use a cutting, I'm going to grow it out and then see if it's worth, you know, the trouble.
Like the Pink Panther was kind of an unstable line, but trying to breed with it to stabilize it some
for the qualities that it had was worth the time because it produced some medicinal, get-smokable flowers.
You know, the flowers turned purple and red and had a beautiful grape liqueur smell and taste.
So, it was like a grape Oji Kush, but it grew better and yielded better, but it also has some CBD to it.
So, it had some medicinal qualities that were similar to the anti-seizure CBD strain called Charlotte's Web.
It had the same ratio of like three to one CBD.
So, it was medicinal at the same time.
Yeah, so yeah, there may be some in the future, some of the modern stuff, but why?
Everybody else is doing that.
You don't need another person doing it unless there's going to be, you know, an increase to the line.
I'm going to improve it in some way.
Like with the East Coast Sour Diesel, there were so many Sour Diesels on the West Coast that they were shit to grow.
They weren't worth growing because they didn't have the full flavor of the Sour Diesel.
You know, they didn't have the sourness, the smell, the taste, the aroma, but they were Sour Diesel-ish.
And that was what was going around as clones for Sour Diesel.
So, it wasn't worth growing.
It yielded well, but you know, it wasn't Sour Diesel the way it should be.
The East Coast Sour Diesel clone was tired.
It didn't yield well or root well.
But it had the smell and flavors of the great perfect high.
So, basically I wanted to work with something fresh, so I selfed it.
And then I created a couple females from that, picked the best one.
The first generation with the Neville's Haze Purple Tide male, you know, they're 50-50.
Sometimes there's some good females and some of them are kind of, you know, not so good.
So, I had to pick the best, you know, the best female.
And they were good.
So, I had to pick the best plants from that first generation into the F2s.
And the F2s is what I released as the West Coast Purple Diesel.
So, you get those, you know, qualities of the East Coast Sour Diesel with those good traits, the smell, the sourness,
that fantastic high resin production and aroma, but with good rooting, big plants, big buds.
It's everything you'd want from what was supposed to be Sour Diesel, but without the problems.
Not to say that recessives won't pop up, but you're going to have a more stable line,
which will give you all the characteristics that you love from Sour Diesel.
And that would be the only reason to kind of revisit some of these lines that are popular with people.
Yeah, interesting. Are you, in general, open to like S1-ing old clones
and just sort of trying to revitalize them like that? I know that CSI...
No.
Okay, yeah. Tell us more.
I don't like self-ing anything because if you're going to self-something, it should be true breeding.
Because if it's not, you're going to be inviting problems.
If you're self-ing or, you know, feminizing plants that aren't stable,
when you grow them out, you're going to have all kinds of issues.
They're not going to be exact replicas. They're going to be all over the place.
And that's the issue.
You know, if you're going to do that, might as well just make, you know, regular seeds.
Because you're going to invite instability and
intersex traits into a plant, which is unstable to begin with.
And then you're going to be having people that aren't expert growers
that are stressing out the plants, creating more plants from the intersex traits
that are going to invariably pop up from these unstable plants.
And it's just a mess that I don't care to get into.
Unless I'm trying to save a plant.
You know, if there's only like one plant, then there's ways of, you know, self-ing them,
going to those lines, finding the males and females from the self-ing process,
and then slowly breeding towards something that is stable from that,
you know, self-ing of that line that's, you know, lost or extinct.
You know, if there's only one plant left.
And I've come into that problem where I had only, you know, a few plants
and then those plants that were with it, that were the same line died.
I only had one plant left.
And then I had to breed similar plants like the Acapulco gold mine I bred,
which was two different Acapulco gold mines.
But I could have self-ing them and then, you know,
hoped for males to breed with the females to eventually make a more stable line.
So in that, in those cases, I am, I think self-ing has its place.
And then for tired lines, like there was a strain called Afghanistan.
It was grown for like 30 years in Kansas.
You know, when you breed with that line and make seed,
the seeds don't last as long because they're from a tired old clone.
And the viability of those seeds is even shorter.
So, you know, creating an S1 of that,
and then breeding would might be the way to do it.
But, you know, growing from that old clone,
these clones are just replicas, you know, copies of copies of copies.
You take a copier and take a picture, it gets blurrier and blurrier.
Same thing happens with these clones.
They're just not the same as it once was.
And they need to be refreshed once in a while.
They need to grow from a new seed and be refreshed.
Otherwise, they're just very tired old seeds or old seed lines.
And there's issues to them.
Yeah, that's a great point.
And we've had guests in the past say that one way,
just speculated that you might be able to sort of revitalize these plants
is to let them veg under the sun if they're indoor plants at all.
I guess, given your library with so many old school clones,
what do you do to maintain those old mothers?
And is there any special tips like the sunlight one you have?
Well, it depends on where you live.
So if you're, you know, far enough south,
you can actually grow plants all year round outdoors.
Depending on your environment or with the help of a greenhouse
to extend your growing season.
You just need to use a little nitrogen to kind of put them back into veg
chemically and then leaving enough growth on them to,
you know, maintain growth until the,
the sun is into a place where it starts vegging again.
So I've had plants growing outdoors.
One of them is chocolate.
I've ran for three years outdoors, but I've had,
what was it?
God, I had another one that went for seven years and it's kept growing it
outdoors, you know, to see how long I can grow it.
And that happens like in Nepal,
you get these plants have been growing for decades and they get to be,
you know, three, four stories above the house, you know, in Nepal,
huge plants. And that doesn't just happen over like one year.
It happens over, you know, years and years of it growing.
But as far as maintaining the plants,
it's hard to keep a library of all these different plants.
So I think that you should make a line that is
strong with males and females.
So you can preserve the line of seeds and then that way you don't have to
keep clones of it. You can keep the special plants,
but it's really difficult to keep a library of all these different plants.
It's just too much stress.
And if you have health conditions like myself,
it's almost impossible to do because you might have days or weeks where
you're not able to tend to the plants.
So, you know, things happen, you know,
as far as deaths, the plants, and you don't have anybody to tend to them.
So the other thing is,
is micro micro propagation doing like in vitro tissue culture.
More people should try to get into that where they can maintain things with
a little plant, let a little stem and maintain plants that way.
And I think that that'd be a good way moving forward for people to have
large collections in a smaller place,
you know, to be able to maintain those things, you know,
seed full seeds will be able to be
germinated a lot easier with those type of methods as well.
So, you know, trying to get lost seeds,
seed lines that aren't able to germ any other way is to,
you know, propagate them that way.
Wow.
That sounds like some cool stuff.
I know a lot of people have been chasing the,
what is it? The artificial embryo sort of for well and truly sort of dead seeds.
But in your personal library,
what are the oldest seeds you have and what are some that you're sort of keen
to look into that get you excited?
Oh man, I have seeds that are back from the 60s,
60s, 70s, 80s, 90s.
I have a bunch from different periods of time.
Yeah, I have old Acapulco Golds, I have old Panama Reds,
you know, those, and I've got a bunch of other old Mexicans that are just,
you know, who knows how old they are,
but they need to be,
but they need special, you know, propagation methods.
Yeah, there's a lot more and I'm just not telling you everything,
but there's a lot of cool stuff that would be great to revive.
And, you know, I'm working on methods to try to revive those old lines
so that we could all enjoy them again.
But basically they're extinct to this point until the method is
made better to attempt to bring those back.
So the process, it's a work in progress at the moment,
but I've been able to work on old seeds.
I've been able to germinate 30 plus old seeds.
So that's, you know, that's not an easy thing.
10 year olds, 20 year old seeds is not a problem.
That's kind of, you know, typical.
Wow, that's really impressive.
I think a lot of people are finding it's definitely becoming more and more
challenging to pop seeds that are getting older.
Do you have any tips for people who are trying to pop some old seeds?
There's another method too.
Seeds that were created from organic methods,
meaning they were like sun-grown,
seem to last a lot longer than seeds that were chemically made,
like with chemicals indoors.
A lot of people find viability of like seeds that were created indoors,
usually like chemicals, but only last a couple of years.
With sun-grown seeds, you can grow them six to 10 years,
and there's no issues.
And if they've been stored well,
you can grow them, you know, keep them for longer periods of time.
For germinating seeds, for old seeds,
it's sterile methods.
Same thing as like the scarification.
You can use, there's lots of different methods.
Some of them might work, some of them might not.
But the only thing that kind of pushes things past dormancy is
gibberellic acids.
But the problem with gibberellic acids is
that if you use too little, it does nothing.
If you use too much, you end up killing the seeds.
And if you find the right amount,
you're still dealing with like elongation,
like long, you know, sprouts,
and issues that way, which, you know,
if you got an old seed, that's no big issue.
But it's hard to find the right ratio to germinate seeds that way.
But if you only got a couple of seeds,
you could end up killing the seeds.
So it's almost not worth it.
So, you know,
softening the seeds with like a disinfectant,
like hydrogen peroxide 50-50,
and then pulling off the seed coat after two to three days,
taking the embryo and then doing in vitro
would probably be the best method after you've,
you know, disinfected it.
And then you need certain augers and hormones
to be able to, you know,
germinate those seeds in an auger solution
like wood for tissue culture.
Yeah. Wow. Brilliant.
Very high tech answer.
I love it. I love it.
So in general,
this is a bit of a curveball one,
but I thought you'd have a probably a good take on it.
What's like the most wildly unexpected results
you got from popping like a land race
or like an heirloom sort of line
just really left to field?
Hmm.
I found I've popped seeds that had like double embryos.
Like it was two plants in one seed.
That was kind of cool.
You know,
like getting two different germination sprouts
out of one embryo seed,
you know,
one is weaker than the other,
you know,
but it'd be interesting to see how those would turn out,
you know, from beginning to end.
If one was more potent,
if one has certain traits,
or if one was more female and then was male.
I've had,
I've had a plant that was like a Lao strain,
which
it topped itself.
And then on one side of the plant,
which is what had one,
one root,
but it basically went up and snapped in half.
And then one side was all female with female flowers.
And then the other side was male.
So it was like a monascious plant on one plant.
So it was,
you know,
one sex on the other.
And then the other sex was female on the same plant,
you know,
self pollinating itself.
So I found that to be cool.
Yeah.
Wow.
That's,
that's really neat.
As far as germination processes,
you know,
I don't know.
There's nothing real special about germination.
It's,
you know,
I like to pull them off and,
you know,
I use like a pinching motion to kind of pinch off the films
off the,
the embryos.
Which you can kind of pinch off.
And then,
you know,
it basically comes out,
you know,
you have the little sprout,
like a little embryo sprout.
I'd say don't be scared of that.
A lot of more people should be popping their seeds and
removing the sheet seed shells because you can get a,
a higher percentage to germinate.
Once you've,
you know,
remove the shell.
The problem is it's kind of a,
you know,
sometimes you end up squishing them or destroying them.
But if you don't,
if you leave them too long,
more than like three days,
the embryo will become too soft anyway.
And it'll just,
you know,
mold or squish very easily.
So you got to do it within the two to three day period.
There's a small window which you can actually move them in.
You know,
they'll,
they'll hold together.
But sewing those
in a sterilized soil will improve germination.
So you,
you'll get maybe,
you know,
a few more plants.
If you didn't,
you'd only get a few sometimes.
So I'd say people should practice on seeds
that aren't as valuable to them.
And,
you know,
practice removing the seed shell and then moving the film and then
sowing those seeds.
I think that's something that people should do
for all their seeds after a few days.
Otherwise they're going to rot in the soil
or dry up.
Yeah.
And I think I digging up the seeds.
If so,
if you sow the seeds directly in soil,
you should also dig them up
after two to three days
and do the same,
clean them off,
remove the seed shell,
remove the film,
and then so them back in the same spot they were
or in fresh soils.
Because sometimes if they're,
the soil is too moist
that you'll need to,
you know,
provide another sterilized soil.
The other thing is providing little fans over
the
germinating places.
So if you have
seeds in a starter tray
or in beer cups,
you should have a little fan providing circulation over them.
So it kind of dries them out.
Otherwise the heat from the lights of the sun
and the moisture in the soil will cause molding,
which will cause a damp off,
which will kill the plants or the seeds and seedlings.
So having a little
good air circulation is very
important for germinating seeds.
A lot of people don't do that
and then their seeds die and then they,
you know,
they die of hunger.
Yeah, definitely.
Look, I agree that people need to learn
to become their own little seed surgeons.
I, like yourself,
have saved the number of seeds that
probably wouldn't have made it otherwise.
But I mean, while we're on the topic of saving plants,
I wanted to know what's the oldest plant
you've managed to save and hang on to?
Do you have like a super,
like 30 year old cutting?
What do you got?
No, I don't.
I've had old cuttings given to me by other people,
but I like to preserve a line
and seed form because it's easier
to store and travel with
because it's just too much energy
to maintain clones for years
and years and years.
There should be a reason,
you know, unless it's something special
that you want to keep around.
Majority of stuff I like to
preserve in seed form just because,
you know, if something happens,
you've got to back up that way.
Otherwise, you've got to spread
those clones out to friends.
If you spread out your clones
to friends, then you lose that line.
Just like I lost the chocolate tie
during my aunt's passing of cancer.
If I had been able
to pass it out to people,
I would have been able
to possibly get that back.
So sharing is actually a good way
of keeping the genetics
and be able to get it back
at some point.
Yeah, certainly.
I've learned that myself in the past.
Unless you share it out there,
I'm sure you'll get some sage
advice there.
And while we're on the topic,
one of the fan submitted questions
we got said,
please ask Snow High to talk
about Darwell's chocolate tie
and the golden dragon.
Golden dragon?
I don't know about any golden dragon.
Oh, golden dragon,
my strain, I guess.
Yeah.
The Drow is my friend's
name backwards.
Yeah, Howard.
So Howard,
he went to my wedding.
He's a good friend of mine.
So Howard,
these came from chocolate tie.
These came from chocolate tie sticks.
So what people don't realize is
chocolate tie was
named by the sellers.
So here it looks like
what people have is chocolate tie.
I still have some of that
chocolate tie stick left, too.
I need to pull that out and smoke it.
It's like tobacco and chocolate.
It's got a euphoric effect,
a body effect, but it also has
the tie soaring effect.
So it's kind of like
a Colombian Punto Rojo,
but it's like the tie equivalent.
It's got the body effect.
So I theorized that
the chocolate tie
was a lowland variety
because it's got
indica characteristics,
but it's not indica.
So it's got a chunky,
it's got a lot of
it's got the
characteristics of
muskiness,
like a purple tie.
There's also purple typhinos in it,
but it's not as common.
So that chocolate tie
was from chocolate tie sticks,
and it should be
grown out in
larger selections done on it.
But it's been a conservation
of a chocolate tie stick line,
and it is a great
plant to plant.
It may not look
like much growing.
That's the problem a lot of people
have is like they expect this
narrow leaf, highland tie
looking plant,
and it doesn't grow like that,
especially when it's in veg.
Because with a lot of
sativas and tropicals
and equatorial plants,
the leaves are solar panels.
In veg, they are trying to
produce stem and growing the plant
or the solar panels,
the leaves will go from like
seven to five to three to two
to one.
Well, three to one,
typically not two to one.
But basically the leaves will
narrow, so they'll get narrow,
and there'll be less leaves.
And production will go to
producing cannabinoids,
resins, terpens,
that type of thing.
And less growth of the
flowers and stem is done
and they realize that when
they see these plants in veg,
they'll have broader leaves
because the plant is creating
its roots and structure.
It's not yet producing
the flowers.
So as it flowers,
then they thin out.
Some of them are naturally
thinner than others.
Some varieties like the
highland varieties will have
thinner leaves, but there's
so many different varieties
you know, or long banana
leaves will be thick and long
or they'll be really thin
and long.
But people have this
thing in their mind that
these Thai varieties are
very narrow leaf thin
and not there is some like
that, but they're not all
like that.
And they come in different
sizes and shapes.
So that is a chocolate Thai
line derived from seeds from
imported chocolate Thai
leaf.
It's got a euphoric
high.
It's colorful.
It's a day brightener.
Your shittiest day will be
happy.
You'll feel a lot better.
It's colorful.
It can be really intense at
first, but they kind of
lightens up a little bit.
But it is a wonderful high.
It's very resinous.
It's got a sickly sweet
smell and taste to it.
It's divine, but it doesn't
look like much when you're
growing it.
It becomes more impressive as
it goes.
But when you're first growing
it, even in veg and mid-width
through flower, it's just not
an impressive plant like a lot
of lines.
A lot of lines you go like,
I know that's going to be
great.
But not all plants are like
that.
You can't judge a book by its
cover.
And that's a very impressive
line.
Unfortunately, a lot of people
think, oh, it's not a pure
plant.
But there's a lot of things
that have been done.
There's growth.
There's lowland varieties.
There's highland varieties.
There is bottlenecking of
varieties.
There's so many things that go
on with plants that some of
this has been done in the past.
And people look at it and go,
oh, there's some modern
characteristics to it,
especially if grown indoors.
So if you see a plant grown
indoors, it may look kind of
like a modern plant.
But if you take that same plant
and put it outdoors, the
environment, the sun, the wind,
everything will make it look
more like it should.
You'll see these, you know,
very tall, upright, high
looking plants that are kind
of, you know, bamboo-like
or, you know,
Japanese maple looking.
You know, the different
structures outdoors really
brings out what a plant should
look like.
Indoors, it's a controlled
environment.
And then people are flowering
out these plants with different
light sources.
If you're using LEDs, plants
end up being more chunky,
shorter, and they
branch out differently.
If you're using fluorescents,
they kind of, you know,
will branch out, look,
you know, pretty good.
They just won't be as dense.
Using a metal halide, and they
get very resinous and good
plants.
Using HPS, they get very,
you know, squat and branchy.
It just depends on the light
source you're using for
the looks of these plants.
Not only that,
indoor versus outdoor,
you know, it all matters.
And the length of time.
A lot of people are using too
much light to grow their plants.
They think, oh, more light,
the better.
That's not necessarily true.
These plants are like humans.
There's circadian rhythms.
They need, you know, the
darkness and the light.
They need sleep.
They need to have that
kind of, you know,
these precursors to create
cannabinoids or, you know,
these things that protect
themselves from, you know,
pests or whatever it might be.
They're created when they
sleep.
So they need a dark period.
So you can't use like 24 hours
of light and think they're
going to be OK.
You know, resting the plants
will actually be improving
on the plants.
So you have to have the right
ratio.
You can't have too much
darkness.
You can't have too much light.
You have to have something
that's going to work for
everything.
I've developed ratios
of light and darkness.
So ten and a half hours of
light and 13 and a half
hours of darkness is kind of
like the sweet spot for most
all varieties around the world.
So if you want something to
work for everything, that
ratio will work for flowering
for everything.
And especially if you're doing
it from seed, if you're
starting off that way, even
better.
Veg seed.
Anyway,
I can give people breakdowns.
I've written documentation
for anybody that's wanting
this if they want to
contact me by email.
That's incredible.
I'm going to have to look
more into it myself.
I would like to ask, so sort
of based on what you were
saying there, what's your
thoughts on autos?
Given they don't get much
darkness, do you think they'll
ever be able to get to a point
where they're comparable?
Because people espouse that
as the aspiration.
Do you think it is possible
for auto flowering cannabis to
be like, say, as good?
Yeah.
Hmm.
Auto flowering.
Yeah.
You know, it's just a hybrid.
They're using something that
flowers early.
It's an early flowering
hybrid.
Auto flowering is kind of a
misnomer.
You don't want to use a lot
of stuff that's hemp
variety auto flowers.
They're basically using stuff
that's flowering early.
So photosensitive varieties.
So you can take anything
that's photosensitive and make
it grow well as long as they're
in a good condition.
As long as they're using
good breeding practices.
It just depends.
Sure.
So one of the common
questions we got from a lot
of different listeners, in
fact, was they were
wondering if they could get
some advice because a lot
of people want to try to
grow some of these like
really wild stuff.
But they're indoors and
they're like, how do I do
it?
You know, like I want to
do it.
I just don't know if it's
possible.
Do you have any tips?
Absolutely.
So one of the problems is
that a lot of these like
books and stuff that people
buy is, oh, you take a plant
and you basically veg it
for a few days and then you
flower it right away.
That way they're shorter.
The problem is that's not
good because you don't have
enough roots that can deal
with stress.
And if you want to grow
something, you need to veg
the plant long enough to
grow roots.
So grow.
When you're growing a plant,
grow the roots, train the
plants.
So by doing that, making,
you know, more main stems by
topping it, forcing it to
create forcing the oxen's to
create more roots.
If you can kind of put some
focus on the roots first by
doing that and then repotting
them, you know, pull off the
bottom of the pot.
Look at the roots.
Use beer cups at first that
are clear so you can see the
root development.
You know, examine the roots,
kind of make sure that the
soil isn't overly moist and
wet.
Use a moisture meter, you
know, check the plant, you
know, check the container
several different places.
Make sure that it's, you
know, dry enough to actually
water because a lot of people
over water and then there's no
root development.
It stunts the plants and it
pisses the plants off where
they harm on you and mold and
then die.
So the problem is root
development, grow those roots
first and then flower them out.
And then if you have the right
ratio, you can save several
weeks on these long flowering
varieties.
So if you're doing what a lot
of these magazines and books
will tell you to flower to, you
know, you may never ever finish
your plant or it will take
forever to finish because that
light regimen doesn't, isn't
in nature.
It's not something that happens
on earth.
You know, there's no 12 hours
of light and 12 hours of
darkness anywhere on the
planet.
So why would you do that in
indoor grow?
It doesn't make any sense.
So basically you have to have
the right ratio.
You have to have the right
ratio of the plant and the
plant.
So basically you have to have
the right ratio.
So if you use, you know, the
right amount of darkness, you
can flower plants faster and
sex them faster.
So if you're vegging plants and
then growing the roots, you can
sex them and then revert it
back to your veg period.
So you can sex your plants, know
which males, females you have.
Then you can either clone the
ones that you like or grow those
plants into the plants that you
want to a certain size or you
kill the plants that you don't
want and then pop more seeds if
you need more of a certain type
or more numbers or males of a
certain type.
That's a killer, killer
overview.
I'm really keen.
I was going to say I noticed
your strain Epic Haze.
It sounds incredible.
Do you do anything different
when you have those ultra long
flowering types or again, same
thing, just expect it to end up
a little bigger?
Majority of the plants will
finish in 14 to 16 weeks.
Even some of the longer
flowering varieties will finish
in 16 weeks, which is not so
bad.
There will be longer flowering
varieties that will take longer.
You can always take things
earlier, but patience.
Why grow something for eight or
nine weeks that will finish
better in 14 weeks?
Why take something earlier if
the quality is not there?
You'll find that something like
a Columbian that grows for 20 to
26 weeks in a greenhouse, you
know, finishes in March or
April outdoors, meaning it takes
a whole year of growth and then
flowering to finish.
It will finish indoors faster
because you're able to
manipulate the lights.
But if you're using a
greenhouse, those last few
months, the colors will come
out.
The reds, the oranges, the
purples, all that beauty in the
line will actually present
themselves.
The resins that take long weeks
to grow will be the ones that
will be more present.
You get these terpen and
cannabinoid profiles that are
just amazing psychedelic and
very great expressions of
cannabis.
Very delectable connoisseur
herb.
But if you harvest it too early,
you won't get those
expressions.
The other issue is you need to
know the variety.
Some varieties will finish
faster than others.
And if you wait too long, then
it's oxidized and you have more
of an inferior product.
Some Mexicans will finish fast.
Once they have the peak THC
content, the trichomes are
fully developed, you should
harvest the Mexicans.
Because a lot of times if you
wait too long, then it starts
to oxidize and then they kind
of get dried out and loses its
quality.
So you just need to know the
variety.
And if you have the right
variety, then you need to
harvest earlier at peak
concentration or you wait the
time it needs to finish to get
the best qualities out of it.
It just depends on what time
you're willing to put into it
and then grow the variety that
you're willing to put in that
time.
If you're not willing to put in
20, 24 weeks, don't get a pure
Colombian.
Some Colombians will finish
faster, but majority won't.
These equatorial lines are at
the equator.
They're not as photosensitive as
something that is grown in the
Hindu Kush.
But Mexico is kind of something
that's more northerly, higher
latitude and will finish faster,
but it's also longer flowering.
But, you know, may finish in
October versus December, January,
February, March.
Yeah, that certainly makes
sense, you know, picking
according to what you're willing
to do, as well as all the little
amazing tidbits of info there.
I guess I would say that the
I guess I would love to quickly
ask you, though, do you feel
like you have to put any
consideration into what we might
broadly call the commercial
viability of your strains?
Because as you said, you know,
people need to go into this sort
of knowing what they're getting
into.
Does that ever hold you back or
do you feel like you just make
what you want and, you know, let
it go?
Well, I don't pick strains that
are fast flowering.
I'm not picking strains to finish
fast.
Though there will be strains that
will finish faster, I'm picking
for quality and potency above all
else.
So those are my criteria.
So if a person's coming to me
that they want a seven or eight
or nine-week strain, I'm going to
have some things I could show
them, but they're going to be
limited if their constraints are
timeframe, because the best
qualities take a little bit
longer.
And if you're constrained to,
like, needing to harvest
something in eight to nine weeks,
then you need to probably look
somewhere else, because, you
know, I'm not choosing things to
finish fast.
I'm choosing for quality and
potency.
And those take a little time,
typically.
Not to say that you can't find
those faster phenotypes, and
there are varieties that will
finish faster, just the majority
of the quality phenotypes take
longer.
That's just the nature of
things.
Certainly, certainly.
So if someone were to take a look
at sort of your overall back
catalog of work, to me it seems
obvious that there's more of a
predominance of sativas than
indicas.
Is this a reflection of just
your personal sort of
preferences in regards to flavor
effect, things like that?
Or is it more a case of, like,
just the stock you're working
with and, you know, other
factors?
Well, the majority of them is
sativas, because there's more
sativas, tropicals, equatorials
than there is indicas.
It's just, you know, there's a
lot more sativas than there is
indicas.
It's just, that's the world.
There's just more of that than
there are these other kind.
And the reason why I'm working
for certain varieties is I'm
trying to preserve varieties
that may be lost.
So I'm putting more emphasis on
Mexicans, Hawaiians, Colombians
that the seed stock is in short
supply.
It takes a long time to grow
these lines, and they're almost
lost.
So I'm trying to save these
lines.
So my focus may not be on
exactly what I'm doing, but I
My focus may not be on exactly
what I want to grow, but I'm
trying to preserve it for the
future.
So that's where my focus is at.
Otherwise, I'd be growing a lot
of these faster flowering
varieties and pumping them out
and trying to make a lot of
money, which would be nice.
But I'm trying to preserve these
lines that take longer, because
if I don't, they're going to be
lost.
And, unfortunately, because they
take longer, instead of popping
out something that I can grow
within a short period of time
and make a thousand, a couple
thousand seeds, hundreds of
thousand seeds in a quick period
of time, I'm taking years to grow
something that may not produce
very much.
And that's where people don't
understand is that you're
unfamiliar with how long and how
much work it takes to create
these lines, that there's a lot
of time involved, not just the
flowering.
There's a selection process,
the growing, the vegging.
And so I'm trying to preserve
the lines that take longer,
because they take longer to
grow.
So, you know, things take longer,
they cost more because it takes
a lot more to produce them.
Certainly, that makes sense.
And we're all very lucky to have
someone like you ensuring the
preservation of these lines.
I have to admit, I sort of
engineered that question well
because I wanted to get to this
next one, which was that one of
our guests asked, they said,
look, you hear all these
different types of flowers,
different types of flowers,
different types of flowers,
different types of flowers,
and you're just not making as
much seed.
And so I'm like, okay, I'm
going to make a lot more.
And I'm like, okay, I'm
going to make a lot more.
And, you know, I was like,
okay, I'm just going to make
a lot more, and I'm like,
okay, I'm going to make a
lot more, and I'm like,
okay, I'm going to make a
lot more, and I'm like,
okay, I'm going to make a
lot more, and I'm like,
okay, I'm going to make a
lot more.
So, I end up getting a lot
more out of them than I
would normally get out of
anything else.
I think the first question
that comes to mind is that
one of our guests asked
he said, look, you hear a lot
about Afghan indicas and
maybe, you know, a bit
of Pakistani.
He said, but you really
don't hear too much about
Oh, Lebanese should be, I'd ask, some of the best.
Lebanon has one of the oldest cannabis cultures.
There was a temple there to the mysteries, you know, for like wine production in the
ancient past.
But wine in the past was used as a vehicle for preserving not only the alcohol, but other
medicinal plants like cannabis.
So they were able to take their cannabis plants and preserve them in wine.
And in that area, they were able to grow cannabis and preserve them in the wine.
And then in the winter, they were able to have their cannabis along with their wines,
because they weren't drinking water, they were drinking wine, because it wasn't safe
to drink water.
Ah, that yeah, that makes sense.
That's a good point.
So in Lebanon, they have an ancient cannabis history, you know, that goes back long.
So their varieties were selected for generations in the Levant, which was like the Phoenician
stronghold of that area.
So basically, that area is, you know, they had the Ziggurats, the Sumerians, there's
ancient cannabis culture, the area which is the bulk region of Afghanistan was a Zoroastrian
area, which isn't too far.
So those pilgrimages from other areas like Lebanon, Syria, which had hash plants, Egypt,
also had hash plants, Indicas, you know, parts of Kashmir, different parts of Pakistan, they
all had these Indica varieties.
Iran has the ancient Persian history, they had something similar to Soma, India had the
Soma, which was cannabis.
But the Persians, ancient Persians and Zoroastrians had the Haoma, which is basically, you know,
the same thing.
And they had their Vedic type books as well, indicating, you know, this ancient cannabis,
you know, sacrament.
Beautiful stuff.
Yeah.
So unsung Indicas around the world, there are Indicas in different places like Mexico
has hash plants, Colombia has hash plants, different places around the world.
So it just depends.
China has some, the Yunnan province.
There's a lot of variability, not only due to its placement, but its altitude.
It was a low land variety.
Some of them were able to look a certain way and some of them as they went up higher
in elevation, they would look, you know, differently.
So low land varieties tended to be more broad leafed because they were trying to capture
more light.
And then the highland ones were actually more elongated and stretchy because they were getting
a lot more light.
They had to deal with like high winds.
So they had to be able to be more bendable and different things.
It all depends.
Your environment plays a role on how the plants acclimatize, change.
Some of these Indicas may be tolerant and resistant to humidity that is from a cold,
dry environment or a cold, humid environment or a hot, humid environment.
So when people say, oh, this line is, you know, resistant to humid environment, you
know, is it a hot, humid or cold, humid?
Because if you grow the wrong thing, it'll mold real easy and you won't be able to grow
certain varieties, you know, on the coast, for instance, that grew in Hawaii, in California.
It just depends.
So these different things of acclimatization matter and they affect the qualities of these
terpens and the way they evolve.
I don't know how we're going to get there.
So I'm just going to have to really bluntly put it out there.
What's the old school Big Bud like?
Was it ever good, like objectively, or was it just big yielding?
Oh, yeah.
It was big quality wise.
It was old school Mexican, Afghani is what I figure it is.
The Mexicans were large, the early, well, the stuff even up into the 80s were large
plants.
You know, some of them would have the colas de zorro, which were tails of the fox, so
fox tails.
So everybody's colas, that's the name from the Mexican word for colas de zorro, the fox
tails, but they're only saying the tails portion, the Mexican word for it, Spanish word for
it.
But they used to, a majority of the Mexicans produced, you know, big bread loaf looking
spears.
So you have these big spear looking plants that were like candelabra style or upright
or these big Christmas trees, you know, like giant pines that were 20, 30 feet tall.
So the big bread was a crossing of some of these larger yielding Mexicans with some of
the early Afghani stuff that was coming along.
Ah, okay, okay.
And how come you think it died out?
I'm sure some people are still growing it.
I had it for a little while, I lost it, but as anything, somebody usually has it.
Yeah, just hiding out.
I mean, look, on the topic of someone usually has it, there's a huge push within the community
to find the roadkill skunk.
Do you think someone has it?
Oh yeah.
I have some seeds that are old school skunk, but they're old.
So I'm trying to germinate those, bring them back.
I had roadkill skunk back in the day.
Last time I had it offered to me was back in the 90s, 97.
It was on the border of Canada and Washington state.
That stuff stunk so bad, it was super hashy.
The joints just kept putting themselves out and it stunk like, you know, you ran over
a couple of skunks.
I mean, the juices like that really nasty fucking skunk and yeah, you really stoned.
It was incredible weed.
The stuff that people know is like skunk number one is it's different.
It's different, something different.
It's similar, but it's not the same thing.
What I think the old skunks were, were Mexican, Afghani hybrids or Mexican Durban or something
like that.
But there was skunks before the labeled skunk number one was available.
Oh, and I'm working on, I've got some other skunk lines.
I did the Fester skunk with, but I'm trying to grow out more of that, but I've got some
Afghanis that have the skunk properties.
So if anything, I'm going to recreate my own skunk.
So that's in the works as well.
Oh, exciting.
Now you got me wondering, what are some of your favorite Afghanis?
Oh my God.
One of my favorite is the Petrolia Headstache.
It was one that was, it was an Afghani line and from the guy that created marijuana, he
was a...
Steve Tuck?
No, the guy that actually did it.
That Steve Tuck made the seed line, reproduced it.
But the guy who made it was in Ukiah, California.
But this guy was growing Mexican varieties in Colorado before he came to California.
And at the time the Afghanis came in, they basically killed all the Mexicans that they
were growing and started growing these Afghanis, which were medium sized bush, cattle
arbor style, bushy Afghanis that turned red and purple.
And he showed me pictures of these things.
And the Petrolia Headstache that I grew was like fruit punch, like Hawaiian fruit
punch, super tasty, euphoric body effects and stone and high at the same time.
So it was like a clear Afghani.
And that's what people should want.
It's not a narcotic effect.
It's basically what people would say, like OG Kush is like a sativa.
It's like got that up high, but it's got the stone and body effects at the same time.
So it's like a constant clear effect, which is very pleasant, euphoric.
And that's kind of like what most Afghanis should be is like that.
But the Petrolia Headstache, there's one that was done by Reiferman.
And that one isn't the same as the inbred line that I've had of the Petrolia Headstache.
I think they're either two different lines or that's something different or it's a
hybrid of something else.
But the Petrolia Headstache that I had was like Hawaiian punch or fruit punch and just
delectable.
Wish I had that again.
Anyway, that's what you want is one of those Afghanis that has that quality high
that kind of sticks out.
It isn't like a cloudy, stony, narcotic drug type effect.
Yeah, beautiful stuff.
Sounds great.
I wish I got to try it.
I have tried heroin, maybe not an original clone or who knows, wasn't verified, but also
some really nice stuff.
Yeah, heroin is, there's a lot of variations to it.
And I think that's because so many people got their hands on it.
So it's hard to say what's what.
I think that was Killer New Haven and the Petrolia Headstache.
I don't know how much of the Petrolia Headstache is really in there or which one.
But if I can talk to the breeder again, maybe I'll see if he's got any original seeds.
I'm supposed to bring him some special Afghanis that he's been looking for.
So, you know, he's an old head that's been in the know for a long time.
That's very exciting to hear.
Hopefully something comes of that.
Oh, it will.
He's easy to find.
And, you know, he's in the middle of Mendocino there.
So, and he's not a seed producer.
He doesn't breed.
You know, most people don't even know who he is.
He's just a guy that tailors to the community.
And they wouldn't even know that he is, you know, an old school breeder.
That's the same that goes with a lot of these guys that don't seek recognition, but, you know,
they've been doing their work for years and helping out the community.
People don't realize that they're doctors, they're business people, they're, you know,
they're gardeners, they're different people.
And they're all out there.
And I wish they would share their stories.
Either share them with me or, you know, get that, you know, get that story out there.
Because a lot of this had stories to go along with it.
You've really got to document it.
Otherwise, it just gets lost to time, doesn't it?
Right.
Yeah, absolutely.
And the people that should deserve, you know, deserve credit should get the credit.
Yeah, 100%.
100%.
So, take me back.
What was your first experience with cannabis?
Oh, man.
God, what was it?
God.
I, you know, I think this first was like hash.
My sister had hash and I probably smoked some of her hash.
That's probably my first experience with mushrooms and hash.
But the true first variety that I had was a Columbian green that my friend got from his father.
And this Columbian green was grown indoors and it was super resinous.
But it caused that Columbian choke.
And if you had this old Columbian, you know, because basically it takes the wind out of you.
You smoke it and you're just coughing up along this.
Makes immense clouds of smoke.
You're barely touching, you know, with the flame, the bud.
Because you're getting through the resin profile.
But it's a pure Columbian.
And, man, it was incredible stuff.
That was just so potent.
After a couple hits, you're just kind of, you don't want any more.
But you're just so high that it's incredible.
That was some Columbian green.
And that was like the first variety that I had, other than Mexican varieties, which were plentiful and many.
And all that was brown bud.
When I saw the green bud for the first time, I didn't know what that was.
I was like, wow, that's some green bud.
That's some cool looking stuff.
And then the brown bud is what I was majority familiar with.
Brown or red or had different hair colors.
You know, green bud and brown bud was the majority of what I grew up on.
And when the killer green buds came in with the Afghanis, that was something different.
And there was a lot of variation.
Some of them were good.
Some of them were so hashy that they were acid in off-putting.
Because there was no selection.
And they were getting all these land-raised Afghanis.
And, you know, they were just trying to find the good ones to grow.
But we were getting, like, you know, everything.
And some of them were not always good.
You know, if you're doing selection, some of them got perfumey, incensey, acid, skunky.
Those acid ones were just super hashy, not tasty, very hard to consume.
But, you know, that's what happens when you're doing selection.
Some of them are great.
Some of them are good.
And some of them are kind of off.
There you go.
And so, what was the progression from sort of that experience to thinking, I want to start growing?
I started growing the Mexican seeds that I used to get.
So, I used to dig holes in the backyard in the backseat I would get for the Mexican varieties.
Because my cousins are Mexican.
And we used to get different lots from their cousins.
So, all their different cousins and family were bringing different types of Mexican weed up from Mexico.
You know, visiting family members.
So, I'd grow it out in the backyard.
We're in Northern California, you know, 14 miles away from Mendocino County.
It was the perfect climate.
And then I'd dig holes in the hill.
And then I'd take greenhouse roofing, which was semi-clear, and lay it across the ground.
And I'd dig big holes.
So, I was doing these greenhouses that were in the ground.
So, as a helicopter, a camp helicopter would come by and look down, all they're seeing is like, you know, trash or, you know, greenhouse stuff that's just on the ground or piles.
And they wouldn't realize there's, you know, plants being grown underground in like holes.
So, I was a grill-a-hole grower.
And that was my first growing experience of these varieties.
Some of them would be above ground, but I did a lot of stuff indoors or in the ground for a while.
And then I did, I grew on a roof.
Growing plants on a roof was kind of sketchy because of planes.
But I tried to put them near trees or something like that to kind of avoid them.
But they were Mexican, so they were pretty tall.
And other ones we'd grow next to pine trees, and they would get the size of pine trees, you know, within a small amount of time.
You know, with the hot California sun, things would get really quick, really tall, really quick.
And so, you know, one week you'd walk by a plant and it's a couple feet tall.
The next week and it's freaking, you know, 15, 20 feet tall.
With, you know, branches that as long as a human, you know, 14 feet long distance.
So, these things get just as wide as they get tall.
They're massively crazy big.
I miss those things.
I need to find those old Mexicans like that.
That's really interesting to hear how you did it back in the day.
Do you remember when the first sort of brand name strains started rolling out, like strains with names or was it sort of a progression?
Yeah.
Well, in high times, I remember, you know, there was in Thais and Mexicans, Durban's, there was those type of branding.
The brand names were like Durban Poison.
I think Skunk was known.
Northern Lights and that stuff hadn't been around yet.
Not until later.
There was Hawaiian.
There was Maui Waui.
There was Panama Red, Acapulco Gold.
Columbian was colors.
A lot of stuff was colored weed.
There was Mexican Red.
There was Red Hair.
There was Columbian Green.
There was Columbian Brown.
There was Columbian Gold.
There was Thai, Chocolate Thai.
Things had names or places where it came from.
That was the majority of what stuff was coming on.
Seed lines, the seed banks started coming around.
I think Northern Lights, Skunk, I think those ones were the first ones that came out.
Northern Lights with Skunk, Haze, Skunk, Northern Lights.
I think there was all combinations of the same stuff.
I think the first, like Cannabis Cup brought some of those seeds being sold over here.
I don't remember too much.
It was all tutti frutti names people made up.
The seed line, seed bank stuff, I don't remember until later on.
In those early days, were there any breeders who you looked up to or were you so into it
that you just hadn't even heard of them?
No.
Back then, everybody was so paranoid.
You had to have family members or know people within the family to get anything.
It was really paranoid.
Very stringent, anti-cannabis laws.
You didn't want to be busted with anything at that time.
Everybody kept to themselves.
There was really a lot of paranoia.
Everybody's a snitch.
People got busted for seeds and stems and not a whole lot.
No, a lot of people just try to keep to themselves or they get busted.
If you didn't know anything, you couldn't tell anybody.
Yeah, very much understandable given the harsh penalties.
I guess I'm wondering, A, how did you get the name Snow High?
Snow High.
B, when did you decide you wanted to start formally breeding and giving your seeds out?
Oh, man.
The name Snow High came out.
My friend Dustin and I, he was growing the snow cap.
He got one of the first clones out of Fort Bragg when the growers in Mendocino were done
growing it.
No one else was growing it in Lake County.
It came online in the early 2000s.
It was just the strain that he had been growing that I was selling down here.
I just used the name to see how many people were familiar with the strain to see how prolific
it was around.
Not many people had known about it, not at that time.
It just happened to be the name I used at the time with the strain I was selling, which
was a really tasty, good strain, at least the first version of it that came out.
It soon became hybridized in the taste and everything went downhill.
But the real true snow cap was mentholated, minty, menthol, candied, wintergreen type
smell and taste and flavor, tropical candy.
It was very tasty and resinous.
It had a great, fantastic high and grew nice big spears.
It was a good plant.
It was really good at being able to deal with humidity and mold.
People were growing it in Fort Bragg.
My father's uncle or cousin was growing it in the town of Mendocino.
The fog bank was so thick in Mendocino, the town of Mendocino, that the plants were dripping
with condensation, just dripping because the sun was blocked out.
You could barely see the sun because it was like a little ring of a little bit of light,
but it was so thick with haze and moisture on the coast of Mendocino because it's right
on the coast of Northern California with all the redwoods.
These snow cap hybrids were growing under pure condensation.
He was taking a bleach water solution, spraying the plants, and that's how it was able to
grow with almost no light.
It was amazing.
But those hybrids became more prevalent and the majority of people that got what they
thought was snow cap was this hybridized version.
The real stuff wasn't available to people.
Anyway, the snow hybrid was basically snow cap and then me saying snow high, I guess.
I just adapted the snow high, snow cap, snow high thing.
Then that Bodie convinced me to sell seeds.
I was basically selling to the clubs and doing my own preservation work and doing stuff for fun.
My family's homes were being, the banks were trying to collect from them.
Family went through some times where they weren't in the hospital and weren't able to work.
I tried to save my family's properties by selling herb.
I did that for a few years.
That got me into selling the herb to save their homes, which I was able to do.
Then seed stuff just evolved with that as well.
But mainly it was a place of fun and trying to do preservation.
Beautiful, beautiful.
Is there a difference between legendary genetics and snow high seeds?
Well, legendary genetics was supposed to be for California and snow high for the rest
of the world.
When the clubs went legal, the problems with COVID, COVID destroyed all the business that
was going to be done and established at the time.
A lot of the work that Bodie, Caggew and Coastal Seeds and myself, we were going to be in the
clubs in California.
Unfortunately, COVID happened right when we were getting into all these clubs, but
the clubs went out of business.
All the seed stock that went into these places was lost.
All that time, money and effort was lost.
But there was supposed to be a separation of the two.
We could do something here in California and then something for the world that was already
done previously.
Unfortunately, COVID destroyed a lot of stuff and trying to get back to work is a work in
progress.
A lot of people have had to do that, start over, deal with their losses.
Unfortunately, I've had health problems along the way as well.
It's a double whammy when you're not well and trying to do things that take effort.
One of the questions we got submitted quite a fair bit from the viewers across both Instagram
and Patreon was that they were wondering, these days, how do you source new genetics?
Do you find it's becoming increasingly more difficult to find good sources for stock?
No.
I've always been the type that I help out my friends and my friends help me.
I try to be good to people and then people are also good to me.
It's kind of a karma thing.
If you're just trying to do... your intentions are good, you should get something back with
the good intentions.
I don't find it hard to find new genetics, but there's a lot of genetics that just need
to be preserved already that still need work.
There's no time to lose.
There's a lot of work to be done and not enough time to do it.
Sure.
In general, would you advocate that people should be open to the idea of maybe traveling
to some of these native zones where the NRAs come from and doing their own little expeditions
or do you feel like overall it's probably too diluted and maybe hard to find real stuff?
It depends on what kind of person you are.
Some places that are historically cannabis producing places have been dangerous for some
people.
Depending on your level of danger, your ability to deal with diseases, lack of food, lack
of services may affect your ability to go and get some of these things.
Other times you can go on a trip and find certain things, but it just depends on how
you're trying to source things.
Are you trying to get it from a reseller or are you trying to go directly to the grower
up in the hills?
Sometimes going directly to the hills won't work because they've already sold what they
had to the resellers that sell them at the beach, say in Mexico.
If you go to the highlands of Oaxaca, you may not find anything there because they've
already sold everything that has been sold at the local beaches.
And then the cartels are something to deal with because you could end up with your body's
head cut off or something like that because you're in the wrong place.
So this depends on the country, the place you're trying to go.
But there are a lot of countries and a lot of places where a lot of the varieties are
disappearing.
So if you are historically trying to help these people, documentation and helping them
is a way that people could do it.
We're trying to figure out ways of doing it.
Some people are trying to help the people by providing vegetable seeds and a way to
sell those foods and try to make something for those communities so they can be preserved.
Unfortunately, a lot of cannabis producing areas have gone to like poppies or other things
because they're just trying to survive because of drought, because of the laws or the racism
that's gone on that kills like indigenous peoples.
So we need to say what's here before it's lost, because every year things are lost.
Even a few years ago, certain places that are producing cannabis aren't producing cannabis
anymore. So there's a lot of loss and these people need help and their history needs to
be preserved. So I say you could go to certain places.
Absolutely. But sometimes you may be going to a place that is not as well preserved.
You're not going to be able to find anything anyway.
So you need to do your homework and there's got to be ways that we could actually help
each other and help these indigenous peoples.
So I think eventually working with like-minded people around the world, we can help out these
communities a little bit better.
Maybe like a global seed bank, which the funds will actually trickle down to the people who
actually should get it, not just the people at the top.
Do you think that something like that will happen or it might be like difficult to sort
of get people on board?
No, I think it should happen and it could happen. It just has to have the right people
involved.
Yeah. I'd be interested to hear your thoughts on the recent legalization by the Thai government.
I've often sort of in recent weeks sat and wondered to myself if there would be like a
resurgence in sort of Thai terroir produced land race and like if the quality of it would
be any good or do you suspect like people over there are just going to grow like modern
stuff?
It depends. I mean the terroir type stuff would be beneficial and it'd be good for the
people along the borders. But then you have the indigenous people that were growing these
varieties to begin with. They've been forced from place to place anyway for hundreds of
years. So there should be protection for these people and there should be ability for these
people to grow some things. But if they're growing hemp on an island and destroying the
lines that were indigenous to that area or acclimatized to that area, it's going to be
like counter defeating the issue. But like anything, the people that are going to be able
to grow these varieties are usually the ones that have money. So it's a tough thing. It
should be kind of like a protection as well as like a historical type thing where we have
preserved the knowledge of the people as long with the strains because it's like, you know,
it's like global history, these varieties. So there should be protection and the legalization
will impart good things and bad things. It always does.
Yeah, I'm certainly interested to see how it plays out. It'll be really cool to see if they
started pumping out like some like really intentionally farmed Thai land race. Like what
a treasure that would be.
Well, I'm actually trying to work with some of the people there that are there now on, you
know, things like that as we speak. So some of the stuff I'm growing right now is from some
of the resurgence of the Thai lines there. Preservation Thais, analyzing them. So that is
being worked on. I hope that we can do more of it and then make it so that they are preserved
and not just, you know, it's just a grab for genetics because it's more important than just
the genetics. It's the people, it's the history. There's more to it. And I hope to be able to
help some of that if possible.
Yeah, look, I'm sure you're going to have a monumentally positive impact in it all. Out of
curiosity, would you look to go in there and want to sort of try to use the Thai that's there
that might be available? Or would you want to bring in like some of your own stuff that you
think, oh, this may not even exist there anymore?
Well, there's always that. So I think there's enough Thai varieties there that they have
enough, but there might be a few that maybe need to be reintroduced. But the majority of stuff
they already have it. Some places around the world, I've tried to introduce stuff that's been
lost, like in Mexico. A lot of the varieties that they once had needed to be reintroduced. So I've
tried to send seeds to places that these varieties originally came from and try to get them
reestablished in the property. The same thing with wine varieties I've been trying to send.
I've been trying to send Hawaiian wines to people in Hawaii to get them to grow these wines again.
I don't know if it's naive or not, but hopefully there'll be some kind of resurgence for these
varieties being grown in a place of origin. Hawaii is kind of like not the same thing. But the idea
is to bring back old varieties like Acapulco Gold and the Guerreros and the Michoacans and have
them grown by the people that have lost them. Some of them have tried to get them out of the
country to save them because the cartels have basically forced them to stop growing these varieties.
But they're trying to get them out to preserve them or protect them. The cartels are usually young
kids, 12, 13, 16 year olds all messed out and they create their own gangs like Zetas and stuff.
A lot of these are just young kids, unfortunately. They get all messed out and they go attack other
groups and kill each other and they get savage because they've been on meth for so many weeks and months.
But they also destroy the canvas production and then they go to poppies or something else that's
quick to make money, unfortunately. But these lost wines need to be reintroduced and saved.
I think the only way to do it is to reproduce them somewhere else and then bring it in.
Hopefully when things have stabilized somewhat, have it spread to more of these farmers.
That should be done in Thailand and other places. But some of it should be maintained.
You shouldn't be bringing things like if you're on a strain hunting safari, you shouldn't be bringing
your hybridized Dutch varieties and giving it to the locals because it just pollutes the gene pool.
I'm so glad you touched on that because that was going to be the next question about our Dutch friends.
But I would love to quickly touch on because we've had this discussion with a few people in the past.
But someone mentioned, what are you meant to take them if you're not going to take them seeds?
That's a great question. We should delve into it.
It depends on the place. In Nepal, Bodhi was trading them vegetable seeds, something that they can grow.
You're not bringing in invasive strains. You can get the seeds there locally, but you're just providing more
of what's already there to farmers that have no money or little money and you're providing something
they can grow for food. Food is always something that we take for granted because we have supermarkets.
Most places around the world, they don't have supermarkets. Even in Italy, you have markets,
but they don't have what we do in the United States or in other countries where you have these big,
huge places with all these different foods and meats and availability.
We just live so much higher lives than a lot of people do around the world.
We take for granted that seed stock of vegetables is desirable and much needed and food in general.
That would be one thing. You find something that could be used by them that doesn't take up a lot of room.
Seeds, as long as they're not brought in from another country and have diseases or pests, which could be negative,
that's why you don't want to bring stuff from your country because you can bring in invasive insects.
Stuff from China, if people are getting seeds from China, a lot of those have weevils and mites and different things
that could destroy your seeds and destroy your stocks.
Freezing your seeds before you bring them in would be important, but you should do that for all kinds of seeds
that you're bringing in from another country.
That's why they have these sanitation certificates that you're supposed to use when importing seeds from other countries.
It's important because you're bringing in pests and you could be the one that was responsible for a plague.
Insects that are bringing in a certain fungus that's killing all the different citrus fruits or trees
because you bought in cannabis seeds from somewhere that has this type of insect that has this type of mold with it or this virus.
It's all connected, but if you get something from that country, usually safe and you can buy it in bulk.
It's not too expensive and then you bring it to the people or you find something that you can trade with them that they want.
Those would be better things than providing genetics that can pollute what they already have.
If they have sources to international genetics already, they can also import them themselves.
They can import that and dilute their gene pool by themselves.
They don't need extra help from us.
Definitely. There definitely are people out there in these land race areas who are keen to grow some California and stuff.
I guess there needs to be some acceptance of that.
Just as a follow-up to the last one, if you were totally relieved of all responsibilities and were totally able to go anywhere,
do a land race expedition, where would you want to head off to?
Before the government went haywire, I wanted to go to Myanmar, what was previously Burma, and explore all that.
There are so many temples and it's quite a large country between India and Southeast Asia.
A lot of explored varieties could have been there.
There are a lot of different indigenous peoples groups that have been cut off from the rest of the world.
It's kind of like a time capsule.
These people are living in decades, or hundreds of decades behind some of us in a way.
Finding some interesting stuff there would have been pretty cool.
Africa, going to the Congolese Basin countries, a lot of that stuff has been pretty hard to get into.
As far as the diseases and the unruliness of the guerrilla-type armies in there, it's really a hard place to get into.
A lot of that has been strange because the Belgian people had gone there and tried to take over the Congo years ago.
They had hemp varieties.
There were a lot of hemp varieties that were escaped cultivars into the Congo and the Congolese Basin countries that surround it.
A lot of people think there are indigenous sativas there.
Some of it might be escaped hemp cultivars that acclimatized to the environment.
Another place would be some of the South African or South American countries.
I definitely like to go back into Mexico.
I've been there a couple of times trying to find things.
I would love to find some more stuff down there, down in Colombia, Bolivia, Peru.
That would all be fun places to go looking.
Yes, certainly.
You touched on a magical talking point, which is that I wanted to ask you about what's your opinions on the Congolese?
We don't see them represented too much, but they are some really special strains.
What's your thoughts on them?
There are several different groups of pygmies that are in the Congolese Basin countries.
I'll make this reference.
In Egypt, they had their gods.
One of their gods was named Bes.
Bes was a dark-skinned pygmy.
He was a fertility god.
In their fertility vases, they would find cannabis residue and seeds.
The pygmies were from the Congolese Basin countries.
They weren't from where Egypt was now.
They must have seen that these indigenous pygmies were consuming cannabis.
They were using it for childbirthing, for the pain and everything.
They were using it in the ancient past for that purpose.
The other people that were a close relative to the pygmy people were the Kalahari Bush people.
These are some of the oldest known people living on Earth that are closest to modern humans, but still a distant human.
These people are closest related to the pygmy people.
It seems like the Kalahari Bushmen have a cannabis history.
Their genetics go back to a very old age.
It seems like they left Africa maybe 76,000 years ago, up to 130,000 years ago.
Then they went into Southeast Asia and then back to South Africa during floods of the world.
We're talking about a time frame of 130,000 years.
If you see a picture of a Kalahari Bushman, you'll see that they have Asian features, like from China or Laos.
In the early 2000s, I was looking at DNA because they did the whole genome project.
I found that these people have Asian descent back from 70,000 to 130,000 years ago.
Basically, the genetic testing confirmed what I saw in the pictures.
I also looked up the phonetic words for cannabis that were similar to these Kalahari Bushmen for the same use.
I looked it up phonetically, then I looked up the pictures of these people, and then I backed it up with genetic sequencing.
They left Africa and then came back at one point, which was kind of crazy.
If you guys have time, look up the San people or the Kalahari Bushmen.
You can see that they have Asian descent, but these are Black, Indigenous Africans.
They're supposed to be the oldest living people on Earth that have been in the same place from time immoral, basically.
My thoughts are that cannabis left Africa with them or with other Indigenous people.
That's how it spread around the world, is from Africa.
Then it went to the Americas, went through Africa, through the Middle East, up through the Khyber Pass, through Afghanistan, up into China, up through India and Southeast Asia, and then down through Australia and then land bridges to Americas.
There's a lot of knowledge and genetics that show travel during the times when the waters were lower and there were more islands, that there was more Trans-Pacific migration of peoples.
Some of the people that are in Mexico look like some of the Africans from Western Africa around Senegal.
These are some of the oldest Mexican peoples in the Americas.
Basically, they tracked all these old people, ancient civilizations and found a lot of cannabis history among almost all the ancient civilizations.
It's in the book I wrote, which I'm still trying to finish up.
There's a book on all this craziness as well, but it needs to be finished.
Wow. Any idea of when it might be looking to be done?
Hopefully, next year or so, but maybe sooner.
It's been done, but the publisher said it was too big, so I separated it into two books.
The first book is called The Tree of Knowledge.
It basically talks about the trees that were in the Garden of Eden.
One was the Tree of Knowledge and one was the Tree of Life.
I based the Tree of Knowledge being the varieties that give you knowledge and then the Tree of Life being the varieties that give you life, like healing properties.
I separate the two in the two books.
Okay, so psychedelics and cannabis sort of thing?
They're both cannabis, but more like the varieties that give you knowledge and the ones that have more healing properties.
I separated the Indica hash plants into one book and the Sativa equatorials, Mexicans, and all that into another book.
It's kind of splitting up the cannabis genome into two different sections.
Yeah, wow. Beautiful stuff. That's something to look forward to in the future.
Hopefully, as long as my health keeps up.
That should be something to put my knowledge down on paper and give people some interesting history to look at.
Everybody loves history as well as cannabis history.
There's so much there that people are just not aware of that, you know, kind of highlighting some of it.
It's kind of a cool thing to do.
Definitely. And during your answer, you referenced the migration of things down to Australia.
What I'd be interested to know is, earlier on in the interview, you also referenced Mullah Madness.
What's your thoughts on Mullah Madness?
Do you know if it has any relation to Old Mother Sativa or if they're quite different?
I haven't grown Old Mother Sativa, so I don't know.
But a lot of those lines were, there's a lot of Thai varieties, Columbians that were grown in Australia.
So, there's a lot of Southeast Asian varieties grown there.
From the Mullah Madness, it has a certain growth structure that was similar to the Neville's Haze that I saw.
That's why I was coming up with thinking that Mullah Madness might be the source of the Neville's Haze instead of it being like a haze variety.
Anyway, the Mullah Madness has this upright structure.
You'd have to take some pictures of it.
You can see it's got a certain growth, similar to Zamal, where it's kind of like an upright plant.
Lots of shoots, lots of smaller flowers coming up from it.
But it's got a certain growth look to it when it's flowering out like an upright plant.
Just unique.
Maybe it's coming from some of the Thai varieties that were there.
Australia's got some very good varieties from the Thai lines, the closeness to Papua New Guinea.
There's a lot of varieties from Papua New Guinea.
The surrounding islands, Malaysia.
There's a lot of small stuff that's been through Indonesia.
Because of the drug laws, they're so stringent that not much gets out of there.
But Sumatra, Indonesia, Malaysia, there were some good varieties, but they don't get any knowledge of because of the drug laws.
You don't want to be cane to death.
Not a cool thing for smoking cannabis or having a couple of seeds.
But there's a lot of cool stuff that Australia due to the proximity has been able to get and create some really cool stuff.
You look at the size of the plants that grow in Australia, the trees.
The trees have some growth with the eucalyptus and some of the other trees that grow so large, so fast, that cannabis that grows there also has some of those effects.
So, acclimatizing stuff to Australia and then growing them elsewhere would be a great thing for some of the cannabis breeders because of just the environment of Australia.
Yeah, beautiful.
You heard it guys, buy some of my seeds.
Sorry, just kidding around.
We've got a nice pool of fan submitted questions here.
But before we get into them, I wanted to ask you this one.
Might be hard, maybe should have given it to you earlier to think about.
But how would you rank the overall hierarchy of hazers?
And when I say that, I mean, heck, you could just say like Colombian at the top or something.
But you know what I mean?
For all the people who say they like haze, what's the hierarchy for you?
What's the number one and then how would you sort of rank them?
Oh, that's a really tough question.
I don't know if I can answer it, honestly, because I just love them all.
Yeah, that's a good answer as well.
And depending on the phenotype of the plant, they could be a little bit different or something special.
I especially like the purple haze phenotypes.
I like the profile, the turpins, because they have this port wine, this grapey port liqueur turpin profile,
which is like a blackberry port wine liqueur aroma and taste.
But the high is luxurious, transcending, mind-expanding, psychedelic.
And the flavors and tastes just make it luxurious.
And the effects are just amazing.
Yeah, it's hard to say.
I think the old-timers' hazes, which is not like real haze, but it's like a haze.
Those Colombians are very special.
But some of the hazes that were like original haze are very good, too, but it's a different type of effect.
But they're also very special.
It just depends.
Sorry for the shitty answer, guys.
No, that's fine.
Totally understandable.
I did notice in your catalog you had the black raspberry haze.
It sounded pretty interesting.
Can you tell me a little more about it?
Okay.
Well, the black raspberry haze, it was just called black raspberry at one time,
but I didn't realize Bodhi had a black raspberry.
I had named his right before mine, so I put the haze because it has the Purple Thai Neville's Haze in it.
It's basically the Maduro, which is Oregon Purple Thai line braid done by R.C. Colas in Canada.
And he basically bred the Oregon Purple Thai traits out and made them more forward in the line.
He grew the line out of Blue Moonshine and then another Oregon Purple Thai variety and then pulled out the traits.
So Maduro is an Oregon Purple Thai dominant variety.
And I used a couple phenotypes for that, and they turned purple and blue and red when I was growing them.
And those were the mothers I used for the black raspberry haze.
And then the male I chose was the one that has the purple trichomes on the sepals.
So the male flowers that have the little pollen sacs had standing trichomes, which is not too usual for male.
And they were purple coloration of the resin glands.
And I used that male on the Maduro line.
And then I used Oregon Purple Thai with the Neville's Haze Purple Thai male line.
So it's an F3 Neville's Haze with the Purple Thai and the Oregon Purple Thai.
So it's a real special Thai Neville's Haze line.
And the black raspberry haze grows into these pink and purple red colored buds.
So you get these nice pink, purple buds, but the resins that extracted from it have that color, too.
They retain that color. So extracts will have this like raspberry, you know, raspberry color like Chambord.
You know, that raspberry liqueur has that color to the extracts.
So you can make extracts that have this raspberry color to it.
And it makes a wonderful, awesome high and the tasty, delectable, sweet, candied, like raspberry taste.
But it's got that nice haze high. It's wonderful.
One person said it was the best high he ever smoked. I said, thank you.
You know, it's nice. But the color and the special trichome resins that it produces is very special.
So it's a very good line to have in order to smoke.
Great for breeding, great for smoking. And it's one of those you want to keep to yourself and share with special friends.
I love it. Sounds right up my alley.
Just while we're talking about the backstory of hazes quickly, I know that this one's not made by you,
but I have a feeling you might be able to give me a bit of the backstory.
But can you tell me about the metal haze?
You know, there's not a ton of information about the backstory and you have used it for a few different things.
What's your thoughts on it?
Metal haze was done by Dutch Flowers. It's a very potent line. There was a couple of phenotypes.
The phenotype that I got was one selected by the Rev. He got the seeds from my friend, Fort Dragons.
And he got them from the auctions and there wasn't many packs sold.
So there wasn't much metal haze that was actually available.
Unfortunately, Rev. only selected the one female and then culled the rest.
So there wasn't any to breed with. I tried to take some F2 metal haze that I had to breed with F1, but all I had was females.
I never got a male. So I wasn't able to breed the F2s to F1.
So the metal haze, when I've looked at it and grown it out and seen the expressions through recessives,
it looks like it's supposedly supposed to be a mix of a bunch of their sativas or haze plants that they were growing under metal halide lights.
But what I saw from growing it out, it looks like it's got Mexican Punto Rojo in there from the leaf structures.
So I think some of the metal haze, the special parts, that is Mexican Punto Rojo.
But that's just my interpretation of the leaves and some of the aspects I get from the stems and the coloration.
And that's just from years of growing different varieties.
It could be off, but that's what it looks like to me.
So I have one called Dr. Doom, which is the metal dragon, which is the metal haze with the Burmese.
And Purple Vietnamese, which is the black purple phenotype, which is Vietnamese with Vietnam Black.
And the Mexican Punto Rojo traits seem to be pretty dominant in that.
And it's going to be fantastic. I got some grown this year, so it's going to be, can't wait till those are done.
Love it. Sounds good.
We'll move on to the fan submitted questions before we finally wrap up with the final five we give people.
The first one we got is a good one.
Someone must be paying a lot of attention because I didn't even know about this, but they said,
can you ask Snow High if he can tell us a little bit about some of the rare hemp seeds he has?
Specifically, I think he has some Fujian.
Fujian?
Fujian. There's a province in China. It's not Fiji. It's a province in China.
I've got a lot of different hemp strains. Honestly, I've got maybe 120 different hemp strains.
A lot of them from China, Hungary, Romania, some from the Congo, some from Russia.
I have stuff from Siberia, Mongolia. You name it.
I've got a lot of different hemps, all the way to Italy.
There's Southern Italian varieties, there's Slovenian, Slovakian, Czech, French, Spanish, Latvian.
Basically, I've got a lot of different, Turkish, all these different hemp varieties.
Even I have some from North Korea.
Wow, you managed to get them.
Yeah, these were collected in the 1950s, right before the Korean War.
I have two varieties, and they need to be preserved because they may be getting unviable at this point.
I was trying to do a preservation of hemp varieties as well because I think I like all cannabis.
There are so many different things we could do for the world with them, as far as medicine, supplements, building materials, plastics.
There's so much. These hemp varieties will be just as valuable as these drug-producing varieties.
Not only that, you could have disease resistance in some of these hemp varieties that may be lost in some of these drug varieties.
You can incorporate some of those resistances and pest resistances into these drug types that might be favorable to certain places in the world.
Or we can produce a hemp variety that will grow in a tropical place.
Unfortunately, heat tends to make even hemp cultivars into ganja.
Because the heat changes the environment, it acclimatizes to the environment, and then it produces THC.
Wow.
Like what happened in the Congo with the Belgian varieties.
Wow, that's really cool to hear. I hadn't really heard that expressed before.
There you go.
One of the next questions we got is, someone says, right now, from the current offerings that Snow High has, what's his favorite and why?
Oh my goodness. Too many favorites, but one of my favorites right now is, for a long time, is called the Devil's Tit.
Basically, when I first smoked the parents, the devil came to me, whispered in my ear, and told me what to call it.
Devil's Tit is Durban poison. It was from a clone from Mendocino that I got from a guy that was an old breeder that bred heroin.
He didn't have that, but his friends had the Durban that I got it from.
So, associated with that person.
Anyway, this Durban poison was some of the most potent herb I've smoked to date.
It turns purple, has orange hairs, red stems, and the Devil's Tit has imparted those properties.
Extracts from it are so powerful. I've been in fetal positions because it's been too strong.
I've heard that from a lot of people, that it's just too potent for a lot of people.
That's not necessarily a bad thing. You smoke less, and sometimes you just need to dose yourself a little bit less and you're fine.
The aphoric effects, the taste is like strawberry lemonade or cherry chapstick, or there's a skunk phenotype as well.
All very rich in terpins. THC doesn't seem to be too high in the test results.
So, there's something else in that that makes it extremely potent.
I don't know if it's THCV or what it is, but something in the Devil's Tit makes it very, very potent.
Not all lab tests are conclusive because when I was testing things at the Emerald Cup, they weren't testing for THCV and some other things.
So, this is a problem with a lot of labs. They don't always test for everything, unfortunately.
But that was one of my favorites because there's some faster phenotypes.
It yields well. It's got the looks and smells and tastes everything wants, and it's got the potency beyond.
It's got a quality to it that's very unique. It can be a roller coaster, but it's a fun roller coaster.
I love that description. That's beautiful.
The next question we have is someone wants to know what strain do you have that's got the most unique terpins?
And as a follow-up, what sort of terpin profiles are you most interested in at the moment?
Oh, wow. Unique terpins. There is a Mexican variety called El Primo, which is a Mexican Punto Rojo.
It's got this simple terpin profile that is a fuel-like aroma profile.
When people smell the chem lines, they smell this simple terpin profile, and that's what they love out of it.
It's the unadulterated, mixed up, what they love out of the chem lines.
It's got that fuel-y smell, but it's not sour diesel or anything like that.
It's just got that simple fuel terpin profile, which is very unique.
It's psychedelic, it's potent, it's very luxurious, and it's in a symbolized form.
It's the building block for what we love in some of these lines.
That's coming out of that Mexican Punto Rojo.
It's surprising because it's coming out of a Mexican cultivar, and it's unique.
I think that's what a lot of people have been digging around for and can't find, and I think it's in one of those.
El Primo is the line that I found it in.
If people are looking to recreate some of the chem lines, I think that's where it's from.
I also think I have what created the chem lines, the dog bud.
I think my friend made it, and he just didn't realize that's what he made.
He called it something else, the Mongrel, and it was also renamed the Dog Bud.
He called it the Mongrel because it was a mix of different stuff.
That may just be one version of it, but I have those seeds.
I might try to grow them out and see what comes out of them.
They're older, so we'll see.
What did he describe it as, the plant?
How were they, like indica, sativa?
Indica and sativas.
Okay, so they're a mix.
Yeah, it was a mix.
He said it was like five different things.
He called it the Mongrel.
I have the Mongrel seeds, and I have the Dog Bud seeds.
These Dog Bud crosses and stuff.
I'll see if any of those will make it, be able to germinate.
We'll see what comes out of them, if they're similar or what they are.
Wow, we wait with bated breath.
That's cool.
If you had to guess the exact sort of genetics that were in ChemDog, what would you say it is?
Well, I'd have to say that there has to be some Mexican in it, from my finding this Mexican Punto Rojo.
So, some Mexican, Afghani, probably Pakistani, probably some kind of Southeast Asian in there too.
Yeah, I mean, something that I've been discussing more with people like Skunk BA and some of the people who are very associated with the ChemDogs
is that a lot of people talk about them as if they're like this most hardcore Indica,
but many of them do have a decent amount of sort of sativa-like traits to them and aspects to the high.
They're just so potent, you sort of sometimes feel like it's Indica.
Right, and that's right.
The Mexican comes along, and it's super potent.
It's got the chem qualities.
The Afghani kind of, I would think, would go along.
If you wanted to reproduce the chem line with that Mexican Punto Rojo and add some specific Afghanis, you'd have something pretty close.
But the Mongrel, I think, was like five different things.
But, you know, I'm sure more than one person made Dog, but the whole thing is no one is claiming this, and nobody knows where it came from.
So why not my friend that did some work around the same time, and a lot of people got seeds from him.
A lot of people got seeds from him, and then because he got busted, he kind of went out from growing for a while.
And he's got heart conditions and issues like that.
So it would be interesting if that's what it is.
But, you know, who knows?
There might be some other person that created Dog, and there's a lot of other Dog lines out there.
There's Dog shit, and there's, you know, lots of people come up with the same name.
So it wouldn't be unlikely that more than one person created the same thing or something that was named the same thing.
So I'm not saying it is, but I'm going to dig down the hole and see what comes out of it.
Yeah, look, I'm keen to follow your progress and see how that goes.
The next question we got was a good one.
What's the most paranoia-inducing weed you've ever bred?
So one of your strains.
Someone wants to get paranoid by the sounds of it.
Hmm.
Let's see here.
Paranoia-inducing.
There was one I grew that was Senegalese with haze and, oh, God, it was Angola Red with the Thai.
So I did one with Senegalese haze.
It was Angola Thai with Angola Red.
It was Angola Red Thai, Senegalese, and Neville's Haze.
And I think that was one of the strongest paranoia-inducing ones.
Mostly was from African Sativas, Equatorial Blinds.
Ah, interesting, interesting.
Okay, because you don't really see too many people playing with them outside of yourself and maybe Gooey Breeder.
Yeah, Gooey's not too far from where I grew.
It's in the same area, Northern California.
Cool.
Have you ever grown Mum Gooey at all?
I have.
Gooey's very nice.
Yeah, I did some work with it.
I need to grow some of those seeds.
But yeah, it's definitely a producer.
It's got some wonderful buds on there.
It's good stuff.
Good stuff to grow and breed with.
Yeah, beautiful.
Love to hear that.
So the next question we had was, what's your thoughts on the Makado and how was the strain collected?
Makado?
God, you know, I heard that it was like a Skunk Northern Lights haze combination, kind of like Jack Harer.
But other than that, I don't know.
It's definitely strong and it's got some unique traits to it.
So I don't know.
Yeah.
No, look, I feel you on that one.
The next question, someone says, can you give us some insight into your process of harvesting the trichromes from seeded bud with dry ice?
Oh, very easy.
So basically, a lot of people are like, I can't try my strains because I seed them.
Well, if you seed your lines, you basically take seeded buds.
And if you use dry ice with, say, the bubble bags, so you use, I think, 130 trichromes.
Sorry, millimeters, centimeters, micro mesh.
So 130 micro mesh bag.
And you put it in, put your seeded buds in there with the dry ice crushed up.
And you take like a paper bucket and you flip it upside down and shake that out over something that you can collect the resin glands out.
You can basically separate even fresh bud.
Fresh bud works great because then you have like that fresh dry sieve and it hasn't been decarboxylated yet.
So you use fresh buds, which are great, or you can use the dry buds.
The good thing is you can separate the seeds and they're clean.
And then you got this nice, fresh resin that you shake off from the plants.
And I use the 130 because it kind of gives you the smaller microns and the larger mesh.
It kind of takes out the dust, but allows you to get the resin glands.
And you collect that with a credit card or some kind of other card.
I usually shake them over a plastic drum that you use for like collecting oil or something, some big plastic thing you can kind of lay down and collect.
Cool. That sounds great. I'm going to have to try that next time.
And you can shake out your resin glands within a few minutes and collect them.
It's really a fast way of collecting resin glands.
And then you separate your seeds afterwards.
And if you wanted to separate the seeds from all the trash and stuff, you can use a two liter Coke bottle cut up with strips and a vacuum connected to the back end of the two liter bottle and the bottom cut off.
And you kind of can feed off the trashy sticks and everything that are associated with the seeds.
And what will be left behind are the seeds because they have a density and weight to them.
So it's a good way of cleaning your seeds that way.
Ah, that's good. I'm cleaning seeds right now. So I'm going to implement this.
I'll show you a picture of it. So it's, you know, I'll show you what it looks like and kind of explain to you how the breakdown.
It's pretty easy. You kind of build a little adapter to put on the back end of the vacuum so you can use your vacuum with it.
Fastest way to do seed.
Amazing. Amazing.
Onto the last few fans submitted questions. The next one is what's the most unique land race experience you've had?
Oh, God. Unique, huh?
Hmm.
Yeah, you got me stumped on that. I don't know.
Unique. I love them all.
I love the Thai buds. You know, it's the sweet taste of the Thai.
Like the dry, you know, it looks like, you know, what we used to get as Thai sticks or Thai buds.
The sweet taste, the high was just euphoric and soaring. And it's just that wonderful.
This Thai tastes so good. I think Thai buds are just amazing.
You know, compared to other stuff. But, you know, I love Mexicans as well.
You know, there's the psychedelic potency, the quality, the giggles, the happiness from it.
I'd say it's a draw between Thai sticks and Mexican stuff.
I've had some stuff from Veracruz that was so psychedelic potent that it can be noid-inducing as well.
Very paranoid-inducing. I remember being in Cancun and smoking a big old joint outside the window.
And then one of the federales, the guys, the cops there, shined his lights at me because I was smoking outside the window.
And I think he was trying to scare me and fuck with me. And it got me all paranoid because I was smoking this, you know, strong-ass weed.
That ended up flushing the rest of it down the toilet after smoking half the joint.
But it was legal at the time. So, I think I was just, you know, got overtaken by the paranoid-inducing effects.
It's interesting you touched on the Thai there because one of the questions we got was,
have you ever found any interesting terpenes in the Thai lines besides the standard sort of spicy haze or the lemon that you commonly see?
Yeah. I mean, there's Juicy Fruit Thai, which has got a different fruity aroma and taste.
It grows different too. You know, it's more of an upright, bilateral. It grows like what I would consider like a golden Thai.
Some of these golden Thai, Golden King Thai, it grows in like an upright, straight plant.
Some of these Thais, it's hard to say. They're kind of like a beanpole. They grow straight up and they have branching that's...
Basically, they grow perpendicular to each other, alternating perpendicular. So, it's like perfect alternating form.
So, it's straight up and back and forth. And the taste is more of a fruitiness, you know, ripe fruit, kind of like a mango or, you know, Juicy Fruit gum.
And then there's the mango Thais, which I think are very in the same family. And I think there's another highland variety.
And those were a lot of the Thai sticks. There's lemon Thais, which are this highland Thais.
And those can be purple or green. And those have like a lemon aroma or high limonene aroma.
And there's lots of different lemon Thais. So, you know, it's hard to say.
There's the grassy varieties, which are like some of the highland varieties are grassy and they're more jungly, like the Chiang Mai.
There's the chocolate Thais, which I think are mainly lowland varieties or purple Thai varieties.
But I'm trying to narrow down the specific varieties that make up the chocolate Thais.
I think some of the 60s were some of the purple highland Thais or some of the Lao varieties.
Those were like some of the first 60s chocolate Thais.
And then I think the later chocolate Thais were some of the lowland Lao or some of the other lowland Thais that also had purple traits to them.
I think those ones are musky, euphoric, coffee, tobacco tasting.
And there's also the red Thais. There's ones that have red pigments or like brown.
And those ones have anthocyanins, the red traits, the carotenoid traits that seem to turn them red, red stem, red flowers, which also turn into like a purple as well when dried.
Kind of similar to like a Panama red.
And those who kind of have what is very similar to all the purple traits in those type of lines.
And they are kind of like the blackberry, port wine-ish, grape-ish, but not like a candy grape, more of like a liqueur turpentine profile.
But many of them have sweet tasting stuff too.
So it's hard to say, but there's so many different Thais.
And I'm trying to get my hands around a lot of them.
We're going to be able to see all the different differences, but there's many different fruit flavor types, as well as the sickly sweet types, highland, lowland.
And then you have stuff that are more ganja varieties and more of what they use for Thai stick.
And then some of the indica types, there are like Thai indicas.
Ah, that's something you don't hear every day.
Well, they're not in the true form like an indica, but they have the, you know, the hasher plant, they're thicker, larger.
You know, they look like hash plants, but they're Thais, but they're pure Thais.
They're just, you know, Thai derivative indicas, if that makes any sense.
So it would be nice to see what the chemotype compositions are, if they have CBD in them, or, you know, if they're similar to Mexicans or other things.
The other thing is some of these lines were imported from Mexico during the Thai stick lines.
There's a guy named Brian Daniels was an importer of a lot of Thai sticks.
His wife was married to, well, he was married to a Thai woman and her family, her father was part of like the head of police in Chiang Mai.
And I think they got indigenous tribal people to wrap the sticks and grow them on different pieces of land.
And then they were able to transport the sticks down to the water and avoid, you know, police by paying them off.
And basically this was done for like 20 years.
And they'd import sticks into Sausalito, into like a San Francisco area, into Australia, into different places.
So a lot of the stuff was brought in from other countries like Mexico to speed up the growth rates of some of the Thais.
So some of the hybridized Thais that were grown in Thailand and Cambodia and Laos were probably like Mexican seeds or Colombian.
Some of the Colombian seeds were brought to Colombia and produced a line called Sky Blue Blonde, because some of the Thai lines were, the Thai varieties were shorter flower than the long, you know, Colombian gold varieties.
You know, Thais are extremely long, but Colombians are even longer.
But you can't grow a lot of Mexicans in Colombia because they can't deal with the extended, you know, daylight hours.
So they had to find varieties that would grow there.
Huh, what a detailed Thai backstory I wasn't expecting to get. I love it.
Well, good.
It does make me wonder how many other Thais there are out there that just sort of don't get any mention.
Well, I mean, what people grew there, you know, they'd call it one thing and then they'd rename it as something else.
So there's Highland Thais, Lowland Thais, stuff that was Purple Thai, maybe renamed here in the States as Chocolate Thai.
Lowland Laos could be renamed as Chocolate Thai.
Some of the Mango Thais could be sold here as Golden Thais.
Some of the Juicy Fruit Thais could have been renamed as like Golden Thais.
Some of the Buddhists could have been renamed as, you know, from some of the Lowland Laos or Cambodians.
You know, it's resellers trying to make money off some of this stuff.
I know in 1988, we bought Chocolate Thai out of San Jose for, it was 80 bucks for an eighth, which was a lot because most eighths were, you know, 10, 15 bucks.
So 80 bucks, it was quite a bit or 75 bucks for an eighth for Chocolate Thai was quite a bit.
Yeah, nice.
So the final fan submitted question we have, which is actually a really good one.
They have asked, what is it that keeps you up at night in relation to cannabis?
What's the most concerning aspect of the modern cannabis scene or culture in your opinion?
The loss of genetic germplasm.
We're losing so much of these old lines because people are growing up gelato and these other fast flowering lines that are kind of generic.
And what they should be growing are these varieties that will give them these awesome highs and these effects.
But the problem is no one's experienced them because they didn't grow up in those ages.
So it's genetic loss that I'm fearing the most because there's so many varieties that we lose due to non-viable seeds, due to not getting the support to remake them or to make them available.
It's just genetic loss because there's so much that is awesome about the cannabis.
I mean, these things have evolved with people.
So cannabis is as unique and varied as all the people in the world.
So you have all the different spices and tastes and colors and experiences of all these different people and fruits and vegetables that cannabis kind of holds in its makeup.
So it's like an experience, but a human experience in a plant that you grow that you can smoke.
So you can smoke and experience.
So all that's going to be lost, all that history, unless we're able to preserve some of it.
And I can't do it all and my friends can't do it all.
So we need help from the general public to help make this something that people want to try.
Because once you get to try this stuff, you're going to want more of it because it's beautiful and happy and you don't get stoned, you get high.
And you unlock knowledge that's not necessarily available to people unless they partake in something like this.
Cannabis allows you to use your mind in a way like a person that's studying meditation for many, many years, like a yogi, somebody that's able to get their mind to a place where they're able to perceive things that most people can't because they're able to get to that level.
Well, cannabis is a tool that allows you to get to that stage in a much faster rate just by smoking it.
It allows you to free your mind from the constraints of what we think is moral or immoral and allows you to see things for what they are.
And normal cannabis that people are smoking doesn't do that.
But some of the varieties that are Thai or Mexican or Vietnamese or Colombian, those can allow you to get to those places and allow you to access that knowledge that you normally wouldn't be able to get.
So, I just hope more people will take the time to either support the people that grow these varieties or help the people that can make these available to more people.
Hear, hear, hear, hear. Brilliant sentiment.
So that brings us to our final quick five questions for the interview.
So, first one being, what is the single best or most memorable experience in relation to cannabis you have?
Oh man, I think the first time I smoked Panama Red, I was at my high school and I had smoked some Panama Red and I thought it was laced with LSD.
I didn't realize at the time that you can't smoke LSD, but I had had LSD before that and I knew the experience.
So, I was so high that my friends had to carry me up to the school because it was just too high from the experience that I thought it had been laced with LSD.
And I thought I was going to be flying high for a very long time because some of these experiences from cannabis can be like a very strong psychedelic experience for a short period of time, you know, a few hours or an hour, whatever it might be.
It feels like hours, but that was a very memorable experience, that first Panama Red.
Amazing. I love it. I love it.
So, on the other end of the spectrum, what's a strain that all your friends were, you know, hyping up, telling you it was going to be great and then when you finally had it, you were like, oh, is that it?
G13.
G13 was something that was always kind of like hyped up for many, many years.
It was this government strain.
When I smoked it, it's potent, it's narcotic, it's generic.
It's great across other things.
It's a shitty grower, it's a small little hash plant, it's nothing special, but it's hyped to be something special.
So, you know, hype works, I guess.
I love it. I love it. Okay.
So, if I was going to drop you off on a desert island and you can take three strains with you to grow for the rest of time, what would you take with you?
Oh, that's hard.
Purple Haze.
Acapulco Gold.
This is hard.
Chocolate Tie.
Just for lack of, you know, I think I'd be happy with those three strains, though I still want others.
But yeah, those would make me very happy for a long time, but I still want others.
But I think that kind of covers a lot of things.
Love it. Love it. Love it. Love it.
So, let's say you're dropping someone else off on the island, someone you're not a big fan of, what are you going to leave them with?
Maybe some hemp.
But, you know, I'm a nice guy, so I'd probably let them have some like Northern Lights or something.
Yeah, something to numb the pain.
Yeah. Totally cool.
Love it. Okay. And so, final question then.
If I gave you a time machine and you can go back anywhere in history, any time, where are you going to go and what are you going to collect? And presumably seeds or clones.
Wow.
I think the Zoroastrian Age, you know, when everybody was migrating to the Balkh region, worshipping cannabis as haoma, they were bringing in cannabis from all over the world.
You know, there's Sumerians, there's Acadians, there's all kinds of different peoples there.
Indus Valley.
Yeah. So, yeah, the Zoroastrian Age. So, basically, like 1300 BCE. And I think I'd be collecting a lot of different stuff at that point.
Yeah, definitely. I think it would be wild.
The other place would be maybe the 1960s in Colombia and Mexico.
Some brilliant answers there. I love both of them. Get funky with it. So, I think that just about brings us to the end of it. Were there any comments or shout outs you wanted to make?
I'd just like to say that I couldn't get here without my friends. You know, some newer, some older. You can't do anything without your friends. So, you should always, you know, thank the people that help you get where you're at. So, thank you to my friends, family. That's it. Thank you, guys.
Incredible. Incredible. So, again, huge thank you and shout out to John of Snow High Seeds, the landrace lover, breeder extraordinaire. So much more. We're so incredibly appreciative for you taking the time to join us today.
Thanks for having me.
And there you have it, friends. A huge thank you to Snow High for coming by, sharing all of his knowledge. Landraces, breeding, preserving, history, future predictions. So much more. We're incredibly appreciative. Thank you so much, John.
And as always, huge thank you to our incredible sponsors, Seeds Here Now, all the latest breeders, the hottest drops, an incredible new website. They've been slashing prices to give you the best deals while still offering their patent guarantee on satisfaction and germination. Check them out.
Likewise, Simply Souvenirs, if you're after a hand-selected range of boutique genetics, both local and international, check them out, guys. They've got everything you need from seeds to smoking accessories to vapes. Everything under the sun, Simply Souvenirs. They'll look after you. Best customer service in the game. Huge shout out, Simply Souvenirs.
Big shout out to our friends at Copert Biological Systems, providing all the predators you need to keep your garden pest and pathogen free. Check out the Spidex Vital if you're worried about spider mites. You should release these things periodically, guys, I promise you. You will view it as an investment in your garden. Ensuring that you never have any spider mites in your garden should be one of your key priorities as a cultivator.
Huge shout out, Copert Biological Systems. We appreciate you and your support.
Likewise, Pulse Sensors. Do you want more yield, more resin, better flower, better concentrate? Who doesn't? Check out Pulse, guys. If you're ready to get serious, get a Pulse Sensor from a single tent to a single room for multi-facility operation.
Don't let hidden variables hold your crop back. Get your growth parameters in check and start yielding the highest quality possible. Huge shout out, Pulse Sensors. Thank you so much.
Likewise, big shout out to the Patreon gang. We love and appreciate you. Please consider checking out the Patreon if you want early access to upcoming episodes, additional interviews you won't get access to unless you're on there, as well as genetic giveaways and ad-free content. Check it out, friends. That's the Patreon, www.patreon.com forward slash the podcast. All one word. We love and appreciate you.
And there you have it, my friends. Part one of this two-part hitter from the man himself, Snow High.
Come on back for the next one and I'll see you there.
I'll see you.
