I was like, it's got to go three or four hours and my wife just poked in her head and she's
all, can you be done?
This was like 20 minutes or an hour ago.
I'm like, yeah, she's like, it's been like six hours, dude.
That's the topic.
Hello and welcome to the next episode of The Podcast, a cannabis podcast for budding enthusiasts.
This episode, as always, was brought to you by our phenomenal sponsors.
Seeds here now, number one seed bank in the game, guarantee on germination and satisfaction.
Why would you go elsewhere?
They got all the hottest breeders and the latest drops.
Likewise, a big shout out to Coppert Biological Systems.
They got all the beneficial microbes, all the beneficial predator bugs and the feeds
to keep the good army alive.
Go check them out to make your next harvest a success.
Got aphids?
Grab the aphid end.
Got spider mites?
Grab the spider end.
Makes sense.
Also, a huge shout out to our family over at the Patreon.
If you want to be a part of the lifeblood that helps make this show happen, getting
early access to episodes, exclusive unreleased content and prizes, giveaways, so much more.
Go check out www.patreon.com forward slash the podcast.
Welcome back my friends for part two of the epic chat we had with Mean Gene of Mendocino,
talking all things breeding, history, trends for the future and what you can expect going
forward.
So without further ado, let's get into it.
Yeah, I love that.
RKS Rosin.
That is a question for the ages and I mean, what a brilliant answer as to how to sort
of work a line.
I think everyone, including myself, will need to re-listen to that once or twice because
there's just gold in there.
And speaking of working a line, I've always been very fond since being able to try your
Cherry Pie S1.
I think that's got to be one of the most intoxicating flavor profiles there is.
So I've always followed the Cherry West and just in general your cherry work and I see
that there's a lot of really cool projects you've been doing, be it like, you know, the
Cherry West Backcross, you're doing the collab with BioVortex, the Cherry Lime Dog.
We were chatting to him about that and that sounds great.
I even noticed that you did a Sunset Sherbet Cherry Limeade cross, which is also cool.
Did you have any immediate plans for what you want to kind of do with your cherry lines?
Any ideas where you want to go in the future?
Because I know a lot of people beyond myself are really into them and follow it.
Well, yeah, so I have some different things that I've done.
I mean, even this year I took a, you know, the lime in the Cherry Limeade is the PK Black
Lime, which was the brother of the Lime One.
So when I made the Cherry Limeade with that male, I also put that on the Lime One.
And then I have various lime lines that come out of that that I just call lime instead
of black lime.
And so this year I took a lime, a really nice lime F5, and I put that on the Cherry Clone
again to remake a Cherry Limeade F1, which is the same thing I did to make the Cherry
Lime Pop, which was when I used the Lime Pop male, which was a lime F2 instead of an F5.
And that's what BioVortex started with for his project.
And so I went ahead and did a different one, and it'll be a little bit different because,
you know, the Lime Pop was what it was, and the male I used this time is what it was,
and the F1 lime male that I used to make Cherry Limeade was its thing.
Every time you do that, you pick a different male of the same strain, and you put it on
the same mother, you get a completely different cross.
It's not just like you take lime and cherry, you cross them together, and you get the same
thing.
Every time you use a different male, you get a completely new thing with some of the same
traits.
So I went ahead and I did that.
I did a lot of Cherry Lime, Cross, Gelato, Gelato 33.
I liked that one.
It seemed kind of silly when I made it, but I tried it, and then once I grew them, I was
like, wow, this really worked out nice because they had really pretty color, which, you know,
who cares, but still, they're pretty and nice.
It made it a little bit more substantial and dense than a lot of the Cherry Limeades, even
though the Cherry Limeade has that in it.
They're not all super heavy and dense and easy to trim, but the Gelato really brought
that to it.
The Cherry Limeade still kept a lot of its turps in there that really popped out and
made it sharp, whereas Gelato is more kind of like a, kind of the 33 is kind of like
a Fruit Loopy ice cream thing.
And then, so I took that, and I did that on a lot of stuff.
I took the Cherry Limeade Gelato, I put it on the Cherry Bomb again, so that'll reinforce
that cherriness, but the lime will start to get lost a little.
I like the lime in those, in the Cherry Limeade crosses because it brings some of that citronella
lemongrass lime peel kind of stuff, which the Cherry already had some of it, but it's
more like star, more like lemon starburst candy kind of a thing.
And then, the Cherry, so the Cherry, the Cherry West backcross was Cherry Limeade cross
Cherry West cross Cherry West.
Then, that male got put on the Cherry West again, and then out of that, that got put
on the Cherry West again.
So I have quite a few seeds now of the Cherry West backcross three instead of one, which
was the last release.
And those are cool, and I'll probably come out of that and go back to it again, which
is eventually just kind of making that Cherry West clone by itself.
And you know, you could have taken Cherry West, the original males from that seed, and
put it on the clone and taken those forward.
Except the Cherry Limeade, I liked better in the cross because it had more of the crazy
far out terps that the Cherry West 10 clone had, whereas a lot of the sisters of the Cherry
West 10 and the Cherry West cross, they were more of a plain cherry pie thing, like regular
cherry pie.
And as exotic as regular cherry pie is, and people really like it, it's not like the cherry
pie weirdo that I have from clone, which is a lot more rose oil and that Starburst candy
thing going on.
So I like to use that to lock down the Cherry West in seed form, the Cherry Limeade instead,
because the males, I feel like the Cherry West 10 was kind of like a one in whatever
50 throw.
And some of the rest were a little more dumbed down regular cherry pie terps, which are a
little more musky and deep and dark, which are cool and tasty, but not the unique thing
I was trying to bring out of both those things.
And so I liked the Cherry Lime better as a starting place for that.
So that's what I've been doing with that.
So I'll probably put out, I might put out some Cherry West backcross three, I might
just wait and put out the backcross four or the backcross one F2s or the backcross three
F2s, just depending.
You know, we'll try them and see which ones kind of are the coolest or, you know, do them
all if they're all really cool and different.
And so there's that.
And what you saw was the Cherry West backcross.
Those were different ones, what we smoked when you were here.
And that was funny because we kind of took the one we thought was the worst and we smoked
that and I was like, shit, this shit's still good.
I thought you guys wouldn't even be that stoned because you had a heavy tolerance and I didn't
as much.
I was sitting there super ripped and I was like, look, I'm probably the only one high
here.
And then you guys were like, dude, that's stony.
And I said, all right, cool, cool.
Good to see, you know, like out of that, since it was the one that didn't look like it was
the best, you know.
So there's those.
And then I did, you know, I kind of I want to find like a Cherry Limeade that can actually
make like water hash, bubble hash, because it is so greasy.
You can only really make you can really only make oil with like butane or CO2 and it just
doesn't.
I don't know.
Like I I want to see it.
I want to see the same turps on a more solid resin head so that you can do different stuff
with it.
So I crossed it like with with Chrome's White and I crossed it with Katsu Bubba Kush and
I crossed it with Black Dog and I crossed it with Purple Snow Bubba from CSI.
And that's in an attempt to see if I can go in a direction where I get the Cherry Limeade
turps on a more solid resin.
So we'll see if that works out.
And so, yeah, man, I'm trying to think if there's other stuff I did, but those I think
that's kind of what what I really have going now.
And then, of course, I did Cherry Limeade cross with the Cherry Clone again.
So I took the F5 Cherry Limeade and put that on the Cherry Clone.
And I was watching Game of Thrones and they had the guy who was the fire guy and they
called him the Pie Romancer.
And I was like, ooh, Cherry Pie Romancer.
And so Cherry Pie, Cherry Pie Romancer.
I'm going to fucking call it that.
So I slapped that on it because I knew I knew it came out of a funny.
It's hard to name things, you know.
But but also, you know, that's a funny thing because it's fire and there's pie in there
and, you know, whatever.
So that was like one thing that I have and I'm going to keep working on that.
And other Cherry stuff, Cherry Limeade.
I have a lot of F6s that I need to go through different directions.
I'm going to go back to the oldest ones while they're still viable so I can make lots of
them to put into storage.
It's always important, even if you're kind of successful with your newer ones, you don't
want to abandon the old ones because that's where you found the good shit, you know, in
the first place.
So you've got to make more of those before they get old and maybe find new crazy things.
I got the Wild Strawberry Clone.
I got one I call Cherry Lime 4 from back because that was Cherry Lime 4, which was my original
F1 keeper of Cherry Limeade.
And then I hit that with seeds from in it.
So it was a bat cross.
And then when I popped those I got one that just has the craziest turps.
And it got some balls in my debt but it didn't seed itself.
So I'm doing a bunch of crosses with that and seeing if I can kind of get that to go
in a direction where it'll straighten out.
And that one's like really, really crazy.
Lemongrass.
It's hard to describe.
Citronella chemical with some of the starburst from the cherry but mostly just very limey.
But the special part of the cherry without any of the buried cherry smell to it.
So that's cool.
And I think that's kind of where those are at at this point.
It's just kind of like still hunting through and trying different stuff with them.
I always have different out crosses I did with them.
And there's a lot of neat stuff that pops out of those lines.
Yeah, for sure.
And it sounds like there's a variety of different avenues people can go down if they're interested
in exploring the cherry work there.
And I love that name, the cherry pyromancer.
That's a nice little pun.
I noticed in that question you referenced having done some work with gelato.
And I had picked up on that as well looking through your Instagram.
And I was wondering, do you like the results you see having used the gelato mother in some
crosses?
And does this give any sort of credence to the idea that maybe some of the hype boys
one day will see a Runts cross from Mean Gene?
Well, I mean, I took that Gelato 33 cherry limeade and I grew it.
And then I got the Runts clone and I grew that.
And, you know, the Runts, when I grew it, it kind of had a cool shape to it where there's
a lot of bud to it and then the leaf's kind of separate.
It looked a lot like my old dirt perp.
And I lost that years ago, kind of a narrow bud that wants to kind of hug itself.
And when you take the leaves off of it, it's just kind of the bud left there.
It's not hairy.
And it had really pretty color even in the middle of the summer.
I liked the smell.
I mean, of course, now everybody knows gelato, everybody knows Skittles.
But I'm of the opinion that if we would have had all this same quote unquote hype shit
in the mid 90s, we would have been like, this is good.
This is like so-and-so's shit, you know, like, that's cool.
I like it, you know.
I feel like any time you win, everybody says you're full of shit.
So there's like an aspect of underdog stuff that happens where as soon as a strain is
popular, it's really hard for people to not say it's bullshit.
I feel like like Chemdog maybe and OG have been able to kind of be big and popular purely
for the reason that they're like straight up probably the most knock you in the head
shit that anybody has access to.
So anybody who's really into those sees anything that's not as potent and goes, ah, that shit's
bullshit.
If you smoke the most potent weed all the time, anything that's not the most potent
weed doesn't really do much to you.
So you know, it's kind of weird.
Like for me, I'm like, well, I don't really want to just smoke one kind of weed.
So I don't even really want to smoke Chem D, Chem 91 and Ghost OG every day, all day,
all the time, because then when I smoke other shit, I won't really get high.
We went through the same thing when we started smoking hash all the time, and then we'd smoke
a joint and we'd be like, ah, just don't even bother.
Let's just smoke some fucking hash because this isn't doing nothing to us.
And so I kind of like to keep what I'm smoking varied.
And then that way, when I smoke something that's super potent, I really get fucking
ripped and it's like I can notice it.
Otherwise, don't get me wrong, I've smoked the most potent shit every day, all day that
I have available.
After a certain point, every time you smoke, you don't really get high anyway.
And then you kind of go, oh, this is the one thing that no matter what, it gets me high
every time.
But it's like, yeah, kinda.
But not like you would be if you smoked Urkel for a week and then you smoked some fucking
OG or Chem 91 or Chem D, then you'd be like, ooh, fuck, okay, I'm fucking ripped.
So I like to switch shit up and even be on the high of everything.
I don't like to taste the same weed every time.
There's only a couple kinds of weed that I like so much because they make me happy and
I like how they taste that I get really into them or I want to smoke them all the time.
So I like to have like, you know, I don't mind that there's a Runtz or a Gelato or a
cherry pie or whatever it is because for me, it's like those are all these different things
that to me are pretty good and then they are something different.
I love pizza or burgers and fries or sushi or fucking whatever nice light Thai food,
Japanese food, whatever it is.
And there might be something that I like better than everything else or only two things, but
I don't really want to eat that shit every single day.
I really like that I got access to a lot of different things.
It's like my favorite song.
I don't want to just listen to it all the time or pretty soon I'm like, all right, well,
it's kind of played out and you know, it just, I just, the way, you know, I think of shit.
So I like all the variety and everything.
So like, you know, yeah, I got the Runtz.
I fucking bred it with the Gelato cherry limeade.
We'll see if it's good.
I bred it with the Sky Cutler Double Kush because I thought that would be odd and there
might be stuff that comes out of it that isn't like what a normal Runtz cross would
be because it's like a Kush that's a, that's a, that's kind of a weird Kush with a Runtz.
So I'm like, okay, well be kind of neat if you get like a gnarly stony OG bud that smells
a little bit like Gelato or something or something that you wouldn't, it unlocks something that
you didn't get out of either parent.
So, you know, I tried it, see what they do.
But I've always done that.
Like if there's something that people say is really good and like I have friends who
grow it and they're like, oh no dude, it's good.
I'm like, yeah, it's not just fucking, it's not just some bullshit that's popular.
No, like I like to smoke it.
If one of my friends says like they're into it, I'm like, cool, I get it.
I make some crosses and if they're good, they're good.
And if not, they just go in a fucking pile with all the other shit I never do anything
with.
So I do it every, you know, I do it every year.
Whatever is something that's around that people say is cool.
I'm like, huh, I wonder how it breathes.
I wonder how it looks.
I wonder what it looks like when I grow it or when I, you know, like what's, what's it
like the way I dry it or handle it?
Like is it good?
Is it not good?
Like, you know, let's see what it does because, you know, originally like I didn't, I didn't
like OG and we even had types of weed that were so similar to OG back in the old days.
And we were like, I don't know, you smoke it, it's really fucking strong.
You don't really feel that good.
You just feel really fucking stoned.
You don't get giggles.
You don't really get any kind of, you know, like it doesn't give you a lift.
You just, it's fucking holy shit, that's potent.
And we didn't really ever like it.
And then that became really popular.
And then I started smoking tons of fucking weed.
And then all of a sudden it was like, okay, this, this shit's good.
And then I liked those kinds of weed.
But you know, what one person likes isn't, doesn't mean that's the best for everybody,
you know?
So I like to try to keep everything going and make something out of stuff when it comes
around if I think it's good.
Especially like if it does good in like blind competitions with real heads, you know, like
the Ego Clash or the Emerald Cup or whatever, where people don't know the name, but everybody's
like, damn, this one's good.
I'm like, well, what is it?
It can't be that fucking bad if it's, if this is blind.
It ain't the Mylar bag selling it to people in a jar when there's no name on it, you know?
So you know, it makes me curious.
So I do stuff with everything, you know?
I got Agent Orange crosses, I got Runtz crosses, I got fucking Big Bud crosses, I got Northern
Lights crosses, like you name it, whatever came around that at the time was something
that people thought were cool and people who I respect thought it was good dope.
I fucking hit it with some pollen, you know?
That's a good philosophy to have for sure.
And I'm sure all the hypebeasts will be thrilled to hear that they're going to be able to get
the Runtz Gelato Cherry Limeade combo.
And the Sky Cuddler one also sounds like it could be a cool little hybrid in the works
there.
I mean, on that same topic of catering to everyone, I was so stoked to see that you're
getting some nice sativas in the mix recently when I noticed that you put up that post about
having pollinated a C5 plant you had.
And it got me thinking, are you planning on working or maybe even releasing some of
the older sort of haze hybrids?
Because I think that although there are a lot of people who say that they're super sick
of the Amsterdam Terp profile, like that meme you put up perfectly embodied it where you
are kind of alluding to that there is a more nuanced side of the haze terpenes which people
can sometimes discredit.
What's your plans for this hybrid and do you want to do some more sativa work going forward?
You know, the thing about sativas was for me, my thing was always I wanted to be able
to make plants.
I wanted to be able to make seeds that somebody, that somebody, like, I'm a funny person like
that.
I don't, I don't have a whole lot of stuff that I like just for the sake of me liking
it.
I like to do things for other people's enjoyment.
I really like to make plants that I think someone else is going to like to grow.
So I mean, I always kind of did stuff that I knew people, because I didn't used to be
on the internet and nobody knew that I had anything.
I didn't know anybody outside my little circle.
So it's kind of like, okay, well, I think so and so, they know this stuff and we all
thought it was good.
So like, I'm going to work on it and then, you know, see if we can get some people to
grow some of this and that'll be fun to see.
I don't want to make something nobody's going to grow that I'm just going to grow.
Because you know, that's kind of the fun of it.
Like you're going to make music, you want to make music that people are going to want
to hear.
You want to make food, you want to make food that when you feed people, they'll think it's
good food, you know.
So like, I always kind of just was doing that.
And then at a certain point, I realized that I do like just for myself, I do really like
the highs on some of the sativa stuff.
Like I had some swazi and some stuff people gave me.
And way back in the day, we had like a tie that would completely like be like, half male,
half female, but the weed was really tasty on it.
And we'd say, fuck it, put, you know, one way over here and grow them and have a, you
know, a couple of joints off a little plant or whatever.
And my buddy had some Mexican, he brought back from Mexico and grew it back in the day.
And I was like, Oh, that's that's cool.
But they grew terribly.
So it's just like, you know, it's just a novelty.
But I realized at a point, okay, I do like to have a little bag of this swazi or a little
bag of whatever it is, you know.
So you know, I've grown some swazis and Congolese.
And I realized that you don't have to grow plants to have a crop.
You can grow plants just to have one little shitty plant and a little pot off somewhere
to the side.
And just take that and you wind up with a little bag of weed.
And every once in a while, you're like, I'm gonna smoke the weird weed.
You take five long hits of the really weird weed with the high ceiling and you're really
fucking high.
It's different than anything else, you know.
It gives you it gives you cool, gives you cool vibes.
You're not just smoking the same Afghani based stuff that is good for a lot of things, but
doesn't necessarily give you the real fucking lift of being tripped out and shit.
So you know, I got the C5, I got the A5, I tried the weeds.
They both have a really cool high.
The plant itself smells like lemon peels, which I think is fucking awesome.
But the bud really has that kind of Amsterdam haze when you have that terpenelein like that
and it's sharp and like terpentine and gnarly like the like the Pakistani CSI has, like
where it's more earthy too is a little different.
But anyway, so I you know, I went ahead and crossed it with stuff that's really weird
and there's a lot of potential for different terpene profiles.
And you know, we'll see if it goes anywhere.
I'm not going to have a lot of those seeds, but enough to try some out, I think.
And I'm more interested in working with like this Malawi I have and this Congolese.
The Congolese is kind of in that ballpark, but it has more of a deep, grassy thing to
it that you would think you wouldn't like if you don't like those types.
But then there's something about it that's kind of just nice and they're neat.
They didn't have any Hermes in them and they were straight from the Congo and like they
were good for that kind of like a land race heirloom African thing and really hardy in
a lot of ways.
So like, you know, just I want to play with some different things like that.
But it's not the main direction I want to go, but I really would like to get my hands
on the old haze type that I saw in the 90s where it was just so tasty and it was more
like a, I don't know, like a, I don't know, really hard to describe, but more like cedar,
incense, just really, really tasty.
Like you're just like, damn, that is so enjoyable.
You know, more like how like, as funny as it is, like opium straight off of the head
of a poppy when you smoke that, how it's just, you're just like, wow, that's just made to
be smoked.
That's not like smoking weed.
That's like a whole different thing, you know, which is what a lot of the best weed strains
are like that.
They're just, you can't believe it, you know.
So I'd like to dig into those kinds of things more.
The A5 and the C5 are really famous.
Neville, you know, like you can't downplay his legacy and, you know, like the Northern
Lights I was talking about earlier probably was straight from Neville based on the packaging
and the labeling and shit, timeframe.
The C5 was really cold resistant, really moisture resistant.
That was neat.
The A5 has a taste that I like.
You know, everybody who's chasing those as being really amazing, like definitely try
them.
Yeah, sure.
A good answer there.
And I guess as a follow up, kind of based on how you said you'd love to get some like
real haze and maybe as a larger extension, this applies to the roadkill.
Do you think that there are really many, if any, growers who are, shall we say like, you
know, hidden up away in the hills or the mountains, still holding on to some super
old cultivar from years gone by in like the, you know, late 80s or 90s?
Or do you think maybe not so likely because even those people who are tucked away still
come into town every so often and they get exposed to the new stuff and they probably
dropped it at some point?
I think real heads have certain plants that they're just in love with and they keep them
no matter what.
And you know, they maybe share them with a couple people who know how good they are.
And I think that there's probably a lot of stuff out there that you'll never hear about
because I think in general, you know, like even me, like I sometimes I don't even understand
why I have any interest with like really breeding and sharing seeds and like the whole
scene.
And, you know, I even, you know, just trying to keep up with the social interactions and
the way everything goes and, you know, the whole scene, which I'm relatively new to compared
to a lot of people who have been more into it for a long time.
Like I had a certain naivety with the whole scene.
Like, you know, initially, like I met people who were super into seeds and I was like,
oh, I never, you know, I don't know anybody who's really into that.
My friends are like hardcore, you know, old school dope growers who they, you know, they
get the good thing here, they get the good thing there.
Maybe they have something, they make a little seeds here and there and stuff and whatnot.
And then there was people who were super into it.
And I was like, well, these people are really into it.
And then over time you realize, well, yeah, the reason why they're into it is because
of the way the scene is laid out, where you can manipulate people so heavily by being
Mr. Seed Guy or whatever little role that they're playing in the scene, you know?
And then after a while you're like, oh, like, you know, y'all don't even really, I don't
even know if you really like any of this shit.
Like I don't know if you have any interest in the biology or the plant aspect beyond
the clout and all this other kind of bullshit that like surrounds anything that is, you
know, an opportunity to gain any kind of like that kind of energy.
Like, you know, there's some people who are really, they really love cars.
They grew up from when they were a little kid.
They're like, oh, you know, my dad or my uncle and my grandpa or whatever was into cars.
So I learned about the paint and I learned about the transmission and I learned about
the engine and I know everything about all these things.
And, you know, probably at a car show, there's probably like maybe half of the people are
like that.
And this is just random.
I don't know, half, 10%, 90%.
I don't fucking know.
There's a lot of people who are there too, who just heard that if you have fast fucking
balling cars, there's people will think you're fucking cool and you can just be, you know,
into that and it's all good.
And, you know, and then there's even, you know, I don't know, I feel like that's how
it is with weed.
There's a lot of people who are just into it to try to fucking milk it for what it is
and wouldn't have really done any of it when nobody was looking.
You know what I mean?
And yeah, I don't know, man.
The whole scene is just, it's a trippy thing to learn, like to see how shit is and all
that and really kind of see it and then go, okay, well, there's probably a lot of people
who are smarter than me, who aren't as naive and gullible in general, who just look for
a fucking second and go, oh, this is all douchebags.
A lot of these people are just full of shit.
And, you know, that probably scares off a lot of people so they don't get to meet somebody
like Bodhi.
Or, you know, there's probably people who think Bodhi is just like the rest of everybody
if they don't know him.
If you know Bodhi, you're like, no, Bodhi's the cool dude.
He just happens to be in the mix, you know?
And then even like me compared to Bodhi, I'm probably fucking 20% more douchebaggy than
Bodhi is.
Or, you know, there's a certain thing that I think is probably really off-putting to
a lot of people who are really into just having the shit they like to where you'll just never
hear from them because they're just fucking cool, you know?
And they're not going to get the interest in thinking like, oh, I want somebody to grow
my stuff because, you know, nothing ever happens with it and I put all this time into it.
And that's like what happened to me.
I was like just so fucking excited that there's people who are into fucking seeds, you know,
that I was just like, whoa, this is crazy.
And then like all said and done, you're like, okay, cool.
I have a better feeling for a better feel for how things are.
There are people who are really like into plants and they really, really like to do
this.
And then there's a lot of people who just want to say, you know, they're the guy who
found the RKS and sell a thousand packs for a fucking bunch of money before they fucking,
you know, whatever.
That's just to kind of sum it up.
But there's a million versions of that.
But it is, you know, the guy who's sitting there who really has some shit that really
smells like a dead skunk, he's probably like, yeah, but I already have it.
And what the fuck do I want to give it to anybody for?
And I don't need anybody to give me a pat on the back for having the real skunk, you
know, like shit.
Like I said, like me, I do a lot of things because I want to like be able to hand something
to somebody and have that interaction of like, oh, you know, like, cool, we're looking through
stuff.
And I like that, you know, but a lot of people, they don't have any.
There's no incentive there for them because they're just chill and they are good on doing
whatever they're doing and they got it.
And that's great.
But for me, I'm like, I want to make something really good and then sit there with somebody
and go, is it really good?
Do we are we having fun?
Like is it a good time to, you know, but that's not how everybody is.
So I think I think there's probably a ton of stuff and that those people just are never
going to come out of the woodwork.
And in a sense, it's unfortunate for the plants themselves because there's no way to really
that's not really sustainable as far as genetics.
Like how are how are those plants going to survive past the person who got their hand
on it?
But, you know, like it's their prerogative.
They have those plants.
They don't need to give them to anybody for preservation or whatever it is.
And, you know, but I am of the belief that there's people who have crazy, crazy stuff
and they're holding that original clone you want.
They have the crazy seeds that everybody wants.
And they're just like, yeah, what do we know?
Because I know a lot of people.
I have a lot of friends who are who are really weeded out and who, you know, you talk to
them about something and they don't they know they have no idea of this whole scene.
I didn't know, you know, like I at one point I thought there was like maybe like bog and
sub cool and greenhouse and Neville.
Like I think that's probably at one point that was, you know, I thought that was that's
the whole thing.
You know, I didn't know there was all these people who were on the forums and I didn't
know there was any such thing as a forum.
And like the forums were gone by the time I even heard of them pretty much.
You know, and I think we I think we get to see a little slice like the people who want
to come out and have the interaction for whatever reason.
And some of them, like I said, some people are like Bodhi.
They want everybody to have cool stuff.
They get a kick out of it.
They spend a lot of time doing stuff.
So they want to make something of it.
You know, and then there's people who will just straight up fucking, you know, say they
made OG when they did it and made fucking whatever when they did it.
And they're only there to to do something.
And, you know, I don't even think there's anything wrong with any of it.
Like it's not on a scale of like I was saying earlier, who are you hurting?
The very worst of the weed guys, you know, maybe they're kind of charlatans.
But I mean, you know, shit, they're not batching up meth.
And probably half of those charlatans probably were a little while ago, to be honest.
So
Oh, God, a bit of real wisdom right there.
I love that.
I noticed in your answer that you mentioned Bog who sadly passed away recently.
And he's a guy who was really influential both in, you know, sharing knowledge, but
also his work.
You know, it shows up in a lot of various breeders work.
I don't know if any of your current lines you have for sale have his genetics in them.
But I do know that you've grown out a bunch of his work and have posted about it before.
Was there any of his strains that particularly stood out to you as like some of the more
favorites from him?
I haven't actually grown out a lot of his stuff.
I had a clone, which came to me as Bubba D. And I realized after a long time after
knowing his sour bubble from him giving me the flower when I met him, because sometimes
he'll just, if you see him at a cup, he'll just like give you a gram of flour or like,
you know, a piece of bubble hash or something.
And one time when I was there, he gave me a bag of flour.
And you know, it was like a gram or two.
And I pulled it out and I was like, this is so familiar.
And I got it home and I realized this is the same as Bubba D. And so what I realized when
I thought about it, I went sour bubble, Bubba D, sour D, Bubba bubble.
It's pretty likely that this was a sour bubble and somebody called it Bubba D, you know,
just because of the two words, you know, it's like they go together and the weed was so
similar and I never knew what it was.
And I was always like, I don't know how this could be a sour diesel cross, especially because
I bred it a little bit too.
And there was no, you know, sour pops out some trippy weird kind of larfy, foxtail-y
stuff when you breed with sour initially.
And so I think that what I had as Bubba D was really a sour bubble clone.
And so, you know, that was one that was around here for a while and people, you know, some
around here are kind of wrecking that.
Oh yeah, I remember that.
And then I got sour strawberry from them and I think I got maybe boggle gum and or one
of those ones like that, one of the bubble gum ones.
And then I got the sour bubble.
So I grew the sour strawberry and I told the story on a thing a little while ago.
I grew the sour strawberry and I didn't really mean to do anything with it.
I just wanted to see what a half pack looked like because I was going to, if I liked it
a lot, I was going to get a couple of packs to look through.
Which I didn't, you know, I should have, but I didn't.
And that's a good lesson for people that if you want some seeds, get the damn seeds and
put them in the fridge because whether you're an older guy like bog or you're a younger
guy, like, you know, it doesn't, don't just think that these people who make these seeds
will always have the same stock or they'll continue making seeds or they'll always be
around for you to get seeds from.
If you want something, you should get it, you know, because this has happened, you know,
this is something that happens a lot and people go, oh shit, I should have got them while
I could get them.
And you know, the seeds, honestly, the thing with bog was not being able to get his seeds
is the very least of the loss that, you know, everybody has to take with him leaving because
he's just a really cool guy.
I mean, I, you know, I didn't really know him and I sat with him and he told me about
how he was riding in this car, I think with Shanti Baba, it was somebody like legendary
like that.
And he was like, we're riding on the Autobahn in this car with a fucking 700 horsepower,
some fucking Jag, fucking V12 or some shit.
And, you know, we're fucking, we're going for fucking 100 miles, 120 miles an hour,
blah, blah, blah.
And, you know, telling these stories and I'm like, wow, this guy's a character, you know,
and he was just cool because he was telling me these old stories of being in Europe and
different stuff.
And, you know, I wish I, I wish I could remember the stories more clearly.
But what he did leave me with the impression, he left me with the impression that he was
just a really, just a nice guy, really, really a real guy and had done real stuff.
And, you know, he was a one of a kind guy, you wouldn't, you know, and everybody I've
talked to is like, oh, you know, he was the coolest guy you could talk to with shows and
stuff.
He would go to the smallest shows and the biggest shows and he was, you know, the most
approachable guy.
He was a really good, he was a really good role model, I feel like, for people in general
and especially for people like on the weed scene.
He was not a pain in the ass.
He wasn't a douchey dude.
He was just like, did what he liked to do and came to do his thing.
And, you know, I thought he was really, really kind of a remarkable guy in that sense.
But anyway, I got the, I got the sour strawberry and I grew my half pack, I still have a half
pack of them and I still have the other pack that I can't put a finger on exactly what
it is, but I think it's bobble gum because I was interested in that.
He was like, this is straight, the straight bubble gum in the bubble gum sense as opposed
to the sour bubble which he had bred to be more cushy.
And so I grew those sour strawberries out and what happened was I missed a male in a
five and a half inch pot in a flat of plants and I just looked, I had looked through them,
looked through them, looked through them and there was probably like one where I was like,
oh, it's unsexed but it looks like a girl or whatever, you know, classic story.
And by the time I saw it was a male, it had a couple of balls that had popped so I wound
up with these few stray seeds and one of the thing that was in the flat with that, there
was a plant or two of this animal cookies cross, animal cookies cross Cherry West and
that Cherry West was like one of the ones that I was talking about where they're not,
not crazy and exotic, no terpeneline, no fruit punch, no watermelon, no floral, it
was just like one of the more normal of the Cherry West like what they usually are which
is more like what I call black cherry which was just this deep cherry kind of berry flavored
thing.
And so it was basically like animal cookies but in seed, you know, and super frosty, really,
really nice and my buddies in the bay called it the knowledge and I have a picture like
way back on my feet somewhere of theirs from indoor that's real pretty.
So I found these couple seeds and, you know, I might still have a couple of the original
seeds I'm not sure I really should, you know, hunt through to see but anyway I took those
and I bred them and I F2'd them and I happened to find just a gorgeous male in the F1 and
put that on two females that were my favorites and one of them was more green and kind of
garlicky and one of them was more purple and more kind of cookie gene pool type stuff.
And so those ones I've gone through them and so, you know, kind of turned that into a thing
and those are really nice.
They're like the sour bubble, the sour bubble added that broad leaf gnarly little squat
thing that they already had but it kind of accentuated it and it didn't take away from
the resin because it was really resinous too and it added kind of like a jelly thing that
made it so that overall they kind of have this like peanut butter and jelly cookies
thing but in a good way and they're just gorgeous and it made them have that more like classic
gnarly broad leaf chunk bud kind of like Hindu-y look but just really, really nice and a lot of
them get really dark and I was stoked because I have other lines that are the same kind of cookie
stuff but the sour strawberry gave it this other thing that is, I don't know, they're just really
nice. I like them a lot and I did a lot of those and I'm trying to, you know, I have F3s of them
now and hopefully they're good and I'll probably make them into F4s. I'll probably clone some of
the best of the F3s and then, you know, try to keep around F, maybe a pair of F3s to make F4s
for a long time, you know, to just have that be a thing and then I have, you know, like I said,
I still have that half a pack of those sour strawberries left so if I can get those to
crack I'll probably breed that with the sour strawberry again and try to make more sour
strawberries pure to have to dig into deeper, knowing now that I like what came out of it. And
then I had a pack of sour bubble and I had it for years and then 2019 I grew them and I was,
I kept the male for a long time and I was gonna seed them and I just kind of didn't do it and
then they really started budding and I think I had only got like four plants out of my pack
because I had kept them for a while and I hadn't had them stored well for a while because I had
left them out because I planned to pop them for a whole year and then I never got around to them
and then finally I put them away so I screwed him up a little bit and, you know, I always saw Bog at
the different, like he would come to the farmer's market here and so like I was used to, you know,
seeing always his booth and go, oh I'll just grab more, you know. So I didn't grab any of them and
I had that one pack I only got so many. I think I got a boy that I really liked and I should have
kept and I got a few girls and the girls were just not quite what I wanted as far as the smells that
they had. They were a little too plain but I should have fucking seeded them all because the reality
is that strain is plain anyway and there's some good ones that pop out that have like a special
liminess to it and that contributed to like the sour dub but just not getting what you want out
of the few plants, it doesn't really matter. You should just seed them and then you'll have so many
that you can find what you want because all of a sudden you'll have, you know, whatever fucking
hundreds or thousands of F2s you can look through and get exactly what you want but I just kind of
fucked them off and now, you know, I kick myself because I'm like, man, I would have had a bunch of
those and if I had had them in bulk right now I could probably, you know, auction them off and
shoot the proceeds over to Miss Bog and shit and I don't really have anything to do that but I do
have the sour strawberry cross and, you know, I could do something with those and I'm waiting to
see how everything pans out right now with their GoFundMe and if it doesn't, if it goes slower
than it should, you know, we can maybe go on and do something online and then
their niece hit me up and she was kind of just filling me in on where everything stands because
I guess she had seen my post and I told her, you know, I go, hey, if there's anything you guys
need up there don't go without it because everybody loves them and they're, you know,
we'll get it together so hopefully everything works out smoothly and, you know, if there's any
real issues, you know, everybody will figure it out. That's one cool thing about a bunch of
weedheads is they kind of all have a good idea that everything can go wrong when you're not
a square and you don't have a pension and you don't have, you know, the things that come with
being a square so I think there's a little more compassion amongst a bunch of weedheads
and growers than there would be among people who don't like understand that world, you know.
Yeah, there's definitely some good camaraderie within the community when people fall on hard
times and so yeah, everyone check out the GoFundMe if you're listening to this shortly
after the release and by all means if there's any bog genetics you can scoop up now would be
a great time to add some good ones to the library and funnily enough I've actually grown out and
worked with some sour strawberry hybrids a friend did and they were all fire too so I'm totally
backing you on this sour strawberry cross sounding like a real winner. I wanted to ask you,
we've spoken about a plethora of different mythical and awesome genetics, what seeds do you have in
your vault that are some of the most special to you? You've probably got more than just one but
like some of the ones that come to mind when you think of like the really special ones to you
and do you plan to crack any of them anytime soon? Well my craziest stuff is the stuff I was
talking about that I can't get to pop. I'm really glad I got them in the fridge when I did because
I know they're alive. I know they're not rancid and they're not overheated and dehydrated like
there's live cells they just don't have enough to go but you know the old I have like big blue
cross big red those are old two Afghanis that I mixed together because I could never get a good
big blue male and I wasn't I didn't know enough at the time to realize that it's pretty likely that
the big blue male that there's a sex-linked trait with the boys that the boys never grow very fast
and that's just how they are and I just thought I had the terrible luck of always having small boys
and now I'm like no dude those were all fine males you just didn't know that
the males of big blue are small plants you know so that's my theory anyway and I think it's probably
accurate so I crossed it with big red the black afi I had a real special plan of the big red that
was different than the rest that I crossed with the black haffi and those got grown out and were
incredible but I didn't ever by the time I tried to plant them they just wouldn't quite grow it was
like they would you put them in water and after 24 hours boom the tail would be popping out and
then it just doesn't grow you know so those those went in the fridge they've been there I know
they're good they just need tissue culture you know they need more than I can do for them
those are special I still have the original POG NL oil can seeds that were the father side of the
black lime that were made with the same with a with a female that was the sister of the father
of black lime I still have the original black lime f1 seeds I still have a couple of the
sisters of black lime the original plant that I crossed with the with the POG so I have those so
they're basically the same thing as black lime except instead of the black lime mother it's like
what I called like black cranberry and then one that looked like an NL I have those seeds
I have you know those things those older things that the the black haffi cross Hindu
the Hindu cross black haffi I mean and the Hindu cross Hindu cross black haffi those are right
there in the top of what I would get going if I knew I had a reliable person to do tissue culture
to pull out cells and turn them into callus and turn them into roots and shoots and then you know
there's uh there's the stuff that's newer that's that's also really special I mean as as neat as
those old things are and as much potential there is and all that the reason why I have what I have
now is because I made improvements on those things overall as far as like Jaro is like you can still
get kind of the Hindu haffi type but they're way you know the plants are five times bigger
they're way more mold resistant and you can still get the same kind of weed out of those seeds
so that's the reason why some of these things didn't get planted originally was because they
weren't practical and I had made hybrids with them that were practical and still had all the same good
things it's like I was saying earlier though you get attached to the idea of the originals and the
provenance and the purity and all that and so that's why those things are real special and then
I have like some seeds um I have some seeds uh my good good friend Moise passed away in um 2008
and his dad was like a kind of a legendary guy a really really good artist um a Frenchman and uh
he um had got some seeds from me around maybe 2006 and he had his own seeds that he had kept
for years and um he you know he's passed as well he passed like the following year uh
after my buddy and um he was my buddy too you know and he had a big seed collection and
um his uh his his wife found it a few years later in a fridge and she said hey I don't know who else
would really want this and there might even be some of your seeds in there and do you want them
and I was like yeah so she gave me that collection and some of those are still viable but at the same
time I'm afraid to plant them a little bit I took them out and repacked them and made sure they were
real dry they actually had some moisture in them and I thought that it would have ruined them
would have ruined all of them because when I opened up the bags there was like literally like
water in some of the bags that had probably been there for two or three years at the least
and uh I repacked them and I tried some of them and I got a couple of them to get a couple of uh
plants that actually grew and then they wound up getting messed up and I didn't get to get them
to go all the way but they they would have it was my fault but I had only tried a couple of ones and
there was a lot of them in there so it made me know they were viable and those are really special
um there's one in there called I forgot there's one in there called BMW Bob Marley and the Wailers
um there's one there's a couple in there that have like just a symbol and I don't know what
it means there's a couple with initials and I don't know what they mean there's one in there
that have seeds that are huge like they're almost as big as peas really you know they're like very
big big big seeds from some kind of an old Afghani I assume he always had really tasty
weed like when he would be rolling up weed we'd always want to check it out um it's an old school
dude spent a lot of time in uh in Goa in India and uh is just like really really um cool dude and
kind of you know uh you know old school dude um grew weed totally secretly and was just an artist
and you know had his little had a couple plants and stuff and you know always had good smoke and
stuff and uh but um those are really special just because of the of the story and and who they're
from and and um all that and then thinking of what else I'm trying to think of if there's anything
else that's really really crazy I mean you know the there's stuff that I have of course um you
know cherry limes limes root beers those are all cool but those older ones that I can't get to pop
are actually the ones that are the most special and you know I've looked into a couple labs I've
talked to a couple people um and I'm just trying to find somebody who won't kill them won't rip me
off and you know and has the right knowledge to do that kind of stuff and it's a pretty standard
technique but there's a divide between people who do standard tissue culture for things like orchids
and who really have the right tech and for people who do um who do uh stuff with weed tissue culture
because weed tissue culture tends to be like meristem and maybe putting seeds into a media
into a media and getting them to sprout helping them along but I'd really like to find somebody
who can just slice that seed down the middle like a mushroom pull out a little chunk grow that callus
and turn that into plants and it's not that people don't do it but like I said there's a little divide
and I you know apologies to anybody if I talked about this shit on the last one because uh I'm
always talking about this shit because it's like the the holy grail for everybody because people
have there's a lot of seeds that won't come up that still have the genetics inside of them so
it's like a really important thing I'm always hoping there's somebody who is uh legit who
you know winds up getting into this shit because it's it's pretty important for sure if anyone has
that knowledge or ability you know the man to hit up let's make it happen I have to admit I was kind
of trying to bait you with that question to talk about the seeds I've seen on your Instagram page
of the big sir it's an interesting one for me because I find it really hard to get like good
information on big sir it's sort of like this mythical strain anyway what's your experience and
if you had to guess the genetics behind it what do you think's in it well interestingly enough
I haven't actually grown big sir holy weed I have a thing from big sir called Dolores
and I got it from some friends of mine up here who I trade seeds with and they
are just old school people who like they grow something and they're like oh this is good you
know and they keep it or maybe they make some more move on to something else and they've had
stuff from you know from way back in the day they're they're old school they're in their 60s
you know and uh really nice people and you know they told me hey we have this really cool Mexican
do you want to grow some Mexican and I was like well does it finish here and they were like yeah
yeah no it's it's really nice and I was like oh that's interesting I'm always interested in
interesting I'm always interested in Mexican stuff that's more fast and and can be grown here
because there's a lot of different climates in Mexico some of some of Mexico is really mountainous
and you can't grow like crazy sativas you know so the Oaxacan has always been really popular here
from the 70s and it was kind of the best thing as far as I can tell before the Afghani and Pakistani
came in for this climate and um so they gave me these ones and I grew them and what was really
interesting to me and my mom said the same thing they're kind of the closest thing to the type of
northern lights that we had which I believe was not the one or the two I think it was
you know like the two cross the five or something or whatever um I just think that
the northern lights we had had something else in it besides straight Afghani and growing these
the way they look when you grow a lot of them it almost makes me wonder like is this like a
relative of the type of Mexican that might have been in one of the kinds of northern lights that
was used by the seed bank because you know the northern lights was like there was there was
straight Afghani and then there was Afghani across a different Afghani and there was Afghani across
Hawaiian and there was Afghani across Mexican and I'm like well they're really really like
really familiar um the way they look the way the plant looks the way it grows the color of the weed
the color of the resin the type of resin the fact that they're not particularly smelly in any real
outstanding way they kind of have like they're a little sweet they have something to them not
sweet enough to call fruity sweet keefy hashy you know um but I was told that the Mexican used
in the Big Sur holy wood weed is Dolores um and mine came from Big Sur from people who have had
I guess since like the 70s um I mean that's the that's the story and this isn't from people this
is from people who are not in the whole scene of um trying to show off any provenance or
anything like that so you know their story with me uh holds water because I'm like hey what are
they're like oh this guy he's our friend you know he's had this Mexican since the 70s he really
likes it um I'm like well do you know where it's from and they're like yeah it's it's it's from
Dolores and I'm like oh okay so you know Dolores Hidalgo is this place that's in the mountains in
Mexico um it makes sense that what came from there would have been something that probably would have
finished a little bit quicker than other stuff after they had selected it for their climate
um I don't know it's been in Big Sur for fucking 45 years or whatever um and uh that's the closest
to what I have so this this year I made a whole bunch um there's two basic types there's one
that's more of like you know what people would call an indica where the buds are more easy to
trim and the plant is a little more squat in there the buds are a little more round and fat
and uh and when I first grew some of them a couple years ago I went these seem like they're not the
same type like maybe they're pollution from some other line and so this year I did a bunch of them
and then I went ahead and got rid of the males that look like that type but I kept the girls
so that I could kind of get an idea of what they are and now at this point I don't think there are
different type I think they're just a little bit better of a of a bud shape and a little bit more
squat of a plant but still the same thing so if I make them again from the original seeds I'll
probably split them into two lines and do like open pollination with the tall slightly more leafy
ones and do an open pollination with the short more golf bally ones and um this time what I did
was I just did more of the taller ones because they were the ones that I related more to being
like the true what I expected from a from a Mexican type um and uh they I think are probably
the ones that are a little bit more um a little bit more what I want and a little more like what
our northern lights was the other ones are a little bit um you know like uh like more of a
squat little Christmas tree more you know they're definitely not like you can't say they're like an
Afghani type indica type thing broadleaf they're not really but they just have a little bit they're
a little bit less um they're a little bit less of a narrow leaf type and the the ones that are the
more narrow leaf type are still like more almost like kind of like an OG plant but the squat ones
are more like an OG shaped bud you know so um they're really interesting and so you know I
made a whole bunch of those and I asked if I could um if I could share them and they were like yeah
we know you know they they thought I was crazy for even you know wondering if I they're like
yeah like what do you mean I was like well can I like make stuff with them and and and you know do
whatever with them and they're like yeah nobody cares it's like okay cool so I think what I'm
probably going to do I was going to give some of them to CSI so he could look through them because
he has a a really cool big sir holy weed cut um and then I'll probably just try to spread them
around a little bit and then you know somebody will be able to kind of tell if there's any
if there's any relation there and maybe they're not just because they're you know um
from the same place doesn't mean that they have anything to do except it'd be kind of weird if
there was Dolores in the big sir holy weed and there was Dolores in big sir since the 70s and
they didn't have any relation um that would be really fucking strange so I think there's a
relation there but as far as big sir holy weed I don't I can't even remember seeing it I think
I've seen some of it before I've definitely talked to people a lot about it because people
said it was so good but um I have some from SoCal seeds and then I think I have some possibly from
coastal which are slightly different lines and then I think Bodie has one a little different
than what coastal has but I I was interested in it but I've never actually done any of them so I
can't say like hands-on what they look like in any similarity or whatever but I will say the Dolores
I smoke and it has a very interesting potency where it kind of makes things seem
like lightly absurd like you kind of get a chuckle out of everything from it and when you like you
can like stare at a wall and it's not like directly visuals but you really look and you're
like am I is something happening is there like am I getting a visual and you're like looking you go
no it's normal but you stare and you go I I feel like there's something I feel like I'm almost
getting like a visual here you know it's pretty neat it's a cool um it's a cool kind of high and
I don't know if you're a super super heavy daily smoker like I used to always be I don't know that
you would notice that nuance of it but um it's definitely not just your normal high it's definitely
um there's definitely some you know narrow leaf stuff going on there it's not a it's not a dull
high at all it makes you feel neat you know there's something to it so those are cool plants
and they're really hardy they don't mold um they don't like to get pm unless you're really kind of
making them unhealthy uh they're not the sturdiest because they bud pretty gnarly but like they're
they're they're a really really good plant there's something that I'll definitely uh I'll definitely
try to spread around and I don't know how many I have now but I think I have thousands of them I
think I have maybe like 10 girls fully seeded on the late side so they're not like corn on the cob
but they're like all around the outside of the bud there's a bunch of mature seed you know so
there should be enough to um that after you know a couple years there should be something that's kind
of uh around you know. What a great answer and um a really interesting high by the sounds of it
you mentioned in there wanting to figure out you know if Dolores was the same or a part of the big
sir at least and it made me think back to a comment you made earlier about phyllos and like how they
allude relationships between strains and stuff and I guess what I'm interested in kind of discussing
is obviously people have pretty valid concerns for not trusting phyllos with genetic samples anymore
but I do wonder do we have any faith in the technology but you know if we kind of put aside
personal feelings about the people running the company and their intentions do you when something
on phyllos shows something else as a relative for example do you put any stock in that anymore?
You know I do there's levels to what they can do so if it says something is related
it's very closely related if it says something is not related
it might still be very closely related and if it says something is the same
it might just be related meaning if you give them s1s from a plant they'll think they're all the
same plant but they're not if you give them something that's been bred apart for a few
generations they'll think it's not very closely related to anything even though it really is
so for example I have cherry limate f3 in there right
um they can't show that it's related to og or urcol or you know black lime reserve which is in there
northern lights like I know what's in there right but in their analysis they're like oh yeah
it's not related to anything closely I'm like well there's a lot of urcol and a lot of og in it
I just know that you know um and it just doesn't show it so in that sense they can't quite do what
they kind of say they can do but at the same time it makes me realize that if they tell you
that it's related it's related you know what I mean and they've shown relations that
are easy to know through other avenues and then you look at their thing and you go yep they know it
there it is you know so um you know I it's a weird thing because it's like
okay should you trust them and think that everything they say is true and no but at the
same time I'm like I don't really see what I lost by having my stuff in there um I didn't really
gain much but with certain samples I think you could you know there is something to gain I think
it might be worth putting in big sir holy weed and putting in dolores but knowing what I know
it's likely that because big sir holy weed has been bred several times and dolores has been bred
several times they probably won't show um any relation even if they were related because
what they're good at showing is when things are sisters or parents or progeny
um as soon as something's not a first cousin or a second cousin it seems like they kind of can't
see it and as soon as something is a full um like as soon as something is an s1 and there's no
outside genetics then there's no outside genetics so it's obviously the same but that's not true
you know so they'll tell you that ghost og skywalker and every other og cutter all the
same cut so when you grow them you'll think oh well there must have just been some kind of uh
you know epigenetics or something happened where this got turned on and that got turned off and
then you know it caused this uh outward appearance of a mutation so that now it seems like this one's
different than this one but look there's the genetic test they're both the same it's like
nah they're they're not they're not the same because people have actually taken a couple s1s
that they know they started themselves from seed and sent them in and they're like yep this is all
all three of these are one plant and they're like no i popped those and i know i didn't mix up the
samples and they're like yeah sorry i guess you you you mixed it up like i asked them on their on
one of their like on their instagram one time i was like hey like you know do you guys realize
that you can't tell the difference between plants from seed that come from one parent with no outside
influence and they were like no we can tell the difference if we say it's the same it's the same
and i was like you can't though and they didn't want to admit that which to me was you know uh
a fundamental issue in in in scientific work like you know a scientist has to be able to go oh
there's an anomaly here okay well let's look into that as opposed to going no our our our technique
is sound it's like you know you have to be able to throw everything away that you thought right
now everything you know if you want to be actual you know if you want to be a real scientist
you have to be able to to be able to be handed new evidence and be able to throw away every
fucking thing you knew yesterday and go we have a new understanding today that's what science is
otherwise if you if you just cling to thinking you're right that's that's not what science is
science is based on so you know science science is is uh is data driven you know and evidence
driven it's not based on you know just thinking that if it's if it's if it's like this it's like
this it's like no this evidence says it's not like this but anyway you know so those are the
issues that i see with their thing um i see issues with them ethically um because of what they did
they basically told the community this this data is completely worthless and they told their
investors this data is completely priceless and one of those things is a lie so either you're
lying to your investors or you're lying to the people who are paying you to do analysis and um
you know i think they were not lying to the investors i think that they were creating a
a data set that was actually a valuable um a valuable thing because you know we we don't
really know the other stuff that they were doing besides that little galaxy stuff they also could
be putting things together and they said it's worthless because we don't know about the plant so
if you don't have the plant you don't know what it is but it's like ah so you don't already have a
description of an og like they do have a description of what it is and when they can find these things
that pop up commonly they could find markers and they could do marker assisted breeding and they
could use that data to drive their breeding program which they basically admitted was what they were
going to do and uh you know that's that seems like some bullshit to me but at the same time like i
said i'm not completely against giving them something it's just that when you give them
something they should be saying hey you give us something and you're going to pay us money and
we're going to make money off what you give us too and for me i'm like yeah i mean i maybe i'll
give you something but i don't want to pay you because you guys are already making money on the
back end so fuck that you know that's my take on their on their operation i think a lot of people
rightly feel the same way as you and uh it's kind of quite backroom shady practices or the trying to
selling of the data they did i think i heard or read somewhere probably read somewhere that like
they tried to sell the data set to a big ag company and because of the exact reasons you
kind of discussed the big ag were like this data is useless like it's incomplete but it's just kind
of funny that they might have like screwed over themselves in all regards yeah i i mean i kind of
feel like that's their story is that the data was incomplete and worthless um and that that's what
they said to cover their ass and once again like i can't say that that's true or that it's untrue
but i kind of feel like if they had a pretty thorough analysis of all these different things
i feel like there's probably a way that they could have looked at commonalities between certain
things and seen a trend enough to know
if they did a little research that oh these are the strains that are powdery mildew resistant
and look they all have this in common and these are the strains that are high thc and they all
have this in common these are just examples i don't know that they would really need any of
this yeah but i feel like if they collected that many plants and they say oh well you have to have
the plant to be able to know what these things mean i feel like you don't really necessarily
have to i think all you would really have to do is know the outward features of the phenotypes of
these plants and be able to see trends you know what i mean to be able to say these are the genes
that rule potency these are the genes that rule high terpene content these are the genes that
rule mold resistance these are the genes that rule um that control um fast rooting these are
the genes that that that control fast uh you know the the fastest maturing um samples like
those things aren't that hard it's not that hard to to find those things out in my opinion you know
to know like um you know i mean i don't know how much of that they really got but it it's just
i don't know i feel like they're they're they're um
even if it was worthless to them they could have made it worth something you know
i don't know it's just a just a theory but you know i mean i feel like you could kind of go
through and and and do a little research and go oh what's good about this plant what's good about
that plant what's good about this one and put that all into your program and go oh these all
have this in common and look hey they have these markers this is the thing they all share in common
so that must be it must be this gene or it must be these you know 32 genes these control this when
they're all when they're all here that may that means you get this this is purple weed this is
mold proof weed or whatever it is because that's what you know that's what other people went
through and did they went okay this is the gene that controls um thc and then they got rid of that
and they went oh shit that was also the gene that controlled mold resistance so when you get rid of
the thc to make hemp then you just destroyed mold resistance so now all these people who have this
who who spent this money to in their breeding program to go oh well our hemp will never have
thc because we went right around that gene we don't even have that gene present in this population
then they grew it and they found out oh shit that also adds mold resistance so they had
all this perfect hemp that all rotted in the fields because they had completely eliminated it
when they just needed to figure out how to minimize thca they eliminated thca and all their crops
rotted you know so however those guys went about getting that data i would imagine that phylos
could have done the same thing with all the samples they had as they analyzed them as well
you know i mean i don't know but it just seems like that would be a practical thing to do with
such a huge collection of various genetics you know i don't know how many samples they took in
but it was a lot they have a pretty big galaxy but there'd definitely be some trends there i think
it's called concordance of like traits or something but um definitely definitely still
valid points kind of on that same topic of being a bit skeptical of sort of bigger ag big companies
in general i remember about four or five years ago when um rec in cali rolled through there was
this big fear that like the big sort of companies were going to come in and just build these huge
facilities just pump out production drive the prices down and you know everyone was going to
lose it seems as though over the past year or two we've seen kind of the opposite in that i mean at
least in canada for example some of the biggest producers are just failing and just losing i think
the industry lost billions of dollars over the past financial year and i know that there aren't
any notably big companies in the states who are just on top of the game like they're all kind of
producing lesser quality stuff do you think that this is like an accurate sort of portrayal of
things do you think like the bigger companies are going to generally continue to struggle to
produce good quality product and do you think that the small time producers will have a chance to
jump back into the game well it's an interesting thing and i probably shouldn't even really tell
them but the the the people who had the big bucks and could afford to bully their way into the market
i think they could have probably done all right if they would have come in and understood that
you need to have minimal investment in infrastructure and minimal investment
um in you know in in various aspects but really focused on okay who can we get that can really
grow weed that already grows weed how do they do it and let's invest in them
and give them the ability to grow more weed um and then kind of rolled with it but instead what
they kind of tried to do it seems uh it seems like they came in and they went okay we have money
and this was no shock to anybody but we have a lot of money we'll come in and we will do everything
the way all these dumbasses should have been doing it but they're all dumb dope growers so
they don't know how to do this shit we're going to come in here with the real professional shit
we're going to build this 250 million dollar greenhouse complex and we're going to get a
bunch of fucking random people and we're just going to tell them how to do it because
it's just a plant and people grow plants all the time and we're gonna we're gonna be bigger and
better um and i you know i think they just kind of dropped the ball with that mentality it seems
like i mean i'm not on the inside but um it's nuts because i see the facilities that they built out
and i'm like you know guys you could have just instead of building those fucking you know 150
greenhouses you guys could have just built like four of them and got a guy who's used to growing
like a quarter of that and got him some good help where he could just point point fingers and tell
them tell tell the workers what to do um and they could have they could have taken you know
somebody's existing expertise and scaled it up by giving them the ability to do that
and it would work and i feel like that's kind of what the little guys did um because
they had a better idea of how shit really works and so i think it gave them the advantage um and
when i say little guys i don't mean little little guys but i mean like you know jungle boys or
whoever seems to be kind of hanging in there um it just seems like uh
it's a really hard thing to do if you're just going to come in from the outside and just have
it work and i mean i i can tell you that because i i know what it was like to try to figure it out
it wasn't easy and um you know i did a lot of dumb shit when i started and you think you can
try this and you know you know what to do you know what you're doing and then you're like huh
okay well that didn't work but at least i didn't invest 300 million dollars into it and then it
didn't work because when you do that it's like well how are you gonna you know everybody thought
they'll just have endless money to put into it but they you know they don't have that much money
you know um so yeah i don't know i i think everything i think in general the way
everything works is everything's kind of designed for the bigger people to do the best
and they still have the advantage and they came in and did stuff so miserably that they still
fucked it off and uh you know i mean i don't know i mean the way the way everything's set up
is like if you're the big if you're the big company if you're walmart if you're amazon if
you're costco if you're whatever the biggest things are that's the easiest things in these times
to really have be like
sustainable and keep going you know like the bigger the better and um
if you look at the way those things operate though it's like they really figure out okay
what are what are we really trying to do what kind of service are we bringing
you know it's like they they figure it out and then they get it right i'm sure a lot of people
i'm sure a lot of people tried and failed um there was probably a lot of competitors to amazon
or to walmart at the same time but um you know maybe we'll see that maybe there'll be this one
company that actually didn't you know fuck everything off but um i don't know at this
point it's looking like um you know they're making it really hard for the little guy
but the little guy still understands what it's like to do something that's really fucking hard
because that's what they're used to and the big guys are maybe a little a little too comfortable
with how they did stuff you know i don't really know like i said i'm not in the inside of it so
i don't know exactly what goes wrong but i do i do see what goes right for people and it's usually
you know a guy who's good at doing 20 lights so he goes we're going to do 200 lights and i'm going
to hire six guys and then they you know they're able to they're able to do it they keep it going
and and it's able to work you know as opposed to somebody who's used to running zero lights and
they decide they're going to do 2,600 lights and then you know they just fucking it's a it's a
weird thing it's really easy to have huge disasters when you're trying to grow plants and
then it's not like it's even regular agriculture it's this weird massive horticulture in a sense
because it's you're growing indoor on a huge scale in these greenhouses so i don't know it's a weird
it's a weird thing i mean the pressure in those operations from pests and pathogens and stuff is
huge and then it's all you know it's monocropping and there's a lot of room for a lot of room for
error so you know hopefully the little guys can continue to make it it just seems like it's
it's almost impossible for the big guys to do it and then they try to make it really really hard
for the little guys to get their foot in the door and um you know like i it's just this kind of
um kind of fucked up balance of stuff you know but um you know i i hope i hope it's the
the little guys went out and the big guys can't make it you know and um that would be great but
we'll you know we'll see where it's going it's really interesting to see i'm really happy to see
like you know you're looking on something and they're like oh 250 million dollar greenhouses
and they're just shutting them down they're not going to reopen them like wow okay sweet because
you know nobody needed that shit that was a weird that was a weird play in the first place like what
are they going to produce out of that it's just going to be a bunch of you know it's weird it's
like an operation to make really good weed but it's on such a big scale it'll never make really
good weed so the same dudes who did that they should have just planted fucking 150 acres of
hemp and sold cbd all over the world or something but um instead they spend a million times as much
money and then they you know frazzle out it's a weird uh it's it's it's silly you know it's a
funny thing to watch yeah understandable and do you think that the average grower or consumer
is in any better position after the changes brought in with legalization and if you could
make say a couple of small changes to the laws that would ideally improve you know the lives
of growers is there any that immediately jumped to mind that you'd want to do i remember that
for a long time there was the discussion about the uh i think it was like the one acre per farm
sort of thing do you have any ideas like that i mean my opinion of the whole thing is that
they already know how crazy the economy is fed by cannabis in general it's huge um
i felt like if they would have made it so that you can have weed stores but if you want a store
you have to sell safe tested product and if you want to sell at a store you have to have
safe tested product um and then maybe make one little regulation that um it's illegal to sell
something that has something that's toxic and make a list you know so that there's some kind
of recourse if it turns out that somebody oh these people are selling all this stuff and it turns out
oh it's poisoned or whatever you know um but i felt like if they would have just kind of made it
so that it's like oh cool everybody can do what they want but it is capped you know like uh maybe
if you want to grow more than 100 plants you need to have a permit or something like that you know
what i mean like if you're going to produce more than 100 pounds a year then you have to have a
permit but you can go ahead and just produce that because it's just it's fucking weed it's pretty
much harmless you know um it's pretty low impact if you're not growing a ton and then if you do
want to grow a whole lot of weed then cool get a permit you know but basically like i i think you
know this is just me throwing it out there and i'm not sitting down in a in a room and we're not
writing it all down and figuring out what's really the best but i think stuff could have been kind of
more just just more vague like that being that we already had a functioning system of people growing
weed and smoking weed and selling weed and i wasn't hearing about people having a bunch of bad
experiences from bad weed or any of this kind of stuff the the only stuff i can find that's really
bad about weed is prohibition you get busted or the price gets artificially inflated which causes
a lot of crime because now there's too much money in the business that wouldn't exist if
it was legal because everything would level out a lot of people wouldn't be doing it
and a lot of people who have no opportunities who find themselves in weird positions doing shady
shit they could just fucking sell some weed instead you know if you have a neighborhood
where people are all just hanging out like shit you could have a couple people selling sacks there
you know you might have somebody selling this weed this person selling that weed like
it's a really great tool for an economy because people want weed it's good for them does a lot of
good stuff makes people feel good people are interested in it so it's not like one is the same
as all of it it's not like selling hard drugs where one person's hard drugs the same as any other hard
drug like it's not like people want a different flavor of heroin or a different flavor of crack
they just are trying to get it so one person can lock down the whole trade but with weed it's like
oh well yeah that person might have locked down og but this guy doesn't like og he wants sour well
this guy over here he's selling sour and it's as an economy it's really a lot more it's like such a
neat thing the way it exists for people it can be used for a lot so like for me it's like
make it legal and if people do other shit that's already a crime with it maybe you'd have to add
like i said okay well you're selling unsafe weed that's not uh there's no law for that because all
weeds illegal but you make it legal you go well it has to be safe weed maybe make that you know
some kind of offense but other than that like you know like hey you rob somebody for weed well
fuck it's already illegal to rob somebody oh you fucking you know you smoked weed and you drove
something and you fucking drove somebody off the road fucking because you're not used to it or you
ate some crazy edibles and passed out or some shit which probably wouldn't happen but that's
what people are afraid of well sweet it's already fucking illegal so like there's no reason for just
a drug to carry a crime for the drug just make all the dumb shit people do that's illegal
that's what's fucking illegal you know that's all that's the only way you really have to do stuff
um the way that they did everything with so much regulation and everything it just it's
to me it's just backwards from the start like you got a plant let people grow the plant
and then you know like when everybody was making tons of money it's funny because they go
okay we want to get uh we want to get our money from the taxes and everybody goes yeah that's
good the tax money the tax money that's like well when weed was illegal but everybody was making
billions of dollars off of it in california because they say it's like a 10 billion dollar
business or something in california well the state was realistically already making
probably a billion dollars just off a sales tax and every time there's a tax on all these other
things that are on all these different things like you know you got different taxes that go into
you got hotel taxes you got gas tax you got tobacco tax you got all these things well guess
where the money comes from that is getting taxed when you buy all these things it's coming from a
lot of weed trade so now they're like oh yeah we're doing good we made a billion dollars in
california off the weed trade this year i'm like well but you just they say 8.7 billion that they
didn't tax so i'm like well if it was 10 billion and you guys already had an eight percent sales
tax plus all these other random taxes that are all worked into everything some of them that are high
like hotel rooms in san francisco is like 22 and hotel tax like all these things that are producing
all this stuff the money's all coming from it i'm like well sweet so now you guys are getting your
billion dollars but you've always been getting the fucking billion dollars if the trade is 10
billion dollars and you guys have been getting 10 of everybody's money not to mention everybody who
who has a business and has a like you got a restaurant the people coming into your restaurant
a bunch of them are spending weed money well the owner of that restaurant pays income tax
you know a lot of these people who grow weed and have money they might be they might have a they
might have another business and that business is paying income tax there's all this stuff where
there's all this different shit going on and by having a healthy economy they're making billions
of dollars anyway so they just want to be able to count it but it's like nobody realizes they
were already getting a billion dollars now they're like woohoo we made a billion dollars off a weed
this year it's like you you know same fucking old billion dollars except now there's a bunch of
people who you know are uh you know not not you know and then i gotta wonder about the the biggest
the biggest corporations and shit who are do have these 250 million dollar greenhouses
like those people might be paying the taxes on stuff now and on like the weed and everything
but as soon as they were in the game for a little while and they lobby for shit to change and all
this and those little fucking rules and loopholes and they're fucking fancy fucking attorneys and
all this shit those people probably would have been just like all the other rich people who don't
really fucking pay taxes anyway um so why give it to them you know and the rich people don't spend
money at the little businesses the rich people don't the the money doesn't really fucking you
know or we're just talking to the talking about this the other night on this with some buddies on
on a zoom thing like the money the money from little people who have their little weed or their
little business or whatever they do that are you know they they don't make that much money
that money goes everywhere not only does it go into the not only do they walk into the little
liquor store the little the little general store the grocery store the clothing store the restaurant
all this different shit they do all that and then they also pay the money that goes to the
government and then okay it's going up to these people who have more and the people who you know
it's also going to walmart and amazon and these bigger corporations too but you don't see you're
not going to see um bezos or gates or any of these really rich people their money doesn't go to the
little businesses it's just not how it works they're not taking their money and going and
shopping at the little store they're not going and buying their clothes at the little store
they're not doing the money from up there never comes back down but the money from the bottom
goes up so you really want the shit to be healthy on a small level and it'll feed the big level
you know but the way the whole system is set up is to favor those bigger players
and their their shit doesn't go down so it just it's not a uh it's not a healthy model and it's
not a real form of capitalism um it's just a weird it's a weird perverted capitalism that's more uh
predatory and like it's more like uh more like barons and peasants you know so um
you know hopefully we see that hopefully the small guys can can can do well and it can shift a
little and we see you know maybe it's one thing where like they have the advantage and it pans
out over time and i think it can but like that's a that's a crazy thing i don't think that there's any
um there's any point to trying to you know feed these these these uh fat cats when they're not
really the the money goes with them and it stays with them and if you uh if the money comes from
the from the little guys the money goes everywhere it goes all around and it goes up to the top too
so that's in my opinion just i'm looking at things and through history and what's been helpful and
uh mechanically what works you know the whole trickle down shit is total bullshit
um and and having a small having a healthy economy on the and the small um level and the little guys
is where things really go and just by leaving people to do whatever they wanted with weed
like it was basically in 215 if they would have basically just stopped putting people in jail
um and tell people you can't sell poisonous weed pretty much would have
solved the whole thing and maybe one day we'll get to that point you know and if that if we got
to that point that's when i would say okay that's where it should be it's um if you want to have a
big business cool maybe you need to be regulated because you're big but if you just got a little
bit of weed you should just be able to do whatever the fuck you want with it in my opinion you know
totally and what an insightful sort of uh take on the whole situation if we kind of look at uh one
of the people who the public sometimes forget are in fact one of the smaller guys we reference
jungle boys they're certainly doing things right and uh getting a little bigger but still smaller
guys compared to the big ag i wanted to bring them up because recently an interview came out
with them where they said they don't cure their flower before sale and when ivan was pressed a
little bit about why that is he says oh you know it's because um the turps are like at their most
highest concentration and they're kind of most popping at that point so my question is do you
think that all weed should be cured and do you kind of understand this underlying idea that he's
presenting that like the most freshest the cannabis is ever going to be is before a cure
i mean i've seen some weed and i know like with like um some crazy narrow leaf stuff like that
would never be anything they'd be growing because it's not practical and it's not so much what
people want you know um i think some of those things are better after they sit and cure but
i think for people who just want really loud stinky weed with the most turps and the brightest
the brightest color and kind of what people want in the market i think people do want fresh weed
you know and i am of the opinion that when your weed is when your weed is dry like i don't put
weed away when it's a little wet and burp it like to me that always winds up fermenting the weed and
i've done it side by side lots of different ways on accident on purpose jars bags tubs whatever
and to me you dry the weed so that it takes a while to get dry and you keep it cool and when
it gets done to me that's it it's there like you know i i uh i believe that the drying process is
the cure and to me that takes between two and three weeks ideally about three weeks to really
be there and at that point it should be all the way dry and you put it away and i don't think it
ever gets any better unless maybe it's like i said an odd odd type you know but as far as if you're
growing like og and cookies derivatives and all these things i think you know that it that it
should be it should be hanging up until it is dry throughout and that at that point you should
be able to put it away and it should be sticky and dank and the stems should be snappy and dry
the weed should be sticky and it should be dry weed as dry as you want it and that's it and you
seal it up and it's done you know and that's how um that's how it comes out best for me that's the
way that it smells like what it's supposed to smell like and it tastes like what it's supposed
to taste like like that is its identity captured like you want it og well smell this this is og
and you're like damn that's fucking good and if you put it away when it's a little moist and you
burp it and shit it'll just you're just gonna make it smell like dough you know it's just gonna
get um fermented and there's gonna be you know funk and it's not you're gonna lose it's it's
gonna lose its sharpness you know in my experience so the reason why i asked that question actually
is because i noticed while reading the sky color kush description you mentioned that it has a long
shelf life and it kind of got me thinking about the two polar ends of the spectrum where you know
you've got ivan saying it's best at the start but then you're kind of introducing this idea that
these genetics are designed to kind of retain the turps and it's going to have a longer shelf life
and a stability in that regard do you think that's kind of an accurate take on the situation and um
as like a bit of a follow-up do you think that it might benefit shops or sellers to think about this
and try to stock like one of each so they've got like both the short and long term covered
yeah i mean there's certain things like um you know i say like the sky cuddler kush has sky
cuddler kush jarro root beer they have good shelf life because of the type of resin that they have
the resin stays in the resin like it is on the weed but it's where it is and it stays there
and it's solid and it's not greasy something like cherry limeade when it sits the resin is so
um oily and the resin heads have such a thin membrane um that it actually the the weed itself
will soak up the resin because it's it's it's wet it's not wet but the oil is um
the oil is so thin and runny in a sense you know what i mean that it wants to soak into the weed
and so it turns the weed dark it stays tasty it's not like there's anything wrong with it but it's
like you look at cherry limeade fresh and it's not every plant but most of them you look at it fresh
and it looks incredible and then you have it for three or four weeks and you're like oh it looks
really dark and it almost looks like what other weed looks like if you were to go to
fuck up and go oops i spilled some oil on it or um you know somebody was being a goofball and
dipped it in fucking uh you know like the first step of moon rocks or some shit it's just like
it's greasy and dark and if you're really um if you really know what's up with it then you just
look at it and you go oh damn crazy you know like that's nice and you can appreciate it but people
want a certain type of product presented to them when they buy a jar or a bag of weed um and it
doesn't really fit so for a smoker if i give you some year old cherry limeade and it's all greased
out you're like oh damn okay this is nice and you roll it up and you're like shit how's that so
tasty so technically it has a great shelf life too but the sky cuddler cush you'll look at it
when it's fresh and you'll look at it in a month and it'll be the exact same weed but it's not that
it gets better a month later it's just that it doesn't get worse looking so that's why i say it
has good shelf life it's not like it's improving but it's not going down the tubes visually now the
cherry limeade isn't going down the tubes as far as what you're going to smoke you're going to
smoke it and it's going to be dank but people are going to look at it and be like it's dark it's not
shiny why does it look like that there's something wrong with it and you have to be educated to know
that oh that's because it has it's approaching five and six percent terpenes on it and the type
of terpenes it has are the type that want to basically soak into anything it's next to and so
it it breaks itself down with with with this very fine oil um and it actually is is a sign of its
quality that it looks so terrible you know but there's no way to explain that to somebody who
just grabbed a jar and looks inside and goes what these guys sell me i don't want this anymore you
know so um there's definitely a thing to shelf life i think it's even discussed in marijuana
botany back in the 80s like some weed lasts and looks pretty some doesn't some weed drops its
resin easily so if you handle it a lot of the resin winds up at the bottom of the bag and it
doesn't look as pretty and some holds on to its resin and like there's different there's different
um qualities to the way resin is on a plant that make it good for some things and not as good for
others like cherry limeade the shelf life on it flavor-wise is amazing but the color gets dark
so if you wanted to sell pre-rolls you you sell pre-rolls of cherry limeade people get a pre-roll
and they and it goes through the whole system and they get away later and they smoke it they're like
damn this is still really bomb whereas some of the stuff that might look pretty at that point
it doesn't it hasn't maintained its funk like something with so much terpenes what like the
cherry limeade so you have to kind of know what product you're trying to make and then you have
to make you know you want to make tomato sauce you use a sauce tomato you know you want to you
want to ship tomatoes you use the one that's going to ship the best you want to use you want to make
like ketchup you want a sweeter tomato or whatever it is you know you don't want to use a
you don't want to use a carolina reaper to make pico de gallo to fucking sell to everybody like
you're gonna have to tell people what that is and people have to know what that is you know so like
everything's got its place but what people want right now in a lot of cases is what pleases the
most people and needs the least explanation you look in there you go whoa that's some shit boom
you got it and that's why there's such a popularity with cookie derivatives and things that
are you know have og in them or whatever because you just take a look and you go huh this seems
like it's pretty crazy this is not you know this isn't the weed at home you know this is something
that and that's why they call it exotic because it looks like something crazy and people people
laugh at that because they're like well it's common so it's not exotic but it's still you know
it's still the look of um of what people kind of has that knee-jerk reaction and it's a crowd pleaser
all those kind of looks um so you know people buy something they want a lot of resin
um it's nice if it has if it has a look to it where you go oh that's pretty it's not just plain
you know purple weed the first time someone sees purple weed i guarantee every time they go whoa
what's up with that is that real it's like yeah it grows like that well what does it do they dye it
is it watered with dye is it you know it's it's not real right and like you know then people have
seen purple weed for a while they're like oh whatever it's purple who cares you know but it's
it's uh you know the market is is selling to people who are um impressed at certain things so
i think like uh you know shelf life is good in certain ways for certain things and you know and
then there's other types of shelf life and then but like you know something like i was talking
about it's just like you look at it in a jar and it's a few months old and you're like boom this
nice good fresh weed so it sits and it lasts you know um but you know it doesn't have to sit to get
good and it doesn't have to be totally fresh to be good and that's that's what's good i mean any
kind of agricultural thing you really want the shelf life you know you want an apple you can
ship you want a tomato you can ship you don't want it to go bad in two days but in you know like with
like heirloom tomatoes the best ones they get really juicy and if you stack them up they'll
squash each other and they're you know the best strawberries have too much sugar they'll they'll
rot really fast you have to pick them and eat them right away that's like something like cherry
limeade it's killer but it's not really fit for being packaged up and um you know so there's that
there's that thing there where a fruit or a vegetable it has to be able to ship it has to
be able to sit it has to be able to look good to the most people even if the people who know the
most might think it doesn't look the best um you know that's with mark with marketing things that's
what people are trying to hit they're going you know they want to they want to have the most sales
to the most people the most often and they want to have the most return customers and um you know
you try different things and certain things work and it might not you know they might not be the
best to certain people but if they average out at being the best to the most people then there's your
product you know that's what a hit record is that's what a hit pair of shoes is that's what
you know whatever whatever it is those are the things that catch on and get uh you know get some steam
yeah wow there's certainly a lot more complexities than what might seem apparent on the surface isn't
there speaking of uh loud terps i've been wanting to follow up with you about one of the favorite
things i tried from you the male mski project have you figured out what is your favorite pairing with
this one for the listeners who aren't aware this is a a cut that gene has that's like tangy on
tangy on steroids and also roid raging and also even then way better and different to that
yeah so it's actually a seed line which is cool because it's totally every every plant has the
same has the same terps and there's a slight variation some are a little better smelling than
others but um my buddy jim had it and he had been calling it lemon kush and i told him hey there's
already a lemon kush and he goes well i used to call it green lantern but then i heard these
gangster rappers rapping about green lantern and then so then i changed it from that and so i
changed it to lemon kush and i go well there's a lemon kush too you know and he's like oh shit okay
well and i go you know it's not so much that you don't want to use the same name but i go there's
people who think of it as like being like a train wrecky kind of a thing you know that people uh
when they hear lemon you know like it's like a a different thing and he's like oh okay well you
know i don't know whatever and he didn't really care and uh i was like i was like shit it smells
like meyer lemons you know like it's like lemon but it's really sharp and then it actually when
it finished it developed this passion fruit grapefruit thing you know but i was like oh
i'm gonna call it meyer lems meyer lemski like meyer lansky and meyer lemons you know and um
and uh you know so i called it that for when i when i worked it for myself i haven't done anything
with it but i told him i'm all hey i gave it this handle and he was like oh cool right on you know
and he didn't really care he's just it's his old stuff so what it is is it's old he had this old
uh santa marta gold from from the 70s and then somebody passed him a joint and it was this killer
uh it was this killer weed and he's like man that's the tastiest joint ever and he was like
what's that and they're all it's called indica and he's all indica huh so this was like 83 or 82
or i don't know sometime back then and it was uh it was like you know an afghani or pakistani and
it was just like that really good nice um you know those best ones that are like hindu you know the
really tasty deep rich flavor like what i call big blue or kind of like what the black afi is and
um you know from his description and he and he was like yeah that's killer and the guy was like
the guy was like oh cool you like it here and he had like two or three seeds from rolling the joint
and he gave them to him and so he planted them and he crossed them and then he said like late 80s
he got the stuff that they called the red vein which i think based on the neighborhood he was
out of that it probably is is related to what we call the perp which is in the black lime and the
pina and um has the reddish purple stems and um but i'm not positive of that but it makes sense
and so he said he crossed those together and then he just started breeding them every year
so they don't have the red the red veins anymore um they don't have the columbian
stretch they're these squat little indica plants they don't produce quite as much resin as you want
them to have but the terpene levels are insane and it smells like meyer lemon grapefruit passion
which is like my very favorite tangy throws that are really rare and pop out like in the sour tangy
too um but instead of it being like this rare thing and being mixed in with like you know like
kind of like train wreck terps and stuff like how tangy seed is it's just all that and then every
once in a while one's a little toned down or one has like a hint of some other kind of like
sweet banana or whatever kind of thing in it um but pretty much they all do that and when you
cross it with anything everything turns into that terp like it bullied the hell out of gmo
and turned it into purple meyerlemski with tons of resin so that one's promising um and then
there's some other ones too and skunk tech was the one that made the out crosses i crossed it
with lime i haven't grown them yet and i made a ton of the pure seed because as soon as i planted
them i looked at the seedlings and i was like these are killer right here and by the time i
found out the backstory on them um i already had plants that were like butted out and i was smelling
them and i was like what the hell are these and then i i got them from from jim's daughter and
then um in a little trade with them and then i saw him and i go what is the story dude and that was
when he told me what they were and uh so it's just a really neat um pure line from the 80s of all
old 70s and 80s stuff and uh it's one of those things where if it was put out pure people would
be like nah this is i don't want this this doesn't have enough resin although uh if you make oil off
of it is insane and it tastes really good too it just doesn't look it's like how skittles
looks like it's not that good but then it's tasty it's like that except the oil is like
tasty as tasty or tastier than skittles but the weed is like worse looking so it's a little
greener it's a little more bright but it just it doesn't look like there's a lot of resin on it
but what's cool is you take that and you cross it with anything that's super resinous and it just
comes across in every plant on the turps so eventually i'll probably do um something with it
but um at this point we haven't done anything with any of the crosses because we didn't want
to step on toes and uh i had talked to him about you know if i ever do anything like is it cool and
you know what will we can do some kind of split on it because it's your old genetics and stuff and
he was totally down but um i just haven't ever put any more focus into it i have thousands of
the of the pure seeds i made i think i did like six different plants and they were all killer but
i have like the the best three put aside oh nice look i'm sure when the time's right you'll uh
you'll do something special with them when i was looking at some of your other strains it made me
realize that many of your lines we see a lot of resistance to mold and to rot and to drought and
i think that's obviously because for the longest time you're growing outdoors and those are
obviously like really important factors but kind of if we think about the producers we were talking
about a few questions back do you think that some of these traits might ever start to become more
seen or try to be expressed by these companies because there are so many companies moving into
greenhouse cultivation and like many of these problems like mold rot are just some of the
biggest issues these larger producers face yeah i think there's i think there's quite a bit of
focus on it already depending on who the who the people are people who have dealt with those
issues are the people who are more likely to kind of steer in those directions so you know i think
right now it i think there's a lot of stuff going on that hasn't really been seen yet i think right
now there's probably already people in labs finding all the markers for all these desirable things and
making it so that you could basically send them samples of your plants and they'd say hey here's
your male that won't that will breed for no mold for no mildew for this pest resistance for whatever
it is i think it's already being done and it's just not really quite um it hasn't the wave hasn't
quite hit but i think it's already sitting out there you know what i mean i think it's already
i think it's already a thing for sure i think it just there's people who have already
done it out of necessity and um and i'm not the only one you know uh bio vortex
green source gardens i think they're called uh uh homegrown natural wonders od and mush um
you know there's they're they're out there there's people there's people doing it
you know um and then i but but i think that also there's people involved in big ag who are doing
the same thing behind the scenes and that will be that'll be the new i think in a year or two
that'll be the big marketing push oh buy our pounds of hemp seed because it's you know it
will get zero mold you know they'll figure out um things that offer resistance and and see what
really really does that you know yeah sure so earlier on in the episode we spoke about the
emerald cup and the ego clash there's been a lot of sort of mixed thoughts about some of the bigger
events recently particularly as they sort of rebrand themselves especially the emerald cup is
sort of a more casual smoker event it's not as catering as much to the hardcore growers especially
not the breeders and the sellers do you see yourself continuing to go to these events or
do you think the smaller ones like the ego clash are going to bloom more and become the mainstay of
the industry um you know i kind of like the i like the aspect of of the of the big shows just because
they they put the most people in in one place um so it's like a super cool uh it's a cool
opportunity to meet the people who you might not meet at the smaller ones i think probably the most
really the the the most uh kind of renowned official real head event is the ego clash that
b puts on um because he's the most like connoisseur minded he's you know kind of has uh he he has a
really good uh feel for terps and quality and um and has that focus he's one of the one of the best
at that and recognizes that in other people and and and reaches out to the right people to where
if you win that to me that's the one that's like damn okay um you you really had some
shit because it's blind and it's the same people who enter who are judging and it's kind of uh
more of an invitation only um and so i think you know that that that's the more like the serious
one but there's you know an event isn't only about the contest and how official it is an event is
also about a social space and um a gathering of people and um you know when it's opened up to
so many people from everywhere and it's just whoever you know there's an aspect there that's
kind of cool and um so you know i support both both sides and i think they both have their own
uh they both have their own thing going to them you know going for them and i think uh
you know i think they both deserve their their respect in their in their own space and that um
um what the emerald cup was for a while is kind of now what the ego clash is where it's like okay
that's the most uh probably respectable award you can get but i think that the emerald cup is still
is still a respectable award as well at this point to get you know and that they're kind of the the
two the two the two main things you know very diplomatic i like that so just a few more questions
as we're on the tail end of things before the fast five i remember i asked you this in our first
interview so i'd love to see how things have changed are there any breeders work that's caught
your eye and you're kind of enjoying the work they're doing oh like i was saying i like souvenir
seeds um pip he does great stuff i don't even have to get into it it's just real nice people can look
um oh man i this is the one where it's always like i know guaranteed there's gonna be uh there's
gonna be a lot of people that i don't that i don't name him i say is cool just because he's
bringing out old stuff um and you know everybody wants something real sour his stuff is real he's
got the real cool sour um everybody else i mean i think i've probably mostly given shouts to
everybody who's who i can really think of um doing a lot of stuff uh my buddy dutch at regenerative
is cool he's been going through some stuff with crazy pressure uh like the bad weather in
washington and pulling stuff out of out of my gene pools i've worked with and kind of you know
finding what is really really can take the bad elements and stuff there um he uh um
i'm trying to think of anything that just like pops out as being new like tip was kind of somebody
i didn't know a year or two ago i think about their work and they didn't i don't think he had
dropped stuff really um and i don't know you know just everybody who's everybody who's doing
stuff that they're that they're interested in and going with their flavors and all that you know
um yeah i don't you know i don't besides what i've already who i always say you know
always uh i always like to watch like you know what csi is doing 707 seed bank but there's tons
of them and there's tons of people doing really cool stuff all the time so yeah uh you know uh
jay trees and skunk tech have been doing really neat stuff um yeah yeah some solid answers there
for sure i um i definitely agree i've been following both of those guys doing some some
really good work uh so the next question i had for you was what's the most unique terp profile
you've ever come across and do you still see around or is it gone most unique terp profile
um straight opium um straight opium which is similar to like a sharpie or a flea collar
or um there's a certain smell that that straight opium has it's the one thing i saw in the 90s that
i really wish i could find again um it's a certain smell and taste that's just incredible
and uh that would be the most rare that was really a standout because everything else is
like there's like things close to it that's completely unique and i've never seen anything
like it since what a great answer i can't say i'm familiar so hopefully you're able to find that one
and it is still around kind of on a bit of a different topic i did want to ask you we heard
some word recently from none other than chimera that tom hill had passed away and then it turned
out that that was like a bit of a fake report did you hear from tom himself or through the grapevine
sort of thing and do you know what he's up to or if we'll ever see his seeds come back um i don't
think he's too into it really um i think he does stuff for himself and he's kind of good with that
uh he's a really cool dude i don't know him personally but i went to school with his brother
and sister so you know i'm online and i see like top dog posts about it and i and it's like it
looks like it's official so i go okay well i'm gonna go look around so i look and everybody's
like yeah and people are like yeah it's you know from people who are close to them it's true and
blah blah blah so i'm like fuck okay so normally if something like that happened and i had just
got like a little word of it i would i would hit somebody up if if it's like their family and i'd
be like hey you know is it is that is that true you know but i've had that experience before and
it always feels kind of weird so instead of even bothering with that i just was like well it seems
like it's i know it's real i thought it was real at the time so i i i hit up my buddy and i go hey
you know um i'm sorry i'm sorry to hear about about your brother if there's anything i can do
just you know reach out like uh you know love you dude blah blah blah and so he hits me back and he
goes what my brother and i go oh shit i go dude i hope it's if you haven't heard i go i hope it's
fake you know like i just it seemed like it was real i apologize if it's you know if it's if it's
if it's fake i hope it's not true you know he goes hang on let me check and i go huh it seems like
there's nothing he he didn't fucking know so and i was able to get a hold of him right away why would
i be the first person to get a hold of him right so i'm like shit hopefully it's fake but i'm still
sweating it you know and um and uh and so uh you know because i'm fucking bummed out like i'm like
oh dude he's serious you know and so he goes oh just heard from him he's all good i'm like
oh shit i'm like dude i feel like such a piece of shit right now for like i just basically told
you your brother died you know like and it wasn't true like this is the worst fucking bullshit i can
really remember right now like i don't remember doing some shit this dumb for
fuck a while you know like this is this was bullshit and i you know i tell him like hey
sorry dude and then i explain like this dude chimera he's a big seed dude he he told people
on the forums and said it was totally for real and he had heard direct from from from people who
knew and this and that and uh i'm like fuck okay so that was that was how that played out and then
i ran into him i ran into my friend you know like uh down on the street in ukiah i didn't even want
to mention it i just was like hey how's it going you know like i was still like embarrassed really
you know because i'm like dude what a what a bullshit thing to do but it was but but but at
the time of course my intention was just to like reach out and be like hey you know like it you
know just offer help and shit but so i was like my heart was in the right place but my brain was
fucking you know in the wrong place and it was just some some bullshit that was in it and it
was frustrating that people had put it out in such volume that it was fake you know that it
was real and then it was fake but at the same time it was like well you know that's the last time i'm
ever going to do that without just being like hey you know if i i heard i heard something about so
and so like is there is there is that is there any truth to that or you know so uh that was that was
my experience with it so i was like man fucking jokers like it you know because it uh was um
you know like i can think oh man it was embarrassing for me but the reality was like
my real thing was i just felt like shit because i was like damn like how'd i make him feel you know
so um that was that was what that's how that went you know like a dumb ass dumb ass gene on that one
oh man too harsh on yourself i i'm sure he probably wasn't too put off by it but there
you go a good answer to the situation so a new question i've been loving to ask all the guests
recently before we wrap things up do you have any other passions in life besides breeding we see on
instagram like a lot of breeders like to breed dogs some dabble in cars some dabble in various
other things is there some other aspect of main gene which the public is in a way you're invested
in um i haven't been doing it that much but i like to i like to dj um to mix um make mashups
like play one thing over another like in in real time like on turntables or like cdj turntables you
know like uh you know drop something out of this and and play this over the top of that and make
make mashups and shit and i i've been doing that since like 2006 or 2007 like often but then i i
stopped for i haven't really done it for years and years now um i really like that i really like to
just listen to music um do some music i i've done over the years done some done some vocal shit um
and uh i like uh i like to look for mushrooms i like to look for arrowheads and uh i really as
funny as it is i really like fucking movies like i just like to watch great movies or shows or
things like that just like music like it's just uh you know um i really like comedy i like crazy
epic stories just just neat interesting stories about you know human shit like outlaw josey
wales or last of the mohicans or gangs of new york or like kind of like big crazy ones like that um
you know but beyond you know beyond just being like oh i'm just gonna stare at this and what i
like really i really like that kind of shit like if it was easier to be involved in like
making movies and shit i'd probably want to be you know want to do some of that but it's not
something i have that much ambition in but i really do love uh i love that kind of stuff um
and uh you know i mean i like food i like to cook there's not there's not really anything
that i'm as into as um as i am into weed you know but um but i like you know i'm into i'm
into stuff that uh involves checking out aesthetics of stuff and but as far as doing stuff making
stuff made some music over the years like i said i like the mixing making remixes smash ups
they're probably my main things really i'm pretty simple i like to observe things i like to absorb
information um you know so i like to read stuff i like to check stuff out like that
um love to go to the river in the summertime go swimming go to the ocean like i really enjoy that
uh part of nature probably more than the average person i just like really soak that up that's
like my happy place you know and um you know family for me is big i really i really like
chilling with my son and my family and it kind of sums up my life you know not super
i like to travel a little bit but it's not my thing like i have friends who that's really what
they're into is traveling i'm like cool i like to do it sometimes but it usually takes it out of me
um and i get i usually wind up getting like burnout and sick or something from either partying
too hard or just the travel and the stress of the actual travel and shit but um but i like that too
and um you know i'm pretty uh i'm pretty simple i don't really have anything that's like a big
a big thing that i like to like you know spend money on or um you know i just
just kind of chill pretty pretty um yeah pretty simple dude a man of simple pleasures i like that
i like that a lot so this brings us to our final five quickfire questions pretty confident they're
different to the ones you did last time so i'm excited to hear the answers to this one uh first
one is what is the absolute most memorable cannabis experience you've ever had be it
smoking flower hash being somewhere doing something which one stands out the most to you
oh man um there was definitely some some memories that were that were really interesting like
getting getting way too high and being like almost blacked out when i was young where you know they
just have that impact of being like holy shit i think i'm going to be high for the rest of my life
like i'm just you know you're just clouded in a daze and you know those kind of those kind of
stand out and then um um you know i don't know like just everything it's so much weed man like
i don't it's not anything that stands out but one really crazy one was uh one time i took a bong hit
dude and i stood up to go spit in the in the in the bathroom sink as bong heads sometimes have to
spit after their coffin and stuff and i went to stand up and i got a little light-headed so i sat
back down on this big bean bag and then i stood back up because i was good and i went and i spit
in the bathroom and i went came back and i started getting a little bit like kind of kind of my vision
started getting white you know and so i went to like kind of belly flop onto the bean bag but as
i was going to belly flop onto the bean bag i like lost consciousness and my body moved a little
bit and i fell to the side of the bean bag and when i woke up my my jaw was so dislocated that
like my my one my right side of my teeth was underneath the left side of my top teeth like the
bottom bottom right was underneath the top left you know what i mean like my jaw was completely
dislocated to the point where i was like damn am i gonna die or or like in that like still that's
why i said like good things or bad things that still stands out as the craziest fucking weed
experience i ever had because i thought i had like ruined my life like to look i wish if if if they
back then if it would have been like we had camera phones around all the time and i had a picture of
it you would be like holy fucking shit because my my my my whole face was just fucking twisted
around the wrong way it was nuts dude um and that was that has to be like the craziest weed experience
ever and it was just a fucking long hit you know but it was like dude it was insane all my all my
teeth were bleeding between the teeth you know because i had hit so hard yeah i had this big
berry on my chin and i was like man i i had to straighten it out you know i had to like open my
mouth real wide and push on the sides and it like fucking popped back in and it you know it it it
never was 100 you know it's still a little tiny bit off this you know 20 years later it was nuts
but uh that's a crazy story yeah wow i think we've got a new benchmark with that one
on the other end of the spectrum we're gonna think least memorable was there ever a time when
all of the people you know hang out with were just like super hyped on this certain strain
and then when you finally got around to trying it you were like oh is that it
um i don't know i mean you know usually things haven't been um super hyped or if they are so
hyped then i kind of assume they're gonna suck anyway and then when i see them i'm like
it was actually pretty good you know so uh that's not something that i've experienced a whole lot
i wouldn't say yeah that's that's good considering you've been living in the heart of the weed mecca
since the start really so the next question would be if you're about to be dropped off at a desert
island and you can only take three strains with you that you've got to smoke for the rest of your
life which three would you take with you i'd definitely take lime one i'd probably take root
beer or anything that's kind of in there in that mix of the jarrow stuff um and then um
hmm a third one
i don't know maybe just because it would be a good a good other side of it and i've i know what
it's like to have not had it which i and i really like it it's really enjoyable for me i like that
sweat but i don't know if i would put it as in the in the top in the top three as a third one would
be like then it gets hard you know like i really know lime one's my favorite i really know root
beer i love to smoke anytime when i'm like i've already smoked a bunch of lime and then after
that it's like a big wheel of a bunch of different stuff and then i would be i wouldn't be super
super concerned as long as i knew i had as long as i knew i had the lime and then something else
you know yeah that's a nice little selection there so if we flip the tables now and you're
going to be dropping off someone who you're not particularly fond of to that same island and you
get to choose what three strains they get which three are you going to give them
some kind of cardboardy peanut shelly rooter alice oh love it i mean i just remember like
some rooter alice stuff that had that kind of uh you know where it's just like there's nothing
really redeeming about the smell and then you smoke it and you don't really get a high you
would want and uh that's like you know like the basically what i think a lot of people would
recognize as the auto flowers that you don't want i think a lot of people have probably seen that
style i i can see it in pictures all the time people are like oh i got this auto flower such
and such and i'm like yeah that's that that's that very undesirable rooter alice look with the
really dark red hairs that has like the this dark greenness to it and just not there's something
there's this thing and it's like i know that type and i can see it as soon as i see it i know it's
just that plain kind of just this the high that just doesn't really do much for you and uh that
would be that's like my kind of my least favorite thing that i can think of and i've seen it come
out you know of different stuff like even out of kind of cool afghanis and then it'll pop out and
you're like oh there's that fucking thing um and then oh you know shit um
i don't know it's really i really like plants a lot so for me even things that people might go oh
that's terrible somebody will tell you oh i can't stand jack or i can't stand train wreck or i can't
stand uh blue dream or or i hate uh i hate whatever it is that they really don't like i kind of i kind
of like weed like you know i can tell you what's really gnarly and what's not as gnarly but a lot
of the stuff that's just you know whatever i'm still kind of like uh i'm still kind of just
impressed that it's weed if that makes any sense like it's cannabis i mean i don't want to be that
guy but like if somebody has some weed i'm like hey that's some weed i remember times when like
i was saying like somebody has some moldy weed and you're like fuck it it's weed you know so for me
even though i you know i have access to what people consider to be what's the goods and and
whatnot i still um that's there's that one type that just leaves it leaves a bad taste in my mouth
just like the memories of it as like weed as far as because it's a strain that i can really put a
finger on and go that one but other than that you know i i don't think that um i don't think anything's
too terrible i think honestly if you were on a fucking desert island and someone dropped you
off with whatever you'd be like fuck i'm glad this is cannabis dude you know amen amen what a good
answer so on to our final question if you could go back in time to anywhere any place and collect
some seeds or a clone which one are you going to go back and get um so i think last time i said
i'd like to go like to the hindu kush region back in the day um and hunt around and look um
so we already know that so outside of that man we had this white widow in the in the 90s
and we had this northern lights in the 90s and i had this dirt perp clone in the fucking 90s that
was so good and we didn't realize how good it was and we had already killed the moms
um for me personally i would say i'd probably want to go back right to that little slice of
time when i still had all three of those things and when i know that there was tons of people
who had other stuff that i was too shy to ask for i'd probably just right go back to the 90s
in this area grab the stuff that i had and then that i lost and then start knocking on my friend's
doors and asking their parents for the stuff that i was too shy to ask for um you know and and i
know there's a lot of other places to go and there's all kinds of neat stuff to find but like
those are the things for me personally as opposed to going you know these are the things that really
should be brought to the community i just want to i would i would want to go back and just get the
shit that i have seen that we had that i smoked and i had my hands on and i remember it and it's
gone i i just want all that shit that would probably be like 1996 or something like that you know
yeah brilliant answer i guess you know the first episode we got seeds the second episode we got
clones so it kind of rounds it out yeah seeds too though when i'm talking about that those you know
that's for me there was those few clones but then i'd want to go get all those seeds from the
from the from the family friends you know uh yes yes of course okay so with that being said i think
that just about brings us to the end of a second monster episode thank you so much for taking the
time were there any comments or shout outs you wanted to make um man i don't know you know i
could go i could go lots of directions with that but i'm gonna um i think i'm just gonna uh
probably um you know say thanks for everybody who listened to all this crazy
fucking run-on sentences and rants and um and uh you know thanks to everybody who's interested in
uh in the plants and trying to figure out you know what what to do in the whole scene of everything
and um you know thanks for having me on and you know i think that's a pretty pretty uh positive
way to to uh close it out and there it is awesome my friend thank you so much yeah thank you man
and there you have it gang part two of an epic discussion with our man mean gene thank you so
much for taking the time to come on the show gene likewise thank you to all the listeners for making
it this far i mean it's not hard with such a wealth of knowledge being dropped though right
as always we appreciate our sponsors seeds here now number one seed bank in the game
they've got some freeborn selections go check them out if you want all the hottest genetics
in the game they just got a fresh drop from csi humboldt that's my pick
likewise coppet biological systems they got that beneficial army to keep your garden happy
healthy and the next crop on track to be the best today go check out the website i guarantee you it
pays to keep the garden happy and healthy coppet biological systems they're the one you know it
and last but not least a huge shout out to the patreon gang you guys are the lifeblood of the
show you know it i hope you enjoy getting early access to this episode hearing it before the rest
and if you want to become a part of the patreon family please go check out
www.patreon.com forward slash the podcast you'll get early access to episodes unheard unreleased
content giveaways and so much more thank you so much patreon gang i appreciate you and the sponsors
so very much so that just about does it for this one my friends
i'll see you for the next one
we'll see you
