Well, hello again, my friends.
Fancy seeing you here.
Welcome to the next episode of the podcast, the cannabis podcast for budding enthusiasts.
On this episode, we're joined by our Alaskan friend, the one and only AK Beanbrains.
Bringing all things genetics, new school, old school, and everything else.
This episode, as always, was brought to you by the one and only Seeds here now.
Your only seed bank that offers a guarantee both on satisfaction and germination.
There's no reason to shop elsewhere.
They've got all the best.
Hit them up.
Likewise, 420 Australia and Organic Gardening Solutions, your two number ones in Australia,
holding down the fort.
Everything from apparel to grow needs, get it there first.
And a quick shout out to our regenerative farming friends at Dragonplay Earth Medicine.
Let's get into it.
All righty.
So, a big thank you and welcome to our first guest from the final frontier, an extremely
nice guy I've had the pleasure of hanging out with a few times now, AK Beanbrains.
Thanks so much for taking the time to join us today.
Well, thanks for having me on.
It's good to finally do this.
Like you said, after we've met a couple of times, we should have already been fishing
or something, but the interviews passed due, so I'm glad to be here.
It's great to have you on my friend.
So first question for today, what are you currently smoking on?
Funny thing is it's the same thing that I had a lot of at the Emerald Cup.
Do you remember what we were smoking that Platinum Huckleberry cookie?
Do you happen to remember that?
I do fondly.
Oh, good.
Because, but yeah, I happen to have a little bit of that and I'm just picking that as a
really good favorite.
It's really good smoke.
I love Dynasty, so his smoke just stands out.
Hell yeah, I can definitely agree with you on that one.
Let's loop back to that one a bit later, because the first thing I wanted to ask you
is what was your first experience with cannabis?
That's funny too.
You know, I was a bad kid, so about fifth grade when all the kids are starting to score
cigarettes and stuff, a friend of mine's dad had a little, it wasn't a convenience store,
it was like a country store, and he lifted like cartons of the worst thing in the world
was I think camels or whatever it was.
It was horrible strong tobacco and we'd get it together after school and smoke a couple,
but it turned me green and they tended to keep smoking and I found out that pot at the
time was like real weedy and it's around, I think it was probably right about 80, a
little bit earlier than 80, 78.
My mom had a friend and he'd give me ounces or not, they called it lids at the time, it
was five to ten bucks a lid.
I'd have him, he'd get me to roll and clean it up and roll like 35, 40 doobies out of
a lid.
He'd give me one or two.
So I smoked that and it was just such swaggy weed, I never ever really got high and I thought
I was getting high, just like a real poor bud every time, but I guess I was around 12
years old and I babysat for a friend, my mom's friends and I don't want to be stereotypical,
but they were bikers and they had some bud, they knew that I'd already smoked and they
said it would be cool to try it and they gave me a bud and it was chocolate tie for all
I can tell from everything I've ever seen later in my life.
It was real chocolate tie, it was all basically right off the tie stick and I pulled the seeds
out of it and I smoked it, but that stuff, that hit me and I was like euphorically high
for four or five hours, shouldn't have been babysitting their kids because it was like
super potent.
So then I realized that what pot really was.
Yeah, wow and has that always left that as kind of having a little fond spot in your
heart?
It really does because it's a rarity though, chocolate tie and that certain flavor that
was on that, it was a leathery tobacco-y, chocolate-y flavor and if I could have just
had the knowledge or any kind of sense to keep those seeds, man, it's insane how many
pounds of seeds have gone down into the waste because at the time all the import was just
seed bud and we never thought we would want the genetics.
Yeah, definitely and I mean just as a little random side question, do you think it's true
that there ever was tie coming in that had like been altered with opium or anything like
that? You always hear the whispers.
This, I don't know that economically it would be viable for them to do that, but I do
believe it had to have happened because there was, it was talked about for sure.
I do believe there was opium dusted.
It's had opium dipped, you know, it's what they call it, but it was basically a very
potent psychoactive product.
So, I never really got my hands on it, but I know people that they swear that it was
certainly the real deal and it came in.
Yeah, definitely. I've heard an anecdotal story from a friend who said that one of the
only times he'd ever greened out was from some, you know, some tie stick and to me that
it always gave a little bit of credence to the idea because a lot of people when they
first have opioids, they vomit.
Yeah, certainly it'll take over your whole system, so you're not ready to be hit by a
truck and that's what hits you.
Yeah, so with all that being said, have you ever looked at some of the kind of notable
tie hybrids and thought, oh, I want to get into that?
Like, for example, maybe haze given it was like 50% tie at the end?
No, it's always been a big challenge up here for outdoor growing is really a challenge
up here. So, our summers are harsh and short.
So, if you're going to do light depth and greenhouse, you have to have a program for
it. It's just devoted to it for Colombians or ties.
So, it's not an impossible thing, but most that's one of the things I put off the most.
I've hardly ever grown a very, very little haze due to that.
It's hard to grow it up here.
But I've always been super fond of that and want to relive it.
And I've smoked like Bodie's, you know, really good 16 week tie at Emerald and it's got a
really similar high, but it wasn't that exact same thing that I'd smoked before.
So, yeah, I'd always like to relive that.
Yeah, certainly. I think I know the tie you were talking about.
It was that pearl tie with like the alternating calyxes.
Yeah, it was kind of yellowish and brown, not yellowish, but amberish, I should say.
And brown.
And it was just hemstrings tied onto a bamboo splint is what it was.
So, they tore it off for me and actually gave it to me and I broke it up.
But it had qualities and tastes that just I don't know that will ever be re-found.
So, yeah, I'm chasing that rabbit for sure.
Yeah, definitely sounds very interesting.
Let's take it back, though.
Let's start off at that point where you tried the tie.
From that point onwards, what made you or were the factors that led to you then deciding to
grow yourself and how long did it take before you did do that?
It took me a little while, about three years before I realized that you could grow.
At that point, there wasn't a ton of information.
I probably accidentally sprouted a seed and went from there.
But at the time, after 75, here in Alaska, there was a Supreme Court decision with the
state of Alaska Supreme Court and it was called the Raven decision and it legalized
personal use cannabis here.
So, there was a lot of ornamental kind of like shrubbery seeds being thrown out.
And you could see people growing leaf type of plants.
They never flower because they're summer.
So, about 21, 22 hours and sunlight is blaring and then it'll like shut off to nothing and
freeze. So, the plants will just start to sex and maybe three weeks in the flower, they'll
just freeze up. It'll be solid winter from then.
So, I was always thinking about growing and it took me about three years before I realized
it was just something easy to do.
Yeah, OK. And so, a lot of people outside the states may not be aware that Alaska legalized
or decriminalized growing very early on compared to say, California.
And commonly, I get it here told in the context of, yeah, they were almost trying to invite
people up there, you know, get the population boosted.
Was that the reason behind it and did it work?
You know, it was kind of like opened up to be a free state and just it wasn't like a
move that a lot of people would have took up, I don't think.
But it was viewed as more of a freedom type of a state.
And what happened with the Supreme Court ruling is it said that the right to privacy was
stronger than the fact that marijuana was illegal.
So, you could have four ounces in your house and up to 16 plants.
So, it was just like so common.
And when you're having the mindset of it being legal, they did have illegalities on it,
which was transportation and selling of it.
But you could gift it.
You couldn't ever transport it.
So, you know, they'd get you on that, which was really silly.
But it was so commonplace to just grow that nobody, there was a paranoia for sure, because
there was federal rules that came into play after 24 plants, you'd be into like federal
felony land and you just didn't want to go there.
Yeah, most certainly.
So, what was your first setup like back then when you first started?
Well, outdoor sun and I knew about light at the time, so you'd try to just get it in in
September and start covering it up for three weeks advanced before the weather really
turns on you.
And I wasn't, we had crappy lights and certainly how lights had just come out, but I
didn't have a penny for them.
So, I used the eight foot high output fluorescent lights, which is pretty common grow
light back then and super inefficient.
And you'd get real stretchy plants.
And besides the genetics were, you know, I tried to grow Columbian inside and end up
being 12 feet tall sideways.
And I realized real quickly that we had to have something better going on than that.
So, I learned very quickly.
So, what type of genetics did you look to that would be more well suited to the
environment?
Well, there was plenty of, you know, by mid 80s, there was plenty of indica that was
going around.
So, up here especially, there's always been a ton of local indicas that were never
named.
And if you were going to grow indoor in a light depth, you would get something like the
Northern Lights.
Northern Lights number one was super common from 80 to 85.
And there was others that weren't named, but they were just about the same.
Three foot to four foot tall maximum, bushy Christmas tree shaped, solid, really solid,
could support them.
You know, they'd support their bud, which was heavy.
And it'd always be mold resistant and tended to be just pretty good, straight up, easy to
grow indoors.
So, that's what we kind of aim for pretty quickly.
And this might be a silly question to some people, but I've always wondered, you know,
given the name Northern Lights, do you think that there was some sort of breeding effort
put into the actual Northern Lights up around the Alaska slash Canadian area?
Or do you think it was purely just a marketing name?
It had to have been a marketing name.
I think it was developed in the Northwest, in the Seattle area, much more so than it was
ever past British Columbia.
So, I don't think it was up here.
It only made its way up here.
But by the time I saw it, it was a mainstay.
So, the name stuck and really, really probably one of the best things that ever
happened to the cannabis that we've come across so far.
Yeah, most certainly.
So, let's fast forward a little bit.
When did you decide to have a whack at breeding yourself and what was the first thing you
ever made? Was it an accident or was it purposeful?
The first time I ever tried to breed now would probably have been about 18 or 19.
I just thought it was a way to advance any way to get genetics because there just wasn't
seed stock available.
So, I would take whatever so-and-so's AFI from, usually it was like trailer park
genetics, and I would cross it over to whatever other one might have, you know, red
petiole stem.
And I would just start making crosses just by cool looks and smells right off the bat.
That was kind of like my goal, try to breed the best of the best of whatever we could
find and give it a test run that next batch.
And what was the consumer market like at the time?
Like, did you do it because you knew that it would be unique, people would want to try it,
or there wasn't that much push from consumers to say, develop new things?
Up here, there was no market such like that.
Everybody grew their own smoke or you would vomit off of somebody that happened to have
plenty excess of smoke.
So, it was pretty clandestine gardens, but everybody knew each other and they knew where
there was a supply of bud around.
And we, I don't even remember even selling any bud until like the late 80s, you know.
It was pretty unique to where we were just growing it.
Okay, so the scene sounds like it was kind of focused around the grower.
What were the things people were most interested in?
Was it like as a grower, were people just interested in the biggest yielding or was it more
a quality focus?
Yeah, it was definitely, I'd say a lot of it had to have been with yield because nobody,
shit, there was a lot of, still a lot of people not having nice big growing rooms.
There was a lot of basements that were dug out, you know, and they're growing under the
rafters and you might get a five foot ceiling out of that.
So, people were growing good stocky ass plants and try to get good yield.
But I don't think that we ever, never, ever gave up but had just quality.
I don't think nobody ever looked any other direction but quality.
It sounds like the dream almost.
Well, it's kind of crazy.
It's crazy because people did focus their own goals for their own purposes and everybody
basically wanted to make themselves happy.
So, before all the competitive brand naming and so-and-so's bud is better than so-and-so,
it was like a cooperative thing and people were really just trying to extend the good
feeling of the 70s kind of.
Yeah, okay. And so, were there any breeders at that time who you were kind of looking up
to or you were inspired by or was it still a bit too early for that?
Still a little bit early for that.
There was no advertised breeders and the very first that I had ever heard of was Neville
Schoenlocker over in Amsterdam in 88.
It opened up a whole new world when I realised that there was genetics that could be just
picked up from a collector.
Yeah. And so, this is a question I love to ask people.
Where do you hold Neville in the hierarchy of breeders throughout history?
Is he numero uno for you?
You know, I'd say yes because when we were first involved with him, my partner who's
one of the best guys in the world and I don't deal with him and haven't for 30 years or
better, he would hand write letters to Neville and
he would be able to, you know, it might be a two, three month process to get a return
reply but he was steering us and telling us and he's like such a great mentor.
And so, in that aspect, he didn't just collect and breed but he wanted to spread the
knowledge. So, I would say he is.
Yeah, most certainly.
I love that little bit of Aussie pride in that question.
But so, something I wanted to touch on quickly was when I spoke to you in person, you
mentioned this idea of like up in Alaska, you guys were very isolated and you kind of
were okay with that in a way.
Would you mind expanding a little more on that?
We were, you know, isolated in quite a bit of ways to where we didn't get imports.
And when they did make it up here, I would say it'd be a 10-year hiatus and it might
have made itself all the way around the world before it actually hit to Alaska or the
local region and outlying, you know, towns.
So, it was well proven by the time it got here or it would have just faded out.
And when you think about our isolation, it made us a lot better growers because it would
be like there's still things that were developed up here, multiple named things that are
just like legends and still up here.
And the same old heads have got them and still don't generally put it out or even care
to. And it's amazing that the mentality is still nearly the same for 30 and 40 years.
The people have kind of kept the same mindset.
So, it's a unique thing.
Certainly. And so, do you think that's still the case?
Does the hype strains make it up there or is there still that time lag?
No. Now, like you and I are, you know, different sides of the world, technology is just
here. You know, I had a couple of years ago taken live cuts to Emerald and was
actually stopped by the TSA, our flag, I should say, and then our airport police wanted to
interview me. And it got down to where they wanted to know how much flour I had and how
much concentrate.
And then they wanted to know the weight of all the hundred seed packs I carried.
And I had come up with the right answers.
You know, he asked me where my medical grow permit was and I told him it was supposed
to stay in the growing unit.
You're not supposed to copy it or it's invalid.
Everything just was the right answer.
And I was under the weight limit for carrying.
And then he just says, OK, well, what about the live cannabis plants?
And I said, well, as far as I'm concerned, the law says you can carry six plants and the
TSA says whatever the state legal limit is, is what you can carry.
So, you know, he ran me for priors.
I had no priors.
And he's like, OK, well, if this is all the medication you need, then we'll have a, you
know, have a good trip.
And he just like let us straight go on our way.
So at that point and just like you can go to Emerald if you're brave enough to buy, you
know, clones that are available down there.
You can just straight pick up any strain and bring it back.
Hype strain or maybe heirloom or.
And then clone shipping is not a big thing now.
It tends to be that anybody that has access to good genetics, you can just get it shipped
straight to you. And now the door is wide open for genetics up here.
Every day I think there's 20 new strains coming up here.
It's interesting you mention that because I'm not sure if it was you I was talking to
about this or someone else, but they said there was a little bit of finickiness with the
clone shipping compared to say other states in that.
So you sent it on the Friday and it was going to sit somewhere over the weekend.
Not only is that, you know, not ideal for the clone, but given if it was wintertime, it
could potentially kill the clone.
Is that a bit of an overstated fact or is that very much the reality of the situation?
It's pretty common that you could run into small glitches.
I've had, you know, a half dozen or more packages that would maybe hit during the
California two or three years in a row.
Man, they were hit with the fires.
Then they were hit with drought and flood and they'd shut down county roads and certain
outlying towns.
They might not get a three day priority package.
You could generally send a clone three days safely in a clone porter or clone shipper
and they'll make it.
But on the seventh day, they don't like to be in the dark that long.
And I've had I've had them just one after the other going to even like Bob Hemphill
and the nature farm and they'd get them and they'd be just seven days.
They'd be yellow as hell and droopy and ready just to die.
No way you're going to not going to talk them back into life.
And then in the summertime, I think it's better to ship in the cool season.
Truly, we don't have bad luck in the cool.
In the summertime, it tends to sweat the plants a lot more.
So, if you're going to send them dry tech, just snips or fresh cut tips, you know, the
dry tech, it works to a certain degree.
But if they start to sweat, it'll just cook the foliage and it'll be wilted lettuce or
worse every time.
Yes, certainly, I guess it brings its own challenges.
You mentioned a minute ago that some really old school, really awesome strains were
developed up in Alaska and they're still being held by the locals up there.
Brings us to the question that everyone knew was coming.
What's the story behind Alaskan Thunderfuck or Matanuska Thunderfuck?
Yeah, we know that was coming, but there's a lot of stories behind it.
So, the experience that I've had with it was the 1970s and the mid-70s.
Quite a few Northern California Emerald Triangle people, whether they were coming back
from Vietnam at that exact point or didn't at the end of the war, about 74, they didn't
want to go into that conflict.
So, some of them went to Canada and some of them ditched out and came up here.
And I'm not going to say there's a bunch of draft dodgers that just filled our state, but
there was a lot of people that were, you know, patriotic minded, but didn't want to go and
fight for some political cause that had no no wind to it.
So, they uprooted and they came up here.
And what they brought was some bud that was, you know, it could have been originally
Burmese or crosses of their import bud that they were growing down in Trinity and
Humboldt, but it didn't work up here.
So, within, I'd say, four or five years, there was no more of that tall structural
equatorial, I'd say, lowland type of flower.
They would basically outcross it to the best, fastest, shortest, most controllable
grow plant there is.
So, a lot of the sativa genetics went out with it by 1980.
There was hardly any of it to be found.
Interesting. And so, what's the plant like itself?
Is it more of a stocky one, as you just implied?
And what's the kind of the flavour and the high like?
Ours stands as we have a very old cutting that I started my job currently right now in
87. And my foreman at the time is where I got this.
And he had it at the time, growing in a quonset.
So, it puts it at over 33, 34 years old.
And the plant as it stands, these guys never cut.
It was a cutting and it's amazing.
They had been taking bottom cuts for decades on the plant.
And it started getting a lot of generational drift and getting really sluggish and
woodier and woodier.
And they didn't have any common sense to like regenerate that plant in the sun or, you
know, try to advance the upper growth and take cuts and get better, healthier cuts.
So, about a long time they grew it like that.
And it, you know, it's an indica and it once it or not an indica, it grows like it like
an aphi type of plant.
And it'll get real thick, solid base that could go to two and three inches even indoor.
It gets this monster base on it and it supports great, great amount of bud.
It's, you know, super crystally and it smells like sweet wine and sweet chocolate.
It's kind of a crazy combination because it's like sangria wine and Hershey's chocolate
bars with the turps on it.
It tastes like that too.
So, it's a real unique plant, but I've delving into it now by making bat crosses of
itself. And I dug into it and we're finding that the sativa hybrids are still in there.
Just it laid dormant in there.
Nobody really wanted to deal with it.
Now, there's a point to where I'd sent it to, you know, a couple of guys to play with
like dead pan head and two-tone willy.
And they came out with a lot more hybrid types, not as much as the standing aphi that she
is. So, and I have to, I've come up with really, really cool hybrids that and I've even
pulled pure skunk out of it.
I've collected a male that's just the heaviest pure skunk.
So, it's crazy to think what could really be dug up out of the Matanuska.
So, I guess kind of the last question on this one is, do you think that it was kind of
developed in like a communal sense, kind of in the way that like skunk was initially
developed? And if you had to take a guess, what do you think are some of the genetics in
there? I mean, you mentioned the Burmese and the aphi.
I would just equate it to being pure Trinity County and Humboldt.
The flavors are right there, real, real close.
When I used to, let's say 1980, you know, Humboldt, we would just get bud called Humboldt
at the same time. And it was just a really killer sweet aphi is basically what it was.
And you'd get some interesting turps every which way, but it wasn't super skunky or
anything. It was just like great, great flower, like the best cushions that you can get
now. And I think that's half of the genetics.
And then there has to be some tie in there in Burmese because what's coming out of it
now is pretty uniquely different than the way she stands.
Yeah, OK. Well, if we jump to another kind of old Australian that I know you've got in
the collection, tell us a little bit about your cat piss.
I wasn't aware that you actually had that one, but I am aware that they tend to, there's
a lot of them basically.
Your cat piss probably isn't the same as someone else's.
So, would you mind giving us a bit of backstory on your one?
Yeah, the cat piss just came our way from imported Puna bud that came shrink wrapped
from probably the very first coelomil in the world.
Right around 85, we were getting just some import bud from Hawaii of all things.
And it was some of the best flower that we've ever smoked to real comparable to, I would
say, what we would call Humboldt.
It was just a fantastic indica, though.
It was a cush.
But it had the craziest turps to it.
So we just bred it to Northern Lights and for years we had it.
And it is still a super unique type of a plant.
It's for whatever reason grows much more sativa.
It still have a very long middle finger that's about one third longer or two up to twice
as long as all the other fingers in the pattern.
And it'll grow into this crazy sativa looking bush.
And I've got it in a probably F2, F3 and then BXs and BX2, 3 and 4.
But I recently out crossed it to a really rank cat piss that came from California, Ohefe
Gardens.
He has a haze that was total cat piss, indica haze that is just about it'll make your eyes
water when you're dealing with it, when you're in the flower form.
So it's really pungent, ammoniated.
Ours is slightly sweeter, but super ammoniated.
So we couldn't help but put it together.
And I think there needs to be a lot more of the old fashioned combinations of that
terpene being brought back.
Our Hawaiian did have real unique thin leaves.
The leaf isn't thick like an indica leaf.
It's much thinner and it's a lighter green by far than most any indica.
But the bud that we did get for certain was a really good indica.
And that's what they called it too was Hawaiian indica.
So I've always just called it the Hawaiian indica.
But as I'm getting to do a lot more digging into it, I'm coming up with a lot more
sativa hybrids.
Yeah.
Okay.
Very interesting.
Quick shout out to El Jefe, great guy.
One thing I wanted to ask you, though, was that this idea of having these clones for
a while is pretty common within your collection.
How do you keep these clones for so long?
You know, it seems so common for people to just lose clones over the years.
And you've got like 30 plus year old clones.
You have to farm.
You keep about five plants with your trusted group.
And hopefully everybody can cover each other's bases.
Because certainly we've all had situations where we've lost our mothers.
And my biggest advantage to saving genetics was not necessarily keeping a clone alive
the whole time.
I have a lot of old, old, old cuttings.
But I've got a lot of old, old, old seeds.
We would produce it in the late 80s and early 90s.
And I would just preserve it.
And I can go back on it at any point in time and generally have a very high success rate
just to reproduce what we were dealing with 30 plus years ago.
Yeah.
Okay.
So, on the topic of 30 plus years ago, let's talk about that epic old school Northern Lights
freezer beans.
I know you've got a few different freezer beans.
But fill me in on this one because I believe your one was different to the one Coastal
worked with.
It is different and it's the same too.
What mine is, is 85, just the standby typical Northern Lights one that was going around.
And it was just fantastic in every way.
I still think if it came out today, it would just beat the shit out of cookies.
Everybody would just go, wow, such a complex old school high to it.
And then the flavors and the look and bag of peel covers anything that the cookies and
all of the thousand cookie crosses are.
So, I had the 85 cut.
And then in 89, we purchased the skunk.
I mean, sorry, the NL1 from Sensi.
And it was one of our four picks that year in 89.
And it's a three times inbred.
So, where his was, you know, back crossed to be extremely fast, 45 days, super stout,
super resistant to molds and almost a bulletproof type of a plant.
And I crossed the male to my female cutting and we just had seeds of it.
So, you know, I'd draw out the seeds for sure, but I crossed, I'd put them up to F2 and F3
and then I'd frozen a ton of it.
And what I think that Coastal, Kagyu's NL1 is the same thing.
I'm thinking it's the exact same 85 cut that I had, but different phenotype.
His has a lot of the terpenolene and spray paint phenos, but it still has the same,
everything on it is identical, the resin, the look, the structure.
It's a real unique type of plant that it's so strong and dominant that the single stemmed
capabilities can override everything that I've bred it to.
I don't think that I've ever seen anything ever be able to override the NL1 genetics.
Yeah, well, it says something for dominance and line breeding, right?
So, a question related to this I wanted to ask is when you were doing these early seed
increases or back crosses, F2s, etc., did you do kind of more open pollination types of
things or were you just selecting one male, kind of how more modern genetics is done?
We've always open pollinated if we can.
I mean, if there's only one male, if you end up with one male and you're going to
reproduce anything, you're going to use that male.
So, I've been at that point.
But every time that I can open it up, I won't open it up and use the weak genetics.
There might be a couple of real shitty males that just maybe, they might not even be
genetically inferior.
It might have been that they were lagging because they cracked later or they got more
shade. But I generally take like the top five to seven males every single time.
I'm also looking for a lot of high quality, lots of different qualities in the males.
But opening up a population is a lot better to me than just isolating it with one super
male. Yeah, of course, of course.
And so, do you remember the types of things you were selecting for back then?
And can you contrast that for us in terms of what are the traits you like to select for in
your male nowadays?
There's a big difference.
We were pretty idiotic, I should say, on our selections in the eighty, nine, ninety
years because I didn't realize the dominance in the hemp flower.
Everything that we're basically dealing with, if you're going back, you know, ten
thousand years, it's going to come down from a fiber wild strain of of flower.
And I realized and learned a whole lot in the first couple of years because we would
pick a super males, what we call a super male, the male that wants to dominate over
everything. It'll just be a foot taller.
It'll be about a week faster and in some cases twice as tall and three weeks faster than
other males. And we would think that male would just be the tits and we would grab it
and breed it. And I realized after three generations, four generations of doing that, we
had actually degraded the flower to become so dominant that you'd get long internodal
stretch.
It just basically was just reverting back to hemp.
And in the fourth generation of picking a super male like that, it basically, I think you
can turn a plant's genetics faster than anybody thinks you can.
And seven generations, you can make a plant just be whatever you want it to be.
That's really what we've come up with.
Yeah, yeah.
It's a commonly held view that, you know, if humans would have disappeared off the planet
and we left cannabis to do its own thing, we'd get back to hemp pretty quickly.
So, I guess that backs that idea.
Yeah. And on the contrast view, I've got a lot more insight on what, you know, what is
what. Each strain is going to be a lot of difference in their values.
And I realized that you want to get certain males for certain things.
And I do everything a whole different way now.
So, it's always just every day seems to be, you know, a new chapter and a learning
experience, which is one of the things I really love about it.
Yeah, sounds very humbling, like a lot of breeders say.
So, let's get a little bit specific.
What type of attributes or kind of tests, if you want to call it that, do you do on your
males? Are you like a stem rub guy?
You're more of like looking at the root zone.
What things help you identify a quality male?
I know most people are really, really big on stem rub.
My opinion on stem rub is that it's valuable, but it changes and you might find day to day
changes in males.
So, you can't go by stem rub.
So, I would just go on structure, the health of the plant, stem rub.
I will generally breed a plant and grow it completely out.
And instead of maybe reverse a male with floral or some other hormonal spray to test to
see what type of female type of traits it will throw, like what phenol it can possibly
throw for terps and the amount of crystal and structure.
That's one way to check.
But I just like to grow a male out and generally they at the sixth or tenth week, they're
going to go fully ripe on you and show you exactly what's available in the male.
So, I probably have five different real big criterias that they all go into play.
But definitely like to see the final product finished out.
Yeah, we've heard this sentiment echoed by a few different breeders and I think we've
only really had two, 707 Seedbank and gosh, the name is escaping me of the other breeder
who used the floral and reversed the male like what you said.
My question I love to ask in relation to that is, do you find that the terpene profile you
get off that reverse male is quite accurate and indicative of what it will pass on?
You know, that's a good one right there because you're inducing it.
So, you can change vegetables and fruits so much with any amount of hormones.
So, it's really not a super fair test is why I don't use the floral.
I mean, just think how much you can change ripening of any fruit or vegetable with
ethylene and gibberellic acids and that's right on the same line.
So, I think it's better to go on to a natural test than to rely on a hormonal change that
you created.
Yeah, okay.
And so, on the polar end of the spectrum, what do you feel is the role of labs within
breeding? Do you like to utilize any of their services or do you still kind of like to use
first principles?
Well, I'm a big advocate of analytical testing.
I mean, I think it's very, very important.
It's also a lot of times not financially viable.
So, since we are like crazy addicted to, you know, the whole thing of, you know,
since we are like crazy addicted to producing new strains and wanting to test them out at
80 to 150 dollars per test, which is real cheap compared to what I hear.
There's very high testing rates at other places.
Ours is relatively inexpensive.
But when you're doing 10 terpene tests or 10 potency and cannabinoid profiles, it's
$1500 out of your pocket just to get an answer.
So, it only makes sense so much.
But I would, if I had unlimited amount of money, I would probably put a lot of stock
into it.
Yeah, okay.
And so, maybe a bit of a redundant question, but have you ever utilized the whole, like,
you know, finding out the sex of seedlings when they're still just got their little
petioles or do you just think like, nah, just go old school, they'll show themselves soon
enough?
That's funny because we talk about that.
Quite a few people are starting to utilize the different testing services.
I know Phylos has it and Farmer John, I think, is one of them, or Farmer Freeman.
And I have never done that.
I prefer to just grow the male because I consider that there's some genetic potential.
It might only be 5% or something, but I still want to kind of like roll the dice and see
what's there.
I do, I have done about 80 analytical tests, though, on different plants.
So, I'm, like I said, I'm a big supporter of it.
I'm just not financially capable of constantly testing everything.
But when I do narrow something down and I have to know, we test it.
Yeah, yeah, good, good sentiment, definitely.
So, when you are testing out some seeds you've made, how many seeds you'd like to pop to
get a good idea of what's going on within the line?
I like, what I like and what I can do are way different.
I like to do 300 at like a minimum and then I get a pretty fair answer.
At a minimum 10 and that doesn't give you a whole lot of answers unless your genetics
are like super inbred or if they're so focused and you know exactly what they are, you can
get a lot, you can get a lot out of smaller batches.
Yeah, definitely.
So, this is a bit of a devil's advocate question, but let's just say you had a strain that you
were liking the results in terms of what you were finding inside of it, but you rather
consistently found that you get a hermey every say three packs, you know, one really
definitive hermey every 30 seeds.
Does that like rule it out for you or do you still think that there's potential, you just
maybe warn people that that is a possibility?
Like, how do you feel about that one?
That is a good question because I think that super worthy genetics would be, you know,
I don't think that that's going to be a problem, one in 30.
If you are, if the people that are getting the genetics from you are wanting it because
it's such a good plant, they are going to deal with it.
And, you know, a bunch of people that don't really know what they're doing and grow
kind of improperly or stress their gardens too much and might have high occurrences of
hermey, I would just talk to them ahead of time and, which is near impossible if they're
buying it out of a seed bank.
But if you tell them ahead of time what's going on, that's really not a bad number.
But if the genetics are just mediocre and you're getting that, it's totally unacceptable.
It should be standout genetics or the answer is no.
Well, that brings us to an interesting question.
How do you feel about strains that have a little bit of controversy surrounding them?
You know, I'm not super familiar because I'm not a I'm not the type of guy that
follows any drama.
And for a lot of time, I've dealt only with certain genetics.
So I wouldn't necessarily study or know a lot of people's creations or what they're
famous for or what they hurt somebody else's.
But or or, you know, I just don't keep up with it.
And I get told this by a couple of very knowledgeable young people that are like
strain fiends and they they just know everything.
So I I have no problem probably using somebody's genetics like that.
But I would want to go back to the person that they double crossed and I'd be straight
with them first because I'm not the guy that goes out.
I'll go out of this world with my name.
You know, that's basically it.
I'm not going to go around being talked bad about.
So I have no problem working certain lines, but I would avoid it if it's just too much
controversy. I don't see the value in it.
Yeah, most certainly, I mean, kind of the most high profile incidents of that is
RezDog. Are you familiar with that case and would you use RezDog's genetics if you had
something you liked?
That is a real good question there, too.
I am I'm getting old enough to quit being so spiteful, but I was for my whole life the
type that would cut off my nose to spite my face.
So I'm going to avoid a lot of situations and not not go to that point.
But I knew all about what happened with RezDog.
And then so that gives me a kind of a low opinion of the whole thing.
And somebody had sent me a pack of his AJ Sour Diesel V3.
So I grow this shit out.
Two of them are basically like they're not poly polypropyloid, but they oh, they were
like Horl Violet taxi.
And one was a Hermi and then the other two like such shit.
So RezDog can kiss my ass.
Sorry, you might have to edit that.
If you're happy with it, I'm happy with it.
That just kind of came out.
I told you that might come out something like that.
But, you know, I got to I got to hold people.
You know, for their standards and if your genetics suck and you're a piece of crap,
then, you know, that's just it.
Certainly know that a lot of people have done good with this is work.
Yeah, well, I mean, it's a great little segue onto Chemdog, you know, Chemdog is a
focal part of the show and indeed modern cannabis history.
Where does Chemdog sit in the grand scheme of things to you?
And do you have any plans to try to work with it going forward?
That might be the best question that you ask me, because I am I recently.
Met, say, you know, Lucky Dog, Skunk VA, and I've known I've known Duke for a while
and should Duke send me some Chem cross maybe a couple of years ago when I grew it.
And I didn't think too much of it.
I had never been experienced with Chem, period, at all.
And this is going to be a little bit harsh.
And I might get people to hate me because they're followers of the people.
But in in the high time San Bernardino Cup in 17, I wanted to get a handle on what Chem
was and the cat that I'm running around with his his I.G.
handles 907 Falconer 907.
And this kid has, you know, one hundred hundred fifty thousand to two hundred thousand
dollars worth of genetics that he's collected.
And he intends to maybe start up or using it someday.
I don't know what the hell he's doing with it now, but he's collected it.
And, you know, it's been a fortune to collect it.
So he knows every single person in and backstories.
That's who I go to for information.
And he's carrying me around.
And I go, I want to smoke some I didn't know what Gorilla Glue was or had a whole list
of stuff, I didn't have no idea what was so.
He went over to JJ at Top Dog, I do believe, and introduces and we are all
talking and JJ like had a pre-roll or something.
Maybe he rolled. I can't really remember because I'd smoke like 20 joints.
But we start smoking and it's my little partner, AK Rizzo and and Falconer and and
JJ and we're smoking up and man, the third or fourth hit around the big seed pops out
of that shit and it blows up like a grenade and which you don't normally see a lot of.
Usually you'll see him like fume out like a little volcano, but that shit popped and
it's like, oh, that's it's harsh and not nobody really wanted to smoke it.
And it's like, oh, no, we're going to go roll another one out of my stash.
Like, no, no, we're good.
You know, we rolled on and it's such a poor example of what my first my first chem dog
was like. Oh, so that's that's not really, you know, real happy feeling.
And then an emerald that same year, I was over there talking with he goes by Montana
Roy. Now, you know, Cody and yeah, over at Duke's and Duke disappeared, maybe to get a
smoke or something. And he goes, man, you you check out this chem dog or chem dog.
I think it was. But he gives us a bunch of his flowers.
He gave us like, you know, the killer flowers that that you're here, the like Dominion
skunk in the granny skunk and the local age.
And I think the Dominion or the capital G and he had such stinky ass, but Paul Kat and
he gave us some of that cam and I just sit right there and rolled it up and second or
third hit.
Of that shit going around, I realized what cam was, it's like, oh, it hit me between the
eyes and I was like, OK, it overrode probably 15 other things that smoked and I realized
that, you know, I'm pretty serious, pretty serious.
But so it's a good thing to judge by.
It's got rankness to it.
It's got bag appeal.
It's it's a good standard to compare a lot of things to, but I'm so inexperienced with it
first time ever that I was able to get my hands on it and do something with it was like,
you know, this year Emerald Skunk V.A.
gave me a nice handful of the crossroads cam and we were smoking the shit out of it.
It's really great. But so I like it a lot, but I'm not going to go down that road.
What could I do with cam that hasn't been done?
And then there's people that are specializing in it.
So there's no sense in, I wouldn't say competing with them because I don't I don't necessarily
compete with people.
I'd make something equally as good and then, you know, share it with them.
But I'd say that there's a lot of people specializing in cam and I don't need to go down
that road at all.
And that's a really kind of mature mindset to have and definitely a huge shout out to Cody
and Skunk V.A.
I love all the Skunk Fam crew.
Just out of curiosity, do you remember which cam you tried?
Was it the 91 or maybe the D?
It was cam D, that's what it was.
I'll tell you what, there was a couple of people standing there on that third round when the
joint came back and they backed out and didn't take a fourth drag off of it because the
shit was starting to affect them heavily.
So that's a good that's a real good standard to go by.
That's what I think.
Yeah, certainly.
And I mean, it's probably a bit of a no brainer, but if anyone, including yourself, ever
gets the chance to try some 91 from Skunk V.A., do not pass up that opportunity.
Oh, I would put it in my library and I think I've been offered.
You know, he was he's always been really a great guy, I don't know him super well, but
he's always been super generous and offered me things, but I never took him up on it.
But I would keep it in my library.
And I guess that finest cut that was going around the cam, what was it, cam D at the
Emerald this year. I know a couple of people that grabbed that.
So I might snatch that up, even though it's not the 91.
Yeah, I mean, the D is really comparable to the 91 in many ways.
I always thought of it as though it's not quite as potent, like maybe if the cam 91 is
kind of like a hundred out of a hundred in potency, the cam D is like somewhere between
90 to 95.
But the taste and the yield are much better.
So commercially it kind of makes a bit more sense.
Yeah, well, I know Mr.
Bob grabbed up one of them.
He said his was doing real good and he was going to prove it out.
But I had heard from second hand sources that P-Bud Mike confirmed that that was the real
cam D. So I don't think you can go wrong.
Yeah, it's hard given there's so many different cam D's, at least three I know of.
And there's varying voices vouching for each.
But I mean, heck, if P-Bud Mike is vouching for one, that definitely stands for something.
Well, I heard it second hand, so I can't say.
But, you know, I was real lucky to be in the middle of a conversation with Skunk V.A.
Tommy and Duke and a couple of the other guys that were actually at Emerald and A.K.
Rizzo. And I happened to just pop in at that moment.
And Duke grabs up Skunk V.A.
and tells him to come over because they're going to settle this thing right now on
Providence on who had what on this cam D.
So it's like, oh, I need to hear this.
And Duke's going, I don't know, this is kind of private conversation.
So we instantly just sucked up like flies on the wall and listened to it.
And at that point, it's so valuable to get, you know, five of people that are like,
you know, the holders of it.
And then all you hear is, well, I got it in 91.
You gave it to him in 93.
It came from him. OK, you're right.
It did. That's the exact source.
I'm wrong. And then shit just gets squared out right then and there.
And the Providence is like so well set on it.
That's one of the best things about that right there.
I'm really, I really, really get lucky to get a hang with guys like that.
Yeah, yeah, most certainly.
I've been really grateful to have had a few conversations like that.
I remember the first time I was at Emerald Cup, just out of nowhere, Not So Dog kind of
tapped me on the shoulder and introduced himself.
And it was like, oh, awesome.
He's able to reveal a few things to me, which was very interesting because he's tied into
more things than you might know of.
You know, it's funny with him that I've got friends that had used him as good, good
friend and librarian and holder of Keeper's Trains.
And he is the further I see.
He's got his hands all over.
You know, I've got a really good friend that knows him, but that's who held El Jefe's
that Hayes Cactus and El Jefe did not have it.
And during the fire, lost everything.
So they thought it was gone forever, but Not So Dog held it.
And Sativa Seed Stash Leaf, he was able to go snatch that that thing up, get the cutting
up. So now El Jefe's got his cat piss either coming back to him or has it back.
And it's so valuable to have somebody like Not So Dog holding, you know, might be years
later. But when it comes into play, it's an incredible value to everybody involved.
Yeah, most certainly.
And so him and Bob Hemphill, I think, in my mind, are the two really notable librarian
figures, so to speak.
If we just jump over to Bob for a minute, I noticed on your Instagram feed you've got
some MTF cross NL1.
And I think you mentioned in the comments it was given to you by Bob.
Was that the case or was it like you did he make it and give it to you or did you make it
and do something with it?
How does that all tie together?
No on that.
That's my MTF and my NL1.
I have given Bob my MTF and he could certainly have my NL1 or close to the standing what
I have right now to it with no problem.
But that's just something that I made up.
I had to use NL1 to I had to do something to get seeds for Matanuska Thunderfuck.
And there's really no better choice.
So that's what I used.
Yeah. OK.
So I mean on that same kind of train of thought, your feed, it's essentially like a gold
mine in terms of all the different genetics on there.
And the next thing which popped up to kind of sprick my ears up was the Northern Lights
Hayes hybrids. I think they were TK Northern Lights Hayes hybrids.
What's the backstory behind that and what do you want to kind of do with those?
I'm glad you're that observant.
I know if I knew what you know at your age, like you're an incredible human being,
especially for your age.
I value you a lot.
So just you have insight beyond a lot of others.
And that being said, that's a real, real, real special thing right there that the TK
NL5 Hayes, we've been able to work with it for a long time.
My original Waco in the 80s, we never knew what it was.
It was a local plant, but it has to be NL5 Hayes.
We never knew. It looks every single thing about it, like the cover photo of the 8990
Cenci catalogs.
And we didn't buy it from Novell because it looks so ratty on the cover photo, funnier
than shit that we would pass on something to do the books.
But I've been able to get NL5 Hayes from.
I think Mean Gene grew some in 98 from a friend of his in England, so might have been his
first breeding or first could have been his first breeding.
I know it was his first NL kind of cross.
So he did a seed increase and he gave me some of that seed.
And then when I grew on, I.
I thought they were pretty cool, they're super NL5 dominant, but I just recently crossed
that TK NL5 Hayes male to that NL5 Hayes to kind of do a back cross on it and go that
route. But as it stands, TK NL5 Hayes is.
And this is going to go on record, but this is the the finest and best and strongest
cannabis that I have come across in two decades.
Wow, that's a big time.
Yeah, I hate to I hate to go around and keep repeating myself, but I have told all my
local old heads, my partners and all my testers all are on board and 100 percent don't.
They they're not taking anything for granted on the deal.
But I've sent it out to a bunch of people that are they need to be amazed.
And if you did get sent the TK NL5 Hayes, I don't care if it was the NL dominant or the
TK Hayes dominant or a cross of it, I wouldn't sleep on it because it.
Oh, man, going out on a limb here, but I do believe it's all of what Kim ever was and
it tastes better.
Yeah, well, that's exciting.
Just quickly, I just want to say thanks so much for those kind words.
I really appreciate that.
But I guess does it go without saying that this is the next type of line you're looking to
work more or has already been done?
You know, it's been done, but I just don't see where this bottleneck that's created with
one thousand cookie strains is going to go from here.
It's not going anywhere.
It's it's going to revert back to a lot of heirloom.
And I say even a lot of land-based genetics are going to get re-added back for a lot of
different reasons.
Might not be uncontrollable, hard to grow wild strains, but there's going to be a lot more
need to to try to break the bottleneck.
And it has been done 10 ways to Sunday for sure.
I know five Hayes, but if you consider it like this, one of the one of the most
knowledgeable and trustworthy and old heads that are out there, be Ed Rosenthal, you know,
he he had a good opinion of NL5 Hayes being the most potent smoke that he'd ever come
across. And it was like his favorite, you know.
And then if you go on facts like Dynasty Relic Seeds has a he has a 27 percent 19 year
old cut of the cough.
And I'm imagining it is the Fort Collins cough or the you know, it was it was named the
cough, but it was, I think, in probably produced right out of Fort Collins.
But I've heard it called the Texas cough and other things, too.
But it is the same thing.
And that's an outstanding NL5 Hayes.
So I was able to send pollen of my TK NL5 Hayes to Relic and he got a breeding done.
And being the gentleman that he is, he sent me one over half of all of the seeds, which
just, you know, totally amazes me.
I probably I could probably shout out to him as being one of the more heartfelt people
that I've come across in the industry.
So he's he's a really good guy.
But we created a monster right there that.
It's something else.
So that's something in the works.
But the TK NL5 Hayes, I'm going to work at 10 ways to Sunday right now and.
It's going to be the next thing if you if you got a high if you have a high tolerance to
most profiles right now.
This will take care of the problem.
It's you know, it's a 20 second onset type of a plant that hits you like a brick and
it's not that dizzy, spacey high like the Durban tie high flyer or tie or Durban or
any of the super heady like flying your head on a kite string type of thing.
This stuff hits you like way different.
It's an anti it's a dial vasculator very, very, very heavily as like a medical
dial vasculator.
So you get zero blood pressure in your brain.
So if you're smoking a big head of it, hold it.
It could it could floor you.
Many, many, many people busted their heads on coffee tables or or whatever hard object
that's nearby.
It's a dangerous animal.
And it's no joke.
I've told this like a bunch of people and they just like in one ear and out the other
because they don't think such things exist.
But I think that in in the Bell's description of the NL five, he said experienced smokers
were, you know, having urination and defecation and they lose bodily control over smoking
this shit. It's a fact this stuff does medical properties beyond any normal weed.
So it is definitely something that I'm going to dig dig a 10 foot ditch into.
Yeah, I can 100 percent attest to some of those claims, certainly certainly not the
the loss of bodily function.
But I mean, when I was at Bodie's place most recently, I was lucky enough to try some C5
Hayes, which is the Neville's Keeper cut of Northern Lights Hayes.
And Jesus, I've never been that high before.
It's truly something special.
So I'm going to have to chase you up on your one because that's that's truly interesting.
But now is the time for us to shower our buddy Dr.
P in some love.
You know, how did you first get introduced to Dynasty Genetics and what's your favorite
strain by them? Wow, that's that's that's a good one.
I was totally disconnected from Internet for 20 years, so I was anti and
when I did realize, let's say about 12 or 13 years ago, really, I realized that there
was so many forums and that there was on those forums, it was like seed bank
information. And once I started, I had a dozen favorites and all of it was I started
to be get addicted to it.
And it's it's something that happens to everybody.
Right. But then I started to see opinions on what was what.
And I did buy some old seed stock right then.
But the professor P and Dynasty came along about.
Maybe maybe about four years ago, but Rocky Mountain Seed Bank, I just saw that they
had a release of of platinum Huckleberry cookies and I'd never seen cookies.
I heard about it and I thought I would never want to have nothing to do with it because.
People are saying it's a low yielding super elite and, you know, I'd like to let it go.
It's run its course.
I'd like to, you know, 10 years later I might pick it up.
So that one sounded real interesting.
And I just got a pack of that from the Rocky Mountain Seed Bank.
I don't even know that that's an existing seed bank right now.
It was a little tiny man and wife operation, I think, but they treated me super right.
And seeds made it.
I grew them. I got everything on it was awesome.
I got to OG KB dominant versions, a super male and a super female.
The male like turned super black.
Tons of resin, probably the nicest OG BK, I mean, KB type of plant that I've come across for a male.
And then the females were just like super good.
So for three or four years, I I've just been in love with.
I don't even know how I might have shouted him out one time and he hit me back on a Friday night and told me to chill and have a good weekend and.
Slowly, we kind of talked and.
He no, whatever it boiled down to, we became friends and.
He's a stand up guy, so not enough can be said about him being a good guy.
Yeah, and I agree, I've got so much love for that guy.
I probably can't put it in words, but I guess kind of by virtue of what you said, the Platinum Huck is your favorite strain from them.
I can't say that now.
You know, he is.
The pineapple fields is outstanding, everything that he's made, got something special going on.
The blue magoo was really nice.
I know that the Huckleberry, the what is it?
I've got about a pack of everything that he has.
He had sent me. But the vanilla cherry cookies is off the hook.
Really a good keeper, really good smoking.
So I don't I don't think that I really have a favorite of his.
I think that he has proven all of his to be really well.
There's not like no duds in it.
So each one has a pretty good thing going for him.
Even, you know, everything he crosses is pretty well thought out and done up right.
So his males are outstanding and then his females, you know, speak for themselves.
So. But I tend to smoke a lot of that.
I do smoke a lot of the Platinum Huckleberry cookies.
Of course, of course, just as a little personal thing, I've grown the Platinum Huckleberry cookies out before and I loved it.
Something I noticed was it's such a short, stocky plant, you know.
Did you have any tips to how to get around that?
Because I just I could never get it to stretch at all.
You know, that cookies was so dominant.
We have the opposite with one of ours.
It has to be caged.
It'll have 20, 20 and 30 tentacle branches that want to go.
It'll go off like nuts.
So I've crossed it with things like Lemon Tree and Central Core with strong centers and slower growing to to just slow it down.
But we have one that it's OG, KB dominant.
It just grows nice central.
You can make it to be six and eight tops easy enough and real easy to grow and fast growing.
So now is that was the version one.
The V3 now is a stockier, slower growing one at Bush here.
But he says that it dominates more towards the Oregon Huckleberry.
So it's faster in flower and a little bit better flavor towards the Huckleberry.
But it's slow.
I have some four month old that are just stocky as hell.
They're wanting to look like like little trees.
So it's slower.
If you think yours was slow, I don't know that it was the V3.
It's it's you can you can hang ornaments on it when it's Christmas time, though, because it's that sturdy.
Oh, yeah. No, I definitely, definitely had that nice, strong branching for sure.
And I should clarify.
I didn't mean that in a particularly negative way.
I just was kind of wondering if you had any tips or tricks for it.
But on that same line of topic, I noticed you have a little sub forum on Matt Riott's forums.
That's an interesting one.
How do you strike up your friendship with Matt?
We love Matt on the show.
We're always interested to hear how people met him.
That is a good one, too, because I didn't know who he was and.
You know, I think he oh, I know how is that I had, you know, I had offered a little bit on the
Instagram of the old seed catalog collections and he, you know, being that he's got the history
and at least like I'd say 14 going back 15 years, even working with Nivelle and and, you know,
the whole backstory there.
It he hit me up with them catalogs and it's like, wow, old head.
I imagine this this dude's 50 years old and old head.
He wasn't what I you know, when you when you meet him face to face, he's certainly not what what your
first impressions are.
But I asked Falconer, my my buddy, who's the he's the go to for information.
That's who's this right.
Can you go, oh, man, that guy, man, he got a lot of controversy, man.
He'll bring up.
But he's honest and he's straight and you put you put you put a motherfucker on blast.
Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
And it's like, like, OK, I need to check one of these live feeds out.
This cat has and he shouts me out big time on there for for the catalogs.
And it went from there.
He sent me, you know, a ton of seeds and a bunch of packs of like reservoir strawberry diesel
F3s or whatever the shit that Bruce Banner came out of, you know, he sent me packs and packs of
it. It's like, well, I thought maybe you'd want to sell it or auction it off or something.
And it's like, oh, he is a good guy.
He'll he'll stand up for the right.
And and that's it.
If if your shit needs to go on blast, that's the guy to talk to because he's knowledgeable and
he's a dick.
But man, he's a dick in a good way.
Yeah, I love I love Bode's analogy.
He says he's like the pit bull and we need the pit bull to go off at people sometimes.
Yeah, people, that's the best analogy and from a good guy, too, because you think about it.
Bodie is too nice of a guy and people might I'm not going to say that he's non-confrontational.
He might know he might be a seventh degree black belt for I know and like kill you in two seconds.
But I don't think that he's going to go bust in somebody's balls because they did him wrong.
And then, you know, Matt ain't going to let that shit happen.
So he'll go out of his way to, you know, make shit right.
And I know for sure there's another side of that.
And a lot of people take it or leave it.
I don't give a fuck what they think about me.
So I just kind of like to stay straight with everybody.
But shit, Matt's a good guy to go to for knowledge.
And he's way more into the breeding knowledge for fems and stuff.
So if I have any kind of questions and shit like that that I need to know,
I would be right to him on that.
Yeah, I definitely wanted to add we definitely get Matt back on the show for a catch up.
He's always got some funny anecdotes to say.
But just looping back to a different post I saw on your Instagram,
I noticed that Professor P had sent you some kind of CBD stuff from the new Relic lines.
And I noticed that you mentioned you've got your own kind of CBD thing going.
Would you mind telling us a bit about your CBD project?
Yes, it's pretty ongoing and, you know, getting to be widespread because basically
in about March of 17, I was like affected very badly by something.
I didn't know what it was.
We'd done, you know, literally a thousand tests.
I thought I might be dying from heavy metal poisoning from painting cars for 30 years.
Or I thought I might just be dying from whatever.
I was dying.
So we got it diagnosed after tons of trying and it just turned out to be a form of RA.
And it's called polyarthritis.
So it's like one of the worst forms of RA.
It just hammers your joints.
So I was about 80% disabled.
It was it was it was ugly.
I mean, no putting on.
I couldn't do my belt or put on socks or shit.
That was it was bad.
I'd rather just about roll up in a ball and fucking die because of pain.
And we ended up getting it into remission.
I went to a specialist and put first my doctor just put me on, you know, opiates and fucking.
Methotrexate?
Not methotrexate at that point.
It's gonna be steroids because he's like a general practitioner.
Yeah.
So we got I went to the rheumatologist and he gets me straightened out off of
told me to suffer it out, swell up like hell, come back in pain, and then he'll tell me what's up.
And we did go straight for he tried two or three different little concoctions and nothing worked.
He instantly gets me on an injection of methotrexate and then a deloxetine, which is like a
a pain blocker, but it's more it's diagnosed for depression.
So it just makes you happy about your fucking arthritis.
So it might be the better drug.
But yeah, methotrexate puts that and get it in remission to where I could go back to work.
And I worked through the whole time, but it was brutal.
You know, it was it was truly one of the harder things I've done in my life.
And I realized that CBD could take that swelling out like crazy.
So I was buying and checking out different CBD flowers and we ended up trying ACDC and Pennywise.
I think that North Star might have been who was breeding it for subcooled,
but I've tried a couple of different ones.
And it turned out that the stuff had an actual medical effect to it.
And my wife has Crohn's disease, fierce and has had a ileostomy.
So if she has like a terrible flare up, the stuff could work wonders for
internal inflammation reduction and such a good thing CBD.
So I realized that it's some road that we have to go down.
And then I started collecting a bunch of the best examples that I can get.
So, you know, ACDC, I got a decent 20 to one.
I got a couple from the nature farm, API, apathetic purple indica to 15,
three to 15. Everybody always says 15 to one.
You know, they got it backwards.
So I generally say it the way it's supposed to be.
It is a three to 15.
And I got Canada, Montana from King J out of out of Montana there.
His Canada, Montana is a really nice one.
But we've probably got 15 different ones.
So Willie G's Lebanese, the thing can go easy one to 20.
And, you know, monster Lebanese plants that can just be crazy,
have all the good things of the wild Lebanese.
And I don't know if it'll adapt well to the indoor gardens, but that and that Charlotte's
gift from Relic that you mentioned that Charlotte's gift is, you know, Charlotte's web and
Ringo's gift. I think he has it to an F3 when he gave it to me.
So I asked him if he minded that, you know, we use the males and, you know, he's 100 percent
doesn't doesn't care.
And again, he's the best guy in the world.
But that's going to be one of the components.
So my goal is to just make something that's about 10 to 20.
I'd be to me a one to two.
And then I want it to be something that makes me happy, which would be the main goal with
most people smoking flower.
Right. You definitely want something pleasurable.
Yeah, of course.
So what do you predict will be the future of the CBD orientated strains, especially given
there's this sentiment within the community that the kind of the patients who are really in
need of the CBD have kind of been left behind now that legalization has come and passed?
That's a that's a real problem because it has come to that CBD flowers, not something
that people.
You know, I always think indoor growing, but down down in a lot of areas, it's legalizing
now that they're not relying on indoor growing, they're relying on light or greenhouse or
outdoor growing and they won't owe much or any of their time and genetics or garden or
whatever it takes to make a decent amount of medicine.
So it's going to just boil down to large industrial hemp type of operations for people to get
medications.
I'm not thinking that it's the worst thing in the world because it's come a long way.
And the CBD plants that I'm going to give another shout out right now, and this is a
good one to do it to.
It's a Cloud Co.
Farms on Instagram has a full spectrum CBD that's available and they have their own products.
It is it's all packaged and for sale in individual doses and at retail shops.
But they're also a company that's willing to sell at the wholesale level and in fairly
small doses, you can buy a 100 gram.
That's probably the lowest price break that you get.
But 100 grams of their full spectrum distillate is $10 a gram.
And it's one of the best medicines I've ever come across.
It actually has a fairly high amount of THC in it where if you're not a smoker, you're going to be
much more recreationally medicated than you're wanting.
And it is just enough to make the CBD work.
And it also has every other cannabinoid in it and the terpenes.
So their product is one of the best I've ever come across.
They're not out to be the corporate king and they've expanded from one size operation to the
next without killing the little guy and leaving the opportunity open.
And I do believe last year he planted almost 100 acres.
It went from a small deal, but he still has his indoor greenhouse over the winter.
And he's showing 100% love 100% of the time.
As long as he can sustain that, guys like that are where all of the
medical benefits are going to end up.
It's not going to be flower for the people, but it's still going to be a high quality,
full wide spectrum cannabinoid distillate.
He has isolate also, but isolate doesn't work the same as distillate.
And the full spectrum is better than anything.
There's a lot of value to people like that.
Yeah, well, you just banged out my next question, which was going to be,
what do you think is the most medicinal of all the type of full spectrum extract, etc, etc?
That thing contends with anything because it's such a good high quality product.
Say that you're into extracts and you might do dabs on a quartz dab rig or something.
It tastes really good and it's a very quick onset medically when you're doing a dab.
The length of it isn't going to last you as long, but his products are so good that it tastes great
and you'd near grab the wall.
It's very potent, so I wouldn't say you could comfortably,
most people wouldn't want to work and be doing a bunch of dabs of it.
It's that potent on the wide cannabinoid, full spectrum side of it.
It's the best medicine, but it's also a really good mixture to where it really does work.
I wouldn't say a perfect because somebody in a lab is definitely going to make something that
can get right past the blood brain barrier and be the top of the line through lab work and
engineering, but for just a natural product, it's pretty top of the line.
I've never met anybody that doesn't get on board when they find out about it.
Yeah, okay.
Sounds like good advice.
So, if we just loop back to a topic we were talking about before, I remember you were
talking about cookies, where do you think it'll go?
I noticed that you've been working with this F3 Durban and my thoughts are now that you've
played with the Durban a bit, are you more convinced or less convinced that it's actually
a part of the cookie genetic makeup?
I'm convinced that it's nothing to do with it.
My Durban is not their Durban for sure, and there's plenty of different Durbans, but
this is original SSSC's Durban stock and I could breed it 10 ways to Sunday and I don't
believe I'm getting cookies.
So, I think that maybe cookies is probably just like Hindu Kush and Northern Lights,
and that's probably really all it is.
Yeah, certainly that Hindu Kush idea has been thrown around a bit, especially given that
you can get these kind of real savory bakery shop type of things out of Hindu Kush easily.
That and my NL1 leaf pattern in its extreme form is identical to the most extreme OGKB
leaf pattern.
So, if I can go back to 1985 and have a leaf pattern with shit loads of fucking photographic
evidence and I can reproduce it right now on an OGKB, it tells me a lot.
Yeah, most certainly.
I think Inspector from CSI has said something along those lines about when you do S1's of
Mendoperps, you likewise get that same phenotype and Mendoperps is, sorry, not Mendoperps,
Purple Urkel, my apologies.
When you S1 Purple Urkel, you get that OGKB pheno and I don't think anyone would deny that
Purple Urkel's probably got some NL or some pure Afganica in it, right?
I would say it has to.
I've never been, I could think of 10 strains straight up that I didn't have experience with
because I never made it up here during the, I'd say, 85 to 2005.
So, if it wasn't in my hands, I didn't need it.
I'm that kind of guy that doesn't look for a greener pasture and very happy with what
I'm working with.
So, I never saw Purple Urkel until, I mean, the very first time I had anything to do with
was 12 years ago with Querkel and that's half Purple Urkel and then since then I've heard
stories that have been put out that it wasn't even half Purple Urkel, that it was a lavender
hybrid.
So, I had no experience with Purple Urkel but recently I did and do have and it's a
real unique plant.
The leaves want, mine want to point upwards all the time.
It has a very NL dominant leaf pattern even though it'll go to like, easily go to 11 fingered
leaves and I never got 11 fingered leaves ever off of NL.
But it's a super unique type of plant so it's coming down from that line.
It's crossed to something though so, and it happens to be that mine is a F2 of the CSI's
Purple Urkel too.
So, but it's a fantastic thing that he preserved and has passed on too.
It's, it smells good in bed.
It's one of the things like, like I'll go back to, I like weed that it's pleasurable.
That's like most of the reason that I make flour and love flour because I love to be
pleased by good flour.
I love smoking it.
So, I can't wait until I have big piles of that Purple Urkel flour.
Yeah, yeah, definitely.
The, that end feeling of consuming the flour is definitely, definitely worth the effort
but you brought up an interesting point, you know, as time goes by there's certainly
been at least in the past year or so, a bit of controversy surrounding TGA and our buddy
Subcool.
But with that being said, you know, I think most people have a strain that they hold somewhat
near and dear that comes from TGA.
Like for me personally, I got a brilliant, I got two brilliant cuts of Chernobyl that
I just adore.
I'll never, never give them up no matter how much controversy surrounds the name.
Do you have anything like that, that you know, near and dear to your heart from TGA?
You know, I do.
I have a lot of love for old TGA because they, they put some really good combinations together.
I think that Blood Wreck was probably the best thing that they made and things down
from Blood Wreck are off the hook.
I was, I was completely blown away when I was able to get Crazy Dream, original Crazy
Dream about, it was about 11 years ago and I think I got it from the, the Hemp Depot
of all places because that place is shady as shit and the, what I got was good and I
fell in love with TGA because of that.
I also had Space Jill at the time, the actual, what they called Space Jill and that's what
they were selling it as and it was exactly like their description.
It's a little bit too much of a biomass for me but still it was a great producer.
So I crossed it to Chocoloat.
This is a long time back now, going on at least 11 years and I crossed that to Chocoloat,
that Space Jill and I call it Tropoloat.
That's a fantastic thing that I've made.
I just recently passed that down to Miss Jill and she didn't want it when she was
with TGA and they were doing their own thing.
But another really, really impressive thing that TGA, they had a limited release of
Locomotion, it was called by Heroes of the Farm and Pat did a really good job making
that.
It's Blue City Diesel bred to Time Wreck and I don't know how many packs went out
but I guess quite a bit.
I was at Subcool's house in 17 in the summer and he was opening a box that came in from
Pat and had 20,000, one Ziploc bag had 20,000 Locomotion seeds in it but he also had quite
a few backups of a couple others but the total at $2 a seed it was a $60,000 check
he had to cut over to Pat.
So, I mean that's his personal business, I shouldn't be talking about it but I know
that quite a bit of that Locomotion seed was produced and still is getting produced but
they had it understated on their profile and I instantly told Subcool that that thing
had to be changed to over the top, over the top turps and I don't know if it's all good
coming from the Blue City Diesel or if it's the mix with the Time Wreck but that's something
that I can't live without on a daily basis too.
I keep it at all points in time since I've got it and I breed it quite a bit because
it's one of my only true purples, I get insane color from it but the flavor and the high,
it only tested out at, I had a couple of them I tested analytically, one was 13.8, that's
the one I keep but the terpenes were very high on it and with the profile of the terpenes
and that cannibal is the way they are, it hits like a 25% of anything that just has
that THC spike and it's a pretty great thing so TJ has put in their time whether they've
kind of gone and done different things than they've done in the past and you follow them
or not, there was a lot of good value to it.
If you find an old package of like 05 third dimension, I would certainly crack it so
there was a lot of good stuff.
Oh yeah, some of that Apollo work they did was definitely of value but while we're on
the topic, what are some of your favorite old school seed companies, whether they be
around anymore, it doesn't matter, they might be defunct, they might be still operating
but what are some of the old ones you loved?
That's kind of weird for me because for 20 years I didn't know that they existed and
when I did find out about 12 years ago that the internet was available, I mean I was like
I could give a shit about the internet.
I basically want to live my life and never have to ever go on it and now I utilize it
for Instagram and if I had to order something off of Amazon, it's pretty handy or look up
a strain review, you can find out some instant information.
Other than that, I don't need it so when I did find out there was companies available
and I dipped into it a little bit, one of the first things I liked was DNA, I like the
idea of that pure sativa and it turns out whether people, there's controversy behind
that like crazy too saying they stole their lines and lied about what it was and this
and that and makes me want to have to discount them and then now what they're doing,
they've blown up so big now that I can't follow somebody like that or even I can't give them
any love.
I still have a ton of chocolate, I mean thousands of seeds of it and then projects of it that
I still keep in cut form 10, 12 years.
My crazy train, I mean my skunk cabbage is TGA and DNA, that's crazy train and chocolate
and it's the thing that I go to, it's my go to to get stoned when other things wouldn't
get me high.
And so that question's hard for me.
I go back to seed companies that I love, it would only probably be SSSC and you know the
seed bank.
I didn't have no contact for a long time after that and then modern guys, I love Dominion,
he doesn't put anything out that isn't worthy and I love you know Dynasty and I can think
of probably 20, you know Mean Gene, those guys, they just don't cut corners and that's
who I'd say I love as seed producers but that's a hard question for me.
Yeah okay, so I guess if I'm going to play devil's advocate here, how do you feel European
genetics in general have influenced the world stage and how do you feel about them now in
terms of their overall state of affairs?
Well I think that through the very first wave of it, it was really good influence for the
whole entire world, the best influence that could be but within 10 years there was more
industry infiltration from, they've taken proprietary genetics back and forth, stealing
them and backstabbing because everybody was trying to get something in the only legal
market in the world.
So through that they'd either misread, lied and you know it came about to water down their
genetics severely so the state of European genetics was a gold mine that could have been
tapped and still there are some holdouts of it but I do believe that it's not compared
to, it's never been compared to Alaskan genetics, there's no possible way it ever could
because the morals were just like completely different and we were breeding for ourselves
and they were supplying the world so they didn't give a shit, they were making money
and I think it weakened the world state of cannabis fiercely over the last decade especially
at least from 05, I mean it was garbage in 05, Euro trash, I hate to say it and be so
harsh on the people because you know there's some good breeders and they're still putting
in good work and there are guys that are still doing some pretty good out there.
I personally know them and or I know some companies that are working like through Spain
just because it's the only legal outlet and they're putting in a lot of love and I can
say that they're trying to clean up what Europe watered down and spread out.
So how do you feel about kind of some of the European breeders most notably strain hunters
having gone into these land race areas and traded European genetics for the indigenous ones?
Oh I gotta say Franco was on the right path and I think they did a lot of bad along with good,
they certainly didn't hunt in the very good spots, they didn't do a real thorough selection
and did not hunt in the right spot so if they watered down stuff by bringing in European stuff
they probably didn't like do so much detrimental alteration because they never were in the right
spots in my opinion and half of that team was all about money the other one was all about
you know cannabis. Yeah okay and how do you feel smoking cannabis in conjunction with tobacco
affects it? Do you feel it really doesn't make too much of a difference or do you feel like it does
kind of detract or add to things? That's a good question because it's so popular with
people making you know using tobacco wraps and I think I've smoked three of them in my life.
I don't go straight up for tobacco wraps and I got a lot of respect for the people that do,
I don't see a problem with it, makes my throat kind of harsh and tickle a little bit and I'm
an anti-tobacco advocate so I'd say natural, wholesome, good, old-fashioned,
heirloom Indian tobacco that's a whole different thing and I know in different parts of the world
they certainly do just straight up mix tobacco and hash or tobacco and cannabis and that's just
their system and that's their style but I wouldn't be able to hang with those guys.
Shit, I'd be greener in hell and tobacco just doesn't do me any good.
Yeah no I can relate on that one, I'm fairly anti-tobacco myself but something I do like
to point out to try to show that it's not a one-sided view is like there's actual
studies done which show that when you mix tobacco with cannabis it actually results in a greater
amount of THC being released and essentially not combusted so it's scientifically proven you get
more high from smoking with tobacco so I always try to keep that in mind whenever I get on my
high horse. You know I don't want to discount anybody that does roll a blunt, I could say I've
been floored by fuckers that bust out the blunts, you know one of them is down at Emerald, Tony he
has, oh man it's slipping my mind, his extract company, he's hooked up with the pharmacy factory
a little bit but shit that cat, he'd roll up a blunt, the weed was just super really good but it
was the right kind of blunt because it wasn't super annoying to me and we had super pleasurable
time smoking it but then I've smoked some bad, a couple of like I don't know what it is, the
wrap or whatever but man not as pleasurable so I certainly don't have nothing against it, I'd grow
my own tobacco in a second if I just for the look of it, it's a cool looking plant, I know a lot of
I love plants so we are so limited on shit I might even grow a big patch of tobacco this
summer right next to like a batch of hops. Yeah nice, nice, the old backwoods they're
an interesting kind of phenomena taking over but you touched on the perfect point I wanted to go
to next, given you live in this rather remote place and it's hard to grow things outdoors,
what type of things do grow well outdoors like I mean and in terms of cannabis, do you still
see ruderalis on the side of the road type of thing or was that more of like a myth than a reality?
No I don't think there was ever wild ruderalis up here ever, I came across plants in the 90s
that we don't know where the ruderalis gene came from because I had bought in the 90s,
I bought the skunk one and the indica ruderalis from Sensi seed bank and we tried to grow it up
here, it's like smoke you know it's like at its first stages it was ruderalis skunk so you're
going to get one or two that tasted with some decent smells and rust were cardboard but there
was never a wild strain up here. We've been able to do a lot of environmental kind of studies by
pushing plants to the end of the year and where I'm at at this exact latitude we know a mild
winter we can get five weeks into flower and shit it's just that close to finishing so if somebody
was to tweak it or say use an auto, not an auto flower because I'm friends like crazy with Mephistos
and I grow a lot of his auto flowers, his stuff's a whole different thing and it does work up here
but they just get done super quick and they're not like other places they just do their thing.
I want to have something like a semi auto that would flower before the light is telling it to
maybe start triggering at 16 hours instead of the slowly 14 hour trigger and then we'd have two
weeks advance on it and because I think maybe their Arrheniath auto is something like that,
it's a pseudo auto and I've got some blueberries like that too so we're experimenting and who knows
we might alter the course of the cannabis to meet our environment here if we keep playing with it.
Yeah I mean it's interesting that you bring up blueberry because I see that you've worked with
it you and gave me a pack of seeds as a blueberry hybrid and I'm interested what's your impression
of the strain and are you kind of a DJ short fan in general? You know I'm not an anti-DJ short
but I have never never grown his strains ever. I think what I gave you was a blueberry nine
pound hammer and we proved that pretty well in a grow in LA that was for Avid which was
a pretty big aeroponics company. They were on the stock exchange and they were building up
for selling the IPO and crazy shit happened. The CFO and the CEO had like hostile takeover
shit happen to each other and it was about 60 million dollars in accounts that got froze up
and I was doing test grows for those guys and that nine pound hammer blueberry nine pound hammer was
in there doing I have a lot of videos of it so it did excellent and everybody kind of loved it but
the I got off track to what the hell was the question. Into DJ short. Oh DJ short yeah we've
got we just always been sick with blueberry up here and nobody's ever said the word DJ short man
blueberry was so common up here in 1995 that everybody grew up on it and they're sick as
shit a blueberry you can't get people to even like it up here. Yeah okay very very interesting
there so it's interesting because a lot of people will say that you know like maybe they read an
article from DJ short in the early years and maybe that helped them with their breeding or whatever
did you ever read any articles be it from various authors or were you just very much kind of self
taught? Oh mostly self-taught but I definitely you know read and got told a lot of like my little
partner AK Rizzo he's a stay-at-home dad so he can you know find those articles and if it's
something that that is even curious to me which seems to be everything is he relays it straight
to me so I get a lot of good information and I've read and found and read as much as I could and
certainly do follow I like the idea of like DJ shorts had regenerative practices of getting full
summer growth and I like the practices of his kid and I think that he's got it going on for his
thing that he's got they're both doing really well.
One thing of our blueberry is mostly always been just sativa up here so a lot of other blueberries
in the world turn purple and or indica and we have some mean mean mean blueberry sativa like
indoor average easy one pound per plant sativas that stack up finish good fast and over the top
blueberries but it's just our common it's AK blueberry there's like so many there's Fairbanks
blueberry, Salcha blueberry, Goose Bay blueberry, a couple others one called Arctic blue,
the Arctic blue and the Dean's beans blueberry are both the same they're about a 25 plus year old
cutting and I have run that article and bred the shit out of it to just preserve it because it's
so old but you know those type of plants with the generational drift they want to be hard as hell to
root hard to get to going into bed you have to completely shave their legs and give them like a
you know 10 times oversized potter to get them to encourage hormones to go into the growth tip
and start producing vegetative and they want to stay in the flower all the time if they shock from
anything overfeeding not keeping the bottoms cleaned or small roots they just they just
straight up auto flower which is a good house plant because in the middle of summer you can
have the most beautiful smell on blueberry plant like in the kitchen window a little breeze blowing
in and just blows blueberry smell all over they really do nice as a pseudo auto but that has
something that's happened to them from you know just being old gals. Yeah the idea of genetic
drift or kind of loss of vigor is an interesting topic and recently we've seen a lot of people
engaging in this meristem tissue culturing which kind of is said to rejuvenate clients
is that something you've heard about and maybe possibly interested in yourself?
I have heard about it and I approve of the regenerative practices I think that's going to be
helpful to a lot of people I don't have any dudding or slow something that's not
they can't be rooted I have no problem it's just basically if you have something that's that old and
kind of a pain in the butt make it grow faster to get the roots you know makes a looser cellular
formation stuff that real tight cellular formation it almost turns to wood there's a lot of ways
around making plants like that grow and I've been just curious just now if I can like give light
doses of gibberellic acid and 30 to 50 parts per million to plants like the lemon tree you know it
grows you have to grow it under a 65k to get it to stretch or it'll grow if you put it under 4,000
it'll sit down on itself and have 20 internodes at three feet tall and that thing will be four
or five months in veg and little tricks like 6,500k and maybe 30 to 50 parts per million of
some gibberellic acid you can get internal length to come up from a quarter inch to you know one or
two inches and then make that thing move that's kind of things that run through my mind a whole
lot nowadays. Yeah okay and so this brings us to a perfect little segue do you grow organically or
are you more of a synthetic based grower? That's really a good one because I have forever done
crazy we've always had animals lots of them for 20-25 years long time ago we had way over a 100
wild boar that I was buying them from like the Bronx Zoo you could get them from like the San
Diego Wildlife Conservation would sell their extra piglets and they had you know 36 chromosome wild
boar from the Black Forest line and the Bronx Zoo had the Zygote line which was from Sweden and
we had all of these like Lima Ohio would have wild exotic auctions you could just straight up
buy Polish imports and we're picking up all of these 36 chromosome wild boar so we would have
regular animals too but we had to have something exotic so we would always have corn mash or
corn oats and barley generally soaked or molasses coated we'll soak it in barrels for a week before
we feed it and 20 years ago I realized that stuff will grow IMO on the top of it and
sometimes we'd tap a little bit of the water off of it you can either brew it and make like
you know some really good hooch or you could give it to the animals and they get a little bit buzzed
off of it but I would I never knew to put lactic acid into it and turn it to like a
acetic acid so I would just lightly water the plants with it as like a nutritional boost thinking
that the starches would definitely be good for the plants and if you let it sit too long you
let it sit too long you grow an IMO on the top of it that made me you know for a long time I'd
been doing that we'd always get tons up to you know up to tons at a time of food from connections
for our animals so if I would let certain things ferment and I realized about the like the Korean
natural farming practices I didn't know that's what it was called but we would you know I'd seen
the value of fermenting things because I've I have worked for 30 plus years for a Korean and
we eat a lot of kimchi I know what fermentation does for you know it's very good a lot of
different things fermented are good so we've always kind of ate natural diets and tons of
fermented stuff so I figured the plants are going to benefit by it and then I found out later the
whole time that we've just been doing you know natural practices of all these organic styles
I can't say I haven't bought a lot of bottles of of pre-made foods but the ones that I did buy
I would say 35 years ago we used echo grow and it it's not soluble so you got to mix it for an
hour before you could use it and it kind of went away and I used something called ESU which was
Energy Sun University and for about 10 years that product was around and it changed its name
to NSR and it has since gone off the market but if I ever had to go to a bottle nutrient that's
what I would go to because it never built salts up never burned the plants it had a you know an
indicator for pH in it so it was real real easy to use but I have you know we'll take like a lot
of our fermented fruit for our animals and I'll just straight up been forever making FFJ so in my
garage I probably have 25 five gallon buckets of FFJ in multiple forms and then maybe five gallons
of FFA the the fish amino acid and I have got some barrels of you know seaweed collected from the
ocean just straight up right off the shoreline massive collections of seaweed you know I'll
ferment that and then put lactic acid on it and let it brew and then I'll put an IMO that I grow
and you know let it inoculate and then go from there and I try to keep like good live soil I
mean all the time I'll recycle my soil and refurbish it then you know kick it to the side
using EM1 or any of my IMOs I will just refurbish it real good let it sit in tubs sometimes over the
whole winter indoors in the garage and if I use it too much or don't want it I'll put it into my
outdoor gardens one thing you asked earlier what does grow up here barely anything grows up here so
berries I have a lots of berries black currants raspberries and tons of currant just different
bushes and apple trees and any of the stuff I grow I put any of my old nutrient dirt that's
living right right into my gardens and generally it'll any leaf that hits it it'll just eat it up
the IMO will just grow gobble it up into a pure white you know mycelia it's really some pretty
nice live soil yeah definitely so I mean now that we know how you grow we got to ask the other end
of the spectrum what type of lighting technology do you like to use and what do you think will be
the future of lighting technology that's funny I was thinking about that you know the other day
when I saw the high times about 15 years ago advertising 6,000 watt plasma lights and I think
they're landing craft lights and that was going to be the future way back when and now I see a
change about every year there's an advancement in light I use uh for 1,000 watt 500 uh what emitters
they're they're 1,000 watt uh double enders but they're 500 watt you know cmh they call it I always
call them lecs and those are really nice does the plants are just loving the the like a 3000
hour spectrum they're like super pimp lights but I also like some uh you know good ass le leds I
use quite a bit of leds I like um I like uh California Lightworks uh they make really good
product I've had real good success I like uh the spider lights they're uh you know the
biofluorescent spider lights uh they're a little bit expensive it comes up to being
about three dollars a watt so they're kind of prohibitive and now the price is finally coming
around and the quality is about the same on multiple manufacturers so they're coming down
to about a thousand dollars for those 600 650 watt units and uh but I also big on uh
timber grow light I'll shout out the timber grow lights uh you know his 480 sams are uh
very inexpensive he uses mean well drivers uh they cover really good they'll replace uh the 480 sams
will replace the 1,000 and they really are a good light I use a bunch of his cobs also
you know 100 watt emitter cobs some 50 watt emitter cobs because he'll sell those uh kits
just wire it yourself if you buy like a clone cabinet or a revegging cabinet or a breeding
you know I've got the craziest grows because I'll have 100 projects going on so I've got
revegetative state going on and I've got multiple breeding you can draw them I'm all over uh so
I like leds for that purpose you can't just stick a I have quite a few uh 630
the 315 watt lecs too and those are really nice they uh they are not something that I would uh
recommend you're better off I think with 315s and spreading them out every uh
two feet two and a half feet uh versus like the twin 630s I mean the twin 315s because you're
just concentrating too much light in a little central focal point so um I quit using those uh
the 630s. Yeah okay so I mean we've talked about kind of genetic drift as well as lighting so it's
it's almost inevitable we get to this topic but how do you feel revegging affects a plant do you
feel like there's a lasting difference thereafter revegging a plant or it's just essentially a very
time inefficient way of keeping a clone? There's a lot of opinion on that and it it does have
multiple answers um I don't think that it hurts most strains because some strains come from
equatorial land race and you're going to see 11 to 14 hour uh time periods that some
bitch will go into uh it'll veg at like 14 hours and flower at 11 and there's a fine line in between
there so uh if you're going up more towards the 36 parallel and you're talking about uh either
highland or lowland indica they do a different thing they never do revege their their life
cycles over at the end of their life so they're genetically programmed to pretty much die.
I don't think reveging any plant hurts it I mean I've heard I've had bunch of people that are older
than me try to educate me and tell me these other things and what it will do. I utilize it quite a
bit uh reveging a plant I found out males revege much faster than females uh I revege a ton of
plants I don't think it hurts anything but I do believe that each plant's genetics are where it
varies for if it if it is going to change it or hurt it it's where it came from. Yeah okay and so
you did mention earlier that um putting plants outside is a way of rejuvenating them are you
able to do that in Alaska or it's still rather limited the time frame?
No we have four months of solid uh summer we'll our light gains about five minutes and 50 seconds
a day so every 10 days you're looking at an hour of gain you know so we have this massive light
swing and it's 22 and 23 hours where I'm at it's that that's my time if you go any further north
it's straight up 24 hours of light and the damn UV index is so high in the middle of summer
it's equivalent of uh oh shit there's people that come up here from Phoenix and San Diego and it'll
be 75 and they're telling us bullshit at 75 they're going it's at least 95 it's 100 they're
dying man and it's just our sun it's the angle of that thing and it's the UV index so you have
four months to where you can you can definitely regenerate a plant and you oh man you could make
some crazy bushes you won't be able to move the thing and you won't have nothing don't have a
place big enough to flower. Yeah wow okay so is that something you've done yourself or just thinking
about? No I will um if I had a mother that uh I hammered the shit out of and uh you know they're
so poor at that point if you were to put them into flower you will get nothing on it and even
if you you know were to seed it to do a little last ditch effort to save the genetics you still
really are in a bad shape so I would take like a mother that's been over cut and then give it a
full four months and let it get to the five and six foot point and it'll be almost as fresh as it
was if it had never been beat to shit so that's an advantage there I do that every summer. Yeah okay
so something I noticed on the alternative end of the spectrum to the sun is I seen a post or two
about you germinating plants around the moon cycle is that something you do frequently and
what type of effect do you think it has? You know I've been told told by a lot of people that it's
real proper and I've uh I've even said it's come out of my mouth that I don't practice that hippie
shit I mean it's crazy what I've said but I've contradicted myself because I do believe that the
pull of the uh the ocean it has a lot to do with everything in nature so the magnetic fields that
we have no understanding of period look how animals you know get around the whole world it's
it's due to that they have knowledge way past our knowledge and if I'm dealing with old seeds that
are 25 and 30 years old some of them never were put up correctly at all so um you are uh praying
to god and hoping that the moons pull well anything to get you through on old genetics so
I've practiced that quite a bit and it's just a good timing a lot of thought you know you
uh Stray Fox he's real aware of all the moon cycles I am too because I'm you know I'm into the
Farmer's Almanac and fishing I know what every tide is because I have to know where my tide book
is I'm a I'm a freak about getting into the water and I know what the tide's doing at all points in
time so the moon cycle means a lot to me I mean it's it's it's a real uh important thing to know
yeah okay so before we jump into some fishing stuff which we are going to get to
just got to quickly ask you are notorious for having these you know 20 plus year old
seeds that you're able to get to germinate what are some of your little tips and tricks
for getting these bad boys to hatch you know what it all uh it just was a matter of luck
when I first started putting up seeds we had no idea when we were going to use them I imagined a
year or two years and I used 35 millimeter film containers which turned out to be airproof and
waterproof I put a little bit of a decanter which at the time people would say and put in rice or
a small wadded up piece of like a paper towel so I just opted for a small piece of paper towel
and I would generally even write the genetics right on the paper towel so it would be labeled
inside maybe labeled on the outside in a black permanent marker but one or two years I never
used them and uh you know I am not one for change uh I've worked the same job since 87
I've had the same house the same I raise American bulldogs and I bred them since late 80s I've never
changed anything I'm like to just like keep it all the same and I have changed a little bit but
it's easy to get 30 year old genetics you just put them in the freezer and 30 years goes by and
it tends to be if you don't thaw them out you're going to retain all the germination
properties I might lose 10 germination if I thaw them out but I never have to thaw them
out because when I dig through them for one thing I have a commercial freezer and I can almost stand
in the son of a bitch and key it's 20 below so I can you know I can get in there and pick shit out
without thawing it middle of summer but in the middle of winter we got we have seven eight months
to where you can just straight up grab your collection and start digging through it it's
frozen it never does thaw out so people that I've sent uh you know good old seeds to mean gene and
just a bunch of them they just they're like instantly going how old did you say they were
because I have 100 it's better than what I just produced and it's like well they it just happened
to all fall together they were healthy ass good seeds and people didn't know the time frame on
frozen seeds most people assume 20 years on marijuana seed and then I've heard 30 is the
window but it's way way way longer than 30 years because I have 100 germination at 30 years
so it is uh it's something right there that needs to be explored it's uh exciting too because
if you think about it um the Joe Rom cut saliva 50 years well here shortly 20 more years I'm gonna
have 50 year old seeds that just have never been cracked and still ready to go. Yeah wow that's
that's the real treasure trove there so I guess my final kind of question about Alaska in general is
overall would you consider it a good environment to be growing indoors given that it's got that
really nice cold temperatures or do you think it just kind of comes with its own challenges?
Yeah we're a lot more advantageous we're are lucky I should say um uh because you're fighting heat
in every every uh every place in America but here um it gets real hot in the interior here
it'll get to 90 and you're fighting heat there but uh I know people that grow in Texas it's it's a pig
uh the law enforcement's gonna stand on your head and treat it like you're a meth head and the
fucking heat you're gonna fight there's just no way you could be comfortable in a girl room in
Texas and uh if you were cooling it you're gonna run a fortune in moving air or uh cool in the air
so we have really good ambient air temperature most of the time so uh we're able to run a little
bit hotter lights and just run you know run a air box and uh bring in a little bit of fresh
cool air which is generally our summer air might be 60 degrees to where you can swap out your
summer air and keep a girl room without any big deal keep it at about 75. So there's an advantage
to growing up here we also never had the uh I'd say till two years ago we never had powder mildew
in Alaska never ever ever never so that was a nice thing we were isolated but now
you know with modern day people trucking clones back and forth from PM fest
it's it's uh it's common that now we're all infiltrated and
um now I imagine next will be the dudding disease did you hear about uh
dark horse nursery just found a cure uh a viral a viroid that is uh the name of the
bud the dudding is figured out it's a hops disease I thought that it was and uh they
actually know how to eradicate it now so there's tests for it and uh people with all that dudding
or um there's a couple other names that they call it you know they're figuring that out so
right about the time that shit hits here we'll actually have a cure for it.
Yeah yeah I saw that post it's interesting because I think what they were trying to say
was that it's some you know specified way of doing essentially a meristem culture
which is interesting because I mean having spoken to a few people a few guys have got
dudded clones that they're still hanging on to because they're so old like you know the original
calio and stuff like that just to just to sidestep that point for one sec overall what do
you think is the most important factor in a grow out of the three possibilities genetics environment
or the grower's skill? Environment yeah sure because uh you know you can make shitty genetic
shine if your environment's perfect and it doesn't take much skill to uh to grow.
Yeah definitely I would like to have perfect genetics for sure because you could have the
best genetics but what if you just stick it in the shit hole environment and then everything's gone
and you could still just like be an uh you know an idiot and grow I think it's a weed it's it's um
that's one of the advantages of growing cannabis is that it's resilient and it gives you hundreds
and it gives you hundreds of breaks lets you like live a very complacent life and you don't even
realize how much it's given you. Yeah certainly certainly so just to kind of loop back to your
breeding for a moment the topic of feminized seeds has certainly come up is that something
you're looking to explore more and which of the various feminization methods would you want to
pursue out of like the colloidal silver the sts or like the gibberellic acid?
That's cool that you brought that up too because in uh in 88 we uh I was growing tomatoes and
at the time we had Waco and uh we I was growing the tomatoes and the uh cannabis together and I
was trying to get the tomato blossoms to set so one of the tomato sets is just a um gibberellic
acid just straight up hormone they sell us it's called some um set spray or something and uh
I spray that shit all over my tomato plants no more blossoms hit the ground the tomatoes
stretched you know three feet and the spray got on to a couple of uh Jamaican plants of all things
growing them in a greenhouse fucking Jamaican gets a gibberellic acid on it so the thing goes to a
vine and I thought it was cool it changed the leaf structure and turned the stems red like a like
zero uh like a magnesium deficiency and low phosphorus it was like how wild so I started
spraying it on everything and my Waco plants uh reversed and we made a big batch of seeds
and we grew up we thought it was the coolest thing in the world because we knew at that point
in time you could find a little bit of information I think Ed Rosenthal had some shit about uh
feminized seeds and uh nothing about chemically induced though it was always about just natural
you know late season flowers when the thing's trying to save its own life and it generally
come from equatorial varieties which at the time that's what a lot of our genetics were
at over 50 75 had Thai or Colombian or Burmese or any of the equatorial even Africans
and those things will always throw that late season banana to save their own life and uh
that's what I knew as to be female seeds so I saw these and figured it out we grew them they were
all females and uh you know it didn't reverse it didn't feminize as good it was not as good I
should say as the mother so while it was all female we didn't see a value in it and we never
looked back from 88 on I never looked back period and then you know five ten years about five years
ago that um feminized movement just crazily took off and I just watched and watched well man these
guys are fucking up everything because I know that um unless everything's tracked you can't
generally breed to any of this stuff past s1 you're screwed so uh I realized that it was watering down
everything badly I didn't really want to get into it I kind of followed people doing it but um
recently I did grab some sts spray sprayed a Durban down and I was going to just do a Durban female
uh reversal or make Durban feminized and just just for the shits and grins I guess but it took
five weeks for the uh pollen to actually come out so I just feminized a lemon tree and an orange
tree the 17 high times part San Bernardino uh sativa winner was the orange tree and nobody
disputes the lemon tree as being like over the top lemon skunk with that you know the
fucking sour diesel back it's it's one of the best and I just figured it'd be like cool with
the turps of the Durban mixed in with those and I did mess with it but you know I don't put too
much value in it the seeds are sitting there I never thought about cracking them I'd give them
to anybody or something if somebody wanted to play with it because I'm not I'm not thinking
as helping the genetics at all. Yeah okay so touching on that topic how important is it in
your mind for a breeder to give away seeds and I guess specifically when they're kind of starting
out do you feel like that's a part of paying your dues? Yeah that should be a good way to build a
you know a clientele and you make a lot of friends out of it I'll tell you that much
and you get a lot more love back than you would ever think so it's a real good thing.
As an extension of that idea what would be your advice for someone who's just starting out
wants to kind of get a bit more established in terms of a breeder? I would say do their
homework and get a line or collect genetics that can be advanced and can go somewhere not just
another polyhybrid that is multi-generational polyhybrid they're actually at a point of a
bottleneck so tight right now with 10 years of that going on that a new breeder should gear up
and try to select something that is unique and different if it can be done and if not you're
just jumping on the bandwagon with everybody else you're going to be left in the dust that's been
done 10,000 times. And as kind of a final thought to wrap this topic up what's your thoughts on the
exponential rise in breeders we see collectively within the community? I don't know everybody has
the right to breed so if everybody had the same goals it would be a huge advantage but
that's never going to happen so we are humans and we are all like on our own path so I see it going
you know between corporate and maybe trademarking and that the way it could go that direction
I'd rather see independent people doing it and just everybody do it at that point.
Yeah definitely so what type of breeders would you like to work with going forward?
Just the guys that I work with right now librarians that they paid their dues and they
were there at the time and they put in their you know 100% to get us where we are right now
that's people that I value the most old heads and people that saw the value you know 50 years ago
and then all the people with heart that's all I don't need to I work for a living and you know
I could retire anytime I don't give a shit about trying to make a bunch of money because I've
worked a steady day job you know that old saying don't quit your day job well I'm fucking August of
this year is like 34 years working down there so I've always had a different view than everybody
else people are growing and selling their buds I've never sold my buds I did I might sell a
cover a light bill but I grew for myself and only to further my genetics and that was my only mind
set for 30 and 35 years so I don't think the same way everybody else thinks but I'd go with
anybody with heart mean gene dirt farmer dynasty Mephistos these are all people that are like
they got your back and there's a shitload of them way too many to mention I would
I would hurt I'd be a total ass if I didn't just come up with 20 of them right now
because they're all like I want to work with every one of them because they're just good people.
Yeah certainly it's always one of those things we don't want to leave anyone out
but something I do want to greatly echo the sentiment you just expressed is especially
in Australia please guys have a day job you know it don't make this your full-time gig because
frankly you're going to have to compromise things to make money instead of following the passion
and I think that's where the best results come from when you're pursuing passion and not necessity
things but to get back on track I wanted to quickly ask you what land race is your
favorite and do you have any plans to work with it going forward? I would have to say Thai because
it's that one crazy ass good memory and I know the potential that's there and I'm at a point where
I've been offered so many things and I've passed up on opportunities I should have took up
and I do have a shitload of good land race and definitely need to dig into a bunch of it but
I would say Thai is what I would try. I've tried really cool things and might dig I've got some
77 Himalayan that's single stocked sativa and it's one of the few single stocks that I've been
able to come across except NL1 and it's a sativa too so that's one thing that I think is pretty
unique and I like those unique genetics. Stray Fox made up some black affie I think which was
Bodies and Iraqi indica and when I grew that out it was all like 13 finger fan leaves with single
stock growth and super dominant so those are the things that I want to work with right there.
Yeah okay and generally speaking would you consider yourself more of an indica or a sativa guy?
You know I'd probably say 50-50 because I like knock down drag out indicas but they're not going
to let you get anything done you better have a fucking couch to nap on or a four shot espresso
waiting after you smoke some mac you know because you're not going to be doing a whole lot you smoke
some chocolope or my tropalope that space jill and chocolope some things like that you'll be way
ripping ass high and still get everything done and then maybe sing a little bit and
groove to the music a little more. I love it sounds right up my alley so it's funny you
mention that the mac you know it's interesting because mac's not only like the flavor of the
month but you know there's that kind of story of it we're not really a story but there's the
incidence of you not only collecting like a really impressive amount of pollen but you know you kind
of sent it out far and wide which in my opinion really quite noble and our buddy organically
enhanced here in Australia even he managed to make some crosses with that pollen so I guess my
question is what made you decide to share it because you know it's such high demand and you
know the explosive popularity of cap is you know just you can't even deny it at the moment so what's
your thoughts on the mac and why did you decide to share the pollen with people? That's super cool
you brought that up for a couple reasons I did that because I had already been in contact with mac
I mean cap and I wasn't gonna buy no I mean it's I've never been in a rec store I'll kind of go
down this road I've never been in a rec store up here or in any other place and I have bought seeds
like I did I bought you know the platinum huckleberry from a seed bank and then I've bought
I might have bought a dozen packs of seeds but I've been given maybe a thousand packs of seeds from
the best breeders in the world and it's the top of their line or it's the best stash
and that right there is like so heartfelt so when I seen how cap was given that away and it already
run for a year and a half fuck and talk about year of the mac right I was kind of like a little bit
spiteful and I was like I got it given to me and I figured I'd breed with it and offer any extra so
I ended up you know putting a shout out to locals only and I ended up getting hit up by everybody
in the world I sent that to Thailand India Australia Canada I think nine eight or nine
countries I sent that to and then sent it to a dozen places in America got like 20 grams of the
of the pollen it was crazy wanting to dump pollen and I figured I was being a wise ass I put a post
up said end of the year of the mac or something just giving it out people are going there always
has to be that one guy that has to ruin everything good and I was like you know if you ain't had your
run with mac at this point fuck I mean it's for free anybody can get it for free the main cut so
I thought because everybody was going man I'll never ever get in line you have to get on his
list and you have to wait and wait if you're lucky enough to ever get it or get in line at an event
that he might release something and they just go I'll never ever see it in our lifetime over here
and I'd love to try it and I was like you know what if you're not the guy that would help out
those people you're a dick I don't care uh and shit I think I lost my ass sending that out it's
like 30 40 bucks a pack to send international even if it's pollen you know but whether I got
love back or not I uh I figured I helped them people out unless it was like going to India and
getting bread to them you know landry shit but they they promised me they're keeping it for their
own personal you know collection because they can never get their hands on the mac
it's certainly one of those very sought after ones with that being said though you know we
see things like the GMO having run its course and the skittles and even mac appears to be kind of
reaching the end of its life cycle what's your prediction for the newest flavor of the month and
would you ever try to kind of get ahead of the curb and cash in on the correct prediction
you know I don't think I care to ever chase a dollar I would uh I'd rather go fishing and uh
I I think what the next biggest thing is is going to be exotics flavors um some of the spice island
type of flavors man if we could ever get a cinnamon girl back or some of the Polynesian
flavors there's some really good spicy nutmeg flavors and uh another one I would be nuts about
and uh passion fruits and uh Hawaiian exotic uh fruits and I do believe there's going to be a
huge resurgence of blueberry I mean orange is so roadkill run over and burnt out some people still
dig the turf but uh you know it was orange and then it was lemon and uh I still really dig the
lemon tree something fierce I'm growing like lemon ice pucker and it's like a quarter of the
good what uh the lemon tree is and then I've heard the lemon royale from swamp boys is like
off the hook good so I'm super tempted to uh you know check that out but I think I would
love to get ahead of the game and the curve and produce passion fruit or any of the guava
something that's new and exotic not just the um
flipping cookie you know what there's 100 cookie crosses and you taste the cookie in every one of
them and it's so fucking blah I mean I was turning people on that never seen it before and they go
is that the same as that other one that we just tried I said well it's half the same and then the
next would be the same answer it's half the same it's because I had like a whole jar after jar of
cookie crosses it's it's uh that's nuts I want some flavors back cat piss and uh I've never had
a ton of sours but I do like some sours Chris Barnes who uh he's the front man for uh six feet
under you you you know who that is yeah definitely I've heard of them yeah he's uh he's like an
extremely cool cat I mean he is extreme in the in his uh music lifestyle and persona and stuff but
he's the most humble and and uh good guy in the world he grows this killer uh blueberry headband
he calls it bhb666 which is um beyond hell bound 666 I sent him my best uh nine percent uh tested
at the lab skunk cabbage pollen and he knocked his 666 up and made the 777 and uh I guess that's
also symbol for heaven and hell which I don't follow any of that mystical shit or know about
it so much but yeah me and Chris Barnes are friends and now his blueberry headband I love it
it's a killer sour and uh it's like 27 it's uh got lots of color so I'd like to get into some uh
sours and uh mixed turks too I want to have a front of one flavor and heavy back of another
but I think all weed should have equal alpha and beta terpenes if you cannot produce this
quit growing weed definitely that diversity within terpenes is huge you you said the golden words
in the midst of a description you said uh orange has been ran over it's the roadkill
I've got to ask about it do you have any experiences with the roadkill skunk
um we didn't ever call it roadkill but we had a shitload of skunk because we bought
you know big skunk from uh from sense he was half real skunk and whether some were sweet phenos
there was still a quarter of them were skunk phenos and then in 91 we bought the super skunk so
super skunk to me to this day is still the um the only plant I think you can go back to that
has the old what people call roadkill skunk but true skunk I call it true skunk but yes
I've old genetics that's crazy as shit how I might have old genetics but I've got original uh
you know uh super dang cast true skunks uh super skunk male so I'm gonna try to get together with
with people like I think farmer joe 420 I think is on the instagram uh he has he has an 87
super skunk and he has males but you know I'm kind of known for my males so um
we're gonna try to bring out more skunk but I got a half a dozen skunks that are I've got a big skunk
that's true skunk I've got the super skunk that's true skunk I've got a matanuska bx that's true
skunk I've got an old hawk and big skunk that's true skunk and they're all males which is amazing
because you can rub the male at any time and get that true skunk hit I just have my wife smell it
and she either hits me with ooh and she's she's like very put off by it or she just says I don't
know very strong marijuana at that point I hit it right on the head at that point it's like
thank you give her a kiss and it's like rally off to my happy point and do a dance
you know I love scoring the shit that don't turn her nose that's that's a great description so
while we're kind of on the skunk topic tell us a little bit about your skunk cabbage or
crabbage however you want to pronounce it yeah it's cabbage but everybody in the world's gonna
call it quavich it's a funny thing so I just let them let them be you know whatever you want to
call it it's just crazy trained chocolate but it's off the hook it puts what it's like if you
were to breed the 91 white and it puts white on anything this fucker will put white on anything
but it it has really rotten skunky turps plus because there's a plant called skunk cabbage
that's up here real prevalent and it's the first thing that grows in the summer and it produces
its own heat melts the snow bank around it and then the bears come along and then the deer and
the bear we have we have like implanted deer that have made it up here since it's been 90 years or
80 years they've been up here but um first thing they can find to eat is that skunk cabbage but it
melts its own way out of a snow bank from producing its own fire so when we you know kind of put that
together the fire side of it and the rankness of it people actually smell skunk cabbage and have
come back and told me is that how you name that it's like that is half of why i named it that yes
i didn't know that tom hill had a skunk cabbage so just embarrassing for me to you know call it
that for years and then find out i seem like bean hoarder or something that has like all these tom
hill things and it's like oh skunk cabbage i'm an idiot but that's why i changed it with the cube
because it was out of crazy train from the tga side of it and uh i've separated it that way but
uh it's my go-to i want to get stoned you know if i'm smoking 15 this sat in the other all day long
and i can take three hits of that and it'll over ride all 15 joints of the 15 but it's it's probably
my uh my cannabinoid system my endocannabinoid system is probably just geared up for that turf
cross and i did have the highest in-state terp test ever about three or four years ago and also
i was told in canada at the biggest lab up there it's hit the third highest terpene prompt
um terpene numbers on the biggest lab up there but you know saying that doesn't make a lot of
sense because canada's five or six or seven provinces and fucking one million labs so
yeah i was told by somebody it hit it hit top three out of the biggest lab up there
so wow very impressive got some funk to it i and i kind of just dig it it's something that i probably
won't ever go without i've sent it to people like a bunch of people i gave it to bode and uh um i
think stray and doc and might have give it to me and gene i know i gave it to pharmacy factory and
i give it to ever i don't care i don't care if you like it or hate it whatever throw it away grow
it don't matter but it hits me just right yeah okay sounds like that one which is hopefully
vibing with more people than just you with that being said what's your favorite strain that often
maybe gets a bit of hate or just doesn't get as much love from other people
shit i don't know because the ones that everybody uh um you know you get you get
slapped in the face or a lot of a lot of memes and shit about aj sour diesel and uh
a lot of memes and you know backhands from uh uh the blue dream and uh i've never smoked any of the
real shit so i have no idea uh what's good and people call bad or give a bad rap to i uh
i kind of only smoke my own flower yeah i've never been to that sorry i've never been to that
wreck thing and uh you know they have like gummy bears up here somebody smoked that with me it's a
31% local thing at the wreck market and somebody's growing it in their home deal the guy that gave
it to the wreck or whatever and i just thought it was such poor weed so i don't know i'm a picky
ass dick and i like my own weed no it sounds like a man after my own heart i can certainly relate to
that so how do you like to make your concentrate a little bit of keef on top of the bong hit or
you're more of like a bho and concentrates type of guy you know near zero uh concentrates i make a
lot of keef a shit load because well i might like even on the tk nl5 this last run that i seeded out
16 16 or 17 different strains and every bit of it went to that pollen and i had no flower at all so
all i had was uh you know keef after i have deshocked it i can separate the keef and then
the only thing i do with it is just put it on a rosin press so um low low uh heat rosin at about
65 celsius which is i think 160 or something on fahrenheit and uh just press it and i have i have
i don't smoke a shit load of concentrates and never ever really ever smoke bho i'll smoke some
eho and people up here kind of tag me for that and people go i know you i've heard you don't do
no bho or whatever what this is real good they'll come and bring me a sample which is real cool but
i hardly ever would ever smoke it and eho tends to be better but i have about a half a pound of
rosin at all points in time just because i squish all the keef it's very common to get eight ounce
jars of keef or two at a time you know and then what are you going to do with it you either have
to make eho bho or some rosin and to me rosin's wide spectrum and a little bit better way better
high i think yeah definitely so in terms of where the market's heading towards the end of last year
we saw the rise of the uh the very controversial 100 dollar eights from big al and how do you feel
like this affects the market do you feel like there's a place within the market for the ultra
premium products and the high-end consumers or do you feel like the fact that cannabis has
this medicinal component to it that we shouldn't allow things to creep up like that
oh i see both sides of that that thing there's people that want to feel special
and actually have you know liquid assets
uh my dumb bulldogs are gonna go off um but um i don't think it's certainly not good for the
normal guy i think it's unfair for the uh the grower because they're getting hammered on the
low end of it and then it's like rubbing it in their face you know if you can get a hundred dollars
for an eighth and and you're paying 500 for a pound it's not right yeah it puts an interesting
spin on like what does the grower get at because i mean big al to his credit used to be a grower
but i believe for the most part now he's actually more of a kind of like a middleman
i think there's a you know there's a situation for everything and because we're so diverse as
humans there's uh there's people in the world would never consider they never consider um you
know first world problems like that so if you look at the whole scheme of things everybody has a right
to do what they want and if there's somebody that there's a if there's a need fill the void
as much as i may have some personal questions about the situation i just my mind immediately
always wanders to the fact that you know there are people who pay hundreds of thousand dollars
for cars and you know people don't criticize that and so i feel like there's got to be some
congruency and consistency within within our thought process at least yeah you you won't
see anybody giving somebody grief over that car they're going to give them 100 percent
of congratulations if they made it to that point right and not not even be but heard over it or
jealous unless it's your hard work from your brow sweat that uh got that car for your boss
yeah that's that's maybe a whole nother conversation in itself so one last thing i wanted
to bring up before we jump onto some fishing stuff because we're going to get there don't
worry after this one i noticed on your feed you got some dungeon vault genetics i'm a big fan of
eric and dungeon vault genetics what are you most looking forward to popping out of those seeds and
do you have any experience with brandywine or more specifically the pink champagne which is the
mother of it another really good question you're nailing it because um i had not known him too long
i i met him through the catalogs i sent him catalogs uh because i think his genetics stood
stood up for themselves i didn't hear anybody um except maybe some controversy you know
everybody's gonna whatever your background is or somebody always but her so i i uh knew through
falconer that um he had some stand-up shit and he straight up sent me like maybe a couple packs of a
bunch of stuff and i i um i know that the humble pie was gonna be real good and i had no this is
how backwards and or are like so old school i didn't know that grandpa's breath was granddaddy
purple i had to listen to your interview with him to find out the history of dungeon vault genetic
and i'd already met him and talked to him and um he's given me his genetics i had no idea what it
was because i don't follow if there's something that i i am not gonna have a route a planned route
you know to go down myself i can't absorb that shit at this point in my life a very little room
left in my brain for new information so i'm not gonna absorb all uh knowledge i just kind of keep
within a right in my view and uh he's a good guy and i think it's um a really good thing that he's
got going on and keeping it straight i know a couple of my testers have grown this stuff out
they brought me the smoke it's really good i did just recently send him a multiple tkno5 the f2 of
tkno5 haze the uh my best purple to the tkno5 haze because i want him to experience you know
another 100 view of purple and then get his dick just knocked straight into the dirt
because it's it it's it's something else i'm not even gonna beat it
if you if you fucking buy it and trust me you have it if you don't then it's a story
yeah totally totally so getting to some of the more light-hearted stuff i've been promising
for a minute let's talk about fishing you know you do a lot of fishing i've even seen a few
the odd photos of maybe hunting here and there how does cannabis interact with these things do
you like to do them while sober or is it just like the perfect time to get high for you
i am a total weedaholic so i i can tell you the days that i didn't get high um
to tell you the truth in 1985 from monday the first to friday the fifth i did not get high
i i quit smoking pot i was like a teenager i was fed up with it and then uh my brother or my good
good friend's brother comes back from the peace corps with him on friday night he comes back
thursday night and uh gives him some thai bud from whatever country he was in and fucker calls
me up friday tells me he's got this thai but it's like okay i'm on my way over man i was right back
to smoke and i quit for five days in 85 and uh there was another time i flew in and uh we're
moose hunting in in in uh 98 and uh as i see the plane take off i'm getting ready to roll our
celebratory joint and i'm digging around and there's no fucking weed i left you know a week's
worth of weed and it's like holy shit man oh it's gonna be a whole week gonna be over here and shit
that'd be the two times in my life i ain't smoked weed i did get i did get i can't say that too
i almost died once i was like you know 106 and a half fever i had uh something it was a
staph infection on my epiglottis that's a little flap in the back of your throat right it uh it's
30 percent uh survivability rate if you get this so i waited to the last minute like like i normally
would and i went in almost dead i'd already passed out and i woke back up alive so i went to the
hospital and they innovated me and put me on anesthetization for like four days so there was
another four days i didn't smoke weed but i didn't have no choice yeah wow and and what type of
fishing and hunting do you like to do most you know i i like to hunt just about everything but
our our opportunities are limited we try to fill our freezer on the moose and deer so we hunt uh
i don't do a lot of bird hunting because it's not as uh much opportunity up here if i had a lot
of upland game bird i'd do that a lot more we only have like a couple we have a grouse and a spruce
hen and i'll do that too i love bird hunting but uh we deer hunt moose hunt a little bit of bird
hunt but fishing we just get whatever comes up as soon as we can get it i would have been uh
like i mentioned earlier i would be out right now getting crab because uh federal
crabbing for subsistence crabbing goes from october 15th to uh march 31st so they let us just
as soon as the weather has freezing spray and you're going to die trying to get this substance
uh your your subsistence crab it's the weather just won't let you get it but right now there's
a little bit of a break the last three weeks but a storm came through just now and it's 10 foot in
the ocean with snow and and we'd be out right now because my my partner went out last weekend and
caught a 15 pound king crab he caught a bunch of littler ones but he caught a 15 pound king crab
i mean that that is where you want to be yeah wow that's really impressive and so the other thing i
notice from your feed is that you know you appear to have a little bit of a sweet tooth so tell me
what's your favorite candy i am a kind of a dessert kind of guy and sweet tooth i don't know
but jelly uh good good gummies uh from european countries tend to be very good they don't have a
lot of um they have no corns syrup they don't have any preservatives so all gummies from every country
i've ever had minus like america are are pretty good fresh gummies are a big thing you can go from
place to place and there's like you know shops that are specializing in it so i've had my friend
jolly glass send me back uh you know a ton of stuff from spanibus and i've had a couple of
friends that hooked me up like that so but i i am i got a sweet tooth you got that right we're only
here once so uh better take advantage of whatever you're given and so does that extend into edibles
or purely just uh you know a soba confectionary type of deal edibles hit me like a uh ton of bricks
so i'm big time into edibles because i love good edibles but i generally would make like uh virgin
coconut oil and maybe one jar of virgin coconut oil a big size jar and a half a pound of like
xj13 pennywise is a 9 to 12 percent cbd and i would take all that flour and put it in
you know hydrate it so you don't get no chlorophyll after it's dry and i'd rehydrate it and
just melt off all the keef and make some real good can of coconut oil and then my other biggest thing
is are we berry pick in prince williamstown where i fish a lot there are there's a there's a lot of
berries cloudberries um there's black currant there's another type of a black currant and
there's blueberry and there's salmon berry so i can and in my yard generally i have a lot of berry
so i will pick about 50 pounds of wild berry every year and freeze it and sometimes more than 50
pounds i might get i might get um sometimes way more shit buckets and buckets of it but i'll make
a natural wild berry syrup and put my rosin from all of the rosin that i make from kefir and just
make a wide spectrum of natural wild berry syrup and i'm kind of famous for it now so
i i do like that as an edible but i would promote uh anybody that wants edible green goddess
delights is the best edible producer that i've come across she's a friend of mine and she makes
gummies that wicked cherry gummies wicked uh green apple or wicked watermelon wicked pineapple or
they have uh you know jolly ropes they won the the mid uh the east the new england high times cup
last year with their blue raspberry funk juice and they're famous for their funk juice
and their products yesterday i had a friend come by and said he doesn't get high on
edibles and man i instantly broke out a 500 milligram bottle of the funk juice and said try
this tonight i had to meet a 200 milligram jolly rope and then we split a package of the wicked
wicked watermelon gummies and they taste so good as a candy that you're not going to stop eating
my boss is 60 almost 70 year old korean and that fucker he'll start eating them and then
uh could it taste like candy and then you know be hammered shortly after even though uh
they're only 100 milligram packages uh they're they're they're they've got it down just right
i've probably never had a better edible
uh no question 100 milligrams would definitely put my dick in the dirt so my question though
out of all the meat you hunt or just everything in general what's your favorite food
wow um i love halibut but i uh
there is really no favorite food because we get all unlimited amount of spot shrimp
like every friday night and uh that's a pretty pretty premium thing no matter where you're at
cold water shrimp is probably one of the best things in the world and uh good fish but good
moose meat or a goat of a mountain goat man that stuff is the mildest best tasting
i mean they live on cliffs and you wouldn't think that they'd be edible because a
barnyard billy goat tastes like grass and piss and it's harsh man these things got a big ass
nasty set of balls on them and they're super mature they're solid muscle but it's like fork
tender mildest meat in the world milder than veal and uh shit that that stuff beside this
it's impossible to get so uh you put all that together i'd say a mountain goat doll sheep
might be next to you got to climb five six thousand feet and uh they can see for miles
man you're just not going to get one so when you do one of the best flavored animals in the world
of anything i've ever had and the accomplishment of it makes it taste even twice that good
hell yeah goat curry is where it's at so to move on to our next subject many people and you've
mentioned it a few times probably familiar with you as being the guy with the old school seed
magazine collections so how did this collection initially begin i know that bodie's mentioned in
the past he's traded you some magazines and i'm certainly grateful to have a few copies from you
but how did this all originate it just started because we were buying seeds from the sensi seed
bank and sssc i just had my original catalogs from 89 90 and 91 and 30 years later i didn't really
look at them and uh when i finally did look at them i was just going holy shit they're in perfect
shape and it was like reliving glory days really hard and uh oh my god every feeling you ever had
came back the the sending off your 60 bucks and wait in three months and paranoia like crazy like
like we're all gonna go to prison over this damn package of seeds and we're all pooling
our money together you know not one of us had enough money to actually buy seeds back then
it's funnier than shit so when i saved them and realized how how cool it was uh i kind of just
looked for more and saw that bodie had a bunch of them his friend was a photographer for the 85
catalog and he had a dozen uncirculated copies he gives me a brand new uncirculated copy
and it's like man that guy i mean what can you say about him but um he'll go out of his way
to make you happy and and it's like the coolest guy and i i bombed his collection
he's that good of a guy i just like don't know him don't know him at all i just like i'd love to copy
him if he could trust me with him send him to me and he went over to mexico that's when he went
down to mexico with strandock and he is he sent his wife to the post to send him to me after he
left and she sure enough she i got him in the mail was able to copy him and i gave him back to him at
emerald and 17 and um you know thanked him 100 times i mean it's such a valuable history uh
sitting in your hands and you can just cater it's all categorized and you can just look it up
even the information that's in there is still viable today yeah definitely there's nothing i
get more of a kick out of than going back and looking at some of the strains and being like
oh this is the exact stock skelly came from well their technical information on growing was immense
it was like um at least the ssscs uh they have a mini book in there they get more technical than i
ever wanted to for 30 years yeah definitely well you know a huge shout out to steve and olivia
they're two amazing people who everyone in the community loves so next one i wanted to ask you
about what do you feel is the future for the emerald cup can we expect to see you there this
december or are you considering going elsewhere the general sentiment last year is that things
felt a little different would you agree with that things felt a lot different from the first emerald
cup and they're 100 different than the original emerald cup so it's a you know it's evolved and
i and alaska in general we had our very first time ever real event which was a high times
cup up here this year and it was like no public display of cannabis no smoking of cannabis no
nothing and it was so shitty and harsh that it was like the biggest turnoff in the world so
in my view emerald was 100 success even though it wasn't the same as it was in prior years
you know the feeling is still right there and as long as people are still able to relay their
message which i did see a lot of that you know we were right there in that circle of love the whole
time and um you still can be right there with the people that really mean something in this industry
and the in doing right for the community so in that sense emerald was successful did people make
much money no i don't think so damn i know dungeon vault uh his dad died that morning that saturday
morning and he held a booth there and ten thousand dollars he didn't want to just piss it away or he
would have just walked away from the whole thing but he said he covered his bases and
said it was worth it so you know there's an opinion right there actually i feel a little
bad eric if you listen to this i had no idea man i spoke to you that day and i feel bad for not
saying anything about it but yeah you know you you hit it on the head right i remember
you were kind of out front um the booth i was at there was an awesome little crew there like it was
you bob hemphill skunk va duke just every name you could think of just kind of congregate and
have little chats out the front and it's kind of surreal you just sit there and to just be like
this is this is it right here this is the little circle you want to be in it it truly was i felt
um i felt honored to be able to stand there with every one of those guys including you so um to me
i think it's still about um community and uh everybody that was there that that's the
sentiment 100 they're not one of those guys that didn't have each other's back
yeah definitely and as well as having the communities back which is the big part i
which linked us all that too it's um it's a different world boy i mean 10 and 15 and 20
years every single plot everything that's gone by it's been just a crazy world where as much as
separation as there is right now with uh you know people trying to get greedy and stuff there's just
as much uh ties being made and i think it made the community a lot stronger and it's amazing
definitely definitely so getting towards our little quickfire questions the last question or
two before those though i wanted to quickly ask what's your feeling about the rise of the vape
pen i'm not sure if you've seen the south park episode mocking it's pretty funny but um essentially
how do you feel they affect the community in the sense that they're trying to bridge the gap between
like casual consumer and the general market do you feel though they're having more of a detrimental
effect than a beneficial effect overall you know you're right it's it's a way to bridge um
you know complete different um generations there's good things about them and bad things about them
it's funny that they got names like you know pussy stick and douche flute and uh the people that um
it's a different generation that tends to use them it's a convenient type of thing i can't say i
haven't used them uh my buddy falconer bought one of the cookie pens which was uh i guess refillable
only locally so he had it engraved with his name and just tossed to some bitch when it ran out but
you know it was a very good product i thought and uh i don't see it being a horrible thing i'm so
neutral about everything that um there's good things in it and there's bad things in it i don't
like the heavy metals cheap ass chinese uh you know materials being made and uh untested shitty
products being put into it that is where i have problems with the whole thing
so how do you feel about the kind of the introduction of the non-cannabis derived
terpenes to these concentrates or even the reintroduction of them after they've been
separated out i am a big fan of cannabis terpenes i don't care um if you put them back in do them uh
you know as a aromatherapy or whatever but i'm not a fan of vegetable and fruit derived terps
being added to anything yeah you know uh you can get real like terpenes for flavor and add it to
your brewing supply and it's a whole different thing there's hundreds of terpenes that are just
straight up natural 100 natural terpenes just in liquid form ready to go back into anything you're
brewing and um it's 100 good thing but i don't view marijuana being flavored we've recently had
terpene tests at the lab that i'm you know i go through and i'm friends with the workers there
they're eight plus percent terpenes being tested at that lab with you know only a half a dozen
terpenes being tested and it's an impossibility and it tells you these people are only trying to
cut they're doing whatever they can to sell the rec weed and uh it's it's a very wrong thing
yeah certainly when you when you initially said eight percent i was like what um but but yeah i
guess that makes sense right there they're trying to game the system yeah and if um you know it kind
of boils down to where it's uh with people smoking electronic uh cigarettes the flavors have been um
you know so pussified that everybody's sucking on stuff that i mean i'll walk through cloud of it
it actually smells good to me and they're actually just getting their nicotine so it makes it so much
less offensive than a cigarette but um you know you still got to deal with um other things with
it i don't do i don't think it's the smartest thing to breathe glycol or glycerin or any of
that shit so uh i'm like a natural flower guy my god you can't really i don't know how old school
i am but it goes right straight back to i want a damn joint yeah definitely i can't go past the
cheeky bong hit yeah that too i i mean i love right before you called i scrubbed my bong out
with alcohol and filled it with nice cold water and it's like oh man i was smoking that purple
um wookie v2 and um you know it's real unique purple profiles different than other ones
man there's nothing like that flavor you're altering it with uh five different forms of
distillation and then reconfiguring it to your tastes that's good for you but that's not good
for me yeah no i can agree with that sentiment so that brings us to our last few questions which
are kind of quickfire questions so first one up what's your favorite strain of all time
it's one that nobody knows about it's waco just a um just a local strain
but everybody that ever knew of waco will agree and what do you suspect is the genetics behind
that one uh nl5 aids haha it pops its head up again so flip side of the spectrum what's your
least favorite strain of all time oh my god that's so easy it's uh dynafem purple power
fuck a friend of mine he he just thought it'd be smart to grow femmes about 15 10 15 years ago
and it was a clandestine grow basically his wife didn't want him to grow he dug out the
dug out the basement under the house and he gets that shit and man it was poor weed
it was dark purple or real pretty purple lots of uh
violet and magenta and then a lot of dark purple too but it was a no high pig and it tasted like
shitty purple weed yeah i think we've all had an experience or two like that so what would be your
desert island strains you can take three with you what would they be huh um uh purple hindu kush
that i got from uh the nature farm it's it's it's really the one and uh i would say tkno5
hayes the one that we are just now digging through and for the other one it's gonna have to be
that my old dream time
chocolate high that uh you know truly had me going i would say the high was so high that it
could have been damn opium dip you know but i was still you know 12 so but uh there are no highs
like that anywhere in the world today except opium yeah wow definitely definitely definitely so
uh next question is if you could only recommend one of your strains for someone to go out or let's
say give them a packet just so that it's there in their hands which one pack would you be given to
people right now i would go with the tkno5 hayes f2 but until i you know just rediscovered that i
would have said skunk cabbage i gave out over 3 000 seeds of it hundreds of packs of it and then
sold hundreds of packs and i've never had one person ever say bad about it so um pretty damn
good one hell yeah sounds like a solid one so if you could go back in time to any place anywhere
throughout history to presumably collect some landrace seeds where would you be heading
you know this tell me you tell me because you know the answer
you want to get some tie well it'll be there but i'm going to the castle right to the cannabis
castle you look at the collection at that point in time what was available to the layman
oh my god there's like a hundred years worth of work done waiting for you yeah definitely
definitely go uh steel nibbles collection yeah because you're gonna hit it on every note
including the uh you know g13 in its purest form and just like everything in its purest form
yeah yeah yeah sounds like a plan i will uh i would join you on that one
yeah if we can get a time machine um we're going there first i love it so what are you
most excited about that's going to come from the community in the near future as far as you can tell
i guess just the um overall uh legislation that's being put in for nationwide legalization
i don't think it's fair for people that live in arkansas and texas and um georgia and the
ant nebraska you know there's anti-states that it's not fair at all for medicinal users uh
especially them but and it's a super legitimate thing they are they're treating them as out
as outcasts and heavy drug users and won't give them an opportunity to uh you know get any relief
from something that's going to help them without you know have adverse effects to anybody it's
going to be a good biomass producer and help the earth as opposed to you know destroying the earth
so um the movement should spread i don't like the idea of marlboro you know producing packs of
marijuana cigarettes and then that's going to be the mainstream thing would be like
you know concentrate pens and i like it my dream would be that um have both sides available like
what we do up here we're able to still have a medical permit up here and i can grow with my
wife i can have 60 plants i can have a six plant count plus a 24 plant extended medical account and
she can also so if you could have a happy medium in all the states of you know say i'd like to see
12 plants because they're harsh now going down to six and three and then completely blocking
in other places so the the legalization movement is bound to happen and the decriminalization and
rescheduling of cannabis uh from schedule one that is going to be the biggest and best thing
in the cannabis movement it might you know help out corporate way more than it'll help out the mom
and pop but it'll give relief to the people that couldn't get it. Yeah certainly certainly so final
question for the interview can we expect to ever see your seeds available via some seed banks kind
of more commercially available? I'm not against selling through seed banks but i am still working
a nine to five job even though the earthquake had destroyed the body shop and we're at a low point
we are you know fixing to go back online and i don't really want to walk away from what i've done
for a very long time and i will probably pick up a couple seed banks just because i've been offered
and it just makes me have to work harder though to make the commitment and keep everything happy
so if i didn't uh so it's either quit working quit fishing and hunting
um and i don't want to i don't want to do either one of those yet i like to work
crazy but yeah i would say yeah gonna i'm not i'm not the kind of guy that's gonna
jump on everything either so uh it's coming coming to the future near you.
Hell yeah so with that being said did you have any comments or shout out you wanted to make?
To you um all Australians i think uh they're probably the next best people um next to Alaskans
and uh my partners of 35 years for not ever having a problem with what i've done and said
and we've just always been together and uh my wife of 29 years she's probably the only thing that
keeps me going. Fantastic what a beautiful sentiment to end it on so once again thank you
so much ak bean brains for not only being our friend on the final frontier but also
taking the time to chat to us today. Yes it was great i appreciate you man.
Thanks again everyone for sticking around to the end and a big thank you to ak bean brains for
taking the time to chat with us today. Hope you all enjoyed it i had fun.
Make sure to go fishing sometime soon
and make sure to check out our amazing sponsors Seeds Here Now. Hit them up for all your seed
needs. 420 Australia for that apparel and Organic Gardening Solutions for all things organic gardening.
Big shout out to our friends at Dragonfly Earth Medicine and to all our Patreon supporters you
guys are the MVPs you're the lifeblood of this show and i just want to be your friend.
I'll see you guys next one thanks for hanging around. See you.
