Hello and welcome to the next episode of the podcast.
Cannabis podcast for budding enthusiasts.
This episode as always is brought to you by Seeds here now.
Your premier store for seeds, guarantee not only on germination but also satisfaction.
As well as 420 Australia, your number one store for lifestyle and apparel.
And finally, the good folk over at Organic Gardening Solutions.
You want that top shelf?
Hit them up.
On this episode, we're joined by Bushy Old Grower, otherwise known as Bog.
Here to get some old school knowledge, some predictions for the future and some other
cool tidbits.
Let's get into it.
All right.
So I'd like to welcome onto the show a true veteran of the scene, a man known as Bushy
Old Grower or simply Bog.
Thank you so much for joining us.
Well thank you for having me.
I appreciate it and I'm happy to talk to your folks.
This would be great.
So a little deviation from the normal first question, what are you currently smoking on
at the moment?
Well, my wife and I are old school, you know, we've been smoking many years together and
we're smoking my Sour Bubble.
It's an elite breeder clone that we've had like 17 years now.
And Sour Bubble is really a very unusual selection out of my straight bubble gum.
It was supposed to be straight bubble gum.
It was bubble gum from Amsterdam and I called it Bog Bubble, my version of it, you know.
And we grew that for years.
Every once in a while, and with the originals, we noticed that there were an occasional different
phenotype and it wasn't always exactly the same.
Compared to bubble gum, the Sour Bubble, as I called it, was a darker green and looked
a lot like its leaf structure and plant structure like pre-98 Bubba Cush.
And it doesn't quite have that kind of flavor, but it's kind of almost as cushy as bubble
gummy, you know, for like a Bubba Cush, it's kind of unusually cushy.
And we had it tested when we originally had that clone cut and that was up in Canada when
we lived in Bozeman.
And it was 30.5% resin weight.
Now that's all the THCs and the CBDs and all that put together.
But back at that time, which was like, you know, 2001, I think, that was a really, really
high THC clone that we selected out of the bubble gum that was normally much lower, you
know, more in the range of around 20% THC usually, just delicious and everything, you
know, but this was a lot stronger and a lot tighter.
Maybe didn't yield quite as much, but we had that Sour Bubble clone and we all just loved
it.
You know, the high is really quite Indica-sided.
It's probably my most Indica strain and it even has a little trait of the leaf hands
where like pre-98 Bubba Cush, one of the tiniest little leaves sticks up like a finger,
like, you know, the three stooges just holding a teacup with their little finger sticking
out.
Somebody showed me a picture of their pre-98 Bubba.
Wow.
And so when you found the Sour Bubble clone, was your first thought like, I want to find
the male version of this since you had the seed stock?
Well, yes, exactly.
And you know what?
This is the thing.
I had two or three of these different versions and we decided this clone, this was it.
We were just calling it Super Bog Bubble at the time.
And my son, who's also, you know, he's a 42-year-old hand down, he was a man at the time, was helping
me and he decided, and I did, that this was the one we definitely wanted to keep this
clone and breed with it.
Well, we were growing from seed commercially up there in Montana.
Now I may have inadvertently violated a few statutes, but in Montana, a man's home misses
castle and you can pretty much do what you want to do in your home and they can't get
a search warrant for a private owner's home at all, even if they think they're fairly
safe growing their own.
We did it back in Michigan too.
But we had kept growing the Bog Bubble, which was supposed to be straight bubble gum, but
was obviously really above a cush.
And it took two years of continuously growing from seed to come up with the male.
And I finally did and it just appeared and you could smell it and you could see it and
it was obviously a sour bubble male.
And it was like, you know, a gift from above.
I mean, honestly, I had been hoping and not seeing anything like it because it's quite
different than the bubble gum version that I have, you know, isolated in the Bog Bubble
side.
And so we were able then to make that first cross and then keep back crossing to the original
clone selection.
And the sour bubble became a big hit back at the same time on Overgrow, which was like,
you know, the big mega site back then that the guy I sent my seeds to came out with what
was called OG Kush.
And it was the first OG Kush that any of us at Overgrow have.
I know there's all kinds of stories about where it came from, but I knew that he had
it and he sent me seeds and clones of his version.
And I knew that we both had, you know, different versions.
And I didn't, you know, I didn't call mine that.
I came up with the name Sour Bubble.
Right.
And who is that person online?
Well, I don't remember.
It was a long time ago.
And the guy did acknowledge this.
His clone no longer exists.
This would be something to be investigated.
But, you know, I mean, back in the day, we just, you know, knew each other by names and
stuff and didn't keep anybody's names or addresses.
But I had sent him my Bog Bubble seeds and my Boggle Gum seeds, which is Bog Bubble crossed
with NL5.
And he had selected this clone out of either one or the other.
Okay.
I'm not even sure which one, but I had assumed out of the Bog Bubble.
Yep.
So if we take a step back all the way to the start now before we get too deep into things,
what was your first experience with cannabis?
Oh, wow.
Well, that was a long time ago.
I think I was only 13 years old and I had moved from Birmingham, Michigan to Algonac,
Michigan, which was on the water on the St. Clair River, which is part of the Great Lakes
system and beautiful.
And the new friends I met and we had boats and stuff and we could go camp on this island
called Gull Island.
And it was just paradise for like young teenagers, no parents.
And, you know, I mean, we could take beer or anything.
Well, one of my friends from Birmingham came up to visit and go with us to do this.
And he had brought some pot for me to try.
And I don't know why, but he didn't even want to smoke it.
He had just gotten it was like enough to fill up a good size tobacco pipe and probably had
a few seeds in it, you know.
And anyhow, I was the only one who smoked it.
We got to the island, we set up our little tent or whatever, and everybody was having
a great time.
And I remember I sat down and I smoked that whole pipe.
I mean, we were we were cigarette smokers.
And so I didn't have much trouble at age 13, toking down that big tobacco pipe full of
weed.
It was probably like some Mexican weed with a few seeds in it.
And I got a damn good buzz off it.
I mean, it took me about 15 minutes to smoke it, I think.
And this was a fun night, let me tell you.
Man, this island is only about, I don't know, half a mile long.
And it's just sand with a few trees on it, I guess.
And you can run around the whole damn thing in about half an hour probably.
Me and two or three other guys were out there after I got high and running around on the
beach and fooling around in the water.
And I was just stoned.
I had never been stoned before.
I didn't really know.
All I knew was I was happy, I was having a good time.
And before I knew it, I could see that they're laughing at me.
And this is my one little friend who had brought the tobacco up, I mean, the marijuana up for
me to smoke.
And he was laughing the hardest.
And it looked to me like he was putting his pecker away.
And I was like, what's going on here?
And he says, you didn't even notice, did you?
And I says, what?
He says, I peed on your leg.
You know, we're like standing in the water.
But no, I had not.
I had not felt any pee hit my leg.
I said, you did not.
So anyhow, that was the first adventure, I guess, on pot.
I could tell you what happened is we fooled around out there for a while.
We ended up, I went back to the tent and had munchies like mad.
I actually ate like a dozen donuts and drank like a two liter bottle of cola.
And I probably smoked about a pack of cigarettes.
I had a damn good night.
That's a great story.
I like that a lot.
So from there, did you decide that weed was your thing and you began to smoke it regularly?
Or was there some time before you become like a regular smoker and got really engulfed in
it?
Well, that's interesting.
I did love it.
And I don't think that was actually one of those like totally addicting moments, though,
because no, I wasn't right out seeking it or anything like that.
And it seems to me, though, that the next time I got high, that a buddy of mine and
I, and I don't know, I can't remember that, but we got high and we went to a carnival
and we rode the loophole plane.
And you know, the one where you hold the brake and the eggs sort of go upside down.
Well, you lose all the change in your pockets, of course.
And you know, that's how they get a little extra money for the carnies.
We had a ball on that ride.
I remember that ride and me and a buddy, us making that thing spin and we were so high.
And that was the second time.
And that was the time that I really thought, geez, I've got to have this weed more often.
So I think it took a couple of happy evenings on it to then be convinced, you know, and
I was then getting in at an age of like, for sure by 16.
But I think at 15, I had weed about half of the time because we could get bags of weed.
Wasn't very good.
But a lid of weed, which was like, you know, maybe a half an ounce even for as little as
10 bucks, maybe 12 bucks.
And it was a guy named Chief that we had Indians that lived across the river.
So in Algonac, it wasn't too hard to find a guy named Chief who might sell a kid some
weed and me and a buddy could get a lid from him for $12 usually.
Damn, that's good.
So at what point did you decide you wanted to start growing yourself and not just be
a buyer?
Well, we, as teenagers in high school, were experimenting with growing pot.
We lived in Michigan, which is a very northerly state in the U.S. and, you know, you get a
fairly tall...and of course, we didn't really have the right kind of seeds that would finish
early enough.
But I remember that we were growing a few plants in the wood behind a friend of mine's
house back when we were only like 15.
We weren't having much success, but we got some leaves and I remember that his name was
Todd and he had a bag of leaves, you know, that he chopped up.
And of course, we smoked some of them.
And he was actually rolling joints and selling joints in school.
And as I recall, they were, you know, like really cheap, you know, like...I can't remember
how cheap they were.
They might have even been as cheap as three for a dollar and, you know, like 50 cent joints.
So that's what I recall.
And they really weren't worth any more than that because, you know, they couldn't have
had like more than half of a percent of THC.
But you know, when you're kids, about anything you can get, right?
Make it work.
Absolutely.
We did actually, though, start trying to grow in earnest shortly after I got married.
My wife and I got married when we were 18 years old and not because we had to.
We had been going steady into high school years for two and a half, three years.
She's a wonderful girl.
And Pat and I got married and then we had this apartment for a year up at the college
where I was going to school.
And my dad bought an old farmhouse just because he was buying the property up in that area.
And I had some family up there in central Michigan.
And so, you know, there was this old vacant house.
I went and looked at it and asked if I could live in there.
And he said, sure.
So once we were out there, which is like when I probably was less than 19, I was probably
still 18.
We were growing weed outside and, you know, I was working on outdoor growing and it was
kind of difficult.
But, you know, I had some limited success and we were still usually mostly having to
buy from somebody.
But you know, we always managed to have a little bit of it around and did eventually
get better at growing.
I did eventually get some plants to flower in the summertime and realized how good sensimelia
could be.
And that was before I really even knew what it was.
And that was probably in about 74.
Right.
The really what helped me living in Michigan was they came out with something called a
halide light.
And I was already growing indoors before the halide light was invented.
And I had been doing high output fluorescence grow tubes that were like eight feet long.
And I also had some regular fluorescent four foot things.
And so I had a room that could, it was, you know, equivalent to maybe a thousand watt
room now or something like that.
One big row of plants.
And I had some limited success with that.
But then with the limited genetics that I was able to obtain back then, I would tend
to get things that were, you know, that would run under lights like that.
So when the halide light came out, all of a sudden I was able to grow top grade sensimelia.
And I had also upgraded from my own seeds that I had worked on for years, you know,
even back in Michigan.
But that I had then brought out to Montana when I moved out there.
And in earnest started trying to, you know, work on seeds.
And I even, well, I went through a whole progression of different stages, but finally got some
genetics from Amsterdam and some from Canada.
And that sort of got my company started without intending to.
Okay.
And the stuff you were working on prior to that, did you, do you still use any of that
at all?
Or is it kind of just being outdated?
Well, the first things that I worked with were from Michigan and some of it was just
bagged seed that I had crossed to this one strain that a friend of mine had in Michigan.
And you know, he had an indoor halide light too, but he had done some outdoor growing
there.
And his strain was called Blanchard strain, which Blanchard is a small town in central
Michigan, very rural.
But his plant, I remember, was just delicious.
And I had, you know, what I called red was my own original first strain and my strain
red tasted good and people liked it.
But his strain, the Blanchard strain was a lot stronger and it seemed more indica sided
and very sweet and it must've had some skunk in it, it seems to me.
And I'm not sure what else, but it was a very sweet with the very bitter skunky leaves,
you know, and it just, hard to say for sure.
I mean, it wasn't like anything from local, but stuff that had been around back when the
Grateful Dead were passing out, is there something like a long time ago.
Wow.
Yeah.
And if they came, actually neither of those strains ended up in any of the work we did
once we were selling seeds.
So no, I don't have those anymore.
They'd just be so old now, they wouldn't work.
I have had luck with seeds older than 10 years old and I do keep old seeds, but no, I don't
have those anymore.
When you look on your library with all the genetics you've collected over the years,
is there any older stock that you've got in there that you might want to work with, but
you're thinking, oh, it's a bit old, I might not really be able to get it to germinate?
Oh, I see what you're saying.
Well, we of course are always working on something new and with my company and the way I do things,
sometimes it's a long time between a new strain because we got up to like 15 strains
and it became difficult as a small mom and pop operation to keep them all in stock.
And I don't like discontinuing strains too much because my niche is old school and I
try to preserve the genetics as I got them originally.
I have wonderful genetics that I was gifted by friends that people, when they knew that
I was a breeder at Overgrow and we were actually selling my seeds worldwide, I was the first
American breeder to sell seeds worldwide through Gypsy.
Nobody was doing that from here.
And then I brought a couple other guys in, Reservoir Seeds, ResDog, he became a big deal.
He was a friend of mine and I was the one who talked Gypsy into bringing him in because
he had so many good genetics, you know.
But in my old school genetics, and ResDog would say this, that Bog had the gum.
And the fact is that the way we worked and progressed in each of our strains, all my
strains have bubblegum in them.
They used to call me the bubblegum guru.
There's a little story about the bubblegum that I'd like to tell you.
You know, when I was a little kid, I was a little businessman of a little kid.
I was always thinking about how to buy something cheap and sell it high.
Honestly, I mean, when I was only 10 years old, I was buying and selling switchblade
knives and I got some from Italy.
And I also, when we were traveling, managed to gamble and use slot machines and make money.
And so I was always thinking about this.
Well, when I was really young, one of the first times I got any money in my hand was
like $5, you know.
And I went down to the horse stable where they sold bubblegum.
That's why this story is because I got a box with 500 pieces of bubblegum in it.
And that was my first stash.
This was the gateway drug they talk about, pure sugar, and it tasted like bubblegum.
So I took that box of bubblegum and I took it home and I guess I had to stash it somewhere.
So I hid it in the garage and I found a spot in the garage and luckily the mice didn't
get them or maybe they got some and I didn't know.
But I used to go and grab me 20 pieces or so of my bubblegum and head to the movie theater
and I'd be chewing bubblegum like a wacko.
So I was an abuser of bubblegum.
Well, when I got bubblegum seeds from Amsterdam later when I was a grower, the last thing
I really expected was that the darn buds would actually smell like bubblegum.
But we grew the plants and we hoped for the best.
And when the plants got to be like four weeks in the fur, I was fooling around and sniffing
them and I rubbed a stash.
I smelled my fingers and my mouth dropped open and I was like, what the hell?
It smells like bubblegum.
I mean, how could that be possible?
And I went up and I told my wife and son, we're both upstairs.
I was living in Montana.
I had a Montana basement.
It was only like five feet high.
It was horrible.
You had to stoop all the time and you couldn't use big lights because of the height restriction.
But it smelled like bubblegum.
And I went up and I told them that and they both doubted my word.
Can you believe that?
Dad tells them and they don't think so.
And I said, look, you go down there and you just check it out for yourself.
And they did.
And they both came back upstairs and their mouths were hanging open, too.
And I'll tell you, bubblegum really smells like bubblegum before it's done.
And they were like, how is that possible?
I said, well, the name that's on the seed, Sarah, you know, it's actually supposed to
be bubblegum.
And we grew that and we were amazed, for one thing, that it was a decent yielder and that
we really liked the high, the Indica high was very relaxing and stuff.
We thought it was plenty strong enough for us.
What I thought most about it was it was like candy that who cares if it wasn't the strongest
thing you could grow?
It wasn't as strong as skunk or something like that.
But I just couldn't believe how yummy it was.
And I mean, that's all we smoked for years until we got hooked on the sour bubble.
And then that ended up being like we got totally addicted to that.
Wow, there's a lot of things I'm going to have to ask questions about.
So the first one is, do you remember who you got your bubblegum from breeder-wise?
And is it the same as the one Adam Dunn took over there?
Oh, well, actually, you know, it's Dronker's bubblegum and he deserves some credit.
My seeds were obtained through White Label Seed Company before they called it doublegum.
They did call it bubblegum.
And I had a small selection of those seeds.
And you know, he was the third guy who also had cloned the real bubblegum clone.
So I say, yeah, you know, I met and talked to Adam and the other guys.
And the only one I didn't meet and talk to was Ben Dronker.
Okay, interesting.
And so the next question I had, which I think everyone wants to know is basically,
a lot of people sent me in questions asking me to ask you about this.
So I thought I better bring it up.
Your relationship with the infamous Rez Dog.
So the question which struck me the most was a lot of people are familiar with Sour Dub,
but they may not, you know, realize that it's obviously like a collab between you and Rez.
How did that happen?
And how did you meet Rez?
Well, Rez Dog and I were friends online back in the overgrow days, in the IC Mag days,
before he was a seed dealer.
And the Sour Dub was a cross I made of the New York City diesel from Soma to my Sour Bubble clone.
And it doesn't have anything to do with any of Rez Dog's genetics.
Oh, there you go.
Maybe I missed out.
It's just, I might end up having to cut this question out because it looks like I made a blunder there.
But did you guys do a collab?
I think I maybe just misspoke when I said Sour Dub.
The question isn't wrong, man.
I'll tell you, there's definitely been some rumors around about either Sour Dub or Sour
Bubble somehow being some kind of joint project between Rez Dog and me.
And I'm sure he would confirm that that's really not true.
He may have sent me a few seeds at one time or another.
But as far as the Sour Bubble and the Sour Double, and, you know, with the Sour Double,
I didn't take that too far.
I gave those first cross seeds to Dub out here in California.
And he worked with that first cross seeds and gave me credit for the strain.
And so I can tell you that my original cross that I gave him was, that's what it was,
was Soma's New York City diesel and my Sour Bubble clone.
And as it turned out, I should have kept that and bred that and made that a strain for myself
because it turned out to be really darn good.
And, you know, a lot of great things have descended from Sour Double.
The name Sour Double is a misnomer because of the fact that the Sour Diesel in my Sour Double
wasn't Sour Diesel, but was New York City diesel.
And so you got Sour Bubble with one Sour and the other one actually New York City diesel.
So I didn't name it that.
Yeah, okay.
I understand what you're saying.
So one of the other questions I wanted to ask you about Rez is, do you still stay in
contact with him and the profile that popped up recently or, you know, a few months back,
do you know if that was the actual Rez and if he does plan to return to the scene?
No, I haven't been in touch with him since before he had some problems, you know, and
we were both doing, you know, sort of the same thing.
So, no, we haven't been in contact with each other at all.
And as far as whether the person who you're talking about, I haven't seen that or read
that.
So I can't help you there, but it's possible it's him.
As far as I know, he's been in contact with me.
It's possible it's him.
As far as I know, he's out and free and it could be.
Okay.
And so I guess the final question is, feel free to decline or we can cut this one out
if you don't want to.
Ultimately, do you think he's the snitch that some people label him as?
Well, I don't know.
I honestly wouldn't have any way to know that.
You know, a lot of these things are stuff that people read on the internet.
And while I do know some people and maybe have had some inside stories, nobody ever
convinced me that he's on anybody.
And I guess that I'm not saying that he did, but I sure can't say that he did.
Yeah, okay.
So, if we just jump back to another point you mentioned with the bubblegum story, your
relationship with Gypsy.
Gypsy is an interesting guy and there's not that many people around who had like a working
relationship with him who are still active.
What's your take on the Gypsy situation?
And you know, have you had any contact with him after he got out of jail, I think at the
start of the year?
Yes, but I'm not really in regular contact with him now.
But I did have an exchange online since he got out.
I know that a wonderful friend of ours, a Buddhist who sort of brought me into Buddhism
and his name is Tom, actually went over to the Philippines and sort of paid Gypsy's way
out of this horrible detention facility.
He was never convicted of any crime or anything.
And the fact is that that's all it took was money to get him out of their corrupt system,
you know, to be held without being charged with a crime.
And they tried to send him back to the US and he actually fought as they were trying
to board him on the plane that was going to take him to the US because the US wanted to
extradite him.
Yeah.
And because he caused a commotion, they took him back to the holding facility and he ended
up not being extradited to the US.
Lucky for him, because, you know, guys like him, they really would throw the book at him.
Yeah, OK.
And so I think the interesting thing about Gypsy is it's kind of like back at that same
time frame as when Overgrow was around.
And I think you have kind of the cool fact of being able to say you were the 12th member
on Overgrow, which is obviously kind of confirms your OG-ness.
Do you think, though, that people look back on Overgrow with a sort of rose-shaded glasses
and there's a certain sense of romanticising going on?
Or do you think that it is kind of like what people make it out to be, of like where it
was this mecca of information and it's such a shame we don't have something like that
anymore?
When Overgrow opened, it was like a birthday present to me.
I mean, if you realised what there was before that was practically nothing.
And the British Columbian Seed Company had a forum thread where there was like one page
with one constant thread where people could add something to the chat line, you know.
And that was it.
And I remember I posted my whole indoor organic grow tips for new growers on that like chat
forum thing.
And even though it wasn't really meant for that, they didn't object.
And then when Overgrow came out, I right away had this same thread there.
And it evolved into a thing where for like years, people would just come in and say,
ask a question.
And it was, you know, these were really long threads.
I remember they had a room called the Shark's Tank.
And that was where anything goes, you know.
And I had a thread called the New World Order.
And it was, you know, it had some conspiracy theory stuff in it and stuff.
And, you know, Bog, Bush Shield Grower, I mean, there was an aspect of some like, you
know, aspect of some mythology.
I mean, we were kidding around and joking around.
And, you know, my great, great, great, great, great, great granddaddy wasn't really an alien
who came down to Egypt with marijuana seeds because the sun is a perfect grow light.
But we came up with stuff like that, you know, I mean, demeaning harm.
That's great.
That's a crack up.
What was your kind of reaction to when it all got shut down?
Well, it was horrifying because we were doing business.
They had each seed company like, well, Gypsy Nirvana and his like Seeds Direct at the time
or whatever it was called.
And we had our own forum.
And so like before Overgrow actually shut down, RC, who ran Overgrow and was connected
with BC Seed Bank and stuff, decided to close down all the private seed forums, which had
sort of put us off of the public pages and into our own forums so that we wouldn't offend
anyone.
But that's what Overgrow was all about and teaching each other how to grow.
I wanted to talk about Overgrow because it was it was better than you think.
It wasn't over romanticized.
It was awesomely huge for the time.
You know, Al Gore, he claims he invented the Internet.
But I helped to invent social networking because at Overgrow, we had what was called karma
and you could give somebody good or bad karma and giving bad karma was bad.
But they actually could you could do it.
OK.
And so I quickly accumulated a lot of good karma because I was teaching people basic
methods of growing indoors in a time when it was all totally illegal and nobody knew
anything, you know, and it was like to be able to get this off your computer.
I mean, people were sitting around high learning how to grow.
And as soon as they learned something, they were teaching it to the next guy.
And this was really a great thing.
You know, I mean, if you love marijuana, this is why so many people in the world know me
is because I was a big deal at Overgrow.
And, you know, I was just posting my pictures of my flowers to show off.
And I never had planned on having a seed company at all.
I mean, I was just happy growing my weed and selling my weed.
I mean, prices were good.
And I thought, but then Jifsi Nirvana, who was the seed dealer, he saw how popular I
was, how many views I had, how much karma I had.
I mean, it was on there every day.
I wasn't working.
I was a grower.
I was spending 20 hours a week and I was uploading photos every day and I was showing all kinds
of cool stuff.
It was a lot of fun because it was all new.
The Internet was new.
The idea of posting a picture was, you know, awesome.
And so I just want to say that my teaching threads and my picture forum show off threads,
we had contests and things.
Overgrow was really pretty far out and it still suffered from the same kind of things
we have now.
Like we have trolls and things.
But, you know, one year we had this big contest at Overgrow.
And there was like five or ten categories of things people could win.
And top one was grower of the year.
And yours truly did win grower of the year.
The only year that Overgrow did that contest.
And so many people voted for me because of popularity, not really because I was the best
grower, you see.
And so it was because I had my fan base because people liked me because they could see that
I was answering everybody's questions every day.
And so I was providing a service where anybody could come into my thread.
And I mean, I wasn't the only one.
But my methods were simple and basic and it was all written so that any idiot could figure
it out.
And so what would you say is the biggest difference in the community when comparing things between
now and back then?
Well, it's changed a lot.
You know, there are still sites like that.
Like I see it still exists and runs and there's still some traffic there.
But social networking has evolved, you know, and I mean, everybody's on the Instagram,
the Twitter, the YouTube and the big sites have sort of like sucked up all the others.
And Overgrow was a huge mega site in its day.
I mean, it had over a million members.
I guess that probably wouldn't be that big a deal now.
But not that many people were on the internet back then.
And that's not, you know, even people that just came one time might have been considered
a member, you know, who knows if they jacked it.
But we had a lot of people there.
And when you put something out, you definitely got a bunch of responses in a hurry.
But I like the way Instagram is now.
And I like the way things have evolved.
The truth is that it was tedious wading through the threads in the forums.
And now it seems like it evolved in a natural way where you decide that you want to follow
somebody like I'm on Instagram and you can just, you know, look for bog or bog seeds.
And you can become a follower on our feed.
And every time I post a new picture or say something, you get a little notice that, hey,
your guy's up.
You want to have a look?
So I kind of like it.
It's like I get an instant response from the Instagram.
It's where I do most of my stuff now.
Yeah, I agree with a lot of those points.
And so I guess kind of maybe the last question about Overgrow, were there any people who
you saw back in the early days of Overgrow and you had a feeling they would go on to
do bigger things?
And, you know, true to form, that prediction has come true.
And now maybe they're, you know, some of the more relevant people in the industry.
Well, I'm sure that's true.
It's been so long ago that I mean, I got most of these people like we all we knew each other
by was was our online handles.
And, you know, I'm not I'm not the best with names, but I've been out doing events for
a long time and we run into each other.
And when we do, it's fun.
And I like the fact that people recognize me for.
On Overgrow and that they want to meet me because they really thought I was, you know,
like a huge leader on the site.
And then at the time there, I was and I was a good guy.
I mean, I was always telling people to be nice and charitable.
And honestly, I I fooled around and maybe was a little off color sometimes about I would
say things like that my plants, you know, because they were they were girls or since
in the area that they were my virgins, you know, and we would make jokes sometimes that
I guess, you know, once in a while could have been a little too much.
But we were just having fun.
And it compared to some of the stuff you see out there now.
Overgrow is pretty tame.
It seems like that was fairly well moderated and that I know that I couldn't get away with
just anything and that neither could anybody else.
So honestly, I think that that sometimes the less responsible places where there, you know,
there's chats all over the place.
Every game's got one and things like that.
So, you know, there's all kinds of trolls out there being nasty.
We had a pretty nice place.
Fantastic.
So I know that you have put out some soil mixes of your own, maybe a bit of a redundant
question, but are you an organic grower or more like a synthetic slash bottled nutrients
grower?
Well, I've always promoted organic methods.
And while some people have said maybe I'm not always totally organic on everything,
you know, I had a guy dispute that peat, you know, like peat moss in your soil, that that's
not organic.
Well, it seems organic to me.
Anyhow, if it's not, it's organic enough.
And I try to stay away from anything synthetic and, you know, like insecticides and things
like that aren't even legal in California.
You can't even buy them.
So they have all kinds of alternative treatments and things that don't involve that.
But, you know, I've been through all kinds of things and we've used all kinds of stuff
at different stages.
Now we know better, you know, like if you know what you do and you don't get too many
pests because, you know, there are good products or if you're doing it indoors, you're not
letting any of that get inside anyhow.
But.
Yeah.
So I guess my question then is, because you've probably had a really wide exposure to, you
know, over the years, you've tried a whole bunch of different samples from a variety
of different growers.
Do you think at the absolute pinnacle of both organic production and synthetic production,
do you think there's still a difference?
Do you think like organic is still the best when they're both at their optimal levels?
Or do you think it's just still, you know, devil's in the detail type of thing?
I think organic is still best and I'll tell you why.
I know that yields can be larger and it's really not an issue of that.
But I do think that the flavor is better.
And, you know, all the growers that are growing outdoors and growing in greenhouses, they
are also in competition with organic products that are grown indoors too.
And believe me, that's the best product and the highest price is given for indoor organic.
Now, indoor generally brings a higher price than the outdoor, of course.
And especially, you know, if you think you can get the same quality, I'd like to see
it.
But a controlled environment and, you know, I know that, you know, the sun, but being
outdoors is rough around plants and finishing plants indoors allows you to get the quality
higher.
And so overall, are you just primarily indoor guy or is your favorite outdoor or where do
you sit?
We're mainly indoor growers and now, you know, we're mainly just a pretty small grow to produce
seeds.
And it's like not producing a lot of weed, just weed for my family and a little extra.
But we are trying to downsize in a way that we pretty much just produce enough seeds to
keep the business going and about the level it's going right now.
And we really don't want to become a huge company.
In fact, some of my best friends, you know, advised me that it is best to keep it small.
And it does seem to me that it's a lot less worries.
And, you know, we don't have to have employees or a whole lot of complications because, you
know, I'm getting older.
I'm getting ready to retire.
I'm nearly 64.
And what I would like to do is just be able to keep supplying distributors and live economically.
I don't need to live large anymore.
I've done that.
Oh, frugal man.
I like that.
So, I mean, just kind of touching on distributors, do you ever get requests from distributors
or maybe even fans and customers, probably the more relevant person, to say, you know,
fans and customers, probably the more relevant person to kind of change up some of the genetics?
And I guess the question I always like to ask people is when I notice that a breeder
tends to stick to a more old school pool of genetics, a good example is our friend, the
mad farmer.
He like, he sticks to the old school stuff that he knows.
With that in mind, do you ever consider giving in to the request to maybe bring in a strain
of the month and spice things up a bit?
Yeah, but I'm still like the old school guy who doesn't, that kind of resists that.
And that's because if I really had the time to do the work with something else, I still
think that I'd rather continue to work on and select from my old school genetics.
And it's not very often.
I mean, okay, there are great strains and they come out.
You think, I should jump on this one or that one.
I should jump on this one or that one.
Like when sour diesel first showed up.
Well, maybe better get some of that.
Wasn't really my thing.
Okay, I really would rather, you know, be related but not the same and come up with
my own.
Now, a project that I'm working on right now is all my old genetics, but used in a
different way.
And another project that I'm considering doing is taking some high quality pollens
from another fine breeder and using that probably on my sour bubble clone because it
seems to have the genetics still.
The old clone may have declined a bit as far as the quality of its buds over so many
years, but its genetics are still throwing awesome phenotypes.
So yeah, there is a possibility that within the next year or two or less than a year that
we'll at least be working on something crossed to my sour bubble that is from someone
else.
Currently, I do have a new strain that is a cross of a couple of my strains.
It's been reselected and worked on.
It's a high yielder and it's more inclined to be a great outdoor bush, but these also
tend to yield well inside.
We have a number of strains that are good yielders and mold resistant.
And where I'm at here, the outdoor growers need mold resistant.
We're kind of coastal and there's a lot of growers in California that are.
And the other parts of the country, everybody in the fall when the weather turns colder
and it gets cold at night, it doesn't even have to rain for the mold to set in.
And outdoor growers, you know, it's really disappointing, you know.
And so I'm working on these type of strains.
The strain is going to be called Bluetooth and it's actually a cross of my blue moon
rocks and my sweet Cindy.
Now, sweet Cindy, everybody tended to think was like mostly going to be like Cinderella
99.
And there is a little Cinderella 99 in it, but it's a lot more like sweet tooth three.
And the fact is that that's what the sweet in the sweet Cindy stands for.
Now, the blue moon rocks and the sweet Cindy will already has shown to intestine produce
some mega fat colas.
And so we're pretty excited about it.
We know that it's good tasting and good weed and that it is mold resistant.
So we've gone ahead with this cross and we hope to be releasing it later this year.
Wow, that's exciting.
So, I mean, just to touch on the point you made about the mold resistance, I noticed
that you do list in some kind of descriptions that you like to breed for mold resistance
and hardiness in general.
Do you feel that in order to do this, it's done mostly via a selection process or more
of like a byproduct of the fact that you're breeding and acclimatizing them in an environment
which would help to cater for that?
Well, that's a good question.
You know, for one thing, I'll tell you this.
A lot of times things boil down to being a little simpler than you think, but not always.
The mold resistant strains are not the most indica sided ones, okay?
In my experience, the sativas being, you know, not so large, heavy and tight buds just tend
to resist it better.
Also, the really dark green leafy types seem to me to be more likely to mold.
And so, my most indica strains and blue moon rocks is quite indica sided, but it doesn't
mold.
And so, it's not just that.
We did grow in places, and you asked, are you an indoor grower?
No, we grew outdoors too.
And some of my seeds have been made outdoors and were made outdoors, even if they're also
been made indoors.
And so, we were thinking about two different things in our different kinds of plants.
And that one type of plants, they either have to be early finishing or mold resistant and
likely to finish in most places.
And the early finishers are my sour strawberry, my blue cush.
The mold resistant large yielders that finished in time are boggle gum.
You see, boggle gum's got NL5 with the bubble gum.
It's like antifreeze from the great white north, and nothing stops that.
Lifesaver, which we haven't talked about, very mold resistant, large yielder, great
outdoors.
And sweet cindy also.
So, the lifesaver, the boggle gum, and the blue moon rocks, and the sweet cindy yield
well, finish in reasonable time and resist the mold.
Now, it's been true, and it continues to be true.
And all I can say is that I do my best not to just keep inbreeding my seeds, but to do
a rotation where I go back to an earlier set of seeds that I saved in my breeder's
seeds.
And, you know, I keep clones.
It's just that, you know, at times you have to reselect clones.
But I've kept the same sour bubble clone the longest, which is essential to all my
sour strains and blue cush.
Yeah, definitely one of the more long-held ones.
So, I mean, if we just touch on something you mentioned a question or two ago about,
I think you said, you know, like it would have been neat to know that sour diesel was
going to be the big thing at the time.
But, you know, there was other reasons why you didn't get into it.
Just on that general line of thought, what's your opinion on the general trending nature
of strains?
Do you kind of keep an eye on what's on the come up?
And would you ever try to be ahead of the curve, so to speak?
Do you ever get the feeling that maybe some bubblegum, slash, you know, the kind of your
flavors are on the rise?
And would you try to anticipate that, if so?
Well, you know, I may not be quite as up to date on everything as I was back in the day,
but it does seem some of the work that's being done with a couple of Africans, you know,
people are raving about.
And that there may be some things that, you know, I'm not aware of and that I haven't
even tried.
But you're right about people giving me seeds at samples and events that I have a lot of
people who, like, remember me from long ago.
And they see me and they know I'm going to be there or whatever.
And they bring seeds for me.
And so a lot of other guys, you know, startup companies, good growers, I mean, you know,
we definitely respect some of the newer companies than us.
Don't get me wrong on that.
It's just that there are so many small companies now that, you know, everybody seems to jump
headwagon with the new popular strain.
And I've been a couple times, I was tempted, I mean, to me, Girl Scout Cookies is pretty
remarkably my type of weed, okay?
It definitely got traces of pre-98 bubbla in it that I love, or bubble, is it, in there?
Sorry, what was that last bit?
You think maybe some sour bubbles in there?
Well, I just mean that the pre-98 bubbla, I believe, is in the sour bowl.
And that's part of the reason I love Girl Scout Cookies too, because I think I taste
it in there.
Yeah, yeah, I've heard that comment a few times as well.
So, while we're on the topic of, you know, seed businesses and just that general nature,
what's your opinion on what some would describe as the rising nature of seed prices?
Because some breeders have pointed out that most people are relatively charging about
the same thing if you compare the prices while accounting for inflation to, say, companies
in the 90s.
However, there's obviously a lot of clear examples where there are people charging,
you know, quite large price tags associated with their seeds, and it's obviously not
proportional.
How do you feel about this general idea?
Do you think there should be a limit?
Do you think it's just a capitalist thing where it's like, you know, if someone wants
to pay, where do you sit on it all?
Well, I always wanted to be competitive.
And the thing is, I didn't want to be the lowest or the highest.
I think that it's important that you provide a good value.
And I don't know.
I think if something's brand new and they want to auction it off and they can get a
high price for it, if something's really good enough that people will pay their prices
for it, you can't blame people for it.
I mean, you know, business is business, and they're probably going to charge what they
can.
But I think that there's a little bit of old school business morality that a lot of
people could—and that is that you want the customer to be satisfied.
You want them to return and use your seeds again.
I'm more about return customers than trying to fish up a whole bunch of new guys.
But like right now in states that have gone here in the USA, anybody can grow four or
five plants legally, and they don't need any permits or anything like that, you know,
unless there's some local ordinance that might prevent them.
The state law lets people grow a few plants.
So it seems to me that there could be a lot of new growers.
And my seeds are easy to grow.
I tell them which ones are the easiest.
People usually—we recommend the bobble gum.
We call it bulletproof.
You know, it tastes like bubble gum, but it's got the NL-5 in it, which makes it
resistant to almost everything, every mistake you can make.
And it'll produce something even if you forget to feed it.
So we often tell people, you know, it's really good for beginners, but not for beginners
only.
Bobble gum was a medical strain, and we didn't even call it that back at the time.
But it was sold as such in Canada online for $350 an ounce for a number of years.
And I don't know how they got away with that, but when I went up to Vancouver, I found places
like the melting point where Bubble Man had his vaporizers all in view of the open windows
on the main street.
Cops walking by had all my stuff out on the table, and we were all getting high up there
many years ago.
Sounds good.
So you just mentioned the NL-5.
I wanted to ask you about it.
Where did you get yours from?
And do you have any speculations on what the genetics behind it are?
Oh, that's a good question.
You know what?
There's probably somebody who does know the answer.
I can tell you where I got them.
NL-5, a BC company, British Columbia seed company, they sold not just Northern Lights.
It was back before they just sold Northern Lights.
And they did sell Northern Light 5 seeds, which another guy obtained and transferred
them to me.
And he had the name he had written on his own tag, so I didn't get the package or anything.
But they were alleged to be NL-5.
And I grew them out, and they were different than just Northern Lights.
I can say this, that it was pretty excited.
It was pretty excited.
And the plant structure was exactly like a Christmas tree.
It had a lot of green, sort of like menthol or greenness to its composition, okay?
And it was good smoke, but not quite as good as the Amsterdam Bubblegum that I had grown
and gotten from Tronkers.
But it was rugged and hardy, and it was good.
So, we did that cross because those were the first two sets of imported seeds I had
obtained.
So, it was kind of a no-brainer.
Yeah, okay.
And it's also one which is still around.
You still use it to this day.
Do you feel that's because it's still solid, or it's more so because you want to still
be able to offer those strains it was used in the creation for?
Well, we pretty much, for our own use, grow indoors.
And we've lately just been growing three of our strains from three clones that we've
got running.
And, you know, one's Sour Bubble, one's the Sour Grape, and one is the Blue Moon Rocks.
And we were running more types, but we're kind of downsizing on the pot growing and
trying to just continue to keep up on the seed growing now.
So, those are the three clones I have selected and that we're growing right now.
And I'm growing from seeds and working on the Bluetooth project.
And so, really, we've gotten most of the work done on that now, and we're just doing
our final room full of it to come out with the seeds later this fall.
Yeah, okay.
So, something our viewers love to always hear from the guests is, what are some of the traits
you like to look for when selecting a male?
Well, you know, males have smell.
And, of course, with my strains, it's not too hard for me to select males because I
have a couple of tricks.
Now, yes, you have to reselect males.
And, you know, the fact is that it's best to go back to older seeds that you have than
maybe the ones that you're also growing.
But find a male that's close to back when it was early as you can.
And then, I am not one to use just one male.
Now, I suppose somebody thinks that's not right, but I am not always trying to get them
all to be as identical as clones.
I mean, I've had strains get that way, and it gets a little boring.
And so, I think that it's fun when it's my sour strawberry where you do have more than
one phenotype that you're going to get in a pack of seeds.
And it may sound backwards as far as stability, but I've got plenty of strains that are quite
stable.
I've been making them for a long time, and being able to know what the right male is
supposed to look like and smell like, because I've done it so many times, makes it easier
for me to reselect males.
Do you subscribe to the idea of trying to find a male, for example, which may be as
closely as possible mirrors a female of the same strain that you find very desirable?
Or do you think there's some intrinsic differences, which means you can't just necessarily do
what I mentioned?
It depends on the breeding project.
Okay?
Like, every one of my strains wasn't made the same way, and I don't like to go into
every detail about it, but let me explain with the sour bubble.
Yeah.
If you've got a clone, you want to produce seeds like that clone, I'm not one to feminize,
okay?
I don't feminize seeds.
We've never sold feminized seeds.
I have a story for you about feminizing seeds.
Yes, I did do it at one time.
But, well, the reason I don't do it is because if you feminize seeds, it'll be fine, possibly
for the next generation, but if they use those seeds to make more seeds, the hermaphrodite
tendencies definitely come out.
So I expected that people would take my seeds and probably make some more seeds of their
own.
At least when I started this company, it's more the way it was than people are just going
to buy loads of seeds.
So given you've had some clones for 15 plus years, I'd love to get your opinion on this
topic of genetic drift.
Do you believe that over time, females, and maybe even males for that matter, can deteriorate
in quality?
Or do you feel that for the most part, the same plant is the same plant?
I would say that the genetics doesn't change, but that a clone, the quality of its bud and
numbers on its THC and stuff definitely can decline.
It's not because of genetic alteration, okay?
That's not that easy to do, and I don't think the plant would be healthy if that was going
on.
I think the genetics of clones are pretty solid.
But I do think that the process of selection is one thing, even with clones, and that a
line can deteriorate over time.
I don't think my Sour Bubble clone, being like 17 years old, I don't think I could get
it to test out as high as when it was brand new.
I saw it come down some, and I still love it.
But there are theories of ways to take a clone that's sort of run down and refurbish it.
And the only one I've ever really heard is to take it outside for a summer and let it
live like a real tree, you know?
Yeah.
So do you think that there is a poster child in regards to all the strains you've made
that represent bog seeds?
Like, is there one strain which you think really embodies bog seeds?
Oh.
Well, it's either the original Bubblegum Bog Bubble or Sour Bubble.
The Bog Bubble was a flagship, and the Sour Bubble kind of became the new leader, and
all the strains got bred to the Sour Bubble.
It's kind of a similar story to one that Soma told after years of all his strains being
developed.
He finally had this one male that he decided was so good that he had to cross that to all
his strains, and he came out with a whole second set of strains.
The thing I wanted to go back to for a second, what I didn't really answer, was like the
type of breeding projects.
I mentioned that with trying to make seeds from a clone that I got off the track on to
why I don't feminize.
But by finding that perfect match, like I did for the Sour Bubble, that really was important
to getting those first seeds from the clone.
And that was the main thing in the breeding project that mattered the most.
The different batches and the numbers of back crosses, the further you get away from the
clone, the better they would yield.
But I think at a certain point, like back cross four, you wouldn't want to go any further
away.
So we would go back and start over again.
But with a lot of my strains, I don't think that any breeding project, when you start
it, you really don't know what you're going to get.
And so it's kind of a crap shoot.
And I always told people to follow their intuitions and to know what they're hoping for and to
wish for that, and that you can make it happen.
And it's a spiritual power that we have.
Yeah, OK.
And so do you think that there's something more to breeding than just purely a, say,
criteria of things you're looking for?
Is there kind of a certain amount of intuition involved also?
Yeah, I'm that type of breeder, like Soma, who is kind of a believer in a lot of things.
A lot of junk, spiritualism and stuff.
I mentioned to you about my New World Order thread and how conspiracy theories and things
like that.
Well, I worked in medicine for a number of years, and I then went to alternative medicine
for a while, like a naturopathic therapist.
And I kind of believe in the power that people have to help each other, like in massage,
for example.
The human touch is a thing people crave and is therapeutic.
And in a way, you do it.
But there's something called intention and attention.
And so if your intention were to make pain go away in his lower back or neck, for example,
and you paid attention to that by concentrating on it and working on it and massaging it or
whatever you do, manipulating it, that because of your intent and attention, that you use
your spiritual power and that that person can feel it, can benefit.
We are creative, and it's not all science.
Now, I love science, and I wish I knew more science.
I mean, that's the thing I like to read, and I'm a science fiction fan, you know?
I just love space and rockets and everything like that.
So I don't diss science.
I was good at science, and I liked biology and science like that, but I didn't have a
degree in genetics or even agriculture, okay?
I mean, I was like political science, English, law, stuff like that, regular old college
program that eventually, you know, I ended up having my first child at 21 years old and
leaving my first session in college early to go to work.
And so I ended up going back to school and stuff, but that's a whole other story.
So you touched on science there.
Do you like to engage in the new emerging technology and sciences that are kind of touted
to help breeders?
Like, for example, do you use any of, not just like, you know, an analytical lab testing
for cannabinoid values, but like maybe the ones where they help you to detect miles earlier
on or things like that?
No, I never use those guys.
No, I am not saying that testing isn't valid or anything, okay?
And we've had plenty of tests on plenty of our strains, and, you know, my weed, different
kinds, been sold in California by dispensaries for years.
A lot of times they would send a sample in and get it tested.
You know, I'm cheap.
I don't like to pay for testing.
But the kind of testing I really believe in, being with the medical background, is more
like clinical testing, and that would be the results.
And I know that that's anecdotal and harder to nail down than the THC content or the CBNA
or whatever else new component.
I understand a little bit about THC.
I understand enough about it to know that I like my strains high THC with a little bit
of CBD, and that indica-sided strains like that, like my Sour Bubble, kill my pain the
best.
They are a bit on the couchy side for some people, but it stimulates my brain.
Now, I got pretty high on it before we did this session, and it's not like I'm sleepy
or anything, and I've only had a sip of coffee.
Yeah, well, there you go.
I mean, do you consider yourself to have a high tolerance or more just like, you know,
because it's for a medical need, it helps to counteract the maybe sedative side other
people experience?
Some people would say we have a high tolerance because my wife and I smoke a lot.
But the truth is that you could get a higher tolerance by using more edibles, and we do
eat edible now and then, but not that regular.
And, you know, you get a high content using concentrates and things like that.
We make bubble hash, and sometimes we'll add a little of that to our joint if we want to
pep it up, you know.
But I wouldn't say that we could take it all that much at any one time.
You know, I mean, we're older.
We like to get high, and there are some highs that are too busy for me that I don't even
like that are like really, really sativa-sided strain sometimes that, you know, it just makes
me a little anxious.
So I kind of prefer the indica high.
There you go.
That segues perfectly into my next question where I was going to say that a lot of your
strains tend to have this commonality of a relatively short flowering time, and obviously
that lends itself more towards the indica side of genetics.
Was this intentional, or is it just kind of how things worked out?
Oh, it was intentional.
Being an indoor grower myself, I mean, I actually came up with my own cell for a plant,
a strain, that I called the grower's rating scale rather than the smoker's rating scale,
okay?
And so, like, growers, they're the ones that have to work with it.
I like a strain that finishes in, like, seven and a half, eight and a half weeks, and it's
long enough to get a pretty darn good yield.
You know, I do have two or three that take longer to finish.
Like indoors, my LSD and my Lifestar, they both take at least 10, maybe 11 weeks indoors,
and they're a little late finishing outside.
But the LSD is quite mold-resistant, and the Lifestar probably should be, too, although
I'm really not sure on that.
But yeah, you know, being an indoor grower, I want things to move along, you know?
And I do what's called, you know, continuous production now.
I called it Bonanza Green when I wrote my book back in the day.
It described how we keep the plants moving, you know, from a bedroom to a flowering room,
and on down the line in the flowering room until they reach the end of the room, and
where they get sort of set aside from the lights for a couple more days where they can
still see the light, but finish up and could sort of get the most out of the room that
way.
It's more efficient.
Part of the grower's scale would involve the amount of energy required to get how much
yield back.
And so fewer weeks of flowering definitely would be a factor in that.
And so we were looking at it commercially, too, that, you know, there's some great long
flowering strains, but unless the yields are going to be really big, you don't want that
indoors.
And the other thing is, if the yields are really big and they take a long time, then
the plant's still more susceptible to problems than a fast flowering plant, like, you know,
mold or bugs or anything.
Yeah, totally.
So some people may not have been aware of what you just referenced, but you have written
your own book called Bonanza of Green, and I was going to ask you about it.
What inspired you to write it?
Was it kind of the case that you set out to write the book, or was it more that you were
giving out all this info and just over time you were kind of like, hey, I've got like
a book's worth of stuff here?
Well, that's exactly it.
I kept writing the same shit over and over again, you know, and I really got to thinking,
we ought to do this, you know?
I mean, my wife was working at the time, but I was off work, and it could have never got
done without her help.
I mean, we're both literate and all, but she's, you know, more perfectionistic, and
she made sure that the paragraphs made sense to everyone.
My book was meant to be simple and to entice people into growing, and then also to, you
know, show them pictures of my strains in the back of the book and recommend that they
get seeds from us.
So, you know, part of it was a promotional thing for my seeds, but it never turned out
to be that big a deal.
And we got a thousand copies printed, and since then we've just been burning them on
CDs and sending them to people, you know?
It was on the Google Play for some time, and it may still be out there online.
It's Bonanza Green by Bushy Old Grower.
There you go.
Check it out, people.
So I wanted to ask you this one question.
I didn't know how to slot it in, so we're just going to do it here.
Lifesaver, your cross, it's an interesting one to me, because on face value, from what
I can see, it's one of the only ones where it's made using two different breeders'
genetics.
Would you ever consider doing that again, or was that kind of a one-off special thing?
No, I would consider doing that again, and that was a time when I used Subcool's genetics,
and I'll give him all the credit in the world for his JCB, Jack's Cleaner Blueberry.
Incredibly fast flowering strain and very good bud.
And, you know, it was good enough that I wanted to cross it to my Bubblegum, which was very
fast.
I mean, the original Bog Bubble, it was probably faster finishing than it is now.
Maybe it was a difference in the way I grew it, but, I mean, we were getting it to finish
in, like, you know, seven weeks.
And so his, he had some, if he knows, he claimed, even finished in like 42 days, 43 days or
something like that.
And, you know, that's like too fast, but they were fast.
They were at least as fast as my Bog Bubble.
So I did cross those together, and like I said, I've been talking to James at Seeds
here now about possibly using some pollen from a very well-known breeder.
I don't want to mention the name until we actually go forward with the project.
But at this point, I've said that, you know, I might take some select pollen to work with
on my strains.
Ah, that'd be interesting.
And I think I might know who you're talking about, but we'll leave that to be seen.
What I did want to ask though is, I don't know if you're aware, but there's a few people
in the scene who are very reminiscent about the strain Bubbleberry that was offered by
Saga Martha Seeds many years ago.
And I noticed that you essentially offer, you know, a very similar version to that strain,
like a blueberry cross to a bubblegum type of thing.
Have you ever noticed this similarity and thought maybe I should try to work this a
bit more?
Well, I am aware of his strain by name, and I never actually tried it or worked with it.
But I did have some friends in Amsterdam that told me that his Bubbleberry was excellent
tasting.
Okay, now, well, there's several companies that have bubblegum blueberries, you know.
It was not intended to copy him.
It was done probably pretty much at the same time.
And I don't think we used exactly the same components or anything.
So, of course, they're related.
I mean, of course, they both have bubblegum and they both have blueberry in them.
But he and I didn't work together on it.
I didn't take his genetics and use them, and he didn't take mine and use mine, I don't
think either.
Yeah, of course.
So, one question I love to ask the guests, because our viewers always love to hear it
is, do you have any tips for phenohunting?
And so what I mean by that is, do you, for example, maybe prefer to run a lot of plants
in small pots and just see how they go?
Or do you like to let them get big to get a true test of them?
What's your method when you're going to pop some seeds and try to determine what's
worth keeping?
What a great question.
You know, I'm always doing this, all right?
And the thing is, right now, you know, like I was telling you, my Sour Bubble clone, great
for breeding.
Definitely the genetics are still just popping.
But we decided to, again, look for another select Sour Bubble mother.
And we went through a group of them a while back.
Now, no, I don't do a big group at a time.
It might only be like 15 plants, and a few of them are going to turn out to be males.
With my Sour Bubble, the strain is about 70% female, maybe 65%.
So right now, I'm doing it again.
And the last time, I had a couple of promising keepers.
And another guy just showed his keeper from Sour Bubble that he selected on the internet.
On Instagram.
And it's the Bubble Gum version of Sour Bubble.
And it's not an uncommon one.
And it's super delicious and sticky and frosty and finishes real fast.
But the one I had wasn't a very big yielder.
And I didn't think it was quite as strong as, you know, the other phenotypes.
So then there was another one that I also thought was a possible keeper.
And it didn't have the same taste that I was looking for.
But it was really strong.
And it had an interesting taste.
But we just wasn't sure it was good enough.
And so we're doing another look right now.
Now, the way I do it is, this time, I had a set of Sour Bubble seeds.
I wanted to go ahead and check out some of the ones that looked marginal, actually.
Small and marginal, and that I probably wouldn't have sold anyhow.
And it was funny.
All germinated, you know.
And I thought, well, let's just see how they grow, you know, and if they're brunts or anything.
And I guess out of the bunch, we might have had a couple that died off or were weird.
But I've got a group of plants now.
There must be about 10 of them.
And what we do is, we number them all.
And we clone them all.
And we keep the clones.
And, you know, often the males, because, you know, usually they just die, you know.
Anyhow, you can clone a male, but it's hard.
And after we find out which ones are the females, we go ahead and flower out the big plants.
You see, I've got a limited size indoor grow.
And I'm just trying to, you know, do everything in sequence.
And so it can't be all that many at all at one time.
You know, when I get those into flower, which is really soon, they're getting huge,
we'll just, you know, finish them out.
We'll try the different kinds of bud.
And we'll write up, you know, what I thought about each phenotype and see if there's something.
Like at this point, everybody wants something that's a good yielder.
And Sour Bubble is just a moderate yielder.
It's not a great yielder.
I've grown big plants, you know, to show that it's possible.
But it takes a while vegging it.
And then they flower fast.
They tend to not be the biggest yielders.
We'd like to find one that's really good, that has similar taste to my old clone,
that yields more and has higher content like the old clone did originally.
Sounds like the dream combo.
So, this is going to be a bit of an interesting question because I'm not sure on the timeline.
But how do you feel about what it appears to be to me,
the fact that like Barney's Farm stole the LSD name from you?
Well, I didn't look at it that way.
You know, the truth is when I named LSD, hey, here's something Rezdog had something to do with.
Naming LSD.
We were talking about it.
And I says, what am I going to call this shit?
I said, it's Lifesaver.
It's crossed with so much diesel.
He says, huh, let me see.
LSD.
So, he actually came up with the name.
I went like, duh.
Okay, good idea.
It was a good idea.
And I did name it LSD.
And I do think it was after my LSD, yes, probably a couple years later, at least,
that Barney's Farm came out with their LSD.
But do we know that they were even aware that there was another LSD?
And did they claim it was BOG LSD?
No, they didn't.
And did it have the same components?
No.
And did they tell what the components were?
Yes, they did.
And so, even if the strains are similar, they came from different origins.
I don't think they just knocked off my LSD seeds.
I think they made their own.
And they came up with their own name from the same abbreviation system of like,
Levin's skunk diesel or whatever's in it.
Yeah, okay.
So, do you think though that there should be some sort of standard by which if a name
already exists, you know, like there's some rules you should follow?
Or do you think it's fine so long as like, you know, you state what it is.
And so, if people look into the details, they'll be able to see that it's different.
I think it's fine as long as you're not dishonest.
I think it's awful to not give somebody the credit they deserve if you use their work.
I think it's awful to try to steal, you know, somebody's strain.
But when it comes to names, look, there's a bunch of sour grapes.
I'm not so sure that mine was the first sour grape.
I sure didn't know of another one, but there was one.
The thing is, mine is a box sour grape.
And I can tell you what's in it.
And I have told everybody what's in it.
And it's the truth.
And it's the only reason I can remember anything is because I always tell the truth.
If I did lie to make it look better or sound cooler or something, I could never keep all
the lies straight.
I mean, I'm an old guy.
And a lot of the stuff you're asking me to remember was 15 years ago or more.
Yeah, totally.
Sorry to put you under the pressure like that.
Well, no, I've enjoyed it just fine.
I'm just saying that I'm an old stoner.
And in my memories, the worst things are the actual names of people.
But I did meet a lot of the big breeders.
I did go to Amsterdam a few times.
I traveled with Gypsy and his Jaguar in Europe.
I drove his Jaguar, man.
It went 156 miles an hour.
It was a nice big car.
And man, that was so cool.
I mean, cruising the Autobahn and stuff, man.
We were down in Switzerland.
We went to Breeder Steve's Greenhouses and stuff just before he got up.
I was worried that us being there, the pictures that were shown could have led to him getting
in trouble.
And I thought, fuck, man, we were all pretty careless.
Yeah, wow.
That sounds very much like the heyday.
Well, you know, I mean, it was like when I first got into this business with Gypsy,
you know, I mean, he was the one that asked me to make seeds for him.
He had put up a picture of this bubblegum because he knew I grew bubblegum, you know.
And he had had a win-free pack of seeds, if you can tell me what this strain was.
And the picture showed how it was all popcorned out, the bud, the way bubblegum should look
when it's done.
And I right away said, well, it looks like bubblegum to me.
And he says, oh, yeah, you win, Bushy.
You definitely get the pack of bubblegum seeds.
So I got another pack of bubblegum seeds, and they were Simon's.
And I grew those.
And, you know, they were a lot different than my bubblegum.
And they tasted and smelled like bubblegum, too, but a little bit more like cotton candy
to me than my bubblegum.
And I also thought that while it was a large plant and everything, it was awfully woody,
like it was more wood and tree than it was bud, you know.
But of course, phenotypes vary a little bit.
And who knows how many I had to work with.
Just one pack, I think, of those.
Yeah, OK.
I've heard people comment about that, about how I think there's kind of a more indica-leaning
bubblegum, and I think Simon's may have been the more sativa-leaning one.
I don't know if it was more sativa or not.
It definitely had this woody and stout structure.
It definitely was, you know, a pretty good size plant.
But I thought it was just as indica-sided, in my opinion.
Yeah, OK.
I could be off with that one.
So, I mean, while talking about you having your little holiday in Europe, is the European
market something you want to explore more, or are you just already too busy trying to
keep up with domestic?
Well, we've been limited in our ability to stay, like, distributing to distributors in
other countries.
After, you know, some problems that RezDog had, we decided to go domestic for a while.
And we're entertaining the notions of certain countries that allow it, that we are, you
know, talking to people, some people interested in having distributorships.
And so far, right now, I do have distributors who will ship anywhere in the world, or just
about anywhere, but they're based in the US.
Yeah, cool.
So, anyone can get them, if you're wondering, all my Australian friends.
Inevitably, I get that question.
Well, I would also like people to know, if they want information about who my distributors
are and where they can be found and reached, that they can always check out Bog or Bog
Seeds at Instagram, or I'm willing to give you my email address if you would allow that.
Yeah, of course.
Well, we can give information on obtaining seeds, depending on where you are, at Bogland,
B-O-G-L-A-N-D 72 at gmail.com.
Yeah, fantastic.
And of course, you can get them from Seeds Here Now, one of our favorite sponsors.
Seeds Here Now is our largest distributor, and they have done a great job for us.
And you can be assured that if you deal with them, you'll be satisfied, you'll be getting
the best service around.
That's the one.
So, sorry, just to jump back to the question I was going to ask, I got a legal question
here.
So it's a bit of an interesting one, but I want to hear your opinion on it.
Where do you see the future of cannabis going in California?
Because obviously, that's what you're probably more familiar with.
And do you think that the world will follow California's suit?
I hope not.
Honestly, Eddie Lep is a good friend of mine.
He's a cannabis activist out here, as am I.
In California, we had the longest running medical marijuana system of any state.
We ran it for like 15 years with no problems.
Believe me, a cottage industry, people could take their half a pound or whatever to a local
dispensary.
They could be paid for it.
They could go home and they could afford to have a roof over their head.
Legalization, well, we've always all wanted legalization, but we want sanity.
This kind of legalization is just regulating it far too much, taxing it far too much, with
no exceptions for medical users, senior citizens, or people that want to grow or be limited to
like four plants.
No, this isn't going to stand.
Eddie Lep and I and a lot of other people involved in the medical industry out here
are furious with the fact that they lied about the promises that our medical rights would
not be lost.
Well, maybe not for a year or so.
Yes, they are threatened and we are working on valid initiatives to get our medical rights
protected.
Listen, I'm naturopathic.
I'm into health and I believe in medicine and doctors and all that, but I believe in
the personal right of a person to grow herbs for their own use.
I mean any plant.
I don't care what plant.
The fact is that if it's for your own use and you're not even selling it, it's nobody's
business but your own.
And there's a lot of people that think it's healthier than a lot of the medicines that
people use.
For God's sakes, this pharmaceuticals that got everybody addicted on opiates, if people
were growing their own opium poppies and bleeding them and putting that on their weed and smoking
it, they wouldn't even get addicted to it because it would be at such a low level.
But it's not in its natural form.
You know, that's why I like raw cannabis much better than concentrates.
Yeah, I know raw cannabis, it's a fresh produce and it doesn't last forever.
We got a lot of it and we need to turn a lot of it into concentrates.
But what I like is fresh cannabis and I honestly think that it's healthy and maybe it's healthier
to vape than to smoke, but I still smoke it.
After all these years of my wife and I smoking all kinds of marijuana, it hasn't harmed us.
It kept us from getting cancer.
I smoked cigarettes for years and I had a heart bypass operation 25 years ago.
But cannabis has kept me alive since then.
Yeah, wow.
What an incredible testimony.
So, with that being said, what legal changes do you think need to occur to facilitate a
more productive cannabis industry and just culture?
Well, to tell you the truth, I agree with Governor Brown and the Governor of Colorado
and a lot of people, and this may sound crazy to you, but I was not for this legalization
proposition.
And a lot of people in Oregon and Ohio, you know, the horrible thing they set up in Ohio
where just five farms would have a monopoly growing all the weed in Ohio.
And the voters voted it down, just like California voted legalization down the first time.
And they voted it down because it was all commercialistic.
It was all about taxes.
There's only reason they're doing it.
And, you know, I don't begrudge a recreational system.
There can be a recreational system of legal weed and there can also be the medical marijuana
system where people don't have to work in the same fashion and it doesn't have to be
taxed so heavily.
Yeah, of course.
And so, do you think that that is a potential for California to go back to like the formal
model or do you think you've almost come too far?
Well, to tell you the truth, I don't know what the future will bring.
I do think that a nationwide medical marijuana system would make more sense.
But I understand they just think everything commercially in the business world like making
fewer producers to make sure you're able to collect all your taxes.
You know, we could have made sure that all the was safe.
So there could have been a system set up that would have preserved the cottage industry.
It's going to create and is creating a disaster in the states where they took away the medical
marijuana and put it in effect, legal marijuana.
The same thing's happening in Canada right now.
And that's a whole country.
You know, they just legalized it.
Well, one of the seed companies that I sell seeds to up in Canada just informed us that
she's not allowed to sell seeds anymore.
Now, how is that legalization, man?
Yeah, one step forward, three steps back.
Well, that's exactly what I mean.
Everything was just fine in California with the medical system that we had.
And I didn't hear anybody complaining, you know, but commercial interests, you know,
it's like the politicians didn't want to pass a bill to legalize marijuana.
So what they do, you can't change a ballot initiative in California in Congress without
having like a two thirds vote in both house.
So they got another ballot initiative up and made it look like this was going to be good,
you know, and all people can buy now is a lesser grade of marijuana at a higher price,
or they have to go back underground to the black market to get good weed at a reasonable
price from one of their friends.
Yeah, just as a bit of a change of pace, because that's all the legal questions we had.
We've got a question here that was submitted by one of our Patreon viewers.
However, I'm actually not that familiar with it.
So I'm hoping you're just going to be able to take the reins and answer this one here.
The question is, what are the common mistakes you see people making when they're making
water hash at home, or bubble hash?
Oh, okay.
I love bubble hash.
And I still make that all the time.
And I'm just getting ready to make a whole bunch of it to put away and store for myself
right now.
Don't even have any plans of selling it.
I'll tell you how I do it.
You know, Bubble Man is a friend of mine from back in the days of either Overgrow or Icy
Meg, whenever he came out with his bags in and out.
I was one of the first guys that he wanted to send a free set of three bags to, because
he knew I'd make the hash and how many followers I had at the Overgrow or Icy Meg.
And so I appreciated that.
And I read his thread about how you do it.
And I pretty much followed his directions and found that my different strains produced
different hashes.
And that for a while, you know, we were mostly making bog bubble hash and then switched over
to making sour bubble hash.
The sour bubble hash.
Turned out, we did get that tested and it did turn out to be pretty darn good for bubble
hash.
The way I made it wasn't all that special, but it was nearly 60%.
Still is nearly 60% THC, not too much CBD.
But it comes out really dark, like a really dark red to black.
And I really like the hash that comes from the sour bubble.
But my process is pretty simple.
And you know, I really think that it's not necessary to use a whole large number of bags.
I just use two bags.
I mean, three.
I think one of the mistakes people make is taking out and separating away from the hash
resins that are in the like 120 range.
Okay?
Like I mix and strain my weed in a 220 and then that bag goes into a 160.
And I do a second strain with the 160.
And then I just catch it all in a 45.
Now, unless your strain is really high quality and your trim is just sugar leaves like I
use really top grade trim, this won't work for you.
But it works for me in sour bubble.
And what it does to improve the hash is the larger stuff like the 130, 140 that gets through
the 160 bag.
There's a lot of flavor in that.
And that's what people are realizing.
They're just going ahead, separating that out, using it in their edibles or whatever
because it's lighter weight hash.
And then a lot of them collect in the 73, which is good.
But believe me, there's stuff going through the 73 that's also good.
So if you catch it all in the 45, from the 160 to the 45, and it's really high quality
trim that you put in there, then you can get a good amount of a more flavorful bubble hash.
See, the thing about bubble hash is you don't want them to all be the same.
That's what I find sometimes a lot of concentrates is hash gets to be hash.
If you've smoked the old conventional hashes and you know how good they taste, like these
fingers, like good Moroccan or good Lebanese or Twan Lebanese, these canashes weren't as
strong as the bubble hashes we make now by any means, but they were delicious.
To me, that's a big deal.
I don't often agree with everything that DJ Short says.
And one time he was talking, I was listening, I know him slightly, about how people are
trying to just jack up and get these highest potency strains.
It's like adding neutral spirits to fine wine or something.
Well, I see his point and all, but my sour bubble's really strong and it's really good.
I don't think there's a problem with them having good power.
Yeah, I agree.
So on to the last question before we do our last little quickfire ones.
We've kind of already touched on this, but just to get a clarification, where do you
sit on the issue of people breeding with your work?
Specifically, do you like it if someone comes to you and says, hey, I've got this thing
I'm doing, is that okay?
Or do you kind of think like there's no onus for them to contact you and ask for permission
or anything?
Like, where do you sit?
Well, I like it when a person shows me the respect to ask permission, but I don't expect
that.
And you know, the truth is, when I sell you my seeds, you've bought them and you own
them and you can do what you please with them.
Now, if you actually make my seeds, I hope that it will at least be a cross with something
else and not just a knockoff of my strain.
And you wouldn't just make a knockoff of my strain and call it exactly the same.
But I wouldn't mind if you made a strain and then you told what was truthfully in it
and gave me a little credit.
Now, that's good enough for me because, you know, I'm actually more a part of the past
of this industry than I am the future.
I mean, I know what I'd like to see, and what I'd like to see is that everybody contributing
and coming up with new stuff on their own, like back in the day, having so much fun doing
it.
Yeah, fantastic.
What a great sentiment.
So, on to our last little few questions, I call them the quickfire section.
So, let's jump into them.
It's just five quick little questions.
So, what is your favorite strain that you think has got a bit of a bad rap?
I'm thinking.
I'll tell you, I do think that sometimes bubble gum doesn't get the rap it deserves.
Now, maybe you think it never got a bad rap, but the truth is, I remember things like,
you know, it's kind of inconsistent or brunts or mutants or something like that.
And I don't ever remember any of my seeds being that way, that they were always
hearty and healthy.
Other complaints that it really wasn't very strong, you know.
Well, I remember I had people say to me, why do you like to grow bubble gum?
You know, I mean, it's really not that strong.
Well, it seems strong to me.
I mean, it's got the indica high, it's very relaxing.
And, you know, I'm not so sure.
I know many strains that have gotten such a bad rap, you know.
I mean, I think of it, I don't want to bring any negativity on any other strains from any
other breeders, you know.
I'm a really nice guy and I wouldn't want to point out, you know, some bad work that
some other breeder did, okay?
You just answered the next question, which is going to be, what is your least favorite
strain?
Maybe, you know, it doesn't have to be something from someone else, could just be a general
thing, you know, you might.
Well, to tell you the truth, even though I recognize how strong it is and how good it
is, there are, I really don't like that much.
Most sour diesels are too fuel-y for me and I won't smoke them.
I smoked one so strong one time, it practically put me down on my knees, okay?
I know how strong it can be.
Some of the Ken Dog stuff, I really don't like the taste.
And, no, I like Trainwreck and people got sick of the taste of that and maybe it got
a bad rep, but Trainwreck is a great old strain that I would still consider working on.
Yeah, wow, maybe we need that because no one is working with it, really.
Well, the truth is that it has a great pain-killing effect and I like the taste, but people get
sick of the taste.
And, you know, of my strains, one of the best-tasting ones that has a lot of nose and
flavor is the Blue Moon rocks.
I love this stuff, but I couldn't just smoke it all the time.
It's like, after a while, you definitely want something else because it's just so strong
a kind of blueberry taste.
Yeah, wow, that sounds like what I need in my life.
It's beautiful stuff.
You know, the Blue Kush yields a little less, but it's even stronger.
They're both related.
I didn't talk about it, but the Blue Moon rocks, one of my old strains, it was an old
clone Blue Moon and that had a blueberry in it that wasn't DJ's, it was Vic's Blueberry.
And so it makes my Blue Moon rocks considerably different blueberry that's not as dark purple
as DJ's, but yields real well.
Yeah, okay.
I might need to take a little investigation into that one myself by the sounds of it.
Well, the Blue Moon clone was given to me either by one or two guys, okay?
And I'm not sure if those seeds were given to me by Subcool, but I had a friend in Florida
named Tommy, and I think he sent me the seeds and he told me that the Blue Moon was a cross
of this Vic's Blueberry, and I remember Vic from back in the overgrow times, and a McAnipy
Moonbeam.
And you know, there was a Blue Moonshine that came out after Blue Moon, which was different,
okay?
It was probably Blue Moon crossed with something else.
But anyhow, I got the seeds of the Blue Moon and I didn't want to change it that much.
You know, that would be my Bubbleberry, but the fact is that I kept it more like the Blue
Moon than bringing it to my Bubblegum side.
Yeah, okay.
So, next question is desert island situation.
You can only take two strains with you to this desert island.
You have unlimited amounts of it, but you can only pick two strains.
Which two?
Well, Sour Bubble would definitely be one of them.
There's several others that I really like a lot, and you know, it's really fun to grow
the Strawberry and the Sour Grape is of nearly comparable quality.
Those three, the Sour Bubble, the Sour Grape, and the Strawberry.
But I wanted to mention Sour Boggle because, you know, my Bogglegum was one of my original
strains that we crossed to the Sour Bubble and the Sour Boggle came out surprising results
in that it's very Bubblegummy flavored.
It's very up daytime high, unlike most of the mostly Bubblegum flavored ones.
And you know, it's got a taste that's something besides the Bubblegum, but I kind of call
it a Champagne Bubblegum for some reason, kind of like a Gold Bubblegum.
Yeah, that sounds great.
So that might be the other one, you know?
Yeah, okay.
So you got your two, Bog Bubble and the Sour Bubble.
I think Sour Bubble and the Sour Boggle, which is Sour Bogglegum.
Yeah, that's the one.
So this is one of my favorite questions.
If you could go back to any point in time and history, as well as anywhere in the world,
to presumably collect some Landrace seeds, where would you go and what period?
That's a good question.
You know, Landrace seeds, working with them, it's definitely like would be very rewarding,
you know, to say this is, you know, the Congo Bongo, you know, this is what they grew there
for hundreds of years, and you worked with it, and you, you know, bred and selected until you
got it even more potent, you know, most of the Landrace strains really start out not being all
that great, and I'm not sure, but it seems to me that it would have been a long time ago,
and I would be thinking Asia, you know, like, you know, one of the things, maybe
maybe mountainous regions where, you know, the fast-fowarding kushas, it seems like in India,
where the Hindu religion, you know, that when they were, their students in religion and
spirituality, that they would drink bhang, which was a mild cannabis beverage,
to make them more astute, more able to learn. So maybe an Indian strain.
Yeah, okay, that's certainly one that's not not explored much currently, the Indian genetics.
Oh, well, it's just that they have an ancient history of cannabis use, and it's interesting to
me, and I am kind of a history buff, but most kind of history that I study is like ancient
aliens and stuff, man. Have you seen that there's like pyramids all over the world, and there's
pyramids on the moon, and there's pyramids on Mars, and out in the asteroid belt, there's a dwarf
planet called Sirius, and they show pictures of one of our probes went out through the asteroid
belt and took pictures of this planet. There is a six-mile-high pyramid on Sirius, man.
All I can say is I'm so happy you just said all this. I think it's great.
Well, I tell you, the aliens are out there, man, and they're already here, too,
and the fact is that I don't really trust them, but they have telepathy. They can look
just like regular people, and I don't trust them, but they seem nice.
Wow, yeah. You want to shine the spotlight on someone, name and shame someone?
Well, I can tell you, you know, like I actually had experiences that are real,
not just made-up mythical stuff about Bog living in a cave or anything like that,
but that when I was just seven years old, and I was in a Kresge store in Birmingham, Michigan,
my mom let me go to look at the toy section while she was shopping, which was a usual thing,
and I'm walking down the aisle, and here a man in a business suit is facing me down the aisle,
like 15 feet away from me, and has telepathy to me. You know, we have an eye contact,
and this is what he said. I swear to God. He said, I'm from another planet, and he says,
there's a million of us here, and we're here to help you, and he walked right on by, and my mouth
dropped open, and I told my family about it, and they knew that I didn't make up stories when I
was a little kid or anything, so that happened, and then when my wife and I were first married,
it was 1974. We'd been married a couple years. We were in central Michigan. It's just one summer
where we saw a bunch of UFOs, and I mean, I had other people at my house see them too,
and my family, my parents, my sister, her husband, her kid, the darn things were flying around,
and they were triangular, most of them, and then one night, my wife and I just alone,
and we had taken some shrooms, so you could say, wow, you were just tripping,
but we didn't see shit like this when we took shrooms, okay? We saw something come down and land
on the road in front of our neighbor's house, which is like a quarter mile away, okay, and this wasn't
triangular, and it landed, and it looked kind of like a bus, you know, like a short bus or something
or a shuttlecraft from the Starship Enterprise, and it landed on the road, like, I guess, facing
away from us, and I had binoculars. We're up in our yard, and I'm looking at it, and the thing
rotated like an army tank in the road, and a hole opened up. It had sort of a hood on the front that
stuck out, and a hatch opened up on the front of its hood, and I had to pull the binoculars away
real quick as a giant light, a bright arc light, came up through the hole in the front of that thing,
and after it turned on this huge bright light, it was the craziest thing you ever saw, man. I swear
to God, it's the whole truth. My wife and I, there was a large field, a kiddie corner from our house.
We're out at a farm in the country on Dirt Road, and this large field across from the neighbor's
house, it went out in that field, and it skimmed it like an air-cushioned vehicle or like something
that could have been making a circle, zipping around the field back and forth so fast that it looked
like a cartoon, like it couldn't be real or something, you know, and then the thing actually
went down to the river, a creek anyhow, and it's turned off its light, and it sat on the ground
in the river there for possibly a half an hour, and while it was on the ground, it had little
remote sentry vehicles marching back and forth to a corner right over us, basically on its perimeter,
and after it was there for about a half an hour, it took off, and this was the strangest part, you know.
The other ones, they were always pretty quiet, you know, nothing but a low hum. This one, when it
took off the ground, it was going straight up slowly, and the lights were revolving around each other,
and it had a whining sound, noise building up like we'd never heard from one of them, and it reached a
certain altitude, and the red lights were spinning real fast, and the whining was real loud, and all
of a sudden, it shot at an angle really high, like for orbit, and it took off so fast, I swear, it would
have killed a human. It sent three shockwaves. It almost broke my front window. It buckled in and out
three times, and later did break in a storm, and that thing shot across the sky at the highest angle,
like a jail. It was going up, and then just disappeared. It was so fast, and you know, that's my story.
Wow, that was full-on.
It's true.
Yeah, no, I don't think you can make that up.
Believe me, I wouldn't, and I know how crazy it sounds, all right? I even admit that we took a couple shrooms that night, but maybe it somehow allowed us to see something that we normally wouldn't have seen.
Now, the next day, I went and looked around out in that field on a dirt bike, like did it knock down a fence or anything? Did it make any marks on the ground?
Nothing. There was no trace of anything. It might have been an encounter of the second kind, because it did make my window bounce in and out, and the shockwave hit us in the chest, like an air cannon, you know?
That's what it felt like. It broke the sound barrier instantly.
Wow. Yeah, okay.
So, I think we could probably get stuck on this all day. Maybe we should jump back to the last question.
Yeah.
So, our absolute last question, it's a good one. If you could recommend one bog strain to anyone out there, regardless of their skill level, their experience, all that, what would it be?
Well, I guess I would say it would be bubble gum, because I want them to be successful if they're novices. I want them to have a nice yielding, good product that they would probably be happy to grow if they're not novices.
And I think that it is exemplary of our strains, because it does very much have the bubble gum taste that I love, and it also is easy for anybody to grow.
What a great answer.
So, brings us to about the end of it. Did you have any comments or shout-outs you wanted to make at all?
Well, I didn't really plan on talking about the aliens or anything. You know, if I was crazy, I'd still be seeing them, and I'm not. So, I'm pretty sure they're still around, but I'm not trying to say I know what their agenda is or anything.
You know, I'm kind of a Buddhist Christian, and I'm just a believer in the golden rule, and I really don't believe in accumulating wealth. I mean, I've lived pretty well all my life. I've been a pretty lucky kid.
I appreciate that I've had the love of a good woman for 48 years, and that until one of us dies, we'll still have that.
And you know, we shared our marijuana every day that we could. I mean, almost every day, all those years.
And I have to say that it's been a sacrament for us, that it's been a right that we do.
And Soma says the same thing, his daily sacrament.
And you know, that's the way we look at it.
It's not like I really want to get blasted all the time, and it's not like I really have to get high.
But we get up in the morning, and after a while, you know, drinking some coffee and watching TV, when we do smoke some, that it does open our minds.
And the good thing about cannabis is that it does stimulate creative thinking.
And the biggest miracle of cannabis is it will allow you to forget.
And you know, it's hard to forget the things that are worrying you, the things that are bothering you.
A lot of people feel depressed a lot of the time.
A number of my strains are very antidepressant in effect.
And I don't think it's a phony thing, you know.
Honestly, we use medicines all the time.
And it's more like aromatherapy.
It doesn't take that.
I mean, a really small amount of cannabis can be enough to completely change someone's frame of mind.
Because believe me, that's an internal thing.
Whether you're happy or not, look in the mirror.
Can you smile at yourself?
Can you give yourself a big smile?
Do you know that you'll feel happy just by smiling?
Well, you know, it's just a thought from an old guy that has a few mood swings now, and then himself.
Anxiety and worries and pressure, and that's what cannabis is for.
I mean, it's an anti-stress thing.
It's like, that's why you get the munchies, because now it's time to relax.
And that means that we can stop fighting for a while, and we can stock up on food,
and we can have some sleep, and we can laugh it off, you know, the day's troubles.
And if I didn't have it, you know, I'd definitely not be a nicer person, okay.
And I'm not saying that everybody needs it or anything, but I do.
And I'm not saying that everybody needs it or anything, but I do.
I'm not saying that everybody needs it or anything, but I do.
I can agree with that one.
So, thank you so much for taking the time to chat with us today, Bob.
Well, I enjoyed talking to you.
I appreciate it.
And to all your listeners, thank you for listening to me.
And there we have it, guys.
A big, big, big thank you to Bob for stopping by.
And a big thanks for you guys for hanging around until the end.
As always, huge shout out to our Patreon fans.
These guys are the lifeblood of the show.
We've got a really cool episode coming up.
Make sure to check out the Patreon episode if you want to get access to it.
And a huge thank you to our sponsors as always.
Seeds here now, best in the game, I'll say it again.
420 Australia, Organic Gardening Solutions.
The Premier Store, Lifestyle and Gardening.
We'll see you guys next time.
See you.
Bye.
