Hello and welcome to another episode of The Podcast, a cannabis podcast for budding enthusiasts.
As always, you're joined here by your boy, Heavy Gaze, here from the Upside Down Library.
And as usual, we want to give a huge shout out to our amazing sponsors who helped make
the episodes happen.
Huge shout out to Seeds here now, number one seed bank in the industry, guarantee on satisfaction,
not just germination.
Why would you go anywhere else?
If you're not happy at the end of the grow, hit them up, they'll sort you out.
No reason to shop anywhere else.
Likewise, in order to get your crop pumping on all cylinders at its full potential, you
need to keep your garden pest and pathogen free.
For that, check out our friends at Copert Biological Systems.
Everything you need to keep pests and pathogens, everything you need to produce the highest
quality crop today.
If you're trying to keep spider mites at bay, check out the Spidex Vital.
If you're trying to get rid of aphids, check out the Aphi Par M. They've got everything.
They've got all the predators to keep your garden happy and healthy.
Copert Biological Systems, thank you so much.
We appreciate you.
Further, check out our buddies at Pulse Sensors for the number one sensor on the market, ensuring
that a whole bunch of parameters you may not even think about are still in check so that
your crop is the best to date.
If you want bigger yields, more resin, check out Pulse Sensors.
From a tent to a single room to a multi-state operation, get serious, get a Pulse.
And last but not least, our good friends at the Patreon gang.
We love you so much, truly the lifeblood of the show.
If you want to get early access to upcoming episodes, unheard exclusive interviews, and
genetic giveaways twice a month, check out the Patreon.
Patreon.com forward slash the podcast.
We appreciate you so much, guys.
Thank you, Patreon gang.
So for this episode, we're joined by both Umami and Harry from Umami Seed Co.
The Terp Hype Powerhouse here to talk all about their upcoming drop, some plans for
the future, and some thoughts on the industry.
So without further delay, let's get into it.
All right, gang, we're back for another one.
And on this episode, I'm grateful to be joined in person by the dynamic duo behind the exotic
Terp Powerhouse that is Umami Seed Co.
A huge welcome to both Umami and Harry for joining us today.
Thanks, G. Appreciate you having us on.
Good to be here.
Thanks again so much for joining me.
So what are you smoking on today?
Man, right now, we're getting into some of the some of these new flavors.
But I mean, I'm most excited about the well, I don't know, Harry, what do you like most?
I mean, I like out of this whole batch.
I like Samurai Tears.
Yeah, I think the Samurai Tears, that's the most potent of all of them.
That's the Cold Heat by Swish.
So it's got Runts, it's got Triangle F2, and then we cross that to our kind of Hash
Plant Pheno.
That's kind of our washer.
So yeah, it's strong, but really tasty.
So I'm trying to bring gas back.
You know, we've had a lot of fruity flavors, a lot of funky flavors, and now I kind of
want to go back into some of the OGs, some of the Kushes, some of the Kems, you know,
create interesting mixes between some of the new fruit flavors and some of the old funk
and find something, you know, just keep it interesting.
That's really cool.
I love the old school meets the new school sort of approach.
I noticed on your Instagram you had a few label tags of some different strains, and
there are a few different OGs in the mix there.
Given you just mentioned that, what's your favorite OG cut?
Oh man, favorite OG?
Probably the Lumpus Headband, right?
The underdog, right?
The Diesel.
That was one of the first ones that I grew by myself that absolutely smashed, and I was
really proud to show people that bag.
You know, because OG was always tricky to grow, right?
I had a homie who was up in Chatsworth who taught us how to grow SFV, and at that time
we were feeding, I mean, we fed at fucking Cool Bloom and Cow Mag, you know?
Nothing but cow mag.
Nothing but cow mag.
I mean, the thing just ate cow mag, and that was the secret, right?
I remember I was talking to someone, and Lumpa overheard me talking about cow mag, and he
was like, bro, don't give out the fucking secrets, you know?
Like, that's the magic.
That's how we crush OGs.
Because everyone else would grow OG, and they'd yield nothing.
You know, pound of light, pound and a half, these thin little twiggy plants.
It was still fire, but you couldn't get to, like, pack on weight.
Then the first time we started pulling, like, two pounds of light, like, you know, 2.2 with,
you know, straight OG cuts, like, that was when we were really excited about it.
But the Headband, Skywalker, TK.
Hardcore.
The Hardcore, which, I mean, now I'm actually, I hadn't grown the Hardcore until recently.
I, like, went and got all of my OG cuts back and a bunch of other stuff, so I can, like,
re-work some of the flavors.
But that Hardcore, I mean, it doesn't look like all the classic OGs.
It's definitely a bag seat or a hybrid or something.
But that one has, out of all the OGs, has the most unique twist, right?
Like, a lot of them are really, they taste almost identical.
They look almost identical.
You can see the little subtle differences.
But that one is, like, she's quite different.
Yeah, I noticed it's had, like, a bit of a resurgence.
I'm trying to remember, I think it's Nasher is a breeder who I'd seen do some hybrids
with the Hardcore, and it got me interested in it.
Do you think you'll do any seed releases using the Hardcore going forward?
Yeah, 100%.
As long as the crosses come out fire, you know.
The only problem, I washed Hardcore in the past, which now, now that, like, solvent extract
is kind of gone where it's gone, I'm really trying to focus on products that will grow,
like, genetics that will grow well in flower form and then also will wash well, right?
They have the right type of resin and everything else.
The Hardcore, I remember we washed it, it got, like, less than 1%.
Didn't melt, you know, it was tough.
And I definitely wasn't as good at making hash back then as I am now.
Like, we didn't know anywhere near what we do now.
But, you know, that's definitely going to be some work to get something that's going to melt
in a high enough rate where, because it might be a cross of Hardcore and then find a dope
pheno and then cross that again with something else, right, that's got, at least carries the
flavor, but then will give us, you know, the yields that we want.
Yeah.
Because, I mean, nowadays people are upset if it doesn't yield, like, 4%,
you know, 5% in the bags and then press at 80 plus percent, you know.
Yeah.
The market has certainly dictated some certain minimums around, you know, returns and what's
going to make it worthwhile.
Out of curiosity, I'm sure we're going to delve down the rabbit hole of concentrates
and extracts quite a bit.
Just to start off, what's your favorite type of extract?
You know, are you like a dry sieve guy, bubble hash?
What's your favorite thing?
I mean, I'll probably get some flack for it, but, like, BHO applesauce.
Yeah.
Straight up, you know.
I love rosin.
I love rosin, but, you know, pour one out for all the monoturpines that get lost in
the water.
Like, you don't get the exact same profile and, you know, like some people would argue
that's better because some of those monoturpines are, you know, they're not as good or they're
this or they're that, but, like, nothing captures the absolute essence like a butane
propane blend, super cold, cold cured.
I always hated diamonds in sauce because, especially back before we were using, like,
cold hot tech on nails, right, where if you hit, like, a hot dab of, like, rocks and
turps, the turps melt off the THCA first.
Those are supposed to be dabbed at the lowest temperature, right?
So it's exactly opposite, right?
It's not, you know, the flavor profile gets totally screwed.
But, yeah, blend that up and make some applesauce, like, all day.
Yeah, definitely.
I think there's a lot of, like, sort of, I don't know, mantras that exist in the states
that don't escape it outside of the US.
And so I guess, like, you know, yeah, there are a lot of people who don't like BHO here.
There's, like, a lot of people who don't like Jack Herra here and Trainwreck and all
that and Blue Dream.
Yet, in the rest of the world, we haven't been so fortunate to have that exposure.
And so I'm still like, man, fuck, give me that Jack Herra.
Give me that BHO.
I love it.
And I agree.
Some of the best dabs I've ever had were BHO for sure.
So that's really interesting to hear.
I wanted to ask, because you guys do breed for extracts and for turps specifically, just
as a general recommendation, I always like to ask breeders this, if I don't give you
any information about the buyer, because I know the answer is you want it, you're going
to want to know more information.
But I want to ask if you can recommend one strain out of your catalogue, and I guess
by implication, I'm sort of saying, like, what do you just think is a good all-rounder?
What would you recommend to someone if you don't know anything about their grow style,
but you're just like most people would be pretty happy at the end of the grow?
What do you recommend?
For, like, a recent release, foam, probably, you know, foam smashes, it yields well, it's
frosty, it's purple, it'll do really well in a wash, both solvent and non-solvent, stacks,
it's easy to grow, you know, like, in terms of just, like, grabbing some seeds and, you
know, being able to throw down round one without really having to tweak anything too hard,
like, she's just a fucking monster.
All the phenos are just big and blocky and crush, and they all wash well, because Swish,
the pheno that I reversed, that one washes at, like, four and a half, almost five percent,
which I picked that plant because it's super iced out, purple, hell-PM resistant, squatty,
quick, you know, flowering time, that one is done at 60 days, like, done.
You can go longer, but there's absolutely no point, you get no higher yield, the flavors,
ultimately, a lot of the flavors, like, start to mute out and change the longer you run them.
Kind of like Skittles, if you're out of your mind.
Like Skittles, yeah, bro, you pull Skittles at day 53?
Yeah, 50, some people even, like, that's when you get the candy, then the longer you go,
the gassier it gets.
It'll get, the bag of peel goes through the roof once you go, like, 70 days on Skittles,
it'll be purple, like, it totally changes, but the turps are just gone.
And then the, I mean, it doesn't last long, by the time you've cured it,
that flavor just starts to disappear every day, and there's no, like, oh, I've got the Skittles
and curing for, like, three months, it's amazing.
Like, no, like, it's, you want it to look like lawn clippings.
That's, like, straight up, because it's getting rolled up, or it's, you know,
it's turning into hash, like, you're not looking at it while you smoke it.
Flavor over everything, that was my whole thing.
I don't care about anything else, the whole ethos is flavor.
So, if I get lost, or I'm, like, trying to figure out what we want to cross,
or where are we going to go next?
Flavor, I don't care about anything else.
Interesting.
We'll delve into some, sort of, related questions a bit after.
I just want to loop back quickly to the foam recommendation.
What sort of terpene profiles would people, sort of, be thinking they might get out of that?
So, foam is, I mean, I described foam as, like, vanilla stripper perfume turps.
When you say stripper, you mean, like, a solvent, sort of?
No, I mean, like, a strip club.
I mean that, like, Britney Spears vanilla, like, really trashy,
fucking perfect cheap perfume.
Like, just, if you walk by, you know, I've never been in a strip club, wink wink.
But, like, if you walk by and you can, kind of, imagine, like, what that smell mixed with,
like, some sweat and, like, just, kind of, some grungy.
It's also got, like, a little bit, like, the soap is more, like, cushy.
Like, the soap definitely doesn't really smell that much like soap.
Um, but it's a little bit more, like, I don't know, it just helps round out the sweetness
and, like, kind of, the upper notes that are more, like, perfumey.
Because any flavor that's, like, too one-dimensional, like, you know, for example,
I'm not a huge fan of Jack or some of those hazes because it's just straight terpene.
That's all I can smell and, you know, like, that it's too one-dimensional.
I want to be able to smell multiple things, taste multiple things.
If you hit it at different temperatures, you can, kind of, change the flavor a little bit.
Like, it's a little more interactive, I guess.
Yeah, definitely, definitely.
I can understand what you're saying.
And an interesting trend that I've only just sorted to pay more attention to is that
I've seen and heard a lot about in recent competitions that people are submitting,
like, blends of extracts because it's trying to achieve what you're talking about,
that more complex profile, sort of, different, sort of, facets to the overall terpene profile.
Do you think this is a trend we'll see continuing?
Have you heard of this yourself?
Yeah, absolutely.
Which we started doing that, I mean, we'd always done it with, like, BHO,
especially because we never had, you know, like, back in the trap days or early in the trap days,
we didn't have anything, one flavor in bulk, right?
And that, you always wanted to have a mixture of stuff.
So, usually, in order to, like, do any sort of sizable run, it would have to be a mix.
The problem with a lot of those is, like, you lose, you know,
it's not like the whole is greater than the sum of the parts in this case.
It's usually just, like, this is kind of, like, a little, a few notes from this or a few notes from that,
but it doesn't work well.
But sometimes, like, that GMO papaya, that filthy papaya blend?
That's when you start to blend, especially, like, I don't know what it is with solvent extracts,
but, like, the non-solvent extracts is where the mixes start to shine,
which we would see, especially when I was making water hash in bulk back in the day,
some phenos wouldn't wash as well, right?
But if you took a pheno that washed well and mixed it with something that, like, didn't,
you could actually start to make that wash, like, viable, right?
To spend the time and energy.
Keep some of the old flavors.
And then, you know, you get, like, an interesting mix.
And then if you have a bunch of, like, sift or, like, you know,
water hash that's dry, ready to get pressed,
mixing those into different ratios and kind of, like, finding what ratios work really well,
you can, you know, you have a whole new menu of flavors that are cool,
which would otherwise take you, I mean, a breeding project for me takes, like, well over a year.
So, like, I could take these two things and press them three or four times over the course of an
hour, and then we could taste all those flavors and find out what's a cool mix and what ratios
work well.
Or we could spend a year and a half trying to create that flavor, like, naturally.
But I like it.
I think it's cool.
You know, I think it brings in a lot of creativity.
And, you know, you can kind of, like, invent your own flavor profile.
And if you never tell anybody the exact ratio of what you're doing,
now you have sort of a proprietary recipe to make a cool flavor.
Especially if you're making it with, like, two in-house cuts that no one else has,
you know, kind of sets yourself apart.
Yeah, that's really interesting.
I mean, a lot of people are having a focal discussion at the moment around how
people who have been in the game for a while, maybe we'll call them legacy farmers,
who are feeling like they're being pushed out, can reinvigorate their brand and stay relevant.
That does sound like an interesting way to do it.
Do you think that it's possible that someone could pursue that?
Or do you think you'd need to be a bit more inventive than just that and try to come up
with a few different ways to sort of stay, I don't want to say relevant, but to keep your niche
from the bigger companies?
I mean, I think there's so many different avenues for people in the space that there's no limits.
You know, the only thing that matters is if people like what you're doing.
So if, you know, if you can create an angle and enough people, like,
you don't get to decide, I don't get to decide any of this.
The market decides everything.
What we make, what we release, what's popular, what cracks off, like, it's not up to me.
It's up to them.
It's, you know, it's up to me to kind of read the room and try and figure out my best guess
as to what people are going to be excited about.
And I can help guide them one way or another.
But ultimately, we make no decisions.
You know, we're absolutely the mercy of what people want, when, and I just try to supply
my best version of that, I guess.
So there's plenty of room for everybody.
Yeah, definitely.
Definitely.
And I mean, and if we take that premise in the other direction, with the advent of blends,
the first thing I started thinking about is that surely one day we'll have like a Jack
Daniels equivalent where it's like this company that can buy bulk distillate or whatever it
is, bulk material, blend it to consistently put out this mass produced sort of product
that's like, you know, on the palate or the effect, it's sort of consistent.
Do you think that's a foreseeable future?
Or do you think there's too much variation in the cannabinoids to ever really be able
to put out something super consistent on that level of production?
No, I think the consistency will be there.
And I think there's plenty of people that want that and seek that out.
And that's fine.
You know, like people like, let people like stuff, you know, like they like Coors Light.
Cool.
You can have Coors Light.
And then there's also plenty of like bougie, more exclusive, different flavors.
Like, you know, if that speaks to them or not, like they have the freedom to choose
and, you know, try what they want.
And if people want that, then like, great, that's fine.
You know, fills their needs.
But usually those people, that's your step.
Like most of those people, I shouldn't say most, but there's a good enough percentage
of those people where that's a stepping stone for them.
And then they start to wonder what else is out there.
What's different?
What's unique?
And then they start to come in, you know, like basically, you know, they mature as a
consumer.
Right.
And then they're like their flavor profile, like that they like starts to change.
And then they start to open up into what else is there?
Right.
What other flavors might I find?
And then, you know, me and plenty other breeders are, you know, sitting there going, come on,
like, we'll show you.
There's a lot of flavors, like every flavor you ever thought possible.
That's a beautiful segue you've given me because I was going to ask you, you were talking
about flavors and in the question before you were saying, you know, when I'm not sure what
to do, I just I revert back to flavor because that's my whole thing.
What flavor are you chasing next?
What don't we have that you would like to make if possible?
I'm trying to find flavors that I cannot describe with words and that I've never tasted before.
That's like the goal of every breeding.
For me, the goal of breeding project is one, the hybrid has to be better than both parents.
Otherwise, what's the point?
And ideally, I'm trying to mix and match flavors that are going to create and generate something
unique and different that can help set me apart where, you know, people try that and
they go, it's not like, oh, that's cushy or that's, you know, that's got that's some skittles
or that's got this or that's got like, no, no, like, what the fuck was that?
I've never smelled that smell before.
There's not words that I know how to describe that smell.
That's what I'm after.
That's the whole, like, umami, right?
Sweet, sour, salty, savory, umami.
It's, it's not, it can't be described with any of the other ones.
It's that sort of, you know, it's intangible.
Like the blend of flavors create something new and unique and different that you can't,
you know, you can only describe as like, oh, that's, it's almost a feeling.
Yeah, truly.
Well, you know, what's interesting is like, um, research shows that feelings actually
start as, uh, as a physical sensation.
So you don't feel anxious and then get tight.
You feel that you're tight and you're like, oh shit, I'm feeling anxious.
And so it's exactly what you said.
It's like, it's a physical stimulus that then causes you to feel away.
That's, that's really cool.
I like that.
So tell me a little bit about what inspired the genesis of umami.
What was it that caused you to think, you know, I want to start this company?
Well, let's see, I started growing in 2006.
I always knew that I wanted to have a seed company.
I thought that was it.
Anything like an early on in the cannabis game, like it was either you were growing
or you were making hash or you were making seeds.
I thought, wouldn't it be cool to do, start from seeds and make your own product and make
your own strains and then make your own hash, create something new and different and just
having something to call, call your own.
So the plan was always to make a seed company.
I mean, really there wasn't, you know, I hadn't had enough time in the game to really start
and put my name on something and be proud of what it could be.
You know, I wasn't good enough at growing.
I certainly wasn't, you know, good at breeding.
I was, you know, I still don't really consider myself a breeder.
Like we make seeds, we hunt seeds, we do the job.
But the whole point was find something cool, unique and different.
So I gamed up.
I finally had the skills to the point I had the library, you know, I'd collected seeds
for a decade, you know, before that.
And then the timing was right to start the company and launch.
We did.
And, you know, it worked.
Here we are.
That's brilliant.
Let me, let's go back a little bit then.
We're going to do it in reverse order to what we normally do it.
So then tell me your first cross you ever made.
Was that intentional?
Was it an accident?
And what were the genetics involved?
It was intentional.
I don't really know what it was.
It was, there was a family vacation in Mexico and then somehow seeds ended up in Salt Lake
City, Utah.
And we popped those seeds.
We grew them in my homie's backyard.
You know, you spend that much time growing the plants and then you have a male and you're
like, well, I mean, I'm not going to kill off the male.
Like, come on, you know, I spent so much time and energy to get this thing to this point.
So it was just some like open pollination, whatever.
And I was, I mean, I was hooked from the fucking, the first second those plants popped out of
the soil.
That was it for me.
I knew, I knew what I was going to be doing, but it was some Mexican, you know, sativa
or something or other.
Not good.
Was that the first grow you ever did as well?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Nice.
Okay.
And then, so let's fast forward a bit.
When you got more serious about growing, what was the first thing you started growing like
say under a light?
So the first ones we were growing under a light were, let's see.
It was a, Harawana was one of them.
Oh, nice.
There was a blue cheese by Cali Brains.
There was a, let's see what else we were doing back then.
There was this one my buddy gave me called a Hyperion, which was some, some hazy, you
know, indica hybrid or something that was, it smelled and tasted kind of like coconut.
It was funky.
Like in the hash, tasted very much like coconut, which was, which was a little bit of a weird
unique.
I've never stumbled upon anything even remotely similar to it ever, you know, since then.
But so there's, there's still some flavors that I'm looking for that I remember.
Cause I like to think I remember every single bag I ever smoked.
Nice one.
Good memory.
Like I just, you know, I remember what the flower looks like.
I remember the flavor profile.
I definitely remember a lot of them that I grew that sucked, you know, that were just
no dice.
Like, you know, just like, what did I do wrong?
And, you know, now looking back, it's like hilariously apparent, like just how fucking
terrible, you know, I was at cultivation early on.
And like, we just didn't know enough back then, you know, it was a lot of like bro science
and don't do this, don't do that.
We all do the same.
Don't worry.
Don't worry.
But so you learn in the ropes and you're, you're starting to refine your craft.
Were there any breeders or specific growers you sort of looked up to in those early days
and were taking advice from?
I mean, I always liked, so like Greenhouse Seed Co.
dropped their like land race, you know, videos that they had, right.
Where they'd go to the bush and hunt.
And so like I was DMing Franco like way back when, and he was always super cool and friendly.
And like, you know, I'd ask him questions and like, he was, which he had no need to
do any of that.
I'm just some fuck off random dude on Instagram, like sending him DMs, like, you know, asking
for advice or whatever.
And he was always really cool and really friendly.
So yeah, definitely, definitely Franco from Greenhouse.
I mean, Mr. Nice was, you know, like it was a lot of like the OG Dutch dudes, you know,
who were like going hard.
Especially because like early on, you know, some of the things I started seeing was Mr.
Nice out in Switzerland, right.
Running the old pillow play and they had just the biggest cultivations you'd ever seen
at the time where you're like, where on earth can you possibly do this?
You know, this is at a scale that is just mind boggling.
So that was always really cool to see, see some of those dudes.
And I always thought I'd end up somewhere in Europe, you know, building a company.
Because I was like, well, I don't see this happening in the States, right.
A lot of the California dudes left, you know, the DNA guys were out there because, you know,
weren't really doing it in California.
And then luckily for me, you know, the rules in California started to shift where now we
could actually get like, I mean, it wasn't a license by any means, but we were covered
under medical with the 99 plant recs.
And, you know, we were in counties where we could grow, you know, at scale.
And that was kind of the first time we started running like big, well, not big, but bigger
operations.
Yeah, nice one.
And so after you had started the company, what was the first sort of project that you
felt really helped establish your identity within the public eyes where even you yourself
were like, man, we're like, we're really doing this.
So my homies in Arizona, they own a company called Grow Science, which is a pretty big
cultivation outfit out in Phoenix.
And they bought a bunch of my seeds for my very first drop ever, which went, the first
drop went pretty well, you know, all things considered.
I was a brand new breeder, you know, like I had no, you know, there was really no legacy.
I didn't like leverage any of my other companies or brands because I wanted the thing to stand
on its own.
What was the the mail or what was like the project?
So that was a, the mail was MacMint.
And then I crossed that to pretty much everything.
So that was a Thin Mint cookie crossed with a Mac mail that I got.
Yeah.
So then I crossed that with, you know, the whole menu and the Grow Science had the Frogo.
An eighth, right?
Yeah.
Yeah.
We, yeah, I remember Kat posted a thing and this was like back when they were doing drops
of like piece of green and he was like, hey, there's, you know, I'm doing a Thin Mint drop
of flour.
Go, you know, go scoop the flour.
And there's also like some seeds in there.
So like, you know, a whole bunch of eighths were purchased and then ground up to find
like six or seven seeds.
And I hunted those seeds.
Then I found the mail.
And then that was kind of what kickstarted it because it was a frosted ass, like just
big, giant, meaty monster mail.
I was like, this is the one we start with.
You know, hit up Kat.
We're like, is it cool if we breed with this?
He's like, yeah, you found it in the seeds.
Yeah.
Like, and so we said that we went to work.
Wow.
That's, that's sick.
So, you know, I guess fairly safe to say probably no one else really has a mail from that particular
cross.
No, no, certainly not.
Out of curiosity, how many eighths did you buy?
Like a ton or just like a couple?
20 or 30 eighths.
Wow.
Yeah.
So most of them didn't even have one seed.
Yeah.
No, we found like six seeds total.
There you go.
That's good marketing from Kat.
Yeah, no, it worked.
It worked out well, you know, I like, I couldn't believe it.
And like I said, I found that and then I made F2s and like, I never released any of the
Mac Mint stuff, only crosses, but they were, they were fire.
You know, we did the Lime Souffle, which was a Mac Mint female.
That one smashed, that one washes really well.
What was that female like in terms of like, Tobian profile and effect?
It was like, I always describe the Mac Mints as like gelato.
It's like heavy on the gelato, right?
It's very similar to gelato because it's got the Thin Mint cookie and it's got Mac.
So it's got Starfighter in it, but it's, so it's pretty hashy.
But it's definitely got this, I mean, I always describe it as like solventy, but like the type,
the exact type of solvent is like rubber cement.
So like if you, you know, I don't know if they still use that in school, but way back when,
you know, you just like crack open that jar of rubber cement and you just get hit with this
noxious fumes.
So that was what I got.
I got like chocolate and that super, super stringent, um, chemi, like sour, like, yeah,
solvent funk.
So that was, that was the, that was the Turt profile.
Nice.
Yeah.
Nice one.
And so where did you go from there next?
Oh man, let's see.
What'd we do after?
So we did the Mac Mint drop and we did the Key Lime.
That's right.
And then I did, then I went to Femmes.
So I did the Key Limeade, which is the Sunset Sherb cross to the Burning Bush cut of Key Lime
Pie.
So that was a quick flowering, purple, super creamy, kind of soapy, a little Skittles-esque.
But that, that, that Femme run, I hit to, I don't know, I think that menu was like 10
or 12 strains.
And that stuff's still sought after.
Like people all the time.
Yeah, 710 Labs runs a bunch of those.
Yeah, 710 has a couple of those like on the menu.
I mean a lot, like that was one of the first big Femme runs that went, you know, really,
really well, especially because here in the States, like people don't like regs.
At least like they could, they could tolerate reg seeds back then.
But you know, like probably sell like 10 or 20 to one Femmes to regs.
So I really wanted to like go back and focus on Femmes seeds.
Although when stuff is, when you find a really amazing male, it's just like you can't do
it the disservice of never, you know, making any seeds with it.
So when I found Zuchi and like Cantucci and some of the other ones, it was like, okay,
obviously I'm going to do, well, sprinkle drops of these in, in there.
That's nice.
I wanted to touch on that specifically because I noted you do, as you mentioned, do both
regular and Femmes seeds.
Do you find yourself gravitating more towards one than the other, just on a personal level?
And as a follow up, do you think there's merit to some of the age old criticisms of Femmes
seeds you hear?
No.
I think a lot of the, I think a lot of the anti-feminized seed crowd is either just parroting
a lot of, you know, this narrative that they've heard in the past.
That's not really rooted in, in science.
And, you know, to some degree, I think if you constantly, if you go, you know, Femme,
Femme, Femme, Femme, Femme, Femme, Femme down the line, I can see how it would make sense
that genetics could shift maybe in a way that's not like ideal.
Because that is about as far from the natural order as you can get.
So for me, as a breeder, I'm always going to do like, I usually, I'll never cross two
whatever's and just do the seed line.
Like the pollen donor is something that I have made and worked like, or found, or like,
you know, something unique to me, period.
But I'm never going to take like something that comes from a Femme line and then Femme
that again.
Like I'll cross it woman only and then Femme it and then add it to another clone.
I like to inject a male in there.
Like, and I've got a couple of males that I like that I work with, you know, that I've
worked with for a long time.
So I know exactly what they're going to do.
Right.
And like a good male, I mean, one of my buddies always says a good male is literally priceless
because, you know, I know, I know what kind of phenos we're going to find.
I know what it's going to do.
I know what the progeny is going to look like.
So then we'll hit that, you know, something that's cool, find it a female in that generation.
And then that can get reversed.
But like I'm not doing Femme on Femme on Femme on Femme.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Interesting.
We had an auto breeder on the show recently, Flying Lion Research.
He's a cool dude.
He's in Terps as well.
And he said this analogy about autos, but it sort of applies to what you're talking about.
He says it's like a zipper light.
You sort of unzip it and then zip it back up.
And when you Femme stuff, you're sort of closing it and zipping it up and hitting something
else to it.
It's like unzipping it and opening it.
And I sort of have been thinking about that analogy.
I wanted to ask because you may not have too much thoughts on it, but we do talk about
it from time to time on the show.
Some people still have some question marks around the lineage of Skittles.
You know, it's still there's obviously that, you know, grape, grapefruit sort of thing
that you hear.
But then there's still like a strong amount of people who believe that it's like maybe
a Sherbet S1.
And the Phylos test said it was a Sherbet S1.
And so that's like I've never really been able to get my head around that because it's
sort of my gut instinct is like it doesn't seem like a Sherbet S1 to me.
But then you got guys like Inspector from CSI Humboldt who just does like these big
hundred seed pheno hunts of like Sherbet S1s and he reckons he finds plants similar to
Skittles in there.
What's your thoughts on the lineage of Skittles?
I mean, the Terp profile is very similar, right?
They're at the very least in the same neighborhood, if not on the same street, right?
The structure, wildly different, wildly different.
I've grown, I've grown both.
I have both.
I've grown a lot of Sherbet hybrids.
I've grown a lot of Skittles hybrids.
I've not seen as much crossover as I would have thought.
The structure is so different and like everything you cross Skittles to, I can almost immediately
identify whether or not it has Skittles in it because of the leaf structure, because
of the stack, the stem structure, like it sticks out like a sore thumb, at least, you
know, to my eye.
But with Sherb crosses, I don't see that as much.
So, I mean, could they be related?
Absolutely.
Are they?
Probably.
But what are the actual genetics?
Who the fuck knows?
I agree.
Some things we'll probably never actually find out.
So, while we're talking about Skittles, I noticed on the website, you have an array
of interesting mothers, many of them incorporating Skittles.
It got me wondering, what's your process like of acquiring mothers?
Do you have like, if I had to guess, I'd say you must have these like vast networks where
you can get new and emerging clones or have I got something wrong?
What's your process?
You seem like you got new stuff all the time.
Yeah.
No, there is a vast network, you know, like-minded people who are always chasing like
the newest flavors.
And, you know, I've been fortunate enough to be in space for long enough to have, you
know, friendships with, you know, a lot of legacy dudes who a lot of them are like just
as excited about getting them to me as I am about getting them.
Because they're like, hey, I got this new one.
Like, what are you going to do with it?
You know?
So, yeah, a lot of those genetics, like I luckily I don't have to go looking for them
so much as like they find me, which also helps me to know like, okay, this is clearly
something people are interested in.
So, this might be worth a look, right?
Yeah.
And what sort of things impress you about a plant in terms of if you're thinking about
maybe breeding with it?
Is it mostly about like the flavor profile and structure presented in front of you?
Or do you want to breed with it a few times and sort of see how it breeds?
Like, what are your considerations in general?
I mean, the number one thing is flavor, as always.
So, all the any new cuts that show up, they get run, you know, at least once or twice
to kind of pre-vet whether or not this is something I'm even interested in, you know,
goofing around with.
Because some of them, you know, they have a bunch of hype somehow and, you know, I grow
them out.
It's like, no, like for whatever reason, you know, and it might not necessarily be because
sometimes the flavor can be really good, but it's not worth some of the grow characteristics.
Right?
Like Skittles is, I mean, it's a unique strain because it sucks to grow.
It is the worst plant in the world.
It grows so slowly.
You basically just don't water it at all.
And somehow it lives, you know.
Fetch it twice as long.
Five times as long.
Yeah.
You know, and like people wonder.
Smoky always does this joke.
Never done a, like an exact, I never, I never released a Skittles cross, like direct Skittles
cross.
And I probably won't because one, a ton of the progeny are going to grow like Skittles
does.
And people, you know, don't love that style of grow because it's difficult and they yield
low and they take forever.
But, you know, hybrids of it, you're able to kind of bring in some of that, like, I
like, I like the turf profile that it brings on, you know, especially with the crosses.
It's a little creamy and it just helps like round out some of the other, like more harsh,
intense flavors where also some of those harsh, intense flavors are too one dimensional for
me where you're wanting something else, you know, either on the exhale or on the back
end or like something else to just kind of like, you know, make it a little bit more,
well, I mean, literally to make it a little more palatable, you know, to be entirely honest.
Yeah, no, I agree with you there.
And I just sort of looping back to that point you made about growing stuff out and thinking,
God, how did this get big?
If I had to hazard a guess based on your Instagram, I see a fair few memes about Oreos.
Was that one that maybe fit into that category for you guys?
I mean, you know, it's just when a ton of people are super excited about something that
I don't really find that special or unique at all.
I think it's kind of fun to poke a little fun at Oreos.
Structurally, I mean, it looks visually it's appealing, right?
But it has and I mean, I was really surprised to learn that it actually washed pretty well,
but there's no flavor, you know?
So for me, if I ever found a Fino like that, or, you know, I got I had access to the Oreos
cut, but I would never breed with it just because it has it's the antithesis of flavor,
you know, and there's plenty of people who argue like, oh, it's got a lot of flavor.
You just haven't had a good batch yet.
And like, I've tried a fair few from dudes that, you know, I consider to be some of the
top growers in existence and it was good, but it was not special, you know, and life's
too short to smoke something that's just good.
I want something that's cool.
I want to remember that experience.
I feel you.
That's a good one.
One of my favorite quotes from a past guest on the show, Skunk BA, I've only got so many
lung breaths in this lifetime.
I'm not going to waste.
Yeah, so I mean, I was interested to ask because a lot of your menu comprises these really
sort of cutting edge new genetics that like most people maybe aren't even familiar with
yet.
And I was wondering, do you have any soft spots in your heart for some like maybe unique
old world flavors?
Like, for example, you know, you mentioned you're not a fan of Jack Harrah, all good.
You know, are there any other things?
Because I noticed you did some collab hybrids where one of the parents in the mouth was
Soma's Lavender.
And I was like, oh, that's a bit old world.
That's kind of cool.
There any other old world flavors you're like, that's actually a pretty good one.
Yeah.
I mean, I like so the affinity that a lot of the people that came up before me, like
probably five, 10 years before me have for Hayes, right?
I don't have that because I didn't like I missed it, but I have that for OG and Kush's.
And so when I got when I like dive down deep onto the Kush's, I got more into like some
of the Afghan stuff.
And, you know, some of the like, you know, stuff from the Middle East, ultimately.
And so, yeah, Ghani, like especially those like really hashy, like, you know, coffee,
funky, like Landrace.
I mean, the the black, right?
Like the black, or not the black is it's.
Cuban black.
No, no, no, no.
Black.
Black Afghan.
Oh, wow.
Yeah.
Yeah.
The black half.
Yeah, the black Afi is like because the fruity Afi is I was like, yeah, they're good, but
they're they're a little that coffee.
Yeah, I like to like really deep, hardcore, subtle flavors where you like, you know, most
people are only going to smell one thing, which like maybe that's how the Hayes aficionados
are.
They can actually smell all the different dimensions of that.
I don't either I can't or I don't have that ability, but I can with some of the lower
end stuff.
And I mean, like not lower end quality, I mean, lower end on the flavor and like, you
know, there's really earthy chocolate coffee, funky flavors where you're just like, I don't
know, like it's hard to describe because you start getting into like every time you smell
it, you smell something different.
You start to pick up different notes.
And as you smell more things in the world, you start to have a better reference of like,
you know, smells, which is why I describe things the way that I do, because those are
things I've smelled and that's, you know, your scent memory.
Like that's what I pick up.
That's cool.
While we're talking about smells, you and Harry were kind enough to bring some nice
little jars for me to sniff on today.
Let's talk about these for a little bit.
So is this the current release, the next release?
When can everyone expect to be able to get their hands on the next drop?
And then after we talk about it a bit, we can talk a little bit about the smells.
So I think probably January is when we're going to start dropping some of these.
We've got, I mean, there's a lot slotted for release.
What we try and do is select the best, you know, just the ones that are like the most
fun and cool and relevant for that Friday.
Right.
Which normally we'll do a series, we'll do a drop every Friday or every other Friday
for, you know, four Fridays or six Fridays.
And then, you know, plan a couple of weeks and then we'll do some other drops.
But like we want to keep it like fun, keep it fresh and then make sure that, you know,
I mean, best case scenario is where the drops actually sell out like day one or in the first
week, which is fun, especially for the buyers, because now you've got something that no one
else has.
And there's only, I mean, I only do one batch.
There's only like one big drop.
And then once all the seeds are gone, they're gone.
So do you ever remake stuff or it's all one time?
Never remake anything.
No, it's OK.
Yeah.
One big batch, which could have, you know, however many hundreds of packs.
Sometimes it's small.
I mean, some of the crosses, like they don't make many packs.
They don't make many seeds.
You know, we have drops as little as like 10, 15, 20 packs.
And those sell out really, really quickly, which is great.
But, you know, then they're gone, just kind of sad.
And I've decided to not remake stuff because there's not enough time to go back to something.
There's so much more to like dive in and discover.
I'd rather keep looking for something else, something cool, something unique.
Yeah, that's interesting.
It raises this point of like, do you think the market would actually allow you to, let's
just say you were testing some seeds you made and you find this plant in it that's
like the equivalent of Skittles before Skittles.
Like it was like, wow, this is totally different.
And you were like, we've got to breed this into a pure line.
Do you think the market sort of allows breeders to do that sort of project where it takes
longer or do you think it's just too fast paced?
Like you're just going to be left behind if you tried to like do a pure line sort of
project?
I think there's a lot of breeders that have stuff like that on their menu and they have,
you know, they found tried and true varieties that people like and they'll keep making
those and remaking them.
And there's nothing wrong with that.
So see if they find something cool and they really want to focus on that.
That's great.
But there's enough people who are doing that.
You know, I would rather continue the exploration to find something new, something different,
something better.
You know, that's what makes it interesting for me.
You know, if I just had to grow the same thing over and over again, I'd just end up like
a job.
You know, it's the reason I like walked out of my sales job way back when, you know, I
was doing this and I was doing that.
And one day I was like, fuck this, you know, I'm out.
And I moved up into the woods.
How's that?
That's great.
I love it.
All right.
So let's talk about this.
The first one we got, the bathhouse.
Now, I do want to ask you about this.
Obviously, has the bathwater in it, which is a very unique name and description, obviously,
an homage to the infamous Belle Delphine, Gamma Girl bathwater.
But I was wondering, what's the terps on that one?
What's bathwater smell like?
I mean, it's a hard one to like describe what the smell is of bathwater.
It's definitely like gassy and funky.
But like, I mean, you know, imagine what Belle, you know, whatever her name is, imagine what
her dirty bathwater might smell like.
Like, that's that'll get you close enough, you know, because it is gassy.
It is cushy.
It's creamy.
But it's definitely it's got this weird, like, soapy, like, kind of, you know, not the GMO
BO, like, it's more of like a sweaty, like, gross shirt.
You know, like, it's hard to describe, like, not quite hockey bag.
Like, I don't know if anyone's played hockey, but those bags have a unique ripeness to them
after a couple of weeks.
Nice one.
I love it.
I mean, it got me wondering in general, what are some of, like, the more weirder smells
you've come across while pheno hunting?
The fizz.
Yeah, fizz is one of my favorites.
Um, the oddly enough, the compound apples and bananas kind of smells a little bit like
the fizz does.
But the fizz is the loudest grape chemical.
I mean, it's fizzy.
It's acidic.
It's like, you know, the feeling you get when you, like, put your mouth into a soda cup.
It's too fizzy.
And a bunch of the fizz goes up your nose.
Like, that's how it makes you feel when you smell it.
It's like, really, like, it leaps out of the jar, and then it will stain anything you
put in it.
Like, any jar, if you mix up, like, a couple buds in a jar, like, they're all going to
taste like fizz, like, forever.
The jar is going to smell like fizz forever.
And, like, you can crack a jar, like, a year plus later, and it still reeks.
There's very few flavors that actually hold on to that kind of a smell.
And that doesn't like, because usually those kind of intense, jumpy ones will mute out
relatively quickly.
But this one is just, I mean, it seems like it will stay forever.
Yeah, wow.
That's cool.
Like, one of those ones that just, yeah, overpowers everything, but not tangy.
Something different.
Oh, it's too bad.
I've tried to femme it twice.
And out of, like, I mean, the run we did, how many seeds did we get in that bag?
In total, out of that whole run?
Oh, 50.
50 seeds?
All pretty immature.
From, like, 10 different varieties.
Some had none seeds, some had one, some had, like, four.
Yeah, it was like four lights worth, and it was like 10 seeds.
It was, oh, it sucked so bad.
Like, maybe the pollen just didn't.
Some things just don't femme well.
It's just really hard to femme certain varieties.
For whatever reason, it just doesn't work sometimes.
It's true.
We got a lot of theories about why, but it's like, I don't know.
I've had plenty of femme runs absolutely flop, and you're, like, excited about something.
And then you're, like I said, it takes about a year, at least, from when you're, like,
cool, here's what we're going to work on, to the point where it's actually ready to
release, maybe a year and a half.
So yeah, when a run fails, you're immediately three to six months behind that again.
Meanwhile, everyone else is crossing.
Because it's not like I'm not the only person in the network, right?
It's the network.
So a lot of my friends' competition, who, like, I mean, technically we're competition,
but, like, I like everybody.
They're all working on their shit, too, at the same time.
So it's kind of like, who's going to get, you know, who's going to get there first with
something that's actually, like, solid?
Because anyone could just make a cross, and, like, just femme something, and drop it, and
whatever.
That's cool, and that's fine.
But who's going to, like, bring something to the table that's actually, like, different,
special, and unique?
Well, yeah, I mean, you're sort of getting towards this topic I was hoping we could touch
on, which is that there are a number of growers and smokers in the community who feel like,
in a sense, we're sort of backing ourselves up against a wall in regards to the genetics
we use.
Do you, what's your thoughts on this take?
Do you think it's true?
To some degree, sure.
You know, I think part of that opinion is a very narrow view of everyone in the cannabis
space who's breeding for making seeds in any capacity, where they're like, yeah, you're
looking at a small subset of that entire population that is absolutely doing tons and tons of
polyhybrids and all this other stuff.
But that's because that's what people want, right?
Like I said, there's a lot of, we don't get to make the decisions.
Like, you want to have a business that actually, like, works and pays for itself and hopefully,
like, keeps gas in your car and, like, gets your A to B and lets you keep doing the thing?
You have to sell seeds, right?
And, like, so if that's what buyers are wanting, then, you know, a lot of people, you kind
of have to run down that line, or at least, like, close enough where you're still going
to be around.
But there's a lot of people who aren't in the, like, standard breeder, you know, like,
when they think of canvas breeders, there's a lot of people who are not in that space
publicly at all, who are doing all kinds of other work.
So I think in terms of, like, the global genetics, like, there's no issue.
But if, you know, like a small network of growers is growing the same thing and hypervising
the same thing, like, yeah, their gene pool might not be that great.
And then growing it with the same nutrients under the same lights, same media, having
all the environment the same, wondering why the pound price is going down.
That might be a slight problem.
But, you know, I still have a ton of land-raised stuff that I've, I mean, I don't know how
many fridges I have full of seeds now, but it's quite a few, because we've just been
collecting genetics from everywhere, always, and trading and trying to find, you know,
new and unique stuff.
And I'm, I mean, luckily, we're, I'm upgrading now.
I'm going to have a small 7,000 square foot spot for hunting and popping, like, just straight
old school, like, I'm going to germinate everything in my library and try and find
some cool, cool old stuff.
Because a lot of it is getting to the tail end of its, like, survivability, you know?
Those haven't been stored, or at least I don't know how they were stored before I got them.
So, you know, the germination rate on a lot of this stuff might not be very good, if at
all.
So it's kind of time to start, you know, hunting those seeds.
And if we find some cool open pollinate, make bigger population, you know, preserve all
that stuff.
But it's not going anywhere.
Yeah, that's cool.
Would we ever see, like, any cool F1 hybrids, like, modern versus, like, maybe Land Race
or Heirloom or something like that?
Oh, for sure.
Yeah, that's absolutely in the plan.
That's really cool.
Probably not until 2024, 2025, realistically.
It's going to take, it's going to take time.
Yeah, sure.
You know.
And then, so I guess, just the sort of final question on this discussion point.
People have this comment that they'll say everything, like, sort of feels the same.
Do you think there's merit to that?
Or do you think there's still, like, quite a bit of diversity within the sort of range
of effects you can get from the current varieties that are really popular?
I'm not the best person to ask on effect because, listen, for me, it's flavor is the
number one.
And the older I get, the busier, you know, it's like there's a lot of stuff I would
like to smoke, but I, you know, it's not something I can do in the day and still get,
you know, get everything done.
But no, I feel like there's still a very wide variety in effect from a lot of different
flavors.
And sometimes I get bummed out when a flavor is, like, really good, but it affects me,
like, which is just my body chemistry or whatever, affects me in a way that I'm like,
well, this, I really want to smoke more of this, but I physically can't.
And then there's other flavors that are like, I could smoke this all day, but I don't
really want to.
It's not that great.
Yeah, sure.
Sure, sure, sure.
So, I mean, sort of on the other side of that topic, are there any varieties you think that
you would like to use, maybe from your library stash, maybe from other sources that you think
would inject some sort of fresh blood or reinvigorate things a little just because
they're a bit different?
Yeah, like I said, I'm trying to pop a lot of this Landrace stuff.
What do you got?
You got, like, some cool Malawis?
I've got a lot of stuff from Africa, a lot of stuff from Afghanistan.
I've got a bunch of stuff from Nepal.
Yeah, I did recently get some Landrace from Japan.
Nice one.
It's apparently, I've got to grow it out and, like, you know, I promised the dude I
would grow it out and do an open pollination and make more of the genetics because there
was a, there's a lot of hemp in Japan, but there's not a lot of, like, wild drug cannabis.
And I mean, a lot of people would say there absolutely is not.
Yeah, my homie has been, has spent a lot of time in Japan and he, his buddy lives, I can't
remember where exactly they were saying they live, but there are, there's a drug type of
wild cannabis in Hokkaido, which is the northernmost island in Japan.
And they were, I can't remember how many, what do you say, like, it was like a three
day hike or something.
Something like that.
Like, this was like bushwhacking to get out to these, like, wild fields.
And they would, you know, the homeboy would always collect as much as he could shove in
his bag and then bring it back.
And then when people would go and, you know, hang out or whatever, he'd always have this,
like, wild herb that they would smoke.
And that was, you know, this crazy Japanese sativa or some sort of hybrid, who even knows
what it is.
And there'd be snow on the ground and the plants would still be alive.
Still be alive.
When you get there to harvest them.
Still be alive in the snow.
Full of seeds.
Apparently the bricks content was through the roof.
So there was somehow they didn't freeze.
Right.
My theory is always if the, because I've got some varieties that like bleed red and, you
know, having high levels of anthocyanin and bricks in there, you know, that theoretically
acts like an antifreeze.
So the cells won't actually burst that quickly.
So some of those could well and survive like frost and freezing, which is pretty, is very
uncommon because most plants, if you freeze them, like you can put clones in the fridge
for a surprisingly long time.
But if you put them in the freezer, the cells burst and they die.
You can cryo freeze plants though.
Interesting.
I did want to talk about that.
So like, you know, tissue culturing and germ cell utilization is on the rise within cannabis.
Do you foresee a time when that may surpass like the demand for seeds?
Possibly.
I think the, I've never actually done the synthetic seeds.
I've seen, you know, it's not very common that people make them and the cost is probably
prohibitive for most people, especially now, maybe in the future that'll become more, more
common.
As long as it's relatively simple for the layman or just a grower to go from that step
to actually having like a plant that's growing in a pot.
Because the amount like you have to know exactly what you're doing to pull a rooted clone out
of tissue culture and actually get it to survive early on.
And that's not common knowledge.
And I would guess like 95% of even, you know, growers would mess that up to the point where
it just doesn't make any sense to spend any extra amount of money on something that's
like, yeah, it's definitely better in terms of plant health, sterility, right?
No bugs, no this, no that.
But it just, the level of knowledge needs to be, you know, at the next step, next stage,
which is, it's very reasonable we get there in the next 5, 10, 15 years, you know, even
the like the lowest, you know, even the newest employee in any space would probably have
some of that knowledge if it becomes more, you know, just becomes more and more commonplace.
And then it's just, yeah, duh, like everyone knows how to cut clones.
You know, you could look it up in five minutes and there'll be a simple enough explanation.
But right now for tissue culture that does not exist.
Yeah, sure.
And while we're on the topic of dirty clones and pathogens and whatnot,
on a personal note for you guys, have you had much issue with Hoplite and virus?
Have you had to clean house or have you guys been able to get through relatively unscathed?
We've been very fortunate.
Yeah, we do test a lot.
The entire mother stock gets tested.
I mean, it used to be every two weeks, but now it's pretty much once a month,
which made it just kind of got expensive to do it every two weeks, to be quite honest.
But we do work with a lab in Utah that's really, really good.
And they test for Hoplite and let us corrosive and a couple of the other ones.
But yeah, we've I've never actually seen it in any of my facilities, which is very, very lucky.
It's kind of a nightmare.
Not kind of a nightmare.
It is a nightmare.
And it's put a lot of people out of business, quite frankly.
You know, it's tough.
It's not.
We're also really careful about it.
Our scissors are always sitting in hypochlorous acid all the time.
We have hypochlorous acid in a spray bottle that gets sprayed on everything.
Tools get all the time.
Autoclaved.
I clean everything with chlorine.
Like alcohol doesn't kill it.
Chlorine is the only thing that kills it.
Yeah, heat doesn't kill it.
But yeah, we're very, very careful.
And my quarantine process, like when, you know, say we have the network to get stuff in.
Part of the delay is that it takes me like three plus months to get a cut out of my quarantine
into the main area where it can then go on and, you know, enter like any of the breeding programs.
But yeah, it takes quite some time.
And I'm hoping to speed that up because now I've gotten like, I mean, I do all my tissue cultures
in-house, like we do everything ourselves.
And we're slowly getting back to the point where I feel confident enough that we can just,
you know, throw everything into TC as long as it comes back with a clean lab test,
like for pathogens, then we're good to go.
So we'll probably shorten that down to.
Yeah, nice.
Streamlining things.
And while we're on the topic, what style of growing do you guys lean towards more?
Are you salt guys, organic?
What sort of medium you prefer?
Give us the lowdown.
I run to blend.
Organic and synthetic hybrid has always been, you know, I always think the best of both worlds.
Grow everything in rockwool.
It's easy, simple.
I always make the, it's a dumb joke, but you can't spill a rockwool cube, you know,
I started in the soil, like most people, I ran cocoa.
And then once I started growing in rockwool, it was just, it made more sense.
It was easier.
It was quicker.
I don't want to spend a ton of time worrying about the pots or the soil or the this or the that,
you know, cleaning up messes.
I want to be able to focus on the plant itself or like, you know, some of the other aspects.
But still keeping that organic element and bringing it into rockwool.
Yeah.
And I still maintain some of the best weed me or anyone ever smoked was OG Kush grown in the
grossest rockwool you have ever seen because it was filled with all kinds of organic crap and this
and that and salts.
And for some reason, like that's the magic.
So we run, it's a product called exotic ag.
It's a salt-based product.
It's got a bunch of different bio-stimulants as well.
And then my homie Jasper has this company more and they do, it's like a archaea bacteria.
So it's kind of like, I mean, it's like any beneficial, but it's found in,
it's found in tar pits.
It's like, it's like, it's not actually a bacteria.
It's our, you know, so like there's, yeah.
It's called archaea, which is like early on.
Yeah, exactly.
Exactly.
Pre it's pre bacteria and it can survive like 98 degrees C and like two pH.
And so it's like, it's just fucking bulletproof.
It's UV is the only thing that kills it.
So it doesn't take over the planet.
But yeah, it eats, it eats the algae off the rockwool.
So it keeps the rockwool clean, keeps the lines clean.
It's gangbusters.
Just chelates everything.
But yeah, the flavor, the flavor on the blended organic and synthetic is the only,
like that's the win period, you know, just straight, straight salt grown is,
it's still good for the first like five days, but I don't know what it is about the shelf life,
but it just drops and some stuff will hold longer than others.
But I've never had a run without, you know, some sort of bio-simulants that
was amazing and still tasted good, you know, weeks after you'd chopped it down.
Yeah, nice one.
And look, crop steering is like the trendiest word in the industry at the moment.
What's your thoughts on it?
Do you think it's just going to become like super commonplace?
And if you're not doing that particular style of production,
you just like sort of get pushed out of the market?
To some degree.
Yeah.
Like it's, it's scientifically sound.
It's highly functional.
It keeps the root zone in the right conditions, keeps the moisture in the right conditions.
It keeps the EC in the right conditions.
It, you know, it saves a ton of water.
It makes, I do it with everything.
It makes the most sense.
Like it's, you know, I mean, cannabis, a lot of cannabis people like to think that cannabis is
super unique and special and no commercial ag, you know, has any relevance to it because it's
its own thing.
But like, that's, you know, I think that's a little naive.
Like there's a lot to learn from large commercial operator.
And if that, if it's functional and it works well, then it's great.
People can overdo it like anything.
Yeah.
Look, I noticed that you guys offer consulting services on your website.
So I wanted to ask you what some of the things that you think people commonly get wrong?
People overwater their plants, people to feed their plants too high EC, their light is too low,
their environment is off.
I mean, it's, you know, like you can look at a room and diagnose five things that are wrong,
like in one and a half seconds, right?
It's not, it's, it's very obvious.
And a lot of people, they just don't, they don't realize that all of these things need to work
at there's certain proportions, I guess you would say that everything has to be at a certain level.
And if you change one, then the others need to be adjusted for that.
You can't just change one thing and have everything else work well.
Like it all works off of itself and off the other things.
So like, if you have too much light, your plants need more fertilizer because they can't eat the
light well enough because they don't have enough nutrients, but then they also need CO2, right?
It's just, it's balancing act.
Yeah. It's the interplay of them all together.
One thing is out of whack, you know, it's like a, um, what?
Some gear in the cogs. What's that phrase?
Like a spanner in the engine sort of thing.
Yeah. Like it's, it's a kink.
It's like a race car.
The faster you drive, the higher chance something could go wrong,
but the higher performance you could possibly have, you know,
there's plenty of people who don't do anything crazy and they come out with great crops driving
nice and slow in a Honda Civic.
But if you want, you can really crank up all those parameters and get in a race car.
It's just chance you're going to crash.
And at the end of the day, there's only so much carbon to go around, right?
So you want to grow the biggest, frostiest, terpiest, like pick two, you know, like you can't,
you can't have it all.
And what sort of an increase did you personally see when you switched to this style of production?
Like how dramatic was the improvements?
I mean, a lot, like laughably so.
I mean, we've started to see yields that, I mean, I wouldn't believe it if I didn't,
if we didn't have to legally like put those numbers into metric, you know, like no one's,
no one's inflating their numbers into metric, if you know what I mean, right?
So when you start running some of these and you're like, okay, we're casually getting 75, 80,
90 grams a square foot on these plants.
And we used to do the pounds per light math way back when.
And we're like, we're in like the five pound range now, which is just absurd.
On a five by five.
Yeah, 25 square feet, which is back when I was running DEs or HBS,
everything was on a five by five.
We didn't do four by fours until we started getting into LED.
Well, yeah, that was going to be my next question was that,
have you guys swapped to LED yet?
And I suspect the answer is yes.
So the follow-up question is, what do you think about the people who are discussing and saying
like, oh, it's not good, I'm going to swap back.
Do you think they need to dial it in more?
Or do you think that the older lights may have something over the newer ones?
The older spectrums, well, there's kind of two schools of thought.
A lot of people are having the impression that some of the older lights had more
or a different spectrum that contributed to different flavors, higher yield, this, that,
the other.
So it very well could be that the LED technology has not caught up
or has not found and mimicked the best spectrum just yet.
There's also the possibility that, so epigenetics is a thing in plants where if they're grown
under a certain environment or they exhibit a certain stressor, they can change a little bit
where ultimately one pheno could suffer a shift and then it will express itself differently
moving forward and forever.
Basically, one gene turns off and another one turns on.
So it's also quite possible that some of these varieties that were grown under that
started to adopt more to that spectrum, like some of the older strands for some of the older OGs
where you're throwing them under a new light, they're not going to perform as well because
they've become accustomed to this light having been under it for, I mean, hell, 20, 30 years.
Yeah, no, it's interesting because I think we haven't really explored that epigenetic aspect,
have we?
And you get a lot of anecdotal experiences from growers and breeders in the community who say,
you know, vegging a plant outdoors for a season, pulling it in before flower,
can sort of revitalise it.
So, I mean, there is anecdotal evidence out there of people saying that you can revitalise
and I think every grower can relate some anecdotal experience to a plant that's
deteriorated in some less than ideal conditions they may have come across themselves.
I wanted to know though, in terms of your room, right, let's just say you've dialed in all the
aspects and on paper everything's like dialed in.
What sort of things do you think help differentiate producers at that point?
Because obviously it's not all homogenous, you know, you still get variation from grower to
grower.
What sort of aspects do you think come into play at that point?
Is it down to like the type of LED spectrum versus the other guy's LED spectrum or do you
think there's tiny differences we may not pick up on?
I think the magic is, like for, I have a basic template, right, that I use for pretty much
everything.
And the point of the template is not to exclusively use the template, but when you're
running different varieties, it's to identify what changes in the template need to be made
so that you can grow this plant to the best of its possible, you know, its best potential,
right?
So, some are going to need a little more food and a little more light or some of them need
a little less and, you know, some are going to need to be watered less and, you know,
it's not, it's easy to write, like the crop steering recipe, it's easy to write that down
and say this is what you should do.
But if you follow that exactly the way that it's written, the chances of you finding a
ton of success are, you know, not super high.
It's going to need to be tweaked a little bit.
So, the best growers are the ones who know what to do, know why what they do works.
They don't do redundant things, like that's really common.
See people use, especially with fertilizer and nutrients, they use the same, like two
different bottles that have the same active ingredient, like the same thing and you're
like, what are you doing?
Why are you doing this?
You know this is the same, right?
And they're like, what?
What?
And you're like, yeah, look.
So, people who have, who know exactly what they're doing, know why they're doing it and
can actually make one change at a time and see the adjustment.
Because if you change, like if you run the same experiment more than once and you want
to make a shift, you have to only change one parameter.
Because if you change more than one, you don't know which one of those things it was.
And it's really hard to do experiments on living plants because no two runs are like
exactly the same.
It's definitely something where it's hard, I've tried to explain this, but it's hard
to do side by sides with plants because you have to do them in your same facility.
Even if we both took a clone from a plant today and took them to our respective locations
and went from there, you're getting all this environmental change.
Even if you do them in the same room and you have two tables that are side by side, it's
not really a side by side because the airflow is different.
The airflow is different.
It's literally impossible to have it be an exact one to one match.
All these variables do make a meaningful impact on the plant long term, doesn't it?
So you have to do it at a scale that's big enough to actually take an average.
That's the only way that makes sense.
That's as close as you're ever going to get is where you've done, because if you're
only doing a few plants here or there, you don't have enough variation.
So how do you minimize the variation?
Well, have enough of a population that you can take your average and see if they're
different enough.
And if they're not, then it depends on what you're looking for.
Whether it is or it isn't, that's the only thing that's relevant.
Nice, nice.
Well, let's get off the growing segment for a second and let's take a sniff of these
jars.
I mentioned it earlier and then we just totally moved on.
So let's start with the bathhouse.
I'm going to take a big half of this.
I get a lot of old school OG and by that I mean not like TK, but like maybe more like
ghost or something.
It's got more earthy pineyness to it, maybe even a touch of like that eucalyptusy, really
nice cush.
Yeah, to me that's like super nostalgic.
I love that.
How would you guys describe it?
I definitely get gas.
You know, it's got no sweetness, which there's a few OGs that have a little bit of like a
sweet aftertaste or on the sweeter side.
I always preferred, you know, pine tree, saltwater gas, like just that deep.
This is the bathhouse, by the way.
I can't remember if I mentioned that.
But yeah, that's Swish.
That would mean that was part of the reason I picked Swish is because it was just funky
gas and it has like a little bit of fruitiness to it, which sometimes come through on some
of them, but it's not like sweet fruit.
It's hard to describe.
More of a like a diet fruit leather.
Is that even a thing?
Like a half is sugar free, sweet fruit leather that's not made with fake sugar.
No, I love the fruit leathers.
The next one I've got here, how do I pronounce this?
I don't know how to say the second word.
London.
Bish.
Oh, London Bish.
Oh, I just I didn't have it lined up properly.
I was like, oh, shoot.
London Bish.
Cool.
I like that.
So this one's got more going on.
So that's the London Pelt Cake 75 by the Swish.
Yeah, Hash Pine Phenol.
You definitely get a little bit of gas, but it's more eucalyptusy, more like almost citrus,
but not citrus, like a bit of like nasal flaringness.
Yeah, there's definitely like a bit more to it, but it's like different angles to the
smell.
Because, yeah, there's gelato, lemonade.
I can't remember what the other cross is with the London Pound Cake.
But yeah, the lemon comes through a lot.
Yeah, the lemon diesel has always been one of my very favorite strains.
Like we grew that way back when and it was always super funky and unique and different.
It wasn't very gassy.
Like at the time, we couldn't really sell it because it wasn't cushy enough.
It wasn't like OG enough.
It had like a, you know, a different funk to it.
But back in the day, everyone just wanted gas.
50 different OGs on the menu, you know.
Comes in waves, right?
I feel like we're getting back there.
So I mean, on that note, next one we've got is the Geisha Breath.
This one's interesting.
It's got a few different things in it.
The Meat Breath, TK, Cherry Pie, Gorilla Glue, Zwish.
I definitely get a bunch of the Zwish, the Gorilla Glue and a little bit of the Meat
Breath and the TK.
Really unique sort of smell.
It's like it's cushy, but not so much gassy.
But there's a lot of other like sort of aromatic and earthy notes in there.
I can't put my finger on them at all, which is unusual for me.
We said it kind of smells like the Dragon Fruit Refresher from Starbucks.
I've never had that.
But it's kind of got that like sourdough, edible makeup.
What do we call it?
Animal vanilla smoothie.
Yeah, like a sourdough and then a softer part of the animal smoothie.
I like that.
Because yeah, that Gorilla, the Gorilla's Fire.
And then, yeah, the Cherry Pie on this.
I mean, there weren't a ton of Finos on this.
The Cherry Pie Terps came through, which was kind of a bummer.
There was a few, but it was a little, it was too light.
But the Meat Breath, the Meat Breath TK for sure comes through.
I mean, the Cherry Pie comes through.
You can like visually it comes through.
Although this stacks crazy hard.
It's super purple.
It's like these giant purple spears.
It's iced out.
So I mean, as far as production goes, it crushes.
And then it did, I mean, this Fino did like three and a half percent or four,
somewhere in there, like almost 4%, which is, you know, for rosin production does really,
really well.
But for flour production, this one bangs and they're super, super potent,
like super stony, all this stuff.
On that note, do you pay much weight or consideration to
the ability for your strains to be purely flour produced?
Or is there more focus on the concentrate potential?
So like maybe the flours are like, you know, not as great as we want,
but like it produces incredible concentrates.
So like that's the goal.
Like how do you see that one?
The best ones, you can find a Fino that does, or you can find more than one Fino.
And like I'll select a hash Fino and then I'll select a flour Fino.
That's my favorite.
Not all varieties will do that.
But some of them you can actually find really, really, really good flour, flour Finos,
which they have this, my homie, Watson, Dustin, who did the cold heat,
he always described it as like a rosebud sort of structure.
I like to think of it more like, what's that shit called?
Brussels sprouts.
Where you just have these giant, fully shaped nugs growing off this plant.
And instead of having this one huge homogenous cola, which you can't break down,
and when you do, it looks terrible, right?
But if you have these like perfectly shaped flowers that just go all the way up the stem,
like that's kind of my ultimate favorite.
But those are, they don't wash as well because they're dense.
They don't open up.
So sometimes, especially you find these more,
they really look like older kind of Satiba ones where they're bigger,
they're more open, they're a little airier,
which not structurally or visually appealing for like most people.
But in terms of hash production, they bang.
If you're only ever going to grow this for hash,
we grow them hot, a lot of CO2.
I want them to foxtail.
I want as much surface area as possible.
So we can get big numbers on the wash where
no one cares what the flower is going to look like.
It's only ever going to be released as hash.
Yeah, incredible.
And what sort of varieties do you recommend for anyone who's listening right now
who wants like a really good washer specifically out of your catalogs,
maybe from the upcoming line?
I mean, I know they're all designed to wash well,
but what do you think if someone is like,
dude, I get the flower, I immediately turn it into heads.
Like, what do you recommend?
Cheetah Chew washes really well.
The turps are super fire.
I love the Cheetah Chew.
Anything with that lemon diesel in it is killer.
It's got this lemon, honey, mustard, peppery.
It's funky.
It's a weird smell.
But that one washed at like a little over four.
Yeah, the Cheetah Chew is banging.
It's super purple.
It's gorgeous flower.
I've got a collab up in Washington right now.
So that's going to be coming out.
Actually, people who are in Washington state will be able to go get flower and hash
of the Cheetah Chew here very, very shortly.
The other one would be the gummy, Jelly Zona Zoda.
So both Jelly Zona, it's a huge washer.
That Fino that we crossed is a monster.
And the Zoda, that Fino of Zoda that I picked is another washer, four or five percenter.
So that one did, what was that?
That was five or over five.
Yeah, it was big.
Big washer.
A lot.
Yeah.
So gummy will come out in January.
We haven't set a date yet, but January.
I think the gummy is my personal favorite of them.
They're all amazing of the five people around.
But yeah, the gummy hits that sweet spot for me.
It's like it's got gas, but it's got a lot.
It reminds me in some ways of the Pine Sol cut of Goji-O-Ji from Bodhi.
It's just like it's like gassy, but it's got this interesting berryness to it that comes
in a unique way where it's not just like through the middle.
It's almost like around the sides.
It's like gassy in the middle.
And then like this sort of more sophisticated perfuminess around the edges.
I really like the gummy a lot.
Yeah, the gummies kind of like a acidic acai kind of, you know, berry, floral, you know,
grapey skittles and then gas biscotti gas biscotti gas, which is interesting because
the Zoda cut that I used for all these crosses is the most offensive dead animal.
Like, yeah, rotten dead animal at a truck stop that like had a bunch of, you know,
oil spilled on it, and it's just it's it's rank and it's weird and it smells nothing
like any of the parents.
A lot of the parents were a lot more fruity, floral, and kind of shirby and kind of berry.
And then I was like, I was almost certain that that seed I'd fucked up cleaning the
seeds and it had gotten, you know, from something else.
And then I grew it and I looked at like the photos and I had the structure of it.
I was like, well, I mean, it's definitely, you know, it's definitely Zoda, like no question.
But this was one of, I don't know, it was like 100 and 100 plus phenos that I looked
at and this was the only one that smelled anything like this.
It was also the washer, so it was kind of an easy choice.
Yeah, I wanted to know, I was looking through your Instagram and I was sort of trying to
get a sense for myself of like what one strain would I guess you would be most known for,
so to speak.
And I thought the Zoda, it appeared enough and I was like, maybe it's in contention.
What strain do you think most represents the brand just in terms of like the public's
perception?
What do you think people most associate with you guys thus far?
I think Zoda, for sure.
Zoda is one of the heavier producers that's in, you know, in rotation at the most, you
know, rec and bed shops and most growers.
That was a, you know, relatively big release.
I mean, I saw a seed pack of Zoda at auction sell for like five grand, which is awesome.
It would have been super awesome if they shared some of that with me.
But hey, you know, the fact that it went for that, which is outrageous is yeah, fucking
awesome.
Yeah, look on that topic, I noticed on your site, there's probably only about three or
four strains that are in stock by the looks of it.
I was wondering, do you find it hard to keep up in terms of seed production matching the
demand?
Yes.
Yes, I do.
It is very difficult.
Yeah, the feeding frenzy that can sometimes occur is awesome, but it's hard to keep up
with and trying to make enough.
I mean, really, like having since I have to test everything and I'd have to grow it out
and then I have to have it tested by the tester network, like the release, instead it takes
me a year, year and a half to do the release.
And 95% get cut, if not more.
Yeah, well, man, probably, maybe, yeah, 95, 90, 95% of the stuff that I make just doesn't
make it for whatever reason, because it's not, it's not good enough.
It's, you know, if it, say I get a cut that makes it through quarantine, makes it into
rotation, I grow it out, it's like cool enough that I think maybe this will, maybe this will
do well.
We'll make the crosses of it, we'll grow some of them out.
And then if they're kind of like, I mean, either they get discarded entirely or they
get thrown back in the fridge for a rainy day, like maybe we'll come back to it in five
years, whatever.
And then the stuff that hits that everyone, you know, everyone at the round table is excited
about, that's what makes it a release.
Nice one.
And do you think that there'll ever come a time where you look to ramp up the production
or do you think you'll always sort of keep it this small scale sort of vibe?
I mean, probably ramp up to some degree just to keep, like, as the market gets bigger,
I want more people to be able to have and smoke more and unique different terps.
But I do like that, you know, the community of people who grow umami, it's like a smaller
group of people who really, you know, appreciate what I'm trying to do.
And I think part of, you know, like I'd never got into it to make this giant mega seed corp
that is just going to bang out the same variety over and over and over again.
It's been done.
There's people that want that and that's great.
But I want to make, you know, we'll keep it relatively small.
Plus, you know, at one point I had like 30 employees and that was really hard.
It was insanely difficult.
Now it's, you know, me and Harry, a few others.
It's a lot easier to manage, you know, and having direct access and functionally doing
all of the work makes more sense, especially if I'm going to put my name on it.
I don't want the company to get too big where we like create something and I never grew any
of it and then it gets released and it's just like you've lost, you've lost the, you
know, the personal touch of it.
You've lost the, yeah, it's just not for me, not for us.
Yeah, sure thing.
Look, you mentioned a few times that you've done some collabs and maybe even some in the
future.
What collaborations do you have coming up and what sort, who are some breeders who you
want to do some collabs with?
Let's see, we've got some more Superseed collabs coming up.
I think we've got a couple of Tiki collabs in the works.
What else we have going on?
The Superseed is going to be the next one to drop, Social Soda.
Yeah, Superseed co-collab, which I love.
I love Superseeds.
They're, we've done them for a long time.
Tell me about that.
Is it Seattle Soda?
Yeah, tell me a bit about that strain.
That one's out of control fire.
It is, it's kind of like a sherb-esque sort of purple.
I mean, it's a, it's a UV perp and so delicious, which is another cross that the homie made,
which has got like, it's funny, it has train wreck and like lemon haze in it, but it doesn't,
I don't get any of those flavors from it.
But it's definitely, yeah, the Seattle Soda is like a cushy, grapey, it's definitely fizzy.
It definitely has that, like not, it's not got the same grape terp that the fizz has,
because that's like grape gas.
This is more like grape cream, like a grape creamy chapstick or something.
It's got this like, and yeah, I don't know if anyone remembers those like old flavored
chapsticks.
It doesn't have that chapsticky, waxy bit, but it does have that definitely kind of artificial
grape with this, I mean, it's acidic, right?
It's very like prominent in the nose.
You feel it like right up in your, next to your eyes, you know, like it's all up in your
sinuses.
That's cool.
And so when you're doing collabs, do you ever consider like working those lines forward
or is it generally more of like a one-off special thing?
Because like, you know, like the fans can't really get it from, you know, the hybrid,
you can't get it from either camp individually.
It has to be the collab or do you think that if you found something cool, you'd like, you'd
just work it forward?
Yeah, yeah, for sure.
Because I would never, for me, it doesn't make sense to make the same crossover again,
but to make an F2 or a back cross or any of that, like that's still open game, you know?
I think that's, it's different enough.
It's not exactly the same thing.
So in terms of like my sort of rules for umami that I like to follow, that doesn't break
a rule and it still helps to inject something different and unique and you can still dive
in and hunt and find if someone wants that exact same Fino they could find or if they
want something else.
I kind of draw the line at S1s.
I'm not really sure why.
I think I've just.
So as in you don't want to do S1s?
Yeah.
Okay.
Like I wouldn't do a Zoda S1 for example and it's, if we did, I'm sure they would, well,
seed banks tell me all the time I should do that because it would do really well.
But I'm, that's not, I don't know that I'm not interested in that.
I'm not excited about that, you know?
And I haven't done it enough where maybe I, maybe if I do it and I find some super awesome
Finos and it's like, what have I been missing?
But there's so much, you know, there's so many other things that I want to work on.
That's definitely on, you know, on the tail end of projects that we might, we might go
forward with.
Sure.
Sure.
A back cross is far more interesting to me.
Yeah, I can, I can understand where you come from with that one for sure.
Before we jumped into the interview, we were talking about it and I had it as a question,
so we may as well jump into it now.
But I wanted to ask you about your thoughts on sort of the conventions of naming strains
because I noticed a lot of your strains have the words R or Z in them because, you know,
relating to the parentage.
Do you find it hard to come up with names?
Do you think you're ever going to find it easier?
Is it just getting more infinitely harder to come up with names as each sort of year
goes by?
Depends on the hybrid, to be entirely honest.
Sometimes they, the name just materializes.
Comes to you, it's perfect.
You don't even really have to think about it.
It just presents itself.
I wish that was the case more often because normally there is a lot of effort expended
on figuring out a good applicable name for the thing that is unique, doesn't step on
anyone's toes, hasn't been used before.
And, you know, like early on it was always like someone crossed Black, I think it was
Black, Black Widow and Jack Herrera and they called it Black Jack because, right?
But eventually we ran out of the ability to take both of the, you know, some combination
of the name.
There's only so many things that you are even remotely creative or like sound, you know,
interesting enough to use.
So then we started doing a lot of the Z stuff because people, and really I was a little
against it early on.
So I'm like, well, that's kind of dumb.
Like, you know, whatever.
Everyone's using the Z.
I was like, well, you know, from a scientific perspective, it helps for people to have some
familiarity with what is in the thing.
So if there's a Z in there, really it should have Skittles in it to some degree.
But I think that's been like, I did that more than I like.
So now I'm really trying to get more creative on naming, but it takes a village, literally.
So we'll have like 10 or 12 people hang out, smoke the strain, talk about it, look at the
genetics, dive into the, you know, long history on the genetics and really like try and identify
something that's unique and cool.
But it's so hard.
Hugely.
And I mean, on the other end of it, how do you feel the name game affects the commercial
success of a strain?
Do you feel like a catchy name is sort of a fundamental part of a strain really getting
traction with the broader community?
Absolutely.
Absolutely, it does.
And some of them, especially if it's a smaller release where I like a name because it's funny,
like Bathwater, for example, you know, like will Bathwater sell at a shop?
Possibly.
And one of the thoughts while we're naming stuff, it's like, hey, if this is on the menu
at a dispensary, is someone ever going to want to smoke this?
It has to, you know, like the name has to be good enough that someone's interested or
appealing in some way, you know, I think a lot of even like a lot of strains that are
really, really good, they kind of fall off or you just end up renaming them.
Yeah, definitely.
Look, you have such a variety of unique strains in your arsenal.
I wanted to just like basically interrogate you on a few of them to find out more because
I'm just genuinely curious.
So Kiwi Sherb, grab my eye on your website because I think you sort of said like it's
maybe like a bag seed or something like people aren't 100% sure what that one is, but I think
you've made hybrids with it.
Do you know, do you have much info on that one?
I think you're talking about that was from Tiki is that Kiwi Sherb cut.
And I think that was from the Tiki collab.
So when we gave him our Zuchi, he had it to a clone only.
Yeah, I wasn't sure.
Because yeah, I sent him my Zuchi cut.
Our male and then yeah, he had a bunch of his clone.
So he sent me one of his females and I reversed it and I made the fems and I sent him a male
and then he made the regs.
That Zuchi, that Zuchi male is bulletproof.
Tell me about the Zuchi male.
I've heard the name before.
What's it like as a strain?
So the Zuchi is, let's see how to best describe the Zuchi.
The Zuchi is a monster.
And I don't, I never was a big fan of any of the females in that line that I found.
They were really good, but nothing blew me away except the male.
The male is this big monster, stacky, giant cola making male that like, I'm sure you've
seen males that have like a lot of little bananas and they're like kind of sparse all
the way up the top.
This makes giant bananas out of all of the pollen sacks.
Like it makes like full, it looks like bananas made of little tiny bananas.
It's the craziest thing ever.
And it's just iced out from tip to toe.
So when I found that male, I actually misidentified it as a female the first time because it didn't
have any male traits whatsoever when I was sexing the first population.
I was like, okay, cool.
And then I threw it in to a room to test it out for flowering.
And then it turned into a male and I was like, looking at it and it was all frosty.
I was like, well, we're definitely keeping this cut.
You know, that's going to be a definite win because I've been running that generation
for a while.
So that one started back on the original release of the Mac Mint male pollinating all my stuff.
I found a male froyo, which was the Mac Mint by the Sunset Sherb.
So it started at Mac Mint, then I made froyo.
Then on the froyo male that was crossed to Biscotti, that became Kentuchi.
And then I crossed that to Skittles, that became Zuchi.
And then I found another male from that, crossed that to Antelments, that became Swish.
And then I found the female from Swish and made the reversal.
So I've been working on that male population since 2016, 2017.
So I know everything about it.
It's easy to pair stuff now because I know exactly what it's going to do.
I know exactly what the phenomes I'm looking for are.
And it's bulletproof.
That's cool that you've continued on the project in that regard.
You got me wondering, in general, do you have a specific process or traits you look for
when selecting a male or is it more like a certain one just sort of speaks to you?
It definitely speaks to you.
A lot of people think stem rub is something to go off of.
I kind of got back and forth on it.
I don't think it's really like it doesn't give me enough of an indication one way or another.
I've had plenty of things that had no stem rub that came out really, really good.
And, you know, the other way around as well.
Selecting males for me primarily was vigor, structure, no signs of flowering in veg.
Any auto flower tendency is gone.
I can't do anything that has any like hardcore auto flower tendency in my...
Because I'm not growing auto flowers.
Not viable for me.
So none of that.
Structure, like I said, I mean structure.
So like veg structure and then flower structure.
What's the stack?
What's the stretch look like?
And then ideally, this is not always the case and not necessarily indicative of a male that's
going to win you awards or destroy a chef and just be a fucking killer is frosty.
Frosty males.
Because I've had males that have tested 7, 9, 10 percent.
They're iced out.
There's trichomes all over them.
Have you ever tried to smoke them?
No, I would probably die.
I'm deathly allergic to pollen.
I've had hay fevers since I was a kid.
So all pollen I'm allergic to.
And then cannabis pollen.
I have to wear my like big giant respirator that like covers my eyes too.
And I'll wear like a Tyvek and then I will literally like walk that whole...
After I'm done pollinating or like cleaning seeds or whatever, I'll walk that whole rig
in like under like a shower and I'll like rinse myself down and try and like knock the pollen
down after having taken a bunch of like Benadryl or whatever.
Because it'll just yeah, I could never smoke a male.
I would probably die.
Yeah, look, understandable.
I had a few more unique females I wanted to ask you some questions about.
I wanted to ask you about the lemon pepper.
That sounded very unique.
Lemon pepper is a super fire.
So that is I didn't make that one.
That's a cut that I got from my homie from the network.
And the lemon pepper is one of the only strains that smells exactly like what lemon pepper
smells like.
It's super, super floral and it's like lemon mustard funk that also is really, really peppery.
It doesn't have hardly any bag of peel.
It's like a really ugly plant, which is kind of unfortunate because the turps are out of
control.
But it breeds really, really well.
And probably 75% of the progeny look amazing.
But you do get like 25% that are ugly as hell.
They're big.
But the lemon dairy, what we made out of the lemon pepper, the cross that we did, the ugly
one was the tastiest one.
The ugly one.
Yeah, the lawn clipping one.
Like I saw the pheno, I discarded it.
I was like, this thing is so horrible looking.
It's the ugliest thing ever.
But I had a couple ounces.
So like everything else, we dried it, threw into bags.
And then yeah, the lemon dairy number three.
Oh, how I wish I'll find that pheno again.
I just got to hunt through the seeds.
But that was the ugliest.
I mean, literally, it looked like lawn clippings.
Like it was horrible looking.
And I didn't trim it.
And we smoked that stuff.
And it was amazing.
Like the most lemon, like actual lemon.
People describe Jack as lemon.
I kind of get like a little upset about that because I don't like there's a lot of strains
that are like true lemon, like lemon peel.
Yeah.
Like not like the sweet zesty, but the like more like funky lemon.
Yeah, like bitter with the pith and all that.
Yeah.
That's interesting.
You got me wondering what's the most memorable terpene you've ever smelled?
Like when you think in your mind, like what's just if I say what's the craziest terpene?
You know what I mean?
Like what jumps to mind for you first?
There was a strain way back when I don't actually remember what it was.
It was some diesel cross, but it tasted exactly like dryer sheets.
Exactly like dryer sheets.
And I had like maybe two grams of water hash that I got at the Emerald Cup.
And I smoked the tiniest dabs of that for like six months.
I will look until the day I die and find that same terp profile again.
But if you just crunched up a bunch of dryer sheets and started chewing on them,
that is what it tasted like.
It was amazing.
So weird.
So delicious.
Interesting.
And we sort of get into this territory of like,
do you think that the strains name should at least try to accurately
represent the flavor profile?
Or do you think like it doesn't really matter?
I don't think it matters that much.
I think it's very difficult.
To not make it.
If you only chase those types of names that will make more sense on the description,
then everyone, a lot of the names are going to be really the same
because a lot of the flavor profiles are pretty similar.
So like, how do you differentiate the thing?
It's tough.
You know, we need to have the more people get into like higher end products.
And like one of the things legalization in Vegas did,
which is kind of interesting,
is that they have mandatory terp testing on everything.
So a lot of people,
they won't necessarily only look at the cannabinoid profile.
They'll look at the terpene profile.
And like, though the terpene profile is about as unique as anything else.
Like if you wanted to map genetics,
you can just as easily map them with their terpene profile ratio
as you can with like their genes.
Or at least like, you know, for our purposes, it's close enough.
So I'm hoping we have like enough like flavor indicators
or something else that people could look at and say,
okay, I have kind of a good idea as to what that...
These are flavors that I like.
So I could make a selection based off of those parameters,
not just based off the name.
Yeah, look, that's really interesting.
Like the way the market's going to evolve
to influence the way they select things.
And I noticed on your website,
you had something really unique on the pineapple soda description.
You sort of talked about the different flavors
you get from your PuffCo at different temperatures.
I actually thought this was really cool.
It was kind of novel.
I hadn't really seen it before.
Do you think providing this extra sort of focus description,
maybe focus towards like concentrates,
given that's what you guys breed for,
do you think that'll become like a more normal thing going forward?
Or was that just like a fun little thing you did for that one?
That was Harry.
Yeah, I mean, we try to incorporate more of the hash before the seed drops now.
So like all these flavors in front,
we already have them in big hash production
because we want people to know exactly what it can do.
What's a reasonable hash number?
Like, how can you move forward?
So yeah, having that.
And then, yeah, some things definitely have different flavors
depending on the heat that you hit it at.
So like between 400 degrees to like 550
might be a totally different experience.
And like you might be able to really taste it more at the 400,
but that higher heat can give you like some different flavors
you might be missing in a different way
depending on like what temperature those turps burn at, I'm assuming.
But I mean, have you noticed that?
Well, yeah, definitely.
Different turps have different boiling points.
And if they flash off too quickly,
then you only get some portion of the total turping profile.
So temperature is very dependent.
On flavor.
Or I guess I should say flavor is very dependent on temperature.
Yeah, look, definitely.
And you just referenced like, you know,
having these strains in production before the seed drops happen.
What's your sort of ideas on the breeding in,
sorry, on the testing landscape in terms of
do you just prefer to do it all in-house?
Do you ever give stuff out to the public and say,
send us your results?
And do you think it's possible to test everything
in the current breeding landscape?
Because a lot of other guests have sort of said it moves so fast.
Maybe you can test a few things and be like,
you know what, this male seems pretty solid.
But sometimes it might be hard to test absolutely everything.
Where do you fall in terms of your beliefs on testing?
Well, the product has the name on it, right?
A lot of that, like the brand, I always want the brand to have integrity.
And so if I'm going to release something,
we're going to drop something.
It has to be, it has to have integrity
and it has to have been tested and it has to, you know,
sort of fit within the values of Umami Terps.
And so we test everything we release ourselves,
myself and, you know, in-house.
We also send it out.
We've got like a pretty big tester network on Discord now.
And we've got a good set of people who are really,
really capable and really, you know,
able to give us an accurate look at what someone who might receive a pack of seeds
is going to experience.
So that's very helpful to know how they're going to do.
Because sure, I bred them.
We're going to be able to grow them really well.
Will someone else who doesn't have the same setup,
doesn't have the same knowledge,
it's going to grow in a different media.
It's going to grow under a different light.
They need to be workable for enough people
where then we can release something.
So yeah, everything gets tested.
And ideally we do everything in-house forever,
which it's, I mean, there's a lot to do.
So, you know, I don't, as long as it all gets tested
and I have multiple people running it at, you know,
at least a large enough population where I know
there's not going to be any major issues.
Because I don't see how you can last in the space
if you have a major flop, you know,
if you do a drop and everything herms
and there's a million problems,
then like, was it worth it to do the drop?
Or would it have been worth it to maybe wait six months, a year,
and then do the drop?
Like is being first with the latest, whatever, that important?
And for us, it's not.
Plus I can't because I have to make, you know,
a hybrid or create something else and then run, you know,
grow them out, which is why it takes like a year and a half
before we have a release.
But then I have all of 2023
and the first two quarters of 2024 already mapped out.
So that's why when I was saying some of those land races
aren't going to come until 24, 25,
because that's the next available time they can come out.
That's interesting.
I like that it's mapped out.
You've definitely got to have a goal to be able to reach it.
I wanted to ask specifically, you know,
you guys have got an impressive 28 cup wins.
What's it like to have that level of competition success?
And does it result from you guys submitting stuff
or is it from like people who have bought your gear
and then they've submitted it?
So I'm actually really proud to say
that is all collaborative works
with people growing Umami Genetics
and then submitting them to shows and winning.
You know, and that's, I mean,
that's the coolest thing ever, right?
The one that they can take something that,
it's very proof positive that what I've worked on,
some of those flavors are awesome because I like them.
But does the community like them?
Are they workable enough that, you know,
someone's going to grow?
There's a lot of different people that make seeds.
There's a lot of, you know,
there's a lot of great cuts out there.
So that had enough to stand on its own
to make it through anyone's selection process
of staying around and then be the entry
and then be the entry that took first, second or third.
I mean, it's like, it's killer.
That's amazing.
So, I mean, on that note,
what advice would you give to someone
who's sort of interested in getting into breeding?
How would you advise them in terms of like,
you know, what to do and what not to do?
Just start.
Just start making, making crosses,
make hybrids, hunt seeds, find something cool.
Probably give them out at first.
See if you can get some people to grow them for you.
Yeah. You know, find, it's going to be easier
if you know someone who has like any sort of scale
who can grow, who can help get you off the ground.
Because it is, I mean, unless you have a ton of money,
it's not an easy thing to break into,
especially now where the demand,
I mean, the requirements for people producing seeds
or people running genetics are so high.
They've never been higher.
They want biggest, strongest, frostiest, terpiest.
And you're just like, you know,
you have to have,
you have to start with those genetics as well, right?
You can't just find whatever fuck off gear
at your local dispensary and then like make a cross
and think that that's going to like run.
Like you, if you want to put your kid and, you know,
if you want your kid to be a D1 athlete,
you better make sure like you're a D1 athlete
and your wife is a D1 athlete.
Yeah.
Genetics definitely play the biggest factor
in the sort of success of a newbie grow.
So on that topic, what genetics excite you?
What do you want to get into next?
Well, I'm kind of diving back
into some of the old, the old school, right?
I got a lot of the OGs back.
We're popping a lot of land race stuff,
trying to find, I mean,
there's sort of this homogenous structure
and turf profile that has become, you know,
very popular now, which is great signal for me
to start to shift away from that and find something else.
I've always tried to find like our own lane,
still close enough that it's, you know,
an easy, easy move for people to go
from where they're at to, you know, where I want to be.
But the last thing you want to do is
go like too far left or too far right,
where you're just like super excited
about some flavor profile and like no one else is,
which is fine for small projects
and like just for you and your friends or whatever.
But if you actually want to impact like the space,
right, the whole, because it's a global community, right?
I mean, that's 28 event like worldwide.
And like 10 of those are in South America
or seven are in South America that we, you know,
my homie, we're doing a collab with a sugar seed
and they've been winning every event that they enter,
which is, you know, there's not as much competition
down there, you know, and having West Coast Genetics
certainly helps.
So it's going to be exciting when there's a lot,
you know, higher level of competition
and we can still, you know, compete, win.
It's fun. The events are fun.
Now you touched on an interesting point
because it's like, it's one thing to make a cross,
but then it's another thing to actually have people
want to grow it out and want to grow it out,
maybe around the world.
And I guess you're giving me a good opening
to ask this question because I did want to ask you,
like, do you think you would ever breed something
without cookies in it in the sense that like,
do you think like a project like that could really succeed?
Or do you think like these days,
like it's sort of, you're not really playing
to the market, so to speak?
I mean, to breed something that doesn't have
any cookie genetics in it at all is,
I mean, there's still plenty of crosses that I've,
you know, that I've made that don't have cookies in it.
And I've got, instead there's fridges full of stuff
we've never released because it wasn't necessarily
the right time and the market wasn't in the right place.
You know, that said, there's how many, you know,
it eventually becomes a backbone to some degree, right?
Just like OG, like some of these other, like, you know,
oh, is anyone gonna stop breeding with like
GANI genetics or like, you know,
eventually when you go all the way back.
I wonder in 20 years, is it gonna be like NL?
Or it's like NL is just in everything.
It's just accepted.
Yeah, right.
And it's just like, I think we're just,
it's too early to be able to look back and go,
oh, that's just the new paradigm.
That's just, because there was probably a bunch
of Afghanis got wiped out by NL.
And people were probably not happy about it.
But now it's just like, it is what it is.
And when cookies is however many generations back,
it comprises what percentage, you know,
very, very small, ultimately, you know,
you can get that down to 20, you know,
20% of the genetics, 5% of the genetics.
It doesn't take that long.
Yeah, true, true, true.
And then it's merely one small fraction in,
you know, this big polyhybrid.
That's just like a structural component
or something almost.
Yeah.
So I wanted to ask you, I've been weirdly feeling,
not weirdly, but like, it sort of surprised me.
I get the vibe that like Sunset Sherb and Gelato
are like making a comeback.
Do you guys get that vibe?
Am I out of touch or is it the children?
I always like Sherb.
The Sunset Sherb was one of my favorites of all time.
From the first time I smelled it,
still one of my all-time favorites.
I will smoke that forever.
But I don't know, Harry, what do you think?
You think people are getting more back into?
I think it's just been around
and it's going to stay around.
It's such a good flavor profile,
especially for someone who's just getting into cannabis.
It's almost like having them smell a tangy
when someone doesn't really know.
They can only describe cannabis as smelling like weed.
I don't know, it smells like a plant.
But if you can give something like a real tangy orange,
they're like, oh, I think I can smell the orange in that.
I feel like with a good gelato or a Sherb,
when you smell that bag, it's like,
whoa, I can actually smell some sweet candy.
This is different.
This isn't just weed.
I feel like for that reason,
it's just always going to stay around.
But I also love Sherb.
I mean, there's Sherb,
maybe a desert island strain for me.
There's staples and people get to decide
what becomes a staple and what falls out.
Yeah, fully, fully.
While we're on the topic of gelato,
I wanted to ask you,
Lemon Cherry Gelato,
another hot name in the community.
A lot of people talk about it just being runs.
But then I talked to other growers
who are like actual growers,
and they're like, oh, I've grown them side by side.
They look a little different.
What do you guys think?
Well, I've grown the Lemon Cherry,
grown white runs,
two different cuts of runs, pink runs.
I mean, who's to say what is actually what?
You know, there just becomes too much.
Like it's like the game of telephone
where someone passes the cut
and then it's this and it's that.
And so like I've seen,
I've seen cuts of Lemon Cherry
that were not the cut of Lemon Cherry that I ran.
Like the cut of Lemon Cherry that we have
is this like kind of more prominent one.
It's from, you know, we got it from the bay,
like my homie up in the Grass Valley.
And I've grown them, you know,
like I said, two different cuts of runs.
One looks very similar to the Lemon Cherry
and one looks nothing like it.
Grows totally different, different stem structure,
different leaf structure, different flower structure.
But it's so hard to tell.
Plus if you grow it in a different environment
with different feed,
the, you know, physically it'll look different.
They'll appear to be,
they could be the exact same cut
and they'll look like wildly different phenos.
So it's just so hard to tell.
Could be, could be the same thing.
Yeah. Interesting.
I wanted to ask you guys about like
your thoughts on the lag time
between like strains being released
and then like maybe when it actually starts
to get some public traction.
And I think this is sort of exemplified
by the fact that Leafly just recently announced
that JBZ's Jealousy was like their clone of the year
or whatever.
And I thought that was interesting
because I remember JBZ did like
the huge clone drop of that.
It was like about a year.
So I was like, okay, so you could sort of say
it was about a year, you know,
or sometime between that,
between like it getting out into mass circulation
and then the public being like, this is it.
So would you agree that like you reckon 12 months
is about the time lag from sort of
when you maybe start getting it out there
to when maybe the end consumer
is starting to maybe get hyped
and what's your thoughts on that time lag?
Is it like, does it make your job as a breeder harder?
I think it's some strains will come out
like they come out of the gate hot
and there's virtually no lag time
which is not always the case,
but some come out hot.
Some, I think, you know, 12 months is probably
or like 10 to 15 months is probably your average.
But what's interesting is you see strains
that'll be out for like two or three years
or like four or five years
and then all of a sudden for whatever reason,
they blow up that and you're just like,
what happened?
Where did this come from?
This has been around and now all of a sudden
it's hype and everyone's after it.
So it's kind of interesting to see
like some of those get rediscovered
where they've been, you know,
they've been in hiding,
which sometimes it's just coming up
with a clever new name and some fancy logo
and, you know, some bubble letters,
but not always.
I bet your RS11 will be the next
leafy strain of the year.
That was the next big clone drop by that gang.
So I wouldn't be surprised
if in a year from now, RS11.
Right.
Should do.
It probably will.
You're right, hey.
So on the tail end of the questions,
I wanted to ask you,
are there any breeders you haven't worked with?
You're maybe not necessarily friends with.
Heck, maybe they don't even breed anymore.
They're like super old school.
Any breeders you like wish you could do,
collaborate with,
or like use some of their work?
Sort of like, you know,
fantasy football style question.
Man, it's so funny because they say
you should hustle hard enough
until your idols become your rivals,
which, you know, is a true statement.
And there's, I mean,
there's a lot of breeders in the space.
Like a lot.
But once I got, so like five or six years,
like if you asked me that question,
like early on in the career,
I would have been like,
oh, this person, this person,
this person, this person.
But maybe it's just kind of silly.
And like, I just, the more I get into like my own,
my own gear and like finding like my own stuff,
there's so much in there that like,
I haven't had the proper time
to really go through the rest of the fridge
and hunt all of my other flavors.
And, you know, find something new and different
in that category.
But I mean, who, like for you,
who do you think would be,
would mesh well with Umami Terps?
Yeah, I don't know.
That's a good question about who,
you know, if we could just tap on the shoulder
and ask them.
Because we've been lucky enough to do collabs
with big, you know, big names.
The Stravinsky collab, fucking crushed.
That was awesome.
Yeah, you know, Tiki, Super Seeds.
I like collabing with people that I know
and I've worked with in the past,
you know, who are super cool.
I like Soul Fire's gear.
I'd do something with Soul Fire.
Soul Fire would be cool.
Like, I mean, you know, Mike, like fucking,
you know, we have a couple cups,
but like fucking hell,
no one has more cups than Exotic Mike.
He's got cups for days.
And they've been in the space since forever.
You know, he's a G.
That would be, I don't know.
Maybe that'd be kind of cool.
Those are some solid answers.
I think that's cool.
I wanted to ask,
because I'd be curious to know.
I'll get an answer from both of you.
What's your favorite strain for head stash?
Fizz.
Fizz.
It's just, it's so unique
and so different than anything else.
It doesn't grow very good.
It doesn't look very good.
It's like got kind of a strange structure,
but just the smell,
the texture,
but just the smell when you break it down,
it's like, yeah,
it's like fresh, fresh cherries,
but like injected with CO2 somehow.
I mean, I like the fizz.
I like cherry pie.
Cherry pie is one of my like desert island,
all time, all time favorites.
Cherry pie's gas, super heat.
The fizz is kind of like cherry pie.
It's similar, but it's like a more intense cherry pie.
Yeah.
It's like, it's more cherry pie than cherry pie.
Dude, I love cherry pie.
That's cool to hear.
Yeah, more grapey.
But mine right now is probably the,
so my homie hunted this cut of poison gushers,
which is the F1 DERB by the gusher.
And that one's out of control,
like some of the most umami turps of all time.
And then I crossed that with Swish.
So we call that poison with a Z,
which, you know,
I don't know if we'll release it as that
because I'm kind of getting sick of going down
the Z rabbit hole too with too much.
But the poison, right now,
I mean, right now it's just PP number six.
Yes.
It's how I, it's a passive poison number six, right?
So PP six is my current favorite right now.
I love that.
All right.
Now something that's maybe going to be
a little left of field, but I love doing this.
What's something you're passionate about
or a hobby you've got outside of cannabis?
What do you like to do when you're not with plans?
I play golf.
Yeah?
Yeah.
Like you're pretty into it?
I fucking, I got, I mean, I played golf growing up,
but I played just for fun.
You know, there was a course by my house
that was like a university course.
It was like $7 to play like nine holes.
And we'd just go and, you know,
smoke weed and like hang out and do whatever.
But then, yeah, I got back, I don't know,
probably 2014, 2015.
I like went to Roger Dunn and got like fit
for a set of golf clubs.
And like, I just got so hooked.
So yeah, I love being outside.
I'd bring the Puff Co, dabbing,
hitting, you know, hit some golf balls.
It's a fun time.
That's beautiful.
What about you, Harry?
I'm a fly fisher.
So.
Oh, nice one.
Grew up in Utah, grew up fly fishing,
mostly for trout.
And then recently I got into saltwater fly fishing.
So go to the Bahamas once a year
and do saltwater fly fishing there.
It's fun.
He's being humble.
He's like, you know, professional level of fly fisher.
Him and my dad, like I've gone with them a bunch
and they are both, they leave me and my other brother
in a different boat because that's like,
look, if you're going to be in this boat,
like we're running and they'll catch,
I don't know, 50 fish, 60 fish.
Me and my youngest brother will catch like two.
That's brilliant.
I love that.
I love that.
Maybe two, probably one between the two of us.
Right.
Follow on question.
What's your favorite meal?
Oh, I mean, I'm like kind of simple.
I like steak.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Steak and potatoes.
And what, like, what do you get it cooked to?
Medium rare?
No, black and blue.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Like a fillet, black and blue, like all day, every day.
Yeah.
Respectable.
Just some simple, you know, simple man.
You grill it on fire, like, like a baked potato.
Like, yeah.
Perfect.
Harry?
I think like Japanese style ramen probably be my number one right now.
Like some pork chashu and soft boiled egg.
Yeah.
Definitely my top five is ramen.
Brilliant.
Brilliant.
Well, look, that brings us to the final five questions we ask everyone.
So the first one being, what is the single most memorable experience you've had with cannabis?
So it doesn't necessarily mean like the strongest dab you've had, but just like maybe you're at a
concert and like it just hit right.
Or like, you know, like what's the most memorable thing to you with cannabis?
So when I first moved to California, I was living in Utah and I was growing and trapping and being a
goof and I, you know, pushed my parents to the limit and they were like, you need to get the
fuck out.
Like go to California, maybe like we don't know what to do with you, so leave.
So I had just gotten to California and I'd spent my first night out here and we got a bag of OG
Kush, $70 and eighth from my buddy's homie.
And I remember waking up on the couch at his place in orange and I was smoking out of this
like stupid pipe that had like a, like a lion or something on the front, like one of the like
kid, dumb, you know, like a leopard panther.
I think it was a black and it was just weird, but I was sitting there smoking this pipe and I was
just like, okay, this is going to be great.
Like this is, this is going to work.
This is what we're going to do.
And I didn't, I didn't have it all planned out at the time, but like that was the first moment
where I was like, okay, I can, I can kind of start to see how I want this to go.
That's awesome.
I love it.
Harry, what about you?
So in college I lived in the Caribbean for a semester.
I sold bed sheets to people who came in on cruise ships.
It's a weird time, but I lived on St.
Thomas, really pretty Island.
So I got a bag, Master Splinter was the name of my drug dealer there.
Never learned his name, but just give him a call.
You home?
Yeah.
Drive by, he'd just be sitting in a lawn chair out front, walk up, dime bag, 10 bucks, good to go.
And then we went up to like the highest point on the Island and just smoked a joint up there.
But I don't know.
Just, yeah, just hit right.
Like you said.
That's amazing.
I love it.
All right.
On the other end of the spectrum, okay.
On the other end of the spectrum, okay.
All your homies are hyping up this strain.
You're like, oh, fuck, can't wait to try this.
Finally comes around super unimpressive.
How did people rate this?
What strain is it for you?
Blue dream.
Yeah, the blue dream.
I was, I was unimpressed.
I was a little upset.
I was still hooked on OGs.
So the blue dream was kind of meh.
And then we got a cut of double dream, which was basically just blue dream 2.0.
And still upset about that one.
I love it.
But it yielded well and it paid the bills.
So we kind of had to, you know, had to run it.
That's it.
That's it.
I don't want to keep hating on Oreos, but I've seen some Oreos hash that looked incredible
and someone was hyping up and I smelled it and I just got, um, what do we call it?
La Croix, like hint of Oreos is kind of what I described it like hint of hint of Oreos.
And the flower the same way I saw the jar sit in there and I was like, oh, I got to
get some of that.
Yeah, look at that.
Yeah.
And then I remember smoking and just being like, oh, this like, yeah, sorry to Oreos
lovers.
Nice.
All right.
Something you referenced earlier.
I'm going to drop you off on a desert island.
You can take three strains.
What three?
Ooh, okay.
Let's see.
We're definitely taking an OG cut.
I'm not going to say which one because, you know, I don't want to, that's too difficult,
but an OG cut, um, definitely taking either fizz or cherry pie and then probably, oh,
that's, I mean, honestly, like I've been smoking on this rainbow belts 2.0 recently and I could
probably smoke that hash every day until I died.
It tastes, it's so overpoweringly soapy and weird and it gets me the same weird, that's
as close to the dryer sheet terp as I've found, like definitely in the profile of cleaning
products.
But yeah, it's, I always joke, like I thought Skittles or, you know, rainbow belts tasted
like if you made a butter croissant, but used Dawn soap instead of like water in the dough.
I think it's just, it's got this really creamy, delicious, but soapy, like well soapy.
Wow.
There you go.
I'd say probably the rainbow sugar, which is a cross.
We did a fizz, so it's got those same kind of fizz terps, but it's got maybe like a little
more stony.
Probably like something like a rainbow belts or the Skittles just cause that's such a unique
flavor I'd want to have.
And then, man, I don't know what for my third one.
Yeah, maybe like an OG, like a Larry OG or just something like totally different.
Yeah.
Nice.
Something green.
I love it.
I love it.
All right.
Final question for each of you guys.
You got a time machine.
You can go back anywhere, anytime, any place you can get either seeds or a clone.
Where are you going to go?
What are you going to get?
I'm going to go, I mean, how long do I have?
Because I want to do the whole hippie hash trail.
I want to do the old school shit.
I want to smuggle a bunch of hash in the surfboard.
I want to do all of the things that I always read about, you know, like my parents, friends
doing and just going into parts of the world that are like absolutely inaccessible to this
day and tasting and finding stuff that is definitely extinct at this point.
And maybe it's awesome.
And maybe it's just like, oh yeah, we have all these flavors today.
Like this wasn't, you know, like, because part of the scent memory, you like, you romanticize
flavors.
I don't know if you've had this where like you don't have something for a long time and
then you try it again and you're like, oh man, it's just like, it's not as good, you
know, like it doesn't taste as good.
Like, is it or did you just like romanticize it and make it better in your head?
And it's, I mean, it's hard to say.
Certainly.
And Harry?
Yeah, I really don't know.
Can you go into the future with this time machine?
Why not?
I probably roadkill skunk.
I probably just want to know, like, is it something that everyone just romanticized
and they thought really smelled like that?
And we do have it now?
Or is everyone just lying now?
And it's something that like did exist and is now gone.
So I mean, Lupa told me it smelled like a dead animal skunk.
He was like, no, it didn't.
It's not skunk one.
It wasn't this fruity, sweet skunk.
He's like, it smelled like legitimately, it smelled like a skunk, like a dead animal.
And I've only smelled a couple things that were even remotely similar.
There were like diesels and like some sours.
That Zoda is about as close to dead animal skunk as I've gotten.
That Zoda 16.
I would want to smell that.
Like actually something that was verified.
Because that's the mystery on the, you know, everyone claims to be the,
I am the keeper of the skunk.
You're like, I don't know about that.
Like I wish whoever has it.
They're not on the internet.
You know, there's some old dude living in the woods like don't have the internet.
Some guy offline for sure.
And he's just sitting there in his backyard smoking his roadkill skunk.
Not a care in the world.
That's it, right?
So I think that just about brings us to the end of things.
Were there any comments or shout outs you wanted to make?
Oh man.
Yeah, so shout out Exotic Ag, fertilizer.
Shout out more.
Shout out to Clean Bio, our testing lab.
Shout out to, who else Harry?
Neptune Seed Bank.
Shout out to Neptune.
Neptuneseedbank.com.
That's where we can get all our seeds.
Let's see.
Yeah.
Shout out to the podcast for having us on, you know.
Fuck yeah, appreciate it.
Excited to be here.
Excited to meet you in person, which was cool because didn't know we'd get this chance.
So get in hangout and take some dabs.
Not a bad way to spend your afternoon.
100%.
It's a good recipe in my cookbook.
A huge, huge, huge thank you to the dynamic duo behind the Exotic Turp powerhouse.
That is Umami Seed Co.
So again, Umami and Harry, thanks for joining me.
Yes, sir.
Thank you.
There you go, friends.
What do you think?
Huge shout out to Umami and Harry for coming by, having a chat, sharing all their knowledge.
And a huge thank you to you for making it all the way to the end.
As always, big shout out to our sponsors.
If you want to help support the show, go support our sponsors.
Seeds here now.
Guarantee on satisfaction, not just germination.
Check them out.
The hottest breed is the latest stock.
They've got everything you could want and more.
Copepit Biological Systems.
You know them, you love them.
They've got all the best pest and predator predation technology to keep your garden pumping
on all cylinders.
You want the best harvest to date?
Check them out.
It's better to keep your garden pest and pathogen free, guys.
Get on top of it before it's an issue.
Copepit Biological Systems, we love you so much.
A huge shout out to our friends at Pulse Sensors.
If you want to get the most resinous, heaviest yields, happiest plant possible, get serious.
Get a Pulse Sensor.
Make sure your room's dialed in accordingly.
Huge shout out to the Patreon gang, as always.
That just about wraps it up for this one, guys.
Thanks for joining us.
I'll see you for the next one.
We'll see you.
