Hello and welcome to the next episode of the podcast, a cannabis podcast for budding enthusiasts.
This episode was brought to you by 420 Australia for all your clothing and lifestyle needs,
as well as Mad Farmer Genetics, your go-to purple cannabis breeder.
On this episode, we're joined by the Mad Farmer to talk about all things purple urchel, some
of his strains, as well as some of his future breeding plans.
All righty, so I'd like to welcome Mad Farmer onto this episode.
Thanks so much for taking the time to join me.
Oh, no problem.
Thanks for having me.
Yeah, no problem.
So let's go back to the start.
So how did you get into weed?
You know, I think I know the answer to this one, but you know, was it a friend influencing
you?
Was it more of a family thing?
And what were some of the strains that were around when you first started smoking?
Ah, well, I've been in it as long as I can remember.
I was born into it.
It was something my mom and dad had always done.
My whole family, all my dad's brothers, sister, they, you know, they all smoked.
It wasn't something that they hid from us.
It was something back in the day that we knew not to talk about with others.
But it was a family affair.
And my parents were honest with us about it.
Back then, it wasn't called medicine.
It was basically called getting high.
But we knew it as what we knew it.
And, you know, the 70s were kind of a different generation.
And I grew up in the 70s and 80s.
And being around it was a different experience.
My brother and I both kind of stayed on the path, if you will.
I kind of deviated from the path for a few years because I went to school and tried to
go mainstream with things.
But it wasn't my passion.
And I could tell I wasn't happy doing mainstream work and the nine to five that most people
do.
And plus, I was diagnosed when I was 24 with SLE.
And so that kind of changed my life forever.
And I went back to my roots because I knew the benefits.
At that point, it had become more of a topic about the medical aspect of cannabis.
I was taking so many different medications that everything would make me nauseous all
the time.
I couldn't keep food down.
I felt sick all the time.
And there were certain strains that really, really were beneficial.
Finding certain strains sometimes weren't as easy, even in the circles that I have.
It wasn't the easiest thing to find certain strains.
And so I decided, my wife and I, after long discussion, we sat down and we just decided,
you know what, I'm going to leave my job.
I couldn't do anymore.
I had become addicted to big pharmas, wonderful narcotics, and it was killing me.
My kidneys were shutting down.
My liver wasn't working properly.
It was down to 20%.
And I couldn't do that.
We had a daughter on the way and it was a time that we needed to make a decision.
And when I look back now, it was the best decision I ever made.
And I have my dad to thank for that because it was him that really showed us what pot
was about.
Before it was the medicinal factor, it was a way of life.
And that was the reason.
That was the reason I was born into the family that I was born into.
This is something that's...
When an artist paints and he says that when he's doing it, it's just something that he
loves.
It's an expression of himself.
And that's how I feel about what we do is when I'm with the plants, I just feel they're
an extension of who I am.
And I express myself through the plants.
What a kind of, you know, a powerful recount of how you got into this.
So thanks for sharing that.
No, it's amazing.
You look back at it now and you think everything was meant to happen the way it happened.
And I'm just a firm believer in that.
It's because things that have happened with cannabis and without cannabis have all led
me back to cannabis.
And I just know that that was the start.
I think that's why that's what one of my clearest recollections is the fact that it was meant
to be.
And that's why I remember it being only five years old.
And just having that thought, I mean, it's like a picture in my mind.
I can see it.
I can smell it.
I mean, it was a ginormous outdoor Cali skunk plant.
I mean, the entire house.
I mean, everything smelled like my dad had just brought a skunk into the house.
And it's a vivid, pungent memory in my head.
Nice. So, it sounds like the whole family was growing kind of the whole time you were
growing up. At what point did you decide to transition from grower to breeder?
Or maybe more should I say, back in those days, was there the distinction?
Were people just farmers and a lot of people made their own seed for the following season?
Or was there still a somewhat clear distinction as there is today between say, growers and
breeders? And if so, when did you decide to make the transition?
Well, as far as it was back then, there was no coined term of a breeder.
Well, my dad and I won't say his name, but my dad had a best friend.
And between those two, they were the best growers.
They were doing things back then.
And this is in the mid to late 70s that people are just now starting to do now with the
no-till experience.
It was kind of, when I look back now, it's mind boggling.
But when they needed to continue the lines that they had, it would be a male that they
would have from the same lines that they had.
And they would have one and it would pollinate the surrounding plants.
And then that would be the seeds that they would continue on.
You figure they would do one pollination and they would have enough seeds for years
of growth.
And so there was no coined term of breeders back then.
It was just farming and they were farming cannabis.
And as far as for me getting into the actual art of breeding, it was specifically for my
medicinal benefit.
I wanted to create strains that were going to help me with the symptoms of my lupus, my
SLE. And that's what led me down the road of doing it, of getting into it, because there
were certain lines that were more beneficial for me.
And that's the reason why I am so heavily involved with with Purple Pot is because of
the medicinal benefits that it offers me for my particular disease.
So that was the reason that I got back into breeding.
And then it became as much of a passion as actually growing.
And it was something that I just absolutely fell in love with.
And it just grew from there.
It just blossomed from there.
Yeah. So on that same idea, I was actually wondering, do you think that it's possible to
predictively breed a strain for a specific need?
So we hear, you know, certain strains are good for, say, IBS or, you know, in your case,
you just mentioned, you know, certain strains are good for your SLE.
Do you think that you could say, I'm going to cross this strain with this strain and I
predict that it will be good for Crohn's or something based on the parent's lineage, maybe,
or something like that? Or do you think like, no, it's not really a predictable thing.
It just turns out certain strains are good for certain things.
But I doubt we'll ever be able to predict it.
Oh, no, absolutely.
Absolutely. For me, I think the two strains that come to mind that I have personally found
the most medicinal benefits from are lavender and purple earth.
They just have a quality about them that it with nausea, for instance, and that's been my
biggest issue is the nausea and the stomach, the cramping and the pain with the IBS and the
Crohn's because I've had 13 surgeries.
So it's been a rough, rough road.
And the idea of taking medications and everything.
So the lavender and the purple urchel, I can pick them up.
And though I've been smoking them for so many years, I don't get stoned on them per se anymore.
I mean, I'll have a nice little relaxing buzz, but I don't really smoke those to really get
high. I smoke those for a purpose and I don't really go anywhere without them.
But I can take either one of those and I can work those and the progeny from those.
80 percent, I would say, of the time are going to carry the same benefit as as the mom, as long as
your male selection is proper and you're staying either within the line or as close to the line as
you can, you're going to carry that trait.
And that's the reason why I had stayed within those lines.
But for me, I cannot be without those those two strings.
And I've had those two strings for over 16 years now.
Oh, wow. So I was actually going to say, yeah, I read online that the urchel cut has been in
your family's possession for over 25 years.
That's really impressive.
If it is true. How did you get the urchel cut?
And, you know, if you did know kind of a bit about its history that you wouldn't mind sharing,
you know, it's one of those strains where people speculate about the genetics, but, you know,
it's kind of hard to know what's true.
Well, it's not been 25 years that we've had it.
It would probably be closer to 19, around 19, maybe, maybe 20.
Still impressive.
Yeah, well, it's anytime you can keep a plant that's designed to have one season, it flowers
and it's done alive for that long.
You've done something right.
We have we have quite a few moms that we've had for 10 plus years, 12 plus years.
But my babies have been with us for the longest time and we've kept them alive.
Urchel is a.
She she has a mystique.
It is it's it's just what she is.
And the true the true identity behind purple oracle truly, truly is it known.
And the reason is, is because the name game wasn't this huge.
Oh, I have I have this line or I have this line.
It was you know, we had since the media either had seedless or you didn't.
And my family was known for producing the best seedless marijuana that most people had
ever had ever seen.
So there wasn't a name game.
So back then, a lot of the land race, the land race crossings were starting to come
because you had South American weed that was really in into into parts of California,
especially in the Central Valley, having really long summers that you could carry all the
way into November.
So you were able to flower, you know, indoor strains that would be 19 or 20 weekers with
a little assistance and help, you could push them to full term.
And, you know, a lot of the especially with my dad, he really liked the the the speedy
weed, the amputee weed, if you will.
And the only thing that he didn't really care for was the really long growing season.
And that's when a lot of the the Hindu Kush was starting to make its way over over here.
And then you had the the Afghanistan and Russian conflict.
And my dad had friends in the Peace Corps that were bringing seeds back from from from
different areas.
And that's when a lot of the real true land race hybrids were being started.
You had pure sativa lines for the first time being pollinated by super short, you know,
stocky, wide indica plants that a lot of people had never even seen before.
And they were they were using them in and what we have coined breeding projects now.
And that's, you know, that's where a lot of it got started was was was back then.
But with Ercol, there was no name, you know, so that's that's the biggest reason that
there's the big question mark as to the lineage, because when it was created, there
just wasn't a lot of names.
I think one one of the lines had ended up down the road becoming one of the Northern
Lights by Thai crosses.
I want to say that it was the male side that was the the indica, the indica side of things
on the Ercol.
And it just it wasn't, you know, it just wasn't a conversation.
It would always be about the plant for the plant with the plant.
And it was it was a trait expressions.
That's what you were looking for.
That was the biggest thing.
It wasn't so much in the name.
And that's why when people ask me, hey, why don't your crosses carry names?
Certain ones do.
And they carry their names after the fact that they've been grown because it's a name
that you can actually see in the plant.
You know, this one was called this because this is what she smelled like.
That's what she looked like, tasted like.
That was the name.
And I tell people not to get caught up in the name because it's meaningless.
And so it was it was about the traits, about the expressions of the plant.
You know, it's just the idea that, you know, this one was done by the end of September.
And this one over here, we were carrying into the middle of November and probably could
have given her an extra two weeks.
And the idea of putting them together just made a whole lot of sense.
And that's how it got started.
And then the hybrid craze really got started.
And then you had old school skunk lines that, you know, were powerful and
supercharged sativa lines.
And now you had indica lines that were they had the same tear profiles, the same
expressions, the same smells, but they they looked completely different.
And you would always try and find things that that in your head, you could just put them
together. You could actually see them being well matched together.
And with Urkel, there was a lot of Northern Lights.
Well, what ended up being coined as Northern Lights and Thai going around a lot of Thai
and those two ended up having a party and then they became a single line.
And that's also when you started seeing a lot of color.
A lot of the Afghans that were that were coming over were were turning black.
About the final month of flower temperatures had a lot to do with it, but you just
didn't see a whole, whole lot of it at the time.
And once we started to see, well, we I have more of my dad and crew, but once they
started to see those expressions, it was just a whole different realm of weed that,
you know, they were now getting to experience.
And it was a no brainer working with it for them.
And then that's when you started seeing the purple lines really start to pop up.
The sativa dominant purple lines from the hybrids, the indica dominant purple lines
and purple Urkel was a product of that.
She just was something that was really, really special.
Yeah. So, just kind of going back to a point you made a few minutes ago about some
hybrids in relation to Urkel, you know, it's kind of has a bit of a bigger underlying
question, but, you know, how do you think Urkel has managed to stay within kind of the
mainstream of weed culture, at least kind of always peripherally present?
And by that, I mean, like, to me, Granddaddy Purple is one of those strains where it's
good, you know, like, I don't mind it.
But I always like have to remind people, like, you know, the speculated genetics are Urkel
cross Big Bud.
So, you know, if you look at Big Bud, we know what its job is.
So, the extrapolation would be that, oh, Urkel is going to be like the connoisseur
Granddaddy Purple.
So, A, is that true?
And why do you think Urkel has managed to stay kind of present in mainstream culture?
Because it is one of those ones that it's always popping up, but it's never the flavour of
the month, so to speak.
Yeah. Well, with Urkel, I think there's three reasons.
You have the mysterious factor.
Everybody wants to know what exactly it is.
Two, it is an amazingly gorgeous plant to grow.
Just everybody complains that grows or that she's a slow veger and she can be a slow
veger. I grow a lot of pop.
That's extremely painful, painfully slow in veg.
And the third, I think, would be her intoxicating
smell. And for me, her taste, because the true Urkel Cut, the actual Urkel Cut is a
hazy, smoky, if you will, grape flavour that is very unique.
And it's one of those things that really goes well with food.
I think a lot of people make the relation to cannabis and food, and I think you put
those three factors together.
And I just think that she's just carried on that way.
Everybody, everywhere I go with friends, you know, I don't go around advertising who I
am. I'm a very recluse individual and probably one of the most recluse individuals that
you know. But the circle of friends that I have, even the same guys will ask me, you
know, what do you think it is?
What do you think? We just had this conversation three weeks ago.
What do you mean? What do I think it is?
And I think it's the mysterious factor.
And just that, that it's just a gorgeous, gorgeous plant when she flowers.
I just think that's what it is.
It's for me, obviously, I've already stated that it was the medicinal factor that that she
serves for me.
But she's just one of the most beautiful plants to flower out.
And I won't be without her.
I'll have her.
It'll be something that, you know, when it's my time to go, I'll turn over to my to my my
child and, you know, explain, which she already knows that it's what, you know, I've always
been honest with her and she knows what certain things mean to me and how special they are.
Well, obviously, plus my wife and they know there are certain things that, like your name,
you want to carry on.
You'll want to do everything you possibly can to continue on.
And that'll be something that I turn over to them.
And then and I'll make it clear that, you know, keep her around as long as you can.
And when you're tired of her, pass her to somebody that will do the same thing.
And that's just what it is for me.
Of course, I can't speak for everybody else.
But even if she didn't have the medicinal effect for me that she does, it would still be one of
those plants that I keep around just because she's that unique.
She she works well with others and it's all about her expressions.
She's just let's put it this way.
She's intoxicating to the eyes.
She's intoxicating to the nose and she's intoxicating on your taste buds.
And when your body is into something that much with that many of your senses, it's a no brainer.
And that's why she stays with us.
And I think maybe that's why it is something that is so highly sought after by others is those three
factors. Is the fact that it is a mysterious strain.
But besides that, it's just she's gorgeous and she's it's explosive with flavor.
Yeah. So just to move on to some of your strains, because I actually wanted to highlight some of your
strains for people listening.
So the first one, what I think is maybe kind of your hallmark strain in a way, the
Tripoli Wicked. You know, this one is obviously made from the lavender, which we mentioned
earlier, as well as what you said is the male side of the purple opal.
So I think you mentioned that was what eventually became the Northern Lights.
Yes, sir. Northern Lights by Tai.
Yeah. So how would you describe this strain to someone and why, you know, like from what I can see,
it looks like the one you've kind of worked the most with.
Why did you decide to work with it so extensively?
And, you know, and yeah, and what would be your kind of sales pitch to someone, you know?
Well, with the Tripoli Wicked, first, let me say that I refer to her a lot as T-dub.
A lot of people, especially here on the West Coast, when they hear the term T-dub, they
automatically assume trainwreck.
And it's not when I'm referring to I don't like T-dub, I don't like trainwreck.
It's not it's not my cup of tea.
She's a bitch to work with.
Very unstable.
The buzz isn't that unique.
She just grows erratic, she stretches.
So she just wasn't my cup of tea.
Like, I'm not a real big OG fan either.
But that's when you hear me refer to T-dub, it will never be trainwreck.
It will always be Tripoli Wicked.
That I get asked that question a lot.
So I wanted to to clarify that.
Yeah, no worries.
T-dub is a, oh, she's she's a very special, very special strain.
The mill that we got was actually when my dad had passed away.
A family friend, which the friendship unfortunately has kind of degraded because of
the popularity that was gained by the three strains that we used to create with the mill
that we were blessed with was it was an honor of my dad because my dad had a love for
purple pot. And originally it was going to be the lavender and the urkel.
And the mill was noted as Tripoli.
When we're working with strains, usually they'll be documented as a letter and a
number depending where they are in the garden.
It's just easier to track them with with letters and numbers because of the rows and
the placement. And so we went ahead and labeled said mill as Tripoli.
It was a kind of an heirloom line and it was from the the male side of the responsible
party for creating the urkel.
And it is a very heavy Northern Lights, leaning Northern Lights by Thai hybrid line
that really expressive.
It carried a heavy, heavy, heavy, which we didn't know at the time, had no clue, a
citrus turf profile.
And when I say citrus, I guess I should just say tangerines because it literally smelled
most of the plants, even the males on the stem rub.
You could smell it would just the four weeks into flower would start to smell as if you
were peeling a really, really sweet tangerine.
And we didn't expect that at all.
And so we got the male, which was Tripoli.
It was in honor of my of my dad.
We wanted to do something that was going to be unique, something that had had to my
knowledge had not been done.
And we were blessed with the male.
And so we went ahead with it and we used him to pollinate our our lavender, which became
Tripoli Wicked in honor of my father, our purple Urkel, which became Purple Jackie,
again, in honor of my father.
And then those were the two we were we were going to use in the beginning.
And then it was a last minute decision that we threw in our SEDC.
That one really wasn't specific for my dad.
She's probably been with us out of all our elite mothers.
She's been with us the least amount of time.
I think we've had her for around 11, 11, maybe close to 12 years now.
And we we put her in late and she became the triple deep crippler.
And we ended up becoming just the things that end up happening that you can't control and
how a person is going to react.
You know, you can't control.
And it became such an issue that we ended up just killing the one male that I to this
day wish I would have just wrote out the turmoil and and kept kept the male itself because
he was the most expressive male speaking on on Terps, Terp profiles, the most expressive
male that I've ever worked with.
And we ended up killing him just to, you know, kind of try and keep a relationship, a
friendship, which ended up failing anyway.
And so we did away with him and we decided to carry on with the three.
We kept our end of the bargain.
We didn't do anything more.
And we had the three lines, the T-Dub, the PJ and the TDC.
And just the the triple E was so dominant, so amazing.
And now that I look back and I've grown literally probably a thousand of of these,
the three that we created, I have seen how predictable of a male doesn't matter the
female, how predictable he's going to be.
And any time you can find a male that is predictable in what he's going to do, it
makes your job easy because you know what to expect.
And Tripoli was that male.
And the reason that you hear the most right now about the T-Dub is because when we
work a line, we don't just create the line and then put it out there and then move on
to the next. We create the line.
We work from within the line because I just feel that you now know that line.
You now know what she's capable of, what she's capable of doing.
The predictability factor, there's just so much about her that you now know.
Why do you want to just jump into something else that's an unknown?
So we continued on for a while, a few years with the T-Dub.
And that's why you continue to hear about the T-Dub.
But we're now moving in to the PJ aspect, the purple Jackie.
And it is the same.
It's the triple email.
But instead of the lavender mom, it's the Urkel mom.
And it's it's probably more expressive with the Urkel than he was with the lavender.
And that one.
It's going to raise some eyebrows, I think.
Because, again, it's high citrus expressions in the turps.
The buds are a little more chunky, if you will.
The calyxes are a little more swollen, a little larger.
The hairs are a little brighter orange.
They just stand out a little bit more.
The potency factor is right there with the T-Dub.
That was the reason why, too, with the T-Dub, we stayed with it for so long,
because it had amazing medicinal effects.
But she just was a little bit light in the power aspect.
And I just felt I could bring that out a little bit better.
So we just played with the line for a long time, enjoyed it thoroughly and created many hybrid lines.
With the T-Dub.
But in the meantime, we were working with the TDC and the PJ, just not openly and dumping them on whoever.
We, like I said, we like to stick with a single project as far as our focal point.
But we always have at least one, most of the time, two other projects that we're kind of doing in the background.
And T-Dub was just the first one from what we did for my dad, was the first one that we brought mainstream and that we allowed to come out to the masses.
So, you, much like one of my favourite breeders, Dynasty, appear to work in kind of a methodical way in that what you do is you've got kind of your pool of base strains.
And in your case, it's kind of the Clementine, the T-Dub, the Urkel and Space Queen, a few others.
And you kind of mix and match your flavours from there.
And I like this approach because, I mean, for one, that Clementine I mentioned isn't the DNA Clementine.
It's a different one. It's one you made.
So, a lot of those are actually your own strains.
Yes, sir.
So, it seems to me like you've made a lot of the possible combinations there are.
So, my immediate thought was, what's Mad Farmer's next move?
Are you going to bring some new genetics in and then make some new combinations with that?
Or maybe refine some of the old genetics by, you know, I know that you took the T-Dub to the F2, you know, maybe do that with some other strains and then begin reworking from there?
Or what's your plan?
Well, like I said, you know, here with us, it's about what, first and foremost, what my preference is as a smoking material.
So, I'll always go with that first and foremost.
I've never been one to breed with the cut of the month strains.
Like, a lot of people will get what's popular.
You have the cookies and the GG4 and now Archive has come out with the Dosey Doe.
And those are all amazing in their own right.
And I would never, ever try to dick somebody and say, hey, you know, you're working with shit or, you know, you created shit.
Never, because that's somebody's passion.
And I'd never do that whatsoever.
My point is simple.
I'm not a cut of the month breeder.
I am really methodical.
It's kind of OCD.
And so, when I'm on something, I stay on something until I'm completely satisfied with it.
And then I'll move on.
But what's coming next is the PJ.
And you'll see PJ hybrids, the male that we have, that we're working with was chosen, oh my, over three seasons.
I think it was three seasons that we took to find.
A lot of testing.
Yes, yes, sir.
A lot, a lot of testing.
I mean, when you have a field of just males, it's, you know, it's just like growing females.
You're looking for specifics.
You're smelling for specifics.
You're documenting flower times.
People ask me, do you really smoke them?
Yes, I do.
I don't really enjoy it.
But some of the males you can actually get, you can get a bit of a buzz on.
I have had, like with our PJ, I have males that will produce resin, good amounts of resin to the point to where you can turn them into a concentrate.
I mean, you can actually extract.
I mean, your percentages aren't going to be anything close to what you're going to get with a female flower.
But it is, it's there.
It is a possibility.
And you can't just say, well, this line produced this smell.
So this smell looks like he's got everything I'm looking for.
For me, that's not good enough.
My brain doesn't work like that.
For me, I have to see him.
I have to touch him.
I have to smell him.
I have to smoke him.
I have to know what he's going to give me.
And with our PJ, it's everything that I wanted from my PJ male.
He has the blood red petioles.
He has that citrus funk on the stem rub.
He has the quicker flowering time.
He has the little bit further node spacing.
He has that gorgeous double serrated leaf edge.
Just everything about him.
His pollen sacs are vivid violet.
And let's put it this way.
You put him in a field of 25 other males, and he's going to be the one that stands out.
He's going to be the one that screams, here I am, choose me.
And typically, we don't ever post pictures of our males or show our males.
But he has impressed us so much that I've actually posted a couple of pictures of him
just because he's caught my fancy.
Like, I don't know if I've had a male that has as excited me as much as this PJ male.
And that's where we're going to go.
We're going to work the PJ line.
We're going to F2 the line first and foremost and bring out the
F2s.
And then we'll take him to what we consider our elite mothers, our brood.
And then we'll start to introduce him to our heirloom clementine.
We don't ever bring in outside cuts.
For one, it's kind of a bad practice because
it's a sanitary issue.
Even the most clean gardens can carry hitchhikers that are unknown.
You can go down to your damn grow shop and bring home hitchhikers
because there's so many farmers in and out of the shop that they,
you know, a spider mite will follow him, you know, be on his shoes or pants and end up
jumping onto a product that you bring home.
So, and yeah, you can quarantine him.
And yeah, you can quarantine and, you know, there's plenty of methods to eradicate
anything possible that you can bring in.
But again, we're really recluse.
Our social circle is small.
And we just, we don't bring in a lot of outside cuts.
And if you look back just in the last three years at what popular cannabis
strains you've had, a lot of them come and go.
You know, here in California, you go back just a few years and you had lines like
snow cap and train wreck and, you know, a lot of the lines, they come and go.
Cookies seem to have stuck around for a while, but even cookies now is kind of starting to
expand out into hybrids.
Everybody now has cookie hybrids where before it was just straight cookies.
Everybody wanted cookies.
GG4 now you're seeing a lot of hybrids.
And I'm just, I'm old school, I guess.
It's not that I don't dig those strains.
It's just that when it comes to my work, to what I'm doing, to what my vision is,
I don't know enough about those lines to feel confident when I bring them in that I'm going
to create something that the growers are going to get and say, damn, you know, that's all I want.
I want to know what I'm working with and I want to know the ins and outs.
I don't just want to know its name and what it smells like and what it looks like and tastes like.
I want to know what it's doing on week six on an indoor flower run.
I want to know what it's doing in September on an outdoor flower run.
I want to know, you know, how big is she going to get in an outdoor patch?
How is she going to do on organics?
How is she going to do on synthetics?
I want to know these things and there's only one way to do it.
And it just takes time.
And a lot of people bite me for, you know, only having what seems to be
a small set of lines that we work.
It's not because I don't have access or I can't acquire.
I mean, I can get whatever I want.
It's just the fact that this is how my brain works.
This is my commitment.
I'm a lot like my dad in that sense.
I know what I like and that's for my personal consumption.
And then when I'm working with something, it needs to be more than what I like.
I need to know, like I said, what she's going to do in September on an outdoor run on synthetic
nutrients.
I need to know what she's going to do in September out or on organic nutrients.
And that's just how we are.
So it seems like we're really simplified in what we're doing.
But in reality, it's not simplified at all.
There's a lot going on that most people will never know.
Yeah.
I mean, a quick little caveat I would chuck in there is that from my experience, from
talking to people and just personally, breeders like yourself and other people who do have
that kind of limited base and mix and match, they tend to be able to give by far the most
accurate descriptions of their strains.
So, you know, I think that kind of speaks for itself in a lot of ways.
But anyway, moving on.
So, are you organic or synthetic?
And you just mentioned before that you might consider taking the Purple Jackies to the
F2.
Yes.
Would you ever consider doing a cubing process or do you think, nah, doing back crossings
not so much what I'm looking to do?
What makes F2s an ideal thing for you?
Do you aim to refine characteristics in that process or, you know, like why choose the
F2 over, say, a BX?
Um, no, with a PJ we are, we're going to cube.
I want to get as close to the urchel in seed form as I can.
I want the growers to get a 10 pack of seeds and have seven of them come out.
Damn near spinning images of purple urchel.
And that's our goal in the PJ is I just fill.
And this is no slight on Lavender.
I probably should have done it with her, but there's just so many other things moving with
her that we just didn't get around to that.
But one of our biggest goals with the PJ is to cube her.
I want to see urchel dominance.
I want people to be able to experience, you know, the true urchel in its form, not some
S1, not some, oh, this is in quotation marks, purple urchel that we got from the club.
That's bullshit.
It's some purple strain that you can clearly when I don't know how many times I'll be
thumbing through pictures and this guy will say, yeah, this is my urchel cut.
And I'm like, that's not even close to purple urchel.
You know, and it's just, I feel bad.
I do.
I feel really bad.
And it just drives me to produce some seed that is going to show people what the purple
urchel is truly all about.
And the PJ is that's where we're going to go.
We're going to do F2 lines.
We're going to do some hybrids.
But for me, which is the most important factor is I'm going to bring it full circle.
I'm going to draw the urchel out and it'll be cubed.
It will be 75% or higher urchel dominant in every female or I won't be satisfied.
And that is definitely our goal with that.
There'll be other projects that we do with it.
But the goal with the PJ is to allow people to experience true in every way purple urchel.
And it's exciting for me because like I said, I see people who, you know, they really do.
They invest a lot of their time and money and they've been shammed and you'll see their
pictures and they're so excited.
And I'm not going to be the one that breaks their heart and just pulls the dick move and
tells them, dude, you're not growing purple urchel bud.
I don't know what you're growing, but it's not our goal.
You know, I'm not going to do that.
But it does.
It pisses me off to see that because it just tells me how many people are out there that
are just doing it to turn a dime.
And it just, you know, it bothers me.
This isn't what it's about.
It's everything, especially in this industry.
If you look around, everything is about the almighty dollar again.
And money's great.
Money's great.
I wish I had more of it, but that's not what it's about for me.
It's about producing the best cannabis that I can possibly produce and putting smiles
on growers faces.
I want them to repeat our name.
I want them to tell their friends, have you grown any of this guy's stuff?
No.
Well, then look, I'm going to get you a pack because that's how, you know, that's how
strongly I feel about about his lines is there.
They are what they say they are.
When he gives you information on, you know, the packaging or whatever, when he tells you
this is what you can expect, that's what you can expect.
The you know, it's like I said, it just pisses me off to see so many people that think they're
growing the actual oracle cut.
And it's it's not.
And we're going to cube the PJ.
We're going to bring out the oracle and that's all God, that's the best thing about her is
from the get go, just the initial females that we were running from the initial cross
of the oracle and the purple Jackie.
I mean, you're already seeing extremely oracle Dom Fino's regularly without even trying just
the expressions.
And it's exciting.
It's really exciting to see, you know, something coming to fruition.
And I can't once I get to that that fourth cross, I can't imagine what what we're going
to see.
I don't even expect it to have to be cubed.
I don't think it'll have to go that far.
I truly think, you know, we'll we'll we'll search our initial F1's for the brother and
sister that represents it well enough.
And and then our back cross with our oracle, the selection process, I believe by the third
time through, you're going to see full oracle dominance in the seed.
And, you know, not that we won't take it to the to the fourth.
I can't say that at this point, but I'm absolutely 100 percent positive what you're going to
see from from the PJ hybrid, the PJ oracle hybrids is going to be very, very, very oracle,
very oracle dominant.
And that's the goal that, you know, that's the goal.
As far as the do I grow synthetic, do I grow organic?
Yes, we have to.
We do use synthetics.
My my personal head stash is organic.
I do believe in a very clean pot.
I want nothing but white ash.
I don't want any, you know, pesticides.
I don't want any bullshit in my pot.
For one, I do have lupus and I have to be very specific in what I intake, ingest, breathe.
So my head stash is organic.
But to be fair to the growers, I have to grow with synthetics as well, because you're still
over half of your growers, you know, are using synthetic nutrients.
And you'd be amazed at how many people I still come across that will come up and send me
an email or a message and they'll say, hey, you know, my plant's doing this and and I
don't know why I'm only four weeks in the flower.
And the first question I ask is, OK, well, tell me a little bit about what you're using.
And the first thing I'll say is, well, you know, my miracle grow, it just it I'm feeding
it as the bottle label and I'm real.
Are you fucking with me?
And you're you're seriously, you're serious.
And I can't be an ass about it because these, you know, these growers, they're they're they're
really they're trying, they're committed and they don't know any better.
And this day and age, I'm surprised with with the way everybody knows Monsanto as much as
they do.
They're people that are still growing with the bullshit.
And, you know, so I do I have to use synthetics and I have to I guess I shouldn't say I have
to.
But in my brain, the way my brain works to be fair to everybody and and to give them
a product that I'm I'm confident in, I do I I have to grow synthetically and I have
to be able to say, you know, how they're going to perform with synthetics, with organics,
outdoors, indoors, light, that greenhouse, you know, it's it's just if if your goal is
to produce the best and and, you know, be confident in it, that's that that's all part
of the game.
Yeah, yeah, completely makes sense.
So in terms of your strains, you use a really good descriptive and categorical way of describing
them to customers.
You know, you list things such as the number of phenotypes and what to expect from each
phenotype, as well as, you know, your standard flowering times and rough stretch values and
things like that.
There are a few other breeders who use this same general layer and it's really good.
Do you think this type of information is it's not only like just a service to the customer
by giving them more information, but it's also almost mandatory these days because in a way
you're showing people that you've grown out the seeds, you've taken note of all these
traits because something which seems to come up more and more is like this idea of like,
you know, I don't know if I should call them breeders, but, you know, quote breeders who
make seeds and like they don't even test them and they're just like straight to market.
So, like in a way you're indicating that like, no, that's not me, you know, like I've
done the testing, I've done what I need to do.
Or in your opinion, is it not so much that it's more just like for the customer's benefit?
Oh, it's totally for the customer's benefit.
I want to know, you know, because a lot of people they don't have, you know, 5,000 square
feet of space to work with.
Most growers have a tent.
Most growers have a corner in a bedroom or crawl space in an attic.
You've got growers that have five foot ceilings.
And so you need to be able to tell them this is not the strain for you.
And the only way that you can do that is by having grown the lines yourself.
And it pisses me off to no end to see these guys.
And I'm again, I don't do the whole I'm going to call this guy out.
It's usually it's the bigger outfit that they run the pollination.
They process their seeds.
They cure them.
They're in the package and they're out to market.
There's no testing.
You know, where's your viability rates?
You know, what percent of the parent lines are going to show?
What's your male to female ratio?
They can't tell you.
They can't tell you.
I mean, they'll they'll make some shit up.
Yeah, of course.
And they'll put some wording on a package because it looks good.
But the fact of the matter is they're not testing their own products out.
And I think it's bullshit.
It irks me tremendously because again, it comes back to the almighty dollar.
And the quicker you can get product to market, the quicker you're getting a paycheck.
And I'll go broke and poor doing what I love.
Making sure that the customer knows exactly what they're growing before I ever do that.
I've been doing this for a very long time.
I haven't changed my ways.
I've not gotten close to being rich financially.
I've gotten rich in other ways that most people will never get to experience in their life.
I've got to share it with my with my daughter and my wonderful wife of 16 years.
And that wealth to me is more important than any wealth I can put into my wallet or my bank account.
And I want the growers to feel confident in the strains that they're getting.
You know, and of course, there's going to be exceptions.
It's a plant.
You're going to have recessive traits that show up from lineage way, way, way gone by.
And it's always going to happen.
You always have the growers that are like, hey, you know, this plant was supposed to stay short
and squat, but it grew a single cola even when I topped it and it was wanting to grow eight,
nine feet in my little space.
It's going to happen.
It will happen.
There's no way around it.
But I want that to happen as little as possible.
And the only way I can assure myself of that happening is growing out my own product.
And that's why it's a slow, tedious task.
But anything we create is tested, is tested thoroughly.
I want to know what it's going to do in a small space.
I want to be able to tell the grower, you know, if you're growing with this style,
maybe some LST, it works great in the sea of green or in the screen.
And the only way to do that is by you actually doing it yourself.
And it's a constant testing process.
And there's a lot of times that I'm growing strains that, you know, that aren't specifically
for what I was looking for, for my personal use, because I'm growing them.
I feel it's probably going to kind of sound lame, but I'm growing it for other people,
and not in the sense that I'm providing to the dispensary.
I'm growing so I can tell other people what they can expect from this line or from this line.
And I want to be able to make recommendations when somebody approaches me and asks me,
OK, this is my circumstance.
This is what I'm using.
This is everything.
And this is what I'm looking for in my pot.
I want to be able to tell them this one, this one or this one will be right up your alley.
This is this is going to be what you want for your space, for the way you are growing.
You don't want to have, you know, a less experienced grower have to change
the their comfortability in growing to suit a plant that it's going to be such a pain in the ass
that it's going to turn them off for growing for a while.
You don't want them to experience headaches and hassles.
You want them to be able to to to grow in in their realm and in their their comfortability factor.
You want to you want to keep it in there, you know, and that that's the goal is
you can you can produce strains that, you know, that are potent, that that are very tasty,
that yield or or the specifics that individual growers are looking for.
You can produce strains that fill the needs of growers and it, you know, and them not have to
adapt to a single plant each time they want to change and grow something else.
And a lot of people don't have confidence in seeds because it's a crapshoot.
A lot of people prefer to grow cuts because, again, growing from seed can be a crapshoot.
So they like to stay with cuts, which, like I said, you bring in cuts from a dispensary
and it has its own different set of headaches.
You got the powdery mildew issues, you know, any kind of fungus or diseases.
They don't really, you know, not all.
I don't want to lump everybody into a big circle, but a lot of dispensaries,
you know, they don't they don't take the time to do what needs to be done.
The cuts, they get them in as fast as they can.
They get them rooted as fast as they can and they're getting them out the door as fast as they can.
They're there as a business.
They're not there to suit the needs, even though that's what they want you to believe.
You know, the person who is sick, that is growing their their medication.
I mean, you know, and and trust me, I know a lot of people that I do help that
they grow pot because they are sick.
They're not growing pot to be stoned.
I mean, I'm open for everything.
I mean, if you want to smoke weed because you want to, you know, that's your form of relaxation.
And then it's like, you know, cracking a cold one.
Hey, I'm totally fine with that.
I that was me before I got sick.
And I still consider myself a stoner for other reasons.
But most of it now is for proper medicating.
And you just don't want they're already dealing with the hassle of life
with the circumstances that they're under.
You don't want them to have to deal with issues from plants and growing from clones.
You know, it has its own hassle.
These people, they get spider mites that are resistant to to organic pesticides.
So then what are they left to do?
I mean, it's nuclear.
It's nuclear wartime, because if you want to keep the cut or now get your grow room back
because you brought in some shicy cuts from such and such, this is the only way to do it.
You know, and I it just bothers me because I know this industry could be so much better.
There could be so much more compassion in it.
And it all revolves around the damn dollar.
And it I don't know, it just it's bothersome to me.
That's why we do it different.
That's why we always have done it different.
We always will do it different.
And that's I just I just want a person to know when they're getting our label, they're
getting those 10 seeds, their germination rates are going to be high and it's going
to do what they expect it to do.
It's just plain and simple.
It's that easy.
And the only way it's going to happen is if you yourself are growing them out.
And I'm not saying, oh, yeah, we tested.
We tested five of those strains.
You tested five.
So you yourself didn't even test the whole pack of something you created that you're
now selling to the masses.
No, we tested one hundred and five.
You know, I mean, we went through 15 packs of 10 to make sure the consistency was there.
You know, how many times did we see a recessive female?
How many times did we see the targeted female?
How many times did we see, you know, the exact one that everybody is after?
I mean, you document, you document, you test, you grow.
And that's that's called knowledge.
That's called knowing your product.
And that's one thing I am very proud of.
My wife and I, I feel that we set ourselves apart from everybody else because though we're
not trying to work with a hundred different strains, we're working with a base.
And I'm working with that base because I know that base better than anybody knows their
base because I've been working with these for years, not for months.
Didn't just bring in the cookies and now I'm working with it.
Now I'm releasing it to you guys.
I've been working with my lines for years.
I'm creating hybrids from my lines and I've been working with them for years.
I'm selecting specific traits to work into hybrid form because I know what those said
traits are going to do in hybrid form.
One grown out.
And I think that's a direct reflection on who we are and what we want for the growing
community.
And you know, that's just how it is.
Okay.
So, moving to a bit more of like a macro topic for a breeder, what's it like for you as kind
of, you know, like I hope not to offend you with this, but as kind of a more smaller breeder,
what's it like to interact with the seed banks?
Your gear is out there, but it's not like on Attitude or Seedsman, like those ultra big
name seed banks.
Do you not want to be on there or do you think it's a bit hard to get noticed by them at
times?
Or do you think like, no, I've got kind of like a niche I'm looking to fill and I feel
like I'm kind of doing that at the moment and I don't need to be a part of any of that?
Oh God, that's such a large question.
First, I love being known as a true mom and pop, if you will, because that's how I see
us.
Again, for us, it's not about the bulk, the mass of it.
It's about the refined search, product knowledge and keeping it real.
So to coin the term mom and pop, it suits us fine.
No, we don't mind being a smaller, well, we'll say smaller known size wise.
I don't know.
I wouldn't say we're small when it comes to the space, but size wise and how we're
known, yes, yes, sir, we are.
We are a definite mom and pop.
Now, as far as the notoriety factor and being on the attitude, we've attempted to go that
route.
We've been approached time and time again by the big seed outfits and both times that
we thought we were going in those directions.
We did everything we could to stay on the down low to get the seeds into the hands of
the bigger, we'll say UK guys that are going to do the distribution or the Spain, the
Spanish seed outfits.
And both times I've lost quite a bit to them and it has taught me a lesson.
For instance, with one of them that's now defunct, I lost 90 packs of one of our lines
and it's because I put trust in the people because I'm a trusting person, because I
know when I tell somebody something, they can trust it 100.
And I oftentimes believe that the same with the person that I'm dealing with.
And oftentimes it's not.
And I've had to learn that lesson the hard way.
And so we've done it.
And like I said, I've been taken.
And it's not about the finances.
It's about just the idea that you were just used.
And so right now we've kind of moved far enough away that it's not fresh in my mind.
So we are open to giving another try.
But there will have to be stipulations.
There's only one way that we're going to do it now because we've had to learn the lessons.
And like I said, you put trust into people and it's all lies.
And you end up finding out later on that it was a big pyramid scheme and somebody is making
a shit ton of money off the backs of people that are doing the real work.
And it's, you know, that's not kosher with me.
And it would be very nice to get to get on with with the right crew, somebody that's
going to appreciate us the way we'll appreciate them.
You provide me a service and I'm going to go even further out of my way to make sure
you're happy because that's how we work.
That's how we've always been.
We'll provide our own freebies that you can give out.
And there's a lot of things that we go above and beyond with.
It's just that fear factor of dealing with an asshole who's just out to screw you in the end.
That's the reason behind that.
It's not that we don't want to.
That's not that.
It's that's not the ultimate goal, because absolutely that is.
I mean, for the last 10 years, it wasn't my wife wasn't real keen on the idea.
For one, we didn't want to jump into that pool and worry about, you know, is somebody
coming for us all the time?
And once we moved out of that and the fear had subsided and and then it was the now we've
gotten screwed by an asshole that was in this for the wrong reasons.
And now we're kind of getting over that.
And the idea is appealing.
We're we're ready to expand the horizon for ourselves.
We're ready to make the label more known.
And that's the goal is I myself, I'm ready to to put myself out there a little bit more
because my daughter is getting older.
She needs to go to college in two years.
She's a honor student, straight A's, never gotten anything less than straight A's.
Thank you.
That's something else I take great pride in.
She's in all AP classes, which in the States are college, college, basically pre-college
courses.
Yeah, exactly.
And, you know, my wife and I, that's our pride and joy.
And she wants to go to Humboldt State.
It's going to cost mom and dad about 75K a year.
And I want to fulfill I want to fulfill that for my daughter.
You know, I want her to get her degree.
And my plan is for her to come back and run run the company one day.
But she's really not interested in that at this point in time.
But, hey, you know, there's always that chance.
And I think if she's wanting to go to Humboldt State, that's a great start.
Yeah.
So, the next question would be, what would be your advice to someone who's trying to
become a breeder?
You know, maybe they've been doing their own thing as a bit of an amateur for a while,
but they're ready to try to, you know, step it up.
What's your advice?
You know, one thing I've heard is, you know, you really need to get a social media presence.
What do you think are some things people need to do?
Well, it depends on what aspects you're looking at.
My biggest advice is, is somebody who's wanting to truly get into it is,
know what you're doing, obviously, but know your lines you're working with.
Know your product, the ins and outs of it.
Be confident in what you're doing.
And then once you feel confident in your product, then yeah, then if you're willing,
and that's what you want to do, put yourself out there.
Um, go to, uh, like here in Cali, we have the Emerald Cup, um, do meet and greets.
Like we just, uh, we just did one in the Bay Area, in Saint Franc.
We announced, um, hey, you know, come meet with us.
We ended up on the beach.
It was cold as hell.
Um, but great, great people, great times.
Um, you know, just put yourself out there and, and smile, be friendly, you know, be a good person.
Uh, and, and the rest will follow, you know, just, it's, it's, it's not so much about the notoriety
as it is about your personality and who you are and how you treat people.
Cause if you do it right, people are gonna like you and, and they're gonna do the advertising
for you and, you know, that just, just be good to the people that, that are, um, obviously
being good and supporting you and, and just be who you are.
And, um, don't be a tight ass, you know, give, give, give, give, uh, you know, like us,
we probably still give away, oh, maybe not so much now, but there was a point in time
where we were giving away two or three times more seeds than, than we were selling seeds.
Um, and that's great.
There's nothing wrong with that.
Um, but if you're dependent upon the income, that can be a bit of a struggle.
You know, if you're paying for all the postage of everything going out and everything, and,
and you're, you're covering all the expense, then it, it, it, you know, it, it can be, uh,
it can, it can cost you a bit, but yeah, just, uh, go to events, socialize, make it clear
what you're doing.
Um, be able to have, uh, full on conversations where you can be asked any question and, and
you know, the answer, um, know the ins and outs of what, uh, your product is, um, and,
and be, be passionate about it.
Don't, don't get in it for the wrong reason.
Don't do it because you think you're going to get rich and famous.
That's wrong to think, you know, you, you do it for the love.
Um, you, you, you know, you do it because that's, that's what you love doing.
Yeah.
So, on that same kind of idea, I've often heard people, you know, um, kind of tote this
idea of like, oh man, it would be so good to be a breeder.
And I've literally heard this quote, like, I would just smoke weed and look after plants
all day, you know?
So, yeah.
Is that like this idealistic description?
Like from what I've seen, breeders seem to work like the longest hours of anyone.
Like, yeah.
You want to give us a true picture of what it's like to be a breeder, you know, a day
in the life of?
It is so not like that.
Uh, do I smoke a lot of weed?
Yeah.
Um, do I get to smoke as much as I want?
No.
I'm too busy doing other shit to get to constantly stop and medicate.
Um, well, let's say you don't have scheduled days off.
Um, things are going to come up that you wouldn't ever expect in a million years.
Um, your workload's always going to be greater than expected.
Or, uh, anytime you make plans, you might as well cancel them in advance because it's
not going to take place.
Um, you know, your, your days, um, they start when they start and they end when they end.
There's no, I'm working nine to five today.
I go in at nine.
I'm, you know, might be home by five 30.
No, you're done when your task is done and get used to late nights.
And I'm not talking 10 or 11.
I'm talking three or four in the morning.
Uh, we didn't get to sleep last night because obviously, uh, plant work.
Um, cause we've got plants on different, different cycles.
Some are in the dark in the day, some are, uh, in the dark at night.
So it's, it's a constant remembering who's where and, uh, you know, get used to, to working
on two or three hours of sleep or, or doubling up and, uh, and, and, and not having sleep.
And then, uh, this time of the year, because it's a harvest season, uh, get really used
to, to being on basically on call because it's, it's just what it is.
It's not, uh, it's not the lifestyle that people think it is.
Um, we actually don't get to go to, uh, as many harvest festivals or competitions, uh,
that we would like to, or get to do things with the, the growers out there that we would love to
get to do because we're working.
Um, I'm, you know, just to get the, to do the meet and greet that we did last weekend.
It took us a month of coordinating and planning and, and, and, and, and, you know, I've got a
really good friend.
Thank God was able to, to get all of our, our spot arranged and, and help me get the
directions and, and the times and everything out there because it's, uh, you know, there's,
there's no eight hour days.
It would be nice to have a five day a week.
If I could do what I do and have it be a five day a week, 40 hours a week type of thing.
Oh my, it would be heavenly.
It's, it's not the, the, the glamor and the glory that, that people tend to think that
it is, especially if you're, if you're committed to it, it's transplants, it's watering, it's
feeding, it's, uh, you know, and then if, like I said, running synthetic nutrients,
you're constantly adjusting and checking pHs and, um, oh my, it's sterilization of containers
and drip trays and, and cleaning of hoods.
And, uh, it's, I can, I can write a book on the workload of, of the list of things that,
that have to be done and social life.
There is none, not for, not for true breeders, you know, and, and we're not like some of
the bigger outfits that have a, a crew that, that they are able to pay to do, to do the,
the grant work.
I mean, this, my wife and I, we do the grant work, you know, and, and I wouldn't have it
any other way.
This isn't a complaint.
Um, it, uh, it does, uh, wear on my body because like I said, I do, I do have lupus, um, and,
uh, sometimes it's really bad.
Um, I've had 13 surgeries, um, due to my disease and, and sometimes it, uh, uh, it can be overpowering
and, um, uh, and like I said, my wife is the most amazing person I've ever met.
Um, she's probably the hardest worker I've ever known.
Um, and, uh, she's able to do things that I'd still to this day, I'd still get blown
away by what she's able to accomplish.
Um, she's one of the best growers that I know.
Um, and, um, I'm just very thankful to have a partner in life and the partner in the business
that I have, or else this wouldn't be.
And I, I, I, I'll never complain.
You'll, you'll never not see me smiling or joking.
And even when I have a hospital visit due to my disease, I'm cracking up with the doctor
and the nurses, uh, just because that's, that's just kind of to use a more modern term.
That's how I roll.
That's how I roll.
Yeah.
So basically you're saying, um, if you just want to smoke weed all day and not do a bunch
of hard work, you should probably be a rapper.
Yep.
Exactly.
That's the life that you need to live.
Yeah.
So, um, in the recent kind of six months or so we've seen a lot of, I mean, it's probably
been a bit longer than that, but particularly online, we've seen like this rising crowd
mentality around strange, you know, the big one, you know, the big blue dream hate wagon.
Um, you know, you know, as a little side note, I always have to remind people like,
you like blue dream, like it did so much for so many people, like how, like it's just all
disregarded in this whole argument, but anyway.
Um, so with that being said though, like how do you feel about the crowd mentality, you
know, and you kind of alluded to it earlier, you know, like as much as blue dream gets
a negative rap, cookies gets a positive rap and GG4 gets a positive rap and, you know,
does it, does that sit okay with you?
And if regardless, you know, do you not feel like maybe in a few years time we'll see this
big, you know, the same hate that's getting on blue dream, you know, that's going to be
on girl scout cookies and there'll be some new thing, which everyone's all over at the
time, you know what I mean?
Like it's just a perpetually changing thing.
Yeah.
Um, well the, the one aspect where we'll just take cookies for instance, the one aspect
about cookies that blue dream didn't have, um, well is the fact that you've got, uh,
the rapping community that you've got burner.
Um, it's, it's got a lifestyle.
I mean, you now have, uh, the cookies fam who they've got an entire clothing line.
Um, I mean it's a complete lifestyle.
So that one I see, uh, carrying, um, carrying itself longer term if you will, uh, than say
the blue dream.
I mean the hype with the blue dream was because it was an amazing strain of cannabis that
they might talk shit about now, but you know, two years ago, that's all anybody was smoking.
That's all anybody wanted.
That's all anybody was growing.
Um, but it didn't have that whole lifestyle.
Um, cookies has done something I've, I never would have imagined in, in the cannabis community
with the, all the choices that people have and, and everything you, it's kind of a, like
I said, it's a lifestyle, it's influenced its own industry.
Um, it's just, uh, all, all, all off of a one started out as one pot strain.
Um, and that I'd never have seen anything like that.
So as far as that one, how will that one carry a year or two years from now?
I'm not really sure on that.
Uh, I see the GG four.
Um, I see that one fading as you know, maybe the blue dream did.
I don't even know if that one will, will carry as long, um, as, as the blue dream did
for one GG four and the outdoor scene here, she's not the yielder that the blue dream
was.
If you look at the blue dream from the grow aspect, you could get, um, you know, done
right.
You could get primo pot, um, and yields that set records in six, seven pounds off of outdoor,
outdoor plants of, um, you know, lower a grade for outdoor weed.
It's, it's, uh, we consider the scale on just outdoor.
It's an a grade.
Um, but even the dispensaries in the Midwest that are bringing in outdoor Callie weed and
trying to pass it as, as indoor, it would be a high, high B a low a.
So, um, that was one of the reasons that blue dream had the, the, the weight that she had
because she was an all around strange.
She was a grower's dream.
She was a toker stream.
So, you know, she was a dispensary's dream because everybody had it.
Um, but it's, it's, it's like with a particular type of, of food, uh, once everybody has had
it and then that's so popular, that's all you can find.
It becomes a burden and then nobody wants it.
So then it tanks.
And that's kind of where, um, you know, the blue dream went and I kind of see that with
a, a GG for show.
She'll burn herself out.
That's not me knocking these strains.
That's just me saying that's how society works when it comes to these strains.
Um, and people want a variety, you know, people want to in the morning, they feel like maybe
having, uh, something that's a bit of a earthy and, uh, say coffee, like, um, you know, with,
with their breakfast or with their, with their, their coffee.
And then the evening they want something fruity, you know, so there's, there's going to be
variety and, um, you know, there's, I, I see it being, being more like that, but again,
I'm not, uh, I don't know.
I, I'm just not big on the whole, uh, the, this, the strain name game and the cut of
the months.
I mean, you look at Sherbert and, uh, cherry pie and they're all great.
They're, they're all really great.
Um, but just to, to gain the notoriety that they do and, and to have people do the things
that you do to try and acquire it, it's, it's kind of crazy, you know, but I, I, I see it,
uh, you'll have something else that comes out that takes its place.
It's how it's worked and it's, you know, it's a cycle and they always cycle in and they
will always cycle out.
I, the, the, like I said, the one I, I, I don't know what to expect is, is the cookies
and it's because it's got its own, it's a, it's got its own following and, and, and its
own lifestyle.
And it's almost like, uh, cause I've been, uh, I, I've been checked by the whole cookies
thing.
Why aren't you working with cookies?
Why aren't you, you know, making any cookie hybrids?
It's a personal choice.
Um, for one, I've never grown, uh, cookies.
I've never grown the forum.
Um, I've never grown any of the cookies.
So now my brother, my brother's grown probably every cookie that you can imagine.
My brother likes to play the strain game.
Um, he loves that.
Um, because that's what we'll say his clientele, that's what they demand of him.
Um, and you know, he's, that's kind of his business is, is taking care of what they want,
what, what everybody wants.
And he's really good.
He doesn't like no other.
Um, and that's what he does.
And I'm polar opposite of that.
It sounds like you have that more kind of organic artistic approach where, you know,
where it's like it flows from me and it's not, I don't want it to be influenced or like
commissioned or yeah.
Anyway.
So, kind of, um, a little left field of what we were just talking about.
Who is a breeder who you would want to do a collaboration with?
And if, if there isn't any, or maybe just as a follow-up, who's someone who maybe look
up to is not the right word, but you know, who's someone where as a breeder who's currently
around, you look at their work and you're like, yeah, man, like you're doing the right
thing.
Like everything you're doing.
I completely agree with that.
Um, for me, there's only one name that truly stands out that, um, and I hate to say, but
I think, um, because he's become so in demand that, and he's done so well at it.
I think it's even kind of changing his, his attitude towards things.
I don't know if the attitude is the proper term, but it's, it's kind of changing the
way he views things a little bit.
It's, it's, it's kind of changing the type of person that he is.
And I'm, I'm, I'm, I'm, I don't want that to sound like I'm, I'm dicking him.
I, I'm, I'm not whatsoever.
Cause he's, he's, he's just one of the, the, the best people that you will ever meet.
Um, it's just a really down to earth, sensible, understanding, um, committed guy.
Uh, is Bodie.
Yeah.
Um, Bodie is a hell of a guy.
I knew you were going to say that.
Um, he's, uh, he's in it for the right reasons.
He's committed to his work.
Um, and he's an artist.
He, um, he's passionate and, um, he has a keen understanding, uh, as well as an eye
for what he's looking for and what he's doing.
And, uh, uh, the guy is a master and, um, he is, uh, you know, he's well known.
And, um, it, that doesn't, uh, doesn't really affect him.
I think he's so well known now that maybe it's, it's starting to kind of alter it a
little bit, you know, like I was saying.
And again, this isn't a negative, uh, response at all.
Cause I love the guy.
Um, and I, I hope to God if, if I were to, um, to become as successful as he is that
it, it wouldn't change me, you know, um, it's something I think that's out of our hands.
I don't think we can necessarily control it.
I think it's a product of the environment that, that you are now in because your life
will probably change.
Um, you know, everybody's wanting your time and, and, you know, I mean, I, I just think
that you can't help, but, but that changing you.
Um, and I kind of think that's what, uh, is, is kind of taking place a little bit with
Bodhi.
Um, but as far as who he is and what he stands for, he's the best guy in the industry.
You couldn't ask for a better person.
Um, he's a kind soul.
Uh, he gives, he's another one that gives as many, um, as he sees as he sells.
And, um, you know, not just that, but even in the, the, the, the flower he, he, he gives
there he's, uh, he's, he's committed.
Um, and I've never heard him say a bad thing about anybody.
He's never going to be one that talks shit about anybody.
Um, and to what you, you have to, uh, to really, really, um, like about Bodhi is there's so
many people that are now making a name off of his word.
All the work that he's put in that he himself has busted his ass and spent so many years
dedicated to.
You now have people that are using that and, and not having done any of the damn leg work
themselves.
And they're now using that and they're, they're becoming really successful with it because
Bodhi himself and, and his creations are so popular that the, that, and that's only going
to change on that end of the market.
The, the buyers, they're going to have to be supportive of their, of their favorite
breeder.
And they're going to have to say, wait a minute, I'm going to boycott this guy because you're
making a name from somebody else's work and somebody else's name.
And I'm not cool with that.
I mean, if they don't have a problem and in most cases, I'm Bodhi, he himself has no problem
with it.
So I don't have a problem with it per se.
But in many instances I do, because you got some, you know, dumb ass that's never done
anything.
And he's just happened in two years to get extremely lucky and, and put together a couple
of, of Finos that he found out of somebody else's hard work.
And he's kind of now made himself into something.
And, and it bothers me because I'm one of those guys that have put in years, not, not
one or two, I've put in years of my life into this.
And I, you know, I've, should I probably grown more plants in, in five years than most people
will grow in a lifetime.
And, and you figure I've been doing this, but it feels like forever to me.
So I put in a lot of work and, and it's not that I don't care if people use anything that
they use, that they, that they get of mine to do whatever they want.
I'm, I'm absolutely fine with it.
But when it comes time to now you're going to start using it to, you know, create your
own label and your own name.
And now you're profiting off of the work that, you know, people like Bodhi have put into
it.
Then it pisses me off.
Because it's a commitment by, again, we'll use Bodhi.
It's a commitment by Bodhi that you're able to do this.
And I mean, yeah, we live in a capitalistic, capitalistic society and that's the name of
the game, but that doesn't make it morally right.
And, and, and, you know, that's, that's where I'm bothered by it.
But that's the guy that, that I do, I look up to him.
And, you know, I just, Bodhi and I are similar in a lot of ways.
He's passionate about his work.
And that's, that's, that's how I am.
And Bodhi would never say anything bad, nor would Bodhi ever come out and tell people,
hey, don't use my work to do that.
It's going to take the growers out here that are committed to this and that are passionate
to not support those that are only making money, you know, profits off of somebody else's
hard work.
But the problem is, is these guys are willing to do it and they're willing to lowball,
you know, and, and, and just so they can turn a profit.
And, and that's what ends up happening.
And, and, you know, Bodhi already tries to be compassionate and, you know, and, and put
his overhead, you know, into everything and, and then his bottom line.
And I don't know.
He's one of those guys that's never going to say anything.
And, and he's put in years of, of hard work and, and though it is a love and a passion
for him, I just don't like to see things like that happen for, for those that, that I admire
and I think so highly of.
And, and a lot of people are doing that with, with his work right now.
Yeah, I totally agree.
And it's sad to see that, you know, like, I think it's like one out of every three breeders
or something, you know, when you see their genetics, it's like, you know, one parent's
the Bodhi strain, the, the other's like a top dog or a TGA strain, you know, like that's
their whole menu.
It's just all that.
And it's just like, what is this?
You know?
Exactly.
Exactly.
And, and as you said, you know, Bodhi is such a nice guy.
Bodhi, sorry.
He'd never say anything, you know, and just for everyone listening, we have actually been
talking to him and we do have an episode coming up in the not too distant future.
And yeah, I agree.
He's totally one of the nicest dudes you'll ever meet.
I don't think you could get him to say a bad word about anyone, as you said.
And so, this maybe kind of brings us to our last question, but maybe the most interesting
one in my opinion for someone like you, who's got such a, you know, a depth of history.
To me, it's cannabis.
I often compare it to cooking in that, you know, like, you'll get these smells or these
flavours and they'll, and it'll take you back.
You know, like they're attached to memories.
And so, for someone like you, who's got such a depth of memory, you know, you must have
all these different flavours that can take you back to these different points in time
and stuff like that.
And so, what I love to always ask is, what's the most standout to you?
You know, like, was there a flavour profile or a terpene profile that maybe isn't really
around anymore or something which was just really, you know?
So, for example, when I read about the Clementine, you know, how, you know, it's essentially an
Afghani male with that tangerine smell.
And that's really unique, you know, like that would have blown my mind back in the
day.
You know, like, what was the standout for you?
For me, it's always been the citrus expressions and it's more common now.
But when we were creating, and mind you, selection is key, and then selecting, you can find that
pheno that you now have and it's amazing, but it doesn't mean that it's going to pass
on into the progeny.
That, you know, you hope for it, but there's no way.
Maybe in the future, we'll have tests that can determine how DNA is going to pass and
who's going to be the dominant parent.
But it's not that, yeah, I think I can pick up citrus in it.
It is the sweet, sweet presence of tangerine.
When you close your eyes and you break the bud open or you walk into one of our rooms
or one of the outdoor patches and you close your eyes and you take in a deep breath, you
can almost envision yourself standing in an orange orchard and just being amazed that
when you open your eyes, it's cannabis.
And then, well, actually, there is another one too.
And though you can, you can still pick it up, like sometimes heavily in our clementine,
especially our lavender clementine crosses, you can pick it up.
But one of the things my dad was known for was his skunks.
And the most pungent, I just got sprayed in the face by a skunk, a turret profile that
you can imagine.
And when I think it was my brother and I that were just talking about it, dad's skunks
were so rich, so full, so complex.
It was like being sprayed in the face with a skunk.
And I think we might have been the only kids at the time if we were riding around and we'd
come across a fresh roadkill of a skunk where everybody else is covering their face going,
oh my God.
My brother and I like, I love that smell.
It's so great.
Everybody's looking at us like, that's disgusting.
I've got to congratulate you.
You've unlocked the bonus question.
So, the reason why I asked that was because I was digging around on some forums on the
specifically the Breed Bay.
And I found a comment years and years ago and someone essentially asked you what I just
asked you, you know, like, what's your favourite?
And your answer was, I'm still loyal to the skunk family.
Give me those nose burning, eye watering funk of the skunk and I'll fill my lungs further
than capacity.
I thought that was a great comment.
And so, the bonus question is, where's all the skunk crosses?
Well, skunk, it's almost just been so diluted.
It's that heavy that true, it does to your eyes what onions will do, is really hard to
find.
And a lot of the stuff that dad was growing back then, you know, we still have seeds of,
but the germination, I mean, you're talking seeds from the late 70s, early 80s.
The viability of them is, you know, 10, 20 percent.
And then finding them in the selection, it's so heavy in work that it's damn near impossible
to spend the time.
And it's one of my goals.
It probably should have been my first goal, you know, as a tribute to my father.
But I just, I just, I didn't because I just felt that the work involved and the purpose
of what I was doing were at that time, or just, they were too far apart to make it a
viable option.
That it's there, it can be found, but the gene pool has become so muddled.
One of the expressions that's the hardest to find is the true roadkill skunk.
It is now one of the most highly sought after, and it is one of the most difficult expressions
to be able to find in plants.
And one of my goals is to someday to find the classic roadkill skunk.
And like I said, my father was responsible for some patches that you could, if you were
in a certain part of the valley, and if the wind was just right, you could literally be
a mile or two miles away and you could smell fresh skunk.
And that was always the biggest influence for me.
I grew up loving that smell.
I don't, I hope people don't judge me for what I'm about to say, and I thought about
it and I'm going to go ahead and say it.
But the first experience that I had ever puffing on a joint was actually a non-lit joint that
my dad was so happy about that he looked at me, turned away, and was explaining it to
me, the profile and the natural oil of it and why it smelled the way it did and why
our olfactory picks it up the way it does and understands it the way it does.
And he looked at me again and he goes, here, dry hit this.
Just don't tell your mom.
And I put it to my lips and I did.
And it was an experience I'll take to my grave.
And I think I was nine years old, I want to say.
And it kind of tears me up a little bit, but I did it.
And to this day, I've not been able to experience that again.
And it was his prized skunk.
And it just was a
You grabbed it by the throat.
Yeah, it was amazing.
And even just talking about it now, it flashes the memory so vividly in my mind.
And even the smell, the smell wasthe taste was so strong and so inherent into the bud,
I could smell it as I was tasting it, almost as if my senses were all working together.
And my dad was trying to explain that to me.
And I was so proud that day, just like my dad just shared a dry hit with me.
And it just was an amazing moment in my life.
And my dad passed away when he was 58.
So I didn't get to experience a lot of the things that I had planned on as he grew older
and sharing the things that I would have loved to share with him.
But it's that skunk.
It's dad's eye-watering, nose-tickling, throat-tingling skunk.
And to this day, that's my favorite.
It's that one that you know.
I mean, you know before it comes out of the bag what it is.
You know if your buddy's bringing it over before he comes into the house what he's got.
It's that.
And that was the experience that comes back to my mind.
That wasyou know, I'd been around it my whole life.
But that was the first time that my dad knew, anyway, that I had experienced the dry hit.
And the fact that he got to be with my dad wasit's a moment that I'll cherish.
I'll cherish it forever.
Yeah, for sure.
Well, that brings us to the end of it.
Was there any comments or shout-outs you wanted to make?
I'm just going to make a quick shout-out to our mutual friend, Gerald, for lining this
interview up.
Oh yeah, absolutely.
That guy is one of the most sincere guys I've talked with online.
He's just such a great guy.
So upbeat.
Obviously, I don't personally know him.
But yeah, I would like to thank him as well for getting this put together.
Because that's awesome.
This has been a real fun experience.
Like I said, I've never done anything like this before.
And I was nervous.
I was pretty nervous.
But your interview has been just so awesome.
So, so great.
From the very first question that you asked, I just kind of sat back in the chair and was
like, dude, this is going to be easy.
This guy has made this really, really easy.
So yeah, thank him.
And I would.
There's two guys that I would.
One is just kind of a newer buddy of mine.
He goes by the name of Dr. Get Right.
And when he listens to this, he'll know who he is.
Hell of a guy.
He's just one of those guys that you don't find.
And him and I have quickly become friends that I've adopted into my circle.
And the other one, actually, there's two more.
My wife.
She's the most special person that I've ever met.
And she makes me a better person.
She makes me the person that I am.
And then my brother, Smellin' Mad.
The guy is one of the most funny people you ever meet.
I could do anything for anybody.
And I love them to death.
And those are my two right there.
Great.
Well, thanks so much for taking the time to sit down with us.
And I personally think that everyone should be keeping their eyes out for the Purple Jackie
Cube project because it sounds like it's going to be a game changer for especially Purple Seed
Game.
I mean, you already do that, but you know what I mean.
Yeah.
It should be.
We're hoping to finish testing and have it out around February.
And hey, you're an incredible person, man.
Just by this interview, you just seem like you've got a great personality.
And I thank you for giving me this opportunity and making this so easy.
It's been a pleasure.
It's been a pleasure meeting you.
And maybe someday our paths will cross and we'll get to share a toke.
Thank you so much to the ever so humble and kind Mad Farmer.
Also, a big shout out to his wife.
420 Australia.
Mad Farmer Genetics.
Forever.
