Alright, alright, alright.
Welcome back my friends for another episode of the podcast, the cannabis podcast for budding
enthusiasts.
As always, you're joined by your boy, Heavy Daze here from the Upside Down Library, and
we are hugely appreciative of our fantastic sponsors.
You know them and love them, Seeds here now.
Number one seed bank in America, not just a guarantee on germination, guarantee on
satisfaction.
If you don't like it at the end of the grow, hit them up.
They will make it right, they will sort you out.
Why would you go with someone who doesn't have such a guarantee?
If you're in the UK though, hit up our buddies at Simply Souvenirs.
With a hand-selected range of boutique breeders and smoking apparatuses and apparel, Simply
Souvenirs offers some of the best customer service in the game.
You will absolutely be looked after well by our friends there.
Please check them out in the UK.
International and local UK breeders, huge thank you to Simply Souvenirs.
Likewise, huge shout out to our friends at Copert Biological Systems.
For all the best predators and predation technology in the game, you have to check out Copert
and their products.
If you've got aphids, get the Aphipar M. If you've got spider mites, get the Spidex Vital.
How many times we got to say it guys, a clean garden is next to godliness.
What more could you want than peace of mind knowing that your plants are pest and pathogen-free.
Check them out, Copert Biological.
Thank you so much guys.
Huge shout out to our friends at Pulse Sensors.
If you've got one room, three rooms, multi-stay facilities, you need Pulse Sensors.
The reality is there's many variables that can hold your crop back and you may not even
be aware they're not optimized.
Get yourself a Pulse Sensor, dial in your parameters, increase yield, resin, flavor,
all the information at your fingertips.
Check it out guys, Pulse Sensors.
Get serious, get a pulse.
Shout out to the crew at Purple who create the Purple Pro, a modular handheld unit capable
of giving you accurate flower and concentrate cannabinoid tests from THC to CBD, water content,
water activity and more.
Grab yourself a Purple Pro guys, they were kind enough to send me one.
I've been playing with it, it's fun.
I think you guys will like it.
And last but not least, the Patreon gang.
Thank you so much for your support.
You are the lifeblood of the show.
We could not make episodes without the support of the Patreon gang.
We are hugely grateful.
If you want to help support the show, get access to early content, unheard interviews,
exclusive Patreon-only episodes as well as monthly genetic giveaways, check out the Patreon,
www.patreon.com forward slash the podcast.
Huge shout out to the Patreon guys, we appreciate you.
All right, all right, all right.
Welcome on back friends for part two.
The man himself, Tom Hill.
Here to talk all things Haze, DeepChunk, X18, Pintar, Kush, so much more.
Thanks for coming back to check out the second part.
So, without further delay, let's get into it.
So, let's go back a bit.
You moved to the neighborhood and you started getting exposed to a lot of the strains we've talked about.
What was the progress like before you started to do your own open pollinations or did it happen immediately?
Yeah, no, it didn't happen immediately.
We were reading like Rob Clark, Marijuana Potty was the one that we were reading back then.
And it's a great, great, great book.
Timeless.
A real gem.
And he would give you hints about not backing yourself into any corners with your selection.
And he would give examples of heterosis and stuff about how F1 was great for this grower.
But in the next year, there's a few less.
And then he eventually drove this line into the ground.
And he would give you examples of that in that book.
And speak of how this guy inadvertently backed himself into a corner.
So, if you could hear that message that he was trying to tell you back then.
For me, first came male pollen.
Nymexis was the big one.
I'm not even going to try to select a male here because I don't want to lose something that's special.
And at the time, something you can't even really test for because you're talking about smoke, right?
How do I know which one of these males smokes best?
I mean, I'm not actually going to smoke.
And that's what Rob suggested.
He said, dry out a bag and see which one disappears first.
Which is what I do with my females.
But I'm not going to do that with my males.
I'm just going to make a fucking male pollen mix.
And not back myself into any corners.
And then eventually, a couple, after thinking about it more, you'll end up at open pollination before too long.
For that reason.
It's a way to make sure that when you have something and you like it, that you don't fuck it up.
Just let all the pollen, all the girls fly.
And then after that, you can fuck around all you want with more intensive breeding.
Yeah, nice.
And I mean, you've spoken fondly about Rob Clark.
He's a phenomenal source of information and a pioneer.
I was interested, were there any other gurus, breeders or other sources of knowledge you hold in high esteem?
Yeah, you know, gosh.
Any of them that can go out on a limb and voice something new when they might be wrong.
You know?
Guys like Hive and DJ Short.
He's got some bizarre theories.
DJ Short does.
And I admire him for putting them out there.
It's possible that people are going to laugh at you.
There's nothing, I don't respect anything higher than that.
People that are willing to say something that might sound bizarre to a lot of others.
Just pure observation and being able to bounce it off people.
If you don't say shit about what you're thinking, we're not going to get very far, are we?
And so I admire people that come forward with bizarre new theories and such.
Yeah, a lot of those people you just mentioned are equally people I hold in high esteem.
I'm interested now though, you mentioned it.
Have you got any, what you would describe as bizarre observations of your own?
Ha ha ha ha ha.
Sure, I mean who doesn't?
I still suspect these damn runs are where it's at.
You know, as Vic High or somebody back then said, it might have been Inspector Breeder, Steve or somebody.
But hey, those might be the ones you want.
Just because so many times this best plant is just lacking in growth.
What you want to see in the growth of a plant, it turns out to be the best plant.
Fucking low yielding thing.
Sometimes you'll see these ones and for a minute, for brief seconds, they can't veg right.
But then they'll grow out of it and do fine.
But it's almost like a regular environment freaks them out.
These ones, I always like to keep an eye on.
They often are exceptional.
One of the ones that won that, you mentioned that IC Mag Cannabis Cup or whatever, 420 Cup.
There's a plant like that too.
It's just happened so many times.
I always keep an eye on these ones.
This one's kind of freaky doing its own thing over here.
What's going on?
But they'll often end up, they'll often surprise you and be kick-ass.
And it's never the plant that, I always say your favorite plant changes three or four times during the course of a season.
During growth, you'll say, oh this one's fucking kicking ass.
It's my favorite plant.
As you enter budding, your favorite pile, this one, look at what this one's doing.
It keeps changing, changing, changing.
Looks, smell, resin, and then it changes one more time.
And that's when it hits the pipe.
And that's the final say.
Yeah, I certainly have noticed that myself a few times as well.
It's a bit of a random sidestep question, but I'm curious to know, what are you growing this year?
Oh, a bunch of popular crap, or not even popular.
Just, you know, same stuff that other people are, you know, growing in the neighborhood.
A big variety of stuff.
I have that Gelato 33 in that I really liked.
I like the high off of it, I won't lie.
You know, that's a good cerebral smoke.
Any other notable ones that you've been impressed by?
Well, there's a few that are coming in now.
One Mendo Pule or something that I haven't smoked yet.
It's still just coming off the line.
Shit, that one I haven't even harvested yet.
There's a few of them that still need to come in, but none of them are super impressive from what I can see so far, I would say.
And that's a drag.
But they were free.
While we're talking about runs, is that sort of one of the reasons why you like to grow from seed?
Because you see those runs pop up, whereas with clone, you know, you don't.
I've been growing from clone for a long time for production, you know.
But I love growing from seed because you never know what you're going to find.
It's like fishing, isn't it?
You know, you don't know what you're going to bring up.
Yeah, definitely.
Well, I mean, let's go back to when you're learning the ropes and you're first starting to do the open pollinations with these lines.
Which of these lines really, you know, how should I say, took your heart first?
You know, was it the Deep Chunk?
Was it the X18?
Which one really first captivated you?
Yeah, it was Deep Chunk by far.
It was my favorite for years and years and years.
You know, I couldn't very well grow even haze commercially.
You know, it just wasn't even an option all through those years.
But Deep Chunk did exactly what I wanted it to do.
You know, produce well in low light conditions.
And it was really good smoke.
I liked it.
Cerebral smoke.
Had very uniform pounds.
You know, that plant breeds true.
It's the driven snow.
And so it turned out to be a very consistent product for decades for me.
Yeah.
And when did the idea of crossing it to haze come into your mind?
Well, it was probably after I read Rob Clark's Marijuana Botany.
You know, right away.
You know, as soon as I had that haze and knew how good it was, that that was the plan kind of thing.
So, and what was it like when you first grew those out?
The F1.
Were you surprised by what you saw or was it pretty much what you expected?
I've never really, I've never grown the F1 commercially.
You know, I was, back then, the Deep Chunk was, it was so good and giving me what I wanted for what I was doing.
You know, I was trying to move weight.
And it was predictable and easy.
And I knew that crossing out to that fucking 14 to 6 week plant, you know, was going to have me into November or something here.
Into the rains and stuff.
So, I didn't, I wasn't looking to cross it out.
I wasn't looking to cross them together so much for production as I was for my own head.
Yeah.
Okay.
Sure.
That's completely understandable.
You've got some other notable F1 hybrids, like particularly the Cripple Creek where you crossed the Pine Tar to the Deep Chunk.
I know that, you know, that was one that seems to get a few mentions online.
Did you, did you like what you were able to see from those F1 hybrids and would you consider doing other F1 hybrids with your lines?
You know, I was just going for that, you know, for that recombination generation thing that we were talking about before.
I was, I was trying to, you know, create something, something not, not seen in either line by getting into that.
I was just rifling through those generations.
And that was just remnant seed that I had sent in.
But I never really continued on with it much, much after that.
I haven't done a bunch of F2 searches through that.
I still have F2 seed that I made, which was the point.
And, and most of those F1s were just remnant seed that I passed out along the way to what I wanted to put away.
Yeah. Okay. Yeah. So you're stocking up.
So do you have any plans to get into those or you just, the other stuff is more interesting right now?
Well, right now I think, you know, Hayes is on the list and Deep Chunk because it's been, I think, her last reproduction was only,
I think it was 2009 or something on both of those.
And, you know, it's time to do a germ test.
I'm probably flirting with, with, you know, something below 60% on what I have here.
So that's kind of my next, my next plan is to do those things.
I'll try open pollination time again.
But I'll probably make a point of saving clones from the, from the Hayes, a portion of that and try to find a good one.
Yeah. Brilliant.
And do you feel like open pollination captures everything in the sense that, have you noticed any variation over time in any of the lines you've done with open pollination?
Or do you feel like it does really just capture the whole thing?
Well, everything, everything goes downhill, you know, at a fast pace or a slow pace.
And open pollination is a way to make that slow.
And, you know, something's not going to stay killer forever if you keep breeding with it.
You know, breeding is, is both, you know, how we have such great cannabis.
And it's, it's also why we have such bad cannabis or, you know, or lines that have just been driven into the ground, you know.
That's a lot of, I think, probably what's happened everywhere in Thailand and India.
You know, all these places you're like, where was this great, where's this great shit?
From the old days, man.
Well, you know, the great spots only stay good for this moment in time, you know.
It's a moving target, man.
Yeah. Some wise words there.
And while we're on the topic of it, Thailand recently legalized cannabis.
Any thoughts on that? Ever wanted to go there, set up shop over there?
No, I would say no.
I like, I like Southeast Asia, but, you know, the language barrier there is something that will never be gotten over with me anyway.
You know, so it's, it's the other for me, you know, for sure.
It represents something that's true.
That's too mysterious for me.
I'm not that adventurous.
Yeah, I feel you.
Yeah, I feel you.
It's not too far from me and yet it also still seems like a big jump.
But just to loop back, you know, obviously you're known for doing open pollinations, but you've done some F1 hybrids and a focal discussion point of the show is around selecting males.
And I was curious to know, do you have any thoughts on selecting males?
Do you think it's just a fraught adventure given your preference for open pollination?
And if not, do you think there are any traits that are associated with a better male?
Because I guess that's one of the common things we discuss, like, you know, how do you select a male?
What's your thoughts on the subject?
Well, resin, you know, if you have a resinous male, that's worth something more than a non-resinous male, I think.
I used to go and feel the stems of haze plants if I was going to try to do a, you know, a hapsib cross or something.
You know, if I was going to try to get a group of males out of a big population and do some more intensive breeding, I used to whittle them down by whether or not their stalks were sticky in veg.
Because a good portion of them are. And you can smell them and know that that's, oh, here's this, you know, kind of a Thai profile that I'm after.
Yeah, okay. Interesting. And I mean, I'm curious, what sort of terpene profiles do you gravitate towards in general?
Gosh. Rotten meat. I like that. That's one that's, I shit you not, there's one that, you know, I was worried that you were going to ask me how, you know, how this one tastes like that my neighbor brought over.
And that's like what I, that was my first impression. This thing fucking tastes like rotten meat, man. Not rotten fruit, but rotten meat like this. This is a pretty foul, you know, unpleasant odor if it wasn't cannabis.
So I, you know, I like that one. And there was, there's been a lot of like Jamaicans and stuff like that, that kind of had this weird off smell that off flavor and stuff that were really bizarre. But that's one that I like. I'm not kidding.
You know, like kind of a rotten fruit, rotten meat, you know, that, that, that, that area in there. Citrusy stuff. I like to tie the tie, you know, tends to, tends to wane as it stores, you know, you know, like when I, when I grew that, that chocolate tie that we had grown out on my friend's rooftop there.
And it was like, Oh, this, this doesn't smell at all. Like the brown tie, but that we had smoked, you know, the parent. It's entirely different. It's kind of citrusy and, and you know, a totally different thing.
And then if you store it and all that stuff kind of oxidizes and stuff, you'll, you'll get some really more complex flavors and such out of it. But, you know, and I suspect with haze too, I would say, but you know, when I find a good haze, I unfortunately don't have it or any around when it, you know, I'm still smoking that shit gone while it's still green. Because you just, you don't reach for anything else.
I mean, in more recent times, there's been a lot of discussion around the usage and the benefits associated with an actual curing phase. And I guess most notably one of the big companies in California and now in other states like Florida and a few others, the Jungle Boys, they, their owner, Ivan, he famously came out and said, they don't cure their weed at all. They think it's best as soon as it's harvest. Like as soon as it's dry and smokable, that's when it's best.
Would you say that you think that's incorrect? Or do you think it's strain dependent? What's your take on a cure?
Yeah, everything's going to be different. You know, several, you know, modern plants will probably be best when they're relatively fresh. And, you know, there's a bunch of them that might get better with age. You know, I think it's going to be different from individual to individual for sure.
Yeah, interesting. And with haze, are there any notable changes that take place with the cure? Like obviously the color changes. How does the effects change over time?
I wouldn't know. I smoke that shit when it's fresh until it's gone, gone, gone. But recently I have seen people that, you know, have grown some of it out and, and were just kind of meh about this one and, you know, kind of put it in the closet, you know, when it was fresh. And then they'll break it out months later and remember this plant being kind of meh. And just have it be incredible months and months later after it sits around.
And oxidizes some and reveals something that was there all the time lurking underneath. Once the main profile kind of dissipates, what's lying underneath and subtle at first often is like really, really unique and beautiful. And that's what Thai was for me and the brown Hawaiian and stuff and Jamaican.
You know, none of these stuff that we were getting in imports back then was fresh. You know, it all had months. And shit gets really interesting when it has that. But, you know, if you only have a pound of it or something, and it's the best thing, you know, by far, you're just going to go through it. You're not going to get to that stage to realize it.
Yeah, definitely. Definitely.
At least I don't.
Let me give you a hypothetical, right? You've just been hired to consult for a Thai company and they say, look, we've got like this facility, we can do outdoor, we can do indoor, we can do whatever. You tell us what to do. What do you think we should do? What would you say? Would you say that they should grow Landrace stuff? Are you going to tell them modern? How would you help them?
In Thailand. Yeah, I really liked it. I liked it. What they're doing there, you know, good for them. It's pretty ballsy in that area of the world. You know, I would go on a gene pool search there locally, you know, go on a germplasm hunt there locally and try to turn up something that was that was, you know, worth it, worth the name of how good that stuff can really be.
I have my doubts that the stuff that they're working with, you know, it's probably some valuation, some loud stuff or something that's kind of mediocre as Thai became in the end there.
But I want to believe that the old seed is still there and I would go on a hunt for it. You know, I'd hire a bunch of hookers and tuk-tuk drivers. It's up there, somebody and Uncle Bill's attic, you know, the old seed has to be around somewhere. I wouldn't even pass go until I found something worth talking about. And I kind of suspect they didn't wait for that.
I love it. Yeah, it would be really cool to see like some Terroir, Landrace, Thai stuff coming out. I think there's probably going to realistically end up being a mix of both, right? Because, you know, USA hybrids are popular worldwide, no doubt about that. But that's really interesting to hear that you would be keen to do that. That's really cool.
Just to take us back to the breeding sort of questions for a moment. I wanted to ask you, a lot of people talk about selecting a male around this sort of paradigm of hemp trait versus drug trait. And like, you know, just to give you a common example, they'll say the really fast flowering male that wants to put out ball sacks first. That's like a hemp trait associated male. Like it's probably not your best male.
Whereas we've heard earlier that like, you're not going to call that male, you keep it around because it's got something to offer, which is interesting. So I'm curious to know, do you buy into the hemp trait, drug trait paradigm? Or do you think like they're all drug trait really?
I think that those traits are inherited separately. And that's why I don't call them. But yeah, you know, yeah, that's a correlation that I don't believe. You know, I've had early plants that were very high in potency.
So I wouldn't make that association. I wouldn't bet on it, pal. I guess would be my answer to that. I'm not buying it, hemp trait. Yeah, no, I believe those characters to be inherited separately.
Yeah, cool. That's an interesting answer. Okay. So what sort of males do you like besides resinous one? Is there any sort of profile you like or it's just independent and each strain is its own thing?
Yeah, I don't. I don't try to even judge them too much. I just go for numbers when it comes to males. I have for decades. I've always been a big fan of the male pollen mix. And, you know, resin, you know, for, you know, resin for something to me. You know, but other than that, I really, I can't think of anything else that I would even dare to try to place importance on.
Okay. Well, I mean, while we're talking about importance, do you have a sort of like a hierarchy of traits you like to breed for? And I guess notably someone like DJ Short has sort of always commonly said everything is secondary to the effect. So he's sort of saying like, I don't care what it looks like. If the effect is good, then that's it. Do you feel like, oh, you know, you got you got to sort of like balance different aspects. It's got a yield. Okay, blah, blah, blah. Where do you fall on that one with your trait hierarchy?
Well, you know, it's like I said before, your favorite is going to change several times, you know, throughout that cycle. And then once more at the end, when you smoke it, when it's in the pipe, your favorite changes again, every time. And that's the most important thing. But you should be growing and breeding your favorites.
I'd like to see a plant that grows well and stuff like that. But, but I'll trade all that for something that's better smoke. And that's why, you know, that's, I think the only thing you can really say is your favorite. Right. So yeah, I agree with DJ on that.
You know, I'll judge other plants, certainly like when I'm when I'm shit canning or calling clone material from growing in depth or something, you know, like I despise a plant that can't hold itself up.
You know, I have a bunch of other criteria that I'm very picky about and such. But when it comes to breeding seed, you know, if you're just talking about the average guy, I mean, I hope that they're breeding for the best smoke. I don't give a shit about anything else. I don't think anybody else should either.
Yeah, I agree. And I wanted to touch on the X18 specifically, because I think out of your strains, it's known for having a very unique flavor profile, as well as being like a fairly quality Pakistani all round. I was always interested, you know, the apple phenotype is sort of referenced here and there. And it's like an interesting flavor because it's not really apparent in many modern strains, the apple flavor.
What's X18 like to you? How do you describe it? And what are you fond of about it?
It's unique in that way. It's different. You know, it's not it's not going to rip your fucking head off like, you know, like some of the OGs would or something. But it's certainly unique. And that's worth something, you know, to a lot of people. It's worth something to me because, you know, that's what you get that.
You know, transgressive segregation is, you know, you need plants that are divergent from each other. It's not going to happen when you're breeding brother to sister or something.
Yeah, definitely. And I mean, to me, one of the things I like about your offerings is that there's sort of a few Pakistanis in the mix with the pine tar kush also. I always got the impression Pakistanis sort of didn't get enough credit because they've got that real cerebral aspect to the indica high, which really underrated in my opinion. Have you been like a big fan of the Pakistanis? Do you favor them or where do you sit on it?
Yes. And, you know, for the exact same reason, I think that, you know, a lot of the Pakistanis have probably likely been outcrossed to some really cerebral Indian at some point in the distant past, you know.
And I also do find them more cerebral than a lot of the, certainly than most of the Afghans that I've come across are more of a sleepy, you know, dreary, lethargic high, whereas the Pakistanis are, you know, much more cerebral and up, which I've always thought I'm not. That's what I'm looking for in pretty much everything that I smoke.
Yeah. It's interesting that like for the longest time, I thought you must have been like a real indica head because like on paper, it seems like there's these indica offerings, but like it's more the cerebral stuff you like. It's sort of ironic.
Those are the ones that I kept anyway. Yeah. Yeah. Like there's a lot of, you know, people, you know, like this, you know, purple urkel and some of these old broadleaf from up here and stuff. But for me, they just make me sleepy. And yeah, it's not where I'm at.
What's your thoughts on the urkel? It's got a really big rise in popularity over the past years. Have you grown it? And what do you think the genetics are?
I think it was introduced to me as like a Salmon Creek version of the monkey balls or something, you know, the old, you know, the DC. It was their broadleaf up there. Real flavorful. It's got a nice great flavor. It breeds really well.
It's, you know, relatively homozygous and crosses out well to a lot of stuff. But yeah, it makes me sleepy. I smoke that stuff and it's just kind of, it's not very potent and it kind of makes me sleepy. It didn't float my boat, you know, so I stopped growing it.
Yeah. Okay. Interesting. Interesting. And we had a lot of listeners chime in that were hoping to hear about, and I noticed this myself, that DNA for a while was offering the X18. What was the backstory behind that?
I think it was on one of the forums or something. Yeah. They just got up with me. I don't remember what happened. I think I sent them a bunch of pollen and some seeds or something though. And they did some crosses and might may have done some reproduction. I don't, I don't really know. But I do remember it was like the only people that I ever sent any pollen out to, you know, because they were into it. And I was like, yeah, well, okay. I just happened to have a, you know, big bundle of pollen.
Right here. You know, and I was, cause I was, you know, doing some breeding with it myself at the time. I think they did some crosses originally. And, and, you know, and I probably sent them seed as well. So I didn't really follow it, but I know that did happen.
Okay, cool. I guess like you're sort of confirming it's like, it's authentic. It's not just like random seed they found.
Yeah, I would, I would hope not. I don't see why it would be. I did have, you know, I did send them a package at one point way back when.
Yeah, cool. Interesting. Okay. Okay. So what would your advice be for a new breeder who's looking to get into it? A lot of people talk these days about how it's also polyhybrid that, you know, like we're not getting anywhere with it. How can someone like get their toes wet while also actually progressing towards something from your point of view?
Well, I mean, slammer, you know, develop a library of your favorite things and keep them separate and, you know, and, and try to cross together things that are the most far apart from each other, the most divergent, you know, and try to get into these recombination generations and find something unique and extreme, you know, is basically where all breeding starts.
That's ground zero. That's what I would do. And make it be something that you like. Forget about what you think people are going to like. Just focus on what you actually honestly like and, and, you know, that way you're more likely to not, not lose it. And, and that's, that's what's really worth something. I think.
Trust your own taste and, and just, you know, do your own thing. And if it's, you know, if other people agree with that, then, you know, you'll, you'll, you'll be a winner.
Yeah. Beautiful stuff. I wonder, what do you think would be a good place to start genetics wise out of Southeast Asia? Do you think just go for Thai?
No, I think that, you know, there's, there's a lot of places around there. I would just scour that whole, that whole area, including, you know, places like reunion Island and stuff. And, and, you know, Hawaii is probably totally different today. They're probably growing white runs and stuff out there now.
But, but there's probably some pockets, you know, over, over there and, and that, in that region that still have some really good stuff, you know, Vietnam, even places like this, it probably all came, you know, from bitch and tie, but, you know, it held on a little better while the tide got bred into the ground.
That would, that would be a rich hunting ground for me. I might, you know, I don't know what things are like in Jamaica anymore. Columbia, maybe, you know, some of the, some of the more Southern parts of Mexico on the Caribbean side, there might be some good stuff down in there, but I don't know, you know, I do know I smoked some kick-ass Colombian in Costa Rica, you know, not, you know, not too many decades ago.
Late nineties around, around, you know, around 2000 or something, I smoked some really nice Colombian that this guy had in Costa Rica.
That was extremely cerebral and very auditory and, and excellent. So, you know, I still have hope that there's good shit in all these places and, you know, hopefully they, they turn up from time to time. You gotta trust that the cream is going to rise to the top. And if they're good, they'll, they'll probably stick around. But people do appreciate them these days more, it seems like.
Yeah, I think Colombians are certainly on the rise at the moment. There've been a focal discussion point. I would love to see more in circulation. Do you have any Colombian seed stock?
No, I don't. Just, just the haze is the only narrow leaf tropical that I have that I'm growing. There's some stuff in neighborhood, like I said, that Hawaiian and, and, you know, you probably try that stuff out, but I've smoked some from the guy and I'll stick with haze.
Do you ever like try to search out certain seed stock or you more sort of wait for it to come to you?
Yeah, no, I have what I have and that's probably all I'm ever gonna, you know, bother to reproduce. I enjoy, you know, I enjoy clones, whatever the neighbors are growing. It's always exciting to smoke, but I don't think I'm, I would, I don't think I'm breeding new stuff is not really in the cards. Occasionally a plant comes along that, you know, that I really like and, and the market stops agreeing with me.
And I know that I'll probably not be growing it, you know, for very much longer. And I'll do like a quick back crossing, you know, and say on it and put some seed away. But, you know, like I did that with the Mendo Docs OG cut that I really like because it grows so well in a depth, but the market got burned out on it and everybody shit can it. And I was like, well, but wait, wait, wait, this is a good plant. Forget about your taste. You know, but wanting something new. Forget you're burned out on it. That's a good plan guy.
And then so I'll do a quick, you know, you know, either self it or do a quick back cross program and make sure to, you know, try to save stuff that I like that. I think that the market's just sick up and, and, and we'll probably come around back around to at a later date.
Ah, that's interesting. What plants have you selfed out of curiosity? I guess it's a reflection of what you think is good.
Yeah, I selfed that one we just mentioned the Docs and that was a couple of years ago. I'm still growing it by clone, but the market has certainly turned sour on it. And we shoved it down everybody's throat for probably a decade here. It's probably, you know, one of the most popular ones that people were growing in hoops for a long, long time. Market was so saturated that the buyer said, nah, no more of that.
You know, so people stopped growing it, but I still am. Fuck them. I still grow it. Just because I like that. I like the way the plant grows and produces and it's got a good high, you know, it ticks off a lot of boxes. You know, no, it's not the original this or that. But here's a plant that does what it does really well. You know, comes in early, all that shit, you know, it's a grower's dream.
Interesting. And when you back cross something, do you have any particular thoughts on what sort of pollen donor you use? Like for example, some people say you use a pollen donor that's very different to the plant you're crossing to just because it's easy to phenotypically like cull those plants out in the F1. Do you have any thoughts like that?
I would use something that you also like. And I wouldn't have any. I wouldn't have any criteria after that. It depends what you're doing. If you're like trying to isolate some trait and that would what you just said would be you would do in a back crossing scheme.
You know, something that would be easily to know that, you know, it's not coming from this parent is coming from this parent, you know, the two plants of the donor parent is very divergent from the recurrent parent, then you're going to easily, you know, separate traits from each parent. But that's never like my I use that crossing just as a dirty quick way to keep this this pool of genetics.
I love that dirty quick way of keeping it. That's good.
Yeah. Yeah, that's what it is. You know, I mean,
some people like, you know, get a bit sort of, how can I say it, they take issue with S1s and they would say, oh, BX1s way better. Do you have any issues with S1s? Or you think like, no, they're good. They do what I need it to do.
Yeah, yeah, I have no problem with with cell prevention plants. It depends what you want, you know, but it's there's no inherent, you know, bad thing about it or problem with it or argument against it. If you're trying to, you know, capture something as quickly and as dirty as possible, you would sell it.
You know, boom, over one generation. Now I can store the seeds and readdress it at some later date, you know. Why take, what did you say, first generation back cross versus BC1s you say? That takes what? One, two, three, you know, it takes a few generations. There's no extra points for taking longer to get to the same place.
Yeah, definitely. Definitely. I've thought that. I mean, you're sort of hovering around the idea of like, some people would use that same analogy to say we should be using like labs to help us analyze things. Do you feel like there's any need to use like high tech lab stuff? What's your thoughts on labs?
You know, I don't know. This is this is going to be a tough one in a perfect world. Like, you know, if I have my own, I might use it a little bit, but I wouldn't rely on I would proceed with caution. Let's say, you know, I most labs, you know, guy had some weeds, send it to three labs.
And whatever one tells me as the highest THC, this is his favorite lab that he goes to from now on labs know this and nameplate numbers. These are some of the shiftiest motherfuckers in the whole in the whole industry right now. And I wouldn't I wouldn't rely on the information too much. And I, the other, you know, you know, because because it's, you know, it's kind of a scam, you know, and labs know this.
They want to make money. They're going to kick out these high numbers for you. You know, so they have a giant customer base. It's a business. Don't kid yourself. These these guys are can be shifty, too. So I don't trust it for that reason. And, and more, you know, shit, you know, we could be wrong about, you know, about this being such an important deal, you know, high THC or something. We could be entirely wrong about that.
There could be giant pieces of the puzzle that are still missing. And I, you know, I still think that the first bag that disappears out of the group of your samples, that's the best weed. And I don't care what a lab says, especially if there's room for human error. And, you know, it's like asking somebody else, you know what you should smoke.
You know, I mean, I think that's a judgment that you should make in the old fashioned way and be very leery about having these numbers drive your drive your selections.
So I guess the question becomes, how do we educate like the casual smokers out there that you do need to use your head? Because for a lot of them, it's sort of like they just want an easy metric to fall back on. And the THC percentage seems to be that.
Is it education? Or do you think like maybe the growers just need to force it on them by just saying, no, we're only growing this like haze?
And people smoke it and want it and covet it. And it'll rise to the top. I don't think. And all of this high THC stuff, it's kind of all meh, you know, most of the time I try these new things that are supposed to be all this and all that and have this sticker with this big high number on it and stuff. It's like, meh, you know, not too much of it is what I would call, you know, incredibly potent or cerebral.
Yeah. Okay. Interesting. Interesting. There is very much like a sentiment that there's like a same sameness about a lot of the modern stuff. Some of the notable older heads are like, notably not a fan of like cookies and the derivatives of it. Are you a bit like that? Do you feel like cookies is like the poster child for us backing ourselves into the corner, so to speak? Or do you like it and some of the offspring of it?
Both. I think it's too popular, you know, and it's driving too many people's decisions in their selections because they want to get a piece of this popularity and stuff. But that's grabbing this huge, giant market share of readers' time and stuff. And they should be doing something else, man.
But at the same time, you know, I've enjoyed some very cerebral plants out of that gene pool as well. And, you know, I think it goes back to really OG and it's like TK and stuff. These things are pretty good, man.
Yeah, 100%. And the story that goes around about the TK is that it's essentially like two Hindus crossed together. Could you believe that?
Oh, I don't know. I wouldn't even touch. I'd rather try to touch the moon than try to figure out the lore of fucking cannabis that everybody is so obsessed with, the history of this and that, you know, because it doesn't matter. What matters is it's a really great plant. It breeds really well. And why speculate on what we don't know? I guarantee it'd be a guess that we don't know what it is.
So why the fuck guess about it? You know, that's silly.
I like it. I like it. So I wanted to ask you, you know, you've grown up during what would be arguably the golden years of Northern California being in the Mendocino area. What's it been like to live there over the years? And what are some of the interesting changes you've seen unfold?
You know, not much has changed. You know, when you don't go anywhere, kind of saying it's a beautiful place to be. And it just has a really good vibe. And you can live your life, you know, in peace.
You know, when medical came out and stuff, a bunch of new guard came up here and guys with dollar signs in their eyes and stuff. But that's fading away now, too. I just really enjoy it. It's peaceful. You know, you can live how you want. And that's really important to me.
Yeah, I mean, I know you're fairly self-sufficient. Do you like that sort of more isolated lifestyle being up there?
Oh, for sure. You know, people, they're the worst. Plants and animals, sure. You know, I love both of those things. But yeah, I'm kind of a hermit in that regard. I have a bit of autism and I'm perfectly fine to be for long periods of time by myself. I've done some single-handed sailing, you know, too, and enjoy that a lot.
Tell us about the sailing. That sounds cool.
Back in, I think it was 99 or 97, 99, I bought a sailboat and sailed from California down to, you know, Mexico and Central America down to Costa Rica and came back a couple of years later. And it took some time to do some sailing, you know, through the tropics and such. It was good fun.
Ah, is that when you got to try that infamous Colombian?
No, actually, I tried the Colombian on just a previous plane ride trip down there looking at property. The real estate guy was the guy who actually had it. Boy, what a sales technique. Get you all high on Colombian, take you for a walk through the tropical properties that he had for sale. You'd be like, wow, man. But yeah, it was a real estate guy in the western side of Costa Rica.
But that was previous to when I sailed down there. I sailed down there about 10 years after or something.
Yeah. Okay. Interesting. Interesting. And I mean, if we jump back to sort of the growing up in the emerald triangle, so to speak, a lot of focal discussion takes place around like the legal changes that have occurred over the past 10 years, how some people have been forced out of the industry and even out of the area in general.
Do you feel like there are any changes needed to the current sort of regulations and legal landscape or do you think it's like, you know, it's just about the cream rising to the top?
Well, I think that's going to happen regardless. And I don't know. I think it would be wasted effort to try to change anything. There are people that are crying about big money coming in and stuff. But now there's big money. It's crying, packing its bags and heading back down to the city.
So, I wouldn't pretend to know what to change. You know, nobody's getting busted and going to jail now for long periods of time. That's good. You know, whatever else comes with that is just tough shit.
Yeah, certainly. Certainly. I think it's definitely the number one metric we need to take into account despite how incomes might be affected. But I wanted to ask you because I'm invariably going to get hassled if I don't. If people wanted to get your seeds, is there a way they can get them? Are they available at all?
I don't know if any of these banks still have seed stock. There's a lot of people that have done reproductions and stuff, I think. Yeah, I don't know. I'm certainly not doing it anymore. I still pass out seeds to friends and stuff. And sometimes friends will do a reproduction too. I think up there at CSI did maybe a PTK one or something. And that's good.
And he does a good job. If I was me, I'd have no problem going to him. I've seen some really good Hayes stuff out there too that have been done by other people. The business is just not for me really. I'd rather breed dogs.
Tell me, what dogs do you breed?
British working terriers like Paterdale and Jack Russell and Lakeys. Digging dogs, working dogs of the terriers from Britain, from UK.
That's brilliant. Have you got any on your property now?
In Asia, is where I do it. I have a farm or a place there. They have a big rat problem. Something like up to 20% or something per year of their rice crop is just demolished by rats. You'll see them out there with a stick of bamboo swatting at rats in the fields trying to kill rats like that. I'm just thinking, there's got to be a better way, man.
So I imported a bunch of kick-ass little terriers from the UK to Asia to try to help out the farmers there with their rat problem in a more efficient manner.
That's cool. Do you have a little base you've set up over there where you go and spend time every so often?
I have children there and family there.
Oh wow, that's cool. I didn't think anyone knew that.
Yeah, in the Philippines I have two children.
Fantastic. Do you just alternate between California and there?
Yeah, as much as possible. The whole COVID thing kind of screwed us up a whole bunch, didn't it? Travel is more difficult financially too now. Everybody's busy working and not taking off around the world as much as they'd like, including me.
Yeah, certainly. It must be tough. How long has it been since you've been able to get back there?
It's been just two years now, 2021. I'm hoping to get over there this fall. But yeah, it's been a good two years now. That whole country was on lockdown for several months.
When I came back here the last time from there, I barely got out of the country. I was the only plane that left that day. Everything else was cancelled, cancelled, cancelled down the list. I was really lucky to get out.
And then for a while, it was still teetering on the edge and I was scared. Can I go back and get stuck there and not be able to be here at work where I need to be? Things like that. But I hope to get back this year. Things seem to have settled down quite a bit now as far as worldwide travel goes.
Yeah, certainly. I'm curious to know, how do you find the difference in climate? Do you feel like you've adapted to the heat?
Yeah, it's hotter here, but it is humid there. It's only low 90s. Whereas here, a few days ago, it was a record-breaking heat day. But it was 110 here the other day. And it was hot. Your water bottle jug that you had beside you all day, by the time six or seven o'clock in the evening rolled around, you'd take a swig off of it and you'd be like, oh, it's hot.
And you'd be like, damn, it's water. If it feels hot in my mouth, that's how hot it was. It's never like that there. Where I'm at, it's kind of coastal and it gets a breeze. There's a little elevation. So it's not too bad where I'm at.
Okay, nice. That's cool to hear. On a sort of unrelated note, I wanted to ask you, I've always loved the names of your lines. I think like Deep Chunk and Pintar Kush, they're cool names. Where did these names come from?
Pintar Kush was just my, I always called it D15, or whatever the chemist calls it. I called them all by numbers. I kind of felt like that wouldn't do for people when I passed them out. So I tried to describe them.
The early time I was passing out the Deep Chunk, it would be called Monkey Balls. That's what it used to be called. A friend of mine named it that. There's a tree that grows all over suburbia United States that when it seeds, it drops these round golf balls onto the sidewalks everywhere.
We used to skid on them when we were on our skateboards. People would have fights with them, throwing them at each other all over the small towns of America.
The nickname for these round balls that cover sidewalks and streets and entire neighborhoods, it's just a shade tree. It's not good for much else, I don't think. But the nickname for these round balls are Monkey Balls.
So my friend said, have you got any more of those Monkey Balls? One day, it was pretty funny. We kept the name for a long, long time.
Right before I put it out there in public to people from Overgo and such, I think it was a South Park cartoon or something where they actually said, Jesus Christ, Monkey Balls!
Then I looked up Monkey Balls and I'm like, where'd they get this from? It was a video game. I was like, fuck, I'm going to get sued by this fucking video game people. I can't fucking release this shit under the handle Monkey Balls.
Some stupid Nintendo or somebody is going to come after me. So I changed it to Deep Chunk on the fly real quick before I put it out there to the public.
The X-18 was one that the cameras called number 18 and I was just too lazy to come up with a name for it. The Pine Tar Curse does have some piney and tarry kind of things going on and it's a broadleaf.
So I just threw it out there.
Beautiful. I love the name Deep Chunk. That's a flash of creativity, if nothing else. I love it.
Our buddy Caleb, Inspector, he actually said at one point that after doing that Pine Tar Curse recreation and having gotten a bit of experience with the line through seeing the numbers, he said he wouldn't be surprised if it's somehow in Urkel.
Do you have any thoughts on this, given you've seen both?
I don't know. I think they're probably both derived from similar neighborhood up here. Inspector is always trying to figure shit out. He's never going to know for sure.
Why spend time on that? I don't know. It's certainly different. They're different. But they're the same type of plant. These are just broadleafs from this region that were around way back in the day.
I'm talking late 70s, early 80s, right from the beginning of the introductions to broadleafs up in these communities up here. They're both certainly survivors of that. But as to their relation, I don't know. Urkel is very different from it. So I don't know.
I understand. Out of curiosity, have you ever heard of Christmas tree bud or Christmas bud?
Oh, sure. That was stuff that we used to get around Christmas time back down in Southern California. It would come in late. At least the one that I remember. We used to call it Christmas bud.
It was also called something else. I think it was Three Rivers sativa or something. Come out of the Yosemite region. What's that other national park down there? Sequoia! In the foothills of this national park, northeast of LA.
That was a growing community called Three Rivers. There were some late sativa that came out of there. They would always be in by Christmas. That's what me and my people that I knew down there, we used to call it Christmas bud.
Okay. The reason I ask is because I'd heard some people, I can't remember who, I wish I could credit them, compare the Christmas bud to PTK. Someone was saying, are they the same thing? Maybe they're just similar sort of Pakistanis, I guess, really.
Yeah, who knows? We might be talking about a totally different term. This Three Rivers sativa that we used to get down in LA, that certainly didn't smell like a Christmas tree. If that's what this other Christmas tree bud is. Probably something entirely different.
But the PTK does have some of those type of profiles in it, for sure. Kind of a piney thing going on. But it's pretty variable still too. It's pretty raw, that one.
The X18, I think was more stable of the chemists, of those two. I think that the PTK is still pretty raw. There's probably lots of good stuff in it.
Yeah, interesting. And did you ever try any of the fabled Northern Lights clones that circulated the Mendo area in the 90s? Were you a fan of it, if so?
Oh, well, on this road where I'm at, everybody had it in seed form. Everybody was growing Northern Lights from seed, feminized seed, mind you. From stressed out rooms and stuff. And that stuff came out really uniform and sold real well.
But yeah, most people grew Northern Lights from seed. None of the clones, 5-2, all these ones that everybody else knows of, were up here that I know of. But everybody had Northern Lights in seed form up here.
And they used that because it was all female seed that they kept on producing in their rooms. It would throw a couple of seeds. And as you're smoking or whatever, you'd save your seeds from it. And you'd end up with a pile of these Northern Lights seeds.
And you'd fucking grow them again. And it would be a way to, without cloning, run all-female rooms up here. That happened for years and years and years and years. I know several people that grew Craig and Lester's Northern Lights line. That's what we call it up here.
They've both passed away now, so it's okay to say their name. But these two brothers had an epic Northern Lights line up here on the hill where I'm at. And that was the earliest thing that anybody was growing up here. And they did that for years and years and years.
Later, a few people would try out some White Widow or something. But the Northern Lights seed from the hill here was a staple for the first decade of indoor growing up here. Big generator grows, 60 light rooms and such.
And what was the bud like?
It looked very similar to that one up in Canada, BCCC or something. I've seen photos of some pretty legit-looking Northern Lights. But it's very resinous. But it's another one with these small resin heads, man. And it was pretty lightweight, I have to say. It didn't get you super high.
It was serviceable smoke, for sure. But it was one of these ones that faked you out, man. It looked like a sea of resin. But they were empty nests, man. Nobody was home upstairs in their small one-bedroom apartment. It had small resin heads, man.
I didn't particularly like it. I still have some of the seed here. But they won't germinate for me anymore. They're that old. But I save them anyway. We might be able to get them back that way via other tissue cultures or something one day. So I save seeds even if they won't germinate for me anymore.
There's a famous old one up here, up in the hills. But I don't remember the clones. I remember, I think, Northern Lights didn't grow anywhere near as good outdoor as it performed indoor. You weren't going to try to grow giant plants out of it or something. It lacked vigor compared to a lot of other stuff that we were growing outdoor back then.
It didn't produce as much. It was just a smaller plant, less vigor. It was decent serviceable weed, but it was kind of a morning smoke. It wasn't going to floor you.
It's a great breeding plant. I have no doubt about that. We've seen a gazillion hybrids with it in it that are good. Nothing to say nothing bad about it. It's a famous and excellent plant that's certainly been valuable to the gene pool, I think.
But itself as a line, it was okay. I more value it for its breeding worth, probably.
You read my mind when you said you're still sitting on it even though they won't germ. I was curious to know, do you have any other notable seeds in your collection that are special to you, even though they may not germ, but memorable for one reason or another?
I still have all those. I think the original PTK stuff, the stuff that went back to all that Cripple Creek, that's getting pretty old now. That was like 2000 or something. It might have even been from the late 90s or something. That's probably not sprout anymore, but I'm going to throw them away.
I have some old Reunion Island stuff that probably won't sprout, but I won't throw it away. That old Northern Lights line, some old Salmon Creek hybrids, probably. I have a few that I know won't sprout, but I refuse to throw them away.
I'm just a seed junkie, I guess. They might be worth something later. I can't throw it away.
I love it. I love it. Were there ever any notable clones that went through the area that were really special to you that have just been lost to time?
Yeah. Some of the great outdoor performers, I wish people had held on to. The Salmon Creek. I miss the Blue Dream sometimes, to be honest. People are going to laugh, but that was an okay plant. Old Faithful. Got you high.
I'm there with you. I thought it was great.
Yeah. It was a certain, what I call, muddiness to the high. It wasn't crystal clear and stuff. It was kind of a little bit fuzzy and cloudy, I would say, of a high. It was certainly potent. Man, that plant's bomb-proof. It would grow right through a snowstorm.
Hell yeah. Given you're in the area, did you ever hear stories about the famous Brothers of Eternal Love and stock coming from the early stuff they brought in? Did you ever see any of that, or do you think that's a bit more fabled?
I have no idea. I don't have any opinions about that. I'm not probably quite that old. That's like Sam Skunkman old. I'm getting up there, but I'm not there yet. I do know that there's lots of really, really good shit. In California, surfers, they smoke weed.
California's always been a great big fan of weed. There was some really good shit that got shipped into California ports due to that. There was great Mexicans, and there was crappy Mexicans, too. That was probably the most popular, or the most of what was there.
They would get the Jamaicans, the Thai, the Hawaiian. All this stuff came in occasionally, and there was some really, really great stuff here in California, always. It's allowed us to be a place where things thrived for a long time.
Interesting. I don't think you've mentioned it, so I'll just ask and get it out of the way. Have you ever had any experience with African strains? Do you have a spot in your heart for them? What's your thoughts?
I grew up in Malawi one time during the late 80s. It was an intersex nightmare that was all seeded and just gave me a headache. I threw it in the toilet. I probably wish I didn't, I would say. If I had known, I would have probably grabbed some of those seeds and set them aside.
But one time I had a look at some African here, it didn't work out, and I quickly called it.
Yeah, okay. There you go. Not as much success as with some of the hazes.
Yeah. Before the broadleaves came up here, everybody was growing Mexican. The earlier Mexicans, there's definitely two different kinds of Mexican. You had your really trippy cerebral ones that were down from further south on the Caribbean side.
Then you had this northern Mexican stuff that came in real early, and it was like the bulk of what got shipped north through California. It was lower quality. But some of that stuff came in early, and you could finish it in northern California way better than the Thais and everything else.
Early on, that's what most people were growing up here, was some Mexican. There were some good ones of those around. I saved one. I forgot what the hell happened to that thing. I guess I don't have it now. But I had it 20 years ago or something, sent it to somebody. I forget who. I don't remember. Anyway.
Wow. Very interesting. Very interesting. We had some of our listeners, as well as myself, were curious. You have had a bit of a notable absence in the community for a few years. Are you willing to share any insight about what you've been doing in that time or why you decided to take some time away?
There's good people that I've met from those places. You're talking about the forums. I've met some great friends getting involved with all that. But there's also some real filth that somehow, for some reason, seems to get attracted to the whole scene.
It freaks me out a little bit that not everybody has your best interests in mind. I felt like I had to have a presence there when I passed out a bunch of genetics and made available a bunch of genetics. I felt I owed it to people to try to say something about them, help them with them, or whatever.
But I felt like those dudes, that I've done that. And other than that, it gives me the willies to even go there. I feel the same way about going to Europe. I'm just uncomfortable in that scenario. I don't like being the center of attention.
Although, I'll get drunk on some beer and just kick my foot and pour Gypsy's front door and just raise hell and fly off to Hanover. It doesn't bother me when I'm hammered. When I'm sober and probably have something to actually add, I'm not even attracted anymore.
I wanted to ask you, there's actually a notable clone that goes around the NorCal area. It's ChemD cross to Tom Hills Hayes. Have you ever heard or seen of that one by any chance?
Never have. That's awesome though. That somebody's taking the time to actually set aside a clone. I think that's fucking bitchin'. I'd love to check it out. But yeah, I have not heard that.
There you go. Yeah, we'll have to put the feelers out for it. Try to get it into your hands. It'd be cool.
So I wanted to ask you, a bit unrelated, but what's your thoughts of Sam? You know, Sam often gets scapegoated as a bit of a villain by some people. But it sounds like you're more of the school of thought that I am, which is that he's maybe done more than anyone. Where do you fall on that one? What's your thoughts on Mr. David Watson?
Well, there's not many that have done what he's done for the community and the worldwide gene pool and stuff. He's made available stuff that people would have never even had. I mean, what were they doing in Holland when he showed up? I think they were smoking some dirty hash from Morocco or somewhere mixed with tobacco.
So yeah, I think he's a good man and honest and all that. I'll give him hell when I'm hammered. But I think for the most part, this guy's great. And his friend Rob. I think those guys are absolutely excellent ambassadors of cannabis.
Yeah, here, here, here, here. I should have asked you this one a bit earlier when we were talking about, you know, sort of being in the NorCal area. But I wanted to hear your thoughts on the idea of like clones degrading over time. And people speculate like maybe it's like genetic drift or like deterioration. What's your thoughts?
Do you think that clones degrade over time? And like, do you think it's possible to stop that through like maybe keeping them like really happy their whole lives? Where do you fall on this?
Well, I think that time itself is won't degrade them. I think that we're actually talking about pathogens that, you know, eventually get them. And, and, and they'll succumb to them and they'll put out less performance. And that's just a fact of cannabis. Unfortunately, it doesn't last as long as a grape clone or something else.
You probably clean it up in the lab and all that stuff's possible and such. But yeah, it doesn't just deteriorate and fall apart genetically. Anyway, you know, I mean, I mean, you might have drift or something. I don't even know. Yeah, no, I don't see it happening. I think this is we're talking about pathogens that just, you know, eventually, the plant succumbs to.
Have you ever heard people talk about dudding?
Yeah, same thing. Same thing. You know, these are likely pathogens that have, you know, taken hold of the plant and, and fucked up its performance.
Yeah, I know that in the community, the hoplite and viroid is like largely considered the source of that. But I guess, you know, being secluded and growing from seed, you probably don't really encounter much about that, do you?
No, I don't. I'm growing from seed. And luckily, I haven't, you know, I haven't had any bad problems from clone either. And I don't know. I don't know how I hear that it's widespread, but I'm probably pretty removed from, you know, what everybody else is kind of working with.
I'm not going down and you know, buying clones from the dispensary or whatever.
Yeah, true advantage, the the ultimate quarantine. I love it. I love it. So I think that brings us to our quickfire questions. So I wanted to ask you, first of all, what is your absolute favorite strain of all time?
Thai Thai weed.
Thai landrace. I love it. I love it. Okay, so next one. What is the most single memorable experience you've had with cannabis? Be it like, you know, because it was potent or just because of like the set and setting and it was super memorable. What's the number one most memorable?
This flavor that I came across in a deep chunk plant once. I call it top rock because that's where it was grown. But it had such a rich kind of coffee flavor that actually would coat your throat and make your throat actually numb. Give your throat a numb feeling. It was nothing like anything I've ever experienced with cannabis before or after.
Wow, you've only seen it that one time?
Yeah.
Oh, gosh, that's beautiful. Love it. Okay. So on the other end of the spectrum, what's a strain where everyone was hyping it up and you were really excited to try it and then you finally did and you were just disappointed?
Shit. Can I say most everything that's around right now? You know, I mean, everything's hyped up these days and it never fucking comes through. You know, as much as you're hoping, you know, you just, you know, that the majority of what's out there fits that description, I think. So not one sticks out, you know, thousands upon thousands upon thousands, a wave of them stand out to me.
It's like, you know, everything is hyped up and it never delivers.
Holding no punches. So let's say I'm going to drop you off on a mythical, magical desert island. You've got everything you need to grow and you're only allowed to take three strains with you. You can take seeds or clones. What three things are you going to take that are going to do you right for the rest of time?
Huh. Haze, Thai and deep chunk in seed form all.
That's brilliant. And then if I come back in like 20 years, you'll just have recreated everything?
No, I'd probably still be growing haze.
Okay. So final question. What is your ultimate hopes in terms of the future for the cannabis scene? In what direction do you want to see it go? What would be the best outcome in your mind?
Hmm. Well, you know, finish to finish making it not a criminal activity, you know, around the world. That would be nice.
And for, you know, as far as the scene goes, I wish people would just, you know, be more doing what they want to do, what they like doing, doing what they like, growing what they like, breeding what they like, what they like, not what their markets looking for anything else.
But I wish people would be more honest with, you know, what their favorite is and kind of kind of take it upon themselves to be a steward of, you know, of those varieties.
What a brilliant sentiment. I love it. I can totally endorse that one. So I think that just about brings us to the end of it for this one. Do you have any comments or shout outs you'd like to make?
No, I'm good. You know, I just I know it's hard times for a lot of a lot of people that are still in the, you know, cannabis growers out there and stuff and hang tough, you know, it's there's a, you know, everything seems dark.
But there's sunny sides to it too. Our roads are a lot quieter and, you know, it's kind of peaceful outside right now. And, you know, you're just one kind of awesome clone away from changing the world. So stick with it.
Brilliant stuff. So once again, a huge thank you to the old school legend, master of both the hash plan and the haze, Tom Hill. Thank you so much for joining us.
Thanks, Javi. Great to talk to you.
We're covered with all the biggest names, hottest drops, simply souvenirs seats here now. Shout out guys. We appreciate you so much.
Likewise, shout out to our friends at Copert Biological Systems. All the best pest and predator technology. Get their stuff guys. You won't regret it. Just like pulse sensors. You need to get your garden dialed in to get the optimal yield. If you want to get serious, get yourself a pulse.
A shout out to the Purple Pro team sending me a Purple Pro. I've been using it. Very fun, accurate handheld results. Flower End Concentrate. I'm using it to pheno hunt. Check it out.
Last but not least, the Patreon gang. We love you so much. Please consider supporting the Patreon if you like the show and want to ensure it continues to happen all while getting some cool benefits.
That's about it for this one, my friends. I'll check you for the next one.
