Alrighty gang, we're back at it. Thanks for joining us on this episode.
We're joined by our good friend, Direwolf, to talk all things Canadian history, genetics, trends, the future, so much more.
Very excited to have him on the show. Thank you for joining us again, Direwolf.
Oh, thanks for having me, man.
Always a pleasure, always a pleasure. First question I want to know, what have you been smoking on today?
Or have you even been smoking today? What were you smoking on yesterday?
I have not been smoking today. I've been working all day, but I'm actually traveling at the moment all week.
So I do try to think what I've got in my travel jar.
I think I have Ghost of Leeroy from Rare Dankness, which is kind of like a Ghost OG triangle cross.
Some Purple Cush, which is like a Canadian classic.
And I've got some GMO and I actually just got a couple of days ago from visiting some big commercial living soil friends of mine that gave me some of the, they've always got the newest stuff.
They gave me gas truffles and greasy runs and something else I can't remember.
Got a good selection.
That does sound really nice. I want to jump into a few of those and hear your thoughts.
But just out of curiosity, you mentioned quite a nice range of genetics, you know, from the old school Purple Cush through to the newest, you know, greasy runs.
What stands out the most to you out of the four or five you just sort of mentioned?
Probably the, oh, honestly, that one to me, that's kind of a lovely relationship with it.
It's not so nasty. Sometimes you crave it and sometimes you cringe when you open the jar, but I still think that's a strain all the way around.
Oops, sorry. I think I lost you for a second there. What was the name of that one? We heard everything, just not the name of it.
Oh, GMO. I was saying the Rankness of GMO.
Yeah. Okay. That's what I thought. Beautiful, beautiful. And out of curiosity, have you ever had many strains from Rare Dankness?
Because I've actually grown out Ghost of Leroy myself and thought it was a pretty good strain, but I feel like you don't hear a lot about Rare Dankness.
Have you ever had much experience with their genetics or not particularly?
Not particularly. I only ever bought one pack from him quite a long time ago, but it was a standout pack where I would consider it one of the best packs I've ever bought in my life.
It was just like a 10 or 12 pack and there was two super, super nice OGs that came out of it.
And that one is actually, I think that's the longest I've of any of the clones I've held personally that I popped. That's the one I was super impressed with.
Oh, wow. That was the Ghost of Leroy, was it?
Yeah, it was a Ghost of Leroy.
The reason why I picked that one myself as well is because it's so heavy on the OG, isn't it? It's like TK into Ghost into TK. It's a cool one for if you're looking for OG in seed form.
Yeah, I actually just picked it randomly. I was just at a trade show for something else and I just randomly bought it and I just wanted to try an OG pack and it turned out super nice.
It's a funny strain because that clone when I first ran it is still the tastiest clone I've ever grown personally.
And that was probably like, I don't know, seven or eight years ago. And I've been chasing that flavor ever since and never got it to pop the turps like that one or two times.
It's still super nice, but I know it has the potential, but I guess I don't have the skills to bring it out.
I'm so glad you said that because I've had a similar experience where I'm like chasing that first cycle with like a different plant and it's good to hear I'm not alone because I sort of, I'm like, no, I was definitely a worse grower back then.
How did I make it pop so hard? It's an interesting one. But I guess while we're on the topic of maybe not being quite as good grower and making things shine well, I'd love to talk some of the early days of the BC growing life with you.
And I guess the point I'd like to start it off with is I'd love to hear your experience because we have lots of chats in the DMs and I value, how should I say?
I feel like your perspectives are very honest and unbiased. And so I want to start off by asking, you hear a lot of people talking about the olden days of cannabis and like how it was so much better.
And certain strains were just insane. You don't see that anymore. Do you think it really was like that? Or do you think we have a bit of rose shade glasses and good quality wasn't around as much, all that sort of stuff?
I think a hundred percent it's a million times better today. I think it was a lot more varied back then. Like these days, I do find it's like super limited. Like everything's kind of an OG or cookies.
There's definitely some stuff when I look back, I'm like, Oh, that was way different. And there's nothing around like it now. I also don't lose sight of the fact that most of it was garbage. There was both the stuff that people were growing.
I mean, you could like, I kind of got started back in the, I've been around like since the late eighties, but I started kind of in the growing scene in the early nineties.
And I mean, back then nobody even tried, hardly anyone even saved good stuff. They just popped a pack and whatever was the biggest yielder, that was your keeper. And because you could sell anything.
So, but I did see some, there was definitely some nice stuff, but it was, I would say there was a whole lot of mids around. The only ones that really, there's a couple that stand out from back then, but honestly, like if I had to go back in time, I can honestly think of like,
it was an old NL clone that we used to have that I would love to get back. I've never seen anything like that since. And there's some other good stuff, but they're mostly still similar stuff today. There's like, you know, some of the hazes were nice.
I can still get similar stuff today. Some of the Northern light stuff was nice, but to me, I just kind of think like Bubba and stuff like that are basically as modern day, more than lights of the type that I liked.
But there was a lot of garbage back then, honestly, man. It was, people remember the good stuff, but it was pretty dismal.
Okay. Well, good to hear that. I haven't missed the golden age of cannabis in a sense. I'd be curious to hear you mentioned Northern lights. And one of the questions I wanted to ask you was back in like the nineties, say in the Pacific Northwest of the USA, when Northern lights and those sort of cars were really starting to take off.
Did they just come up and cross the border around that time or was there a bit of a delay before they made their way up to you, so to speak?
Yeah, I don't know. I'm guessing they probably did, but I think most of it was, I mean, I don't remember the exact dates, but it was around like when I kind of got into the growing scene, it was like probably around 91.
I was around it, but I really, it was like 91 or so. And I just remember when I started, most of the stuff was second hand from seed banks. So it was like Neville stuff was, what I can tell is like a lot of people ordered stuff in around 88 or so, that type of late eighties.
And then they got shut down by the DEA and you couldn't get seeds anywhere. So what all you got was basically whatever F2s or clones getting passed around from people that had bought from the seed bank.
I think there was probably some stuff around BC and that had come up from Seattle, but who knows? I think the reality, if you look back in Canadian history, a huge portion of it was old seed bank genetics.
And also you got to remember where I kind of been back and forth. And I'm originally from like the Toronto area of Canada, which is, it's kind of always our kind of crew was kind of half based in BC and half based in Ontario.
And I've always bumped back and forth between those two places, but I was mostly in Ontario around Toronto area. And it was super like the two different regions of Canada and where I lived, it was super hardcore for like policing and stuff for cannabis.
So people were pretty tight. There wasn't a whole lot of sharing of anything like that. It was like whatever was in your own crew. And in BC it was a complete opposite. Nobody had been put in jail in like a decade or something for growing. It was a bit of a free for all.
But even I got the feeling like in BC, I don't think there was a ton of sharing outside of pretty tight networks. Even there, you kept your head down pretty good or it was going to get lopped off.
Yeah. Look, certainly it makes sense. I'd be interested to ask, at what point do you think that the laws really started to relax on the East Coast or do you think they still haven't really caught up with the West Coast?
It's pretty relaxed now, but it's been pretty recent. It was pretty crazy. I remember even after legalization, which I'm not sure, like full legalization, which I'm not sure. I don't even remember exactly when that was, probably seven or eight years ago.
I live in an area that's like a big greenhouse area and there was some massive legal cannabis places. I own a big property and the property was still getting flown by the police looking for people growing plants in the backyard while there was like 20 acres of legal weed a kilometer away.
Those hobbits died hard with the Ontario Police Force. These days, it's a free-for-all. But it took a long time. It used to literally be like most of the time that I was growing, if you got caught with a single plant, you were going to jail.
Wow. That sounds really brutal.
Yeah. It was a war zone, man.
It's interesting because you hear about how the USA historically had really harsh penalties, but I guess it's interesting to hear that they weren't really too much different just over the border. I'd love to ask you, if we roll back a little bit, I've always been interested. What did gorilla growing look like in Canada back in the 80s and 90s when people were just starting to really grow flower?
Because I guess you hear about gorilla growing in the States and stuff, but in Canada, the conditions are just harsher, I imagine, for a good chunk of the year. How did that work? Was it really limited or what was the limiting factor in your gorilla grow, just the stealth or the environment?
Most of Canada is really situated along the US border, the population, but there's a giant vast wilderness area pretty much where we live only a couple hours north. It was basically impossible to grow along the southern areas because you'd just get either busted or somebody would rip it off. Everyone grew up in the wilderness areas.
There you were really limited, especially back then. The main thing you remember about cannabis in Canada in that period is genetics were really locked down. You couldn't get any. When I started growing, it was illegal to buy anything telling you how to grow cannabis. It was illegal to buy seeds anywhere. There's basically no place in the world other than you literally had to fly to Amsterdam to get seeds and smuggle them back.
Basically, what you got is the people that were in the game. That's how our crew got started. We had good genetics and you just kept it on lockdown and nobody else could get in. But especially the case with outdoor genetics, because basically nothing finished out here. You had to be out in a lot of areas.
By the third week of September, it was kind of the magic number. Basically, nothing finished. There were a couple of really crappy Dutch strains. That's kind of how I got into the genetics. If you were in the game, you had to breed your own genetics because you couldn't get it from anywhere else. That was a limiting factor.
Our crew got into some of the earlier stuff, which was mostly based around a strain called Mighty Might. Depending on the phenotype, it was an auto to semi-auto one that would finish anywhere. You could also get it in before. There used to be a drought. At the end of the summer, there would be no weed. If you had weed, you could sell it for really high prices really easily.
These strains allowed you to get it in before all the mainstream stuff started coming in. Then the prices dropped and you could get in early. It was definitely genetics and willingness to do hardcore stuff to pull it off.
I've seen some crazy stuff. We used to drive a couple of hours and canoe about two hours into the wilderness. We did grow it out in the swamps. I'd say swamp growing is one of the big Canadian things. We've got plenty of swamps and no one in their right mind is going to go in a Canadian swamp in the summer because the bugs were just fierce.
That's cool. That's a nice little bit of human IPM.
It's mostly rock, so you can't dig anywhere. One of the big problems is you couldn't dig a hole. You had to basically float something on top of a swamp. You put bushel baskets on top of a swamp so it's self-water. There's a bunch of different methods.
It was always interesting back then. I stumbled across quite a few wilderness gorilla grows. That was before the internet. That's how you learned how different people would do it. There were a lot of patches back then.
I never thought of dropping bushel baskets on my four-wheeler and dropping it on top of a wet part of a swamp. There were other ones on the east coast of Canada. It's like floating. It's almost like standing on a waterbed. It's like a surface layer of soil and moss floating over top of a pond.
They would grow on top of that and the roots would just prograde down into the swamp like the water roots. There's a bunch of crazy methods and probably a bunch of stuff I've never heard of before because everyone kept it tight.
That's cool. I'd be interested to hear the terroir and the flavour of the swamp weed. Literally. Sounds fun. I'd love to ask you. We had White Buffalo on the show recently and they referenced an early Canadian strain. I'll be honest. I've heard of it but I'm not as familiar with it as I should be. I'd love to hear if you have any experience with it. The old spice of life, cream sodica. Did you have much interaction with that one at all?
I actually grew it. I think it became an important building block. To clarify, most of the Canadian outdoor weed has never been that great with the genetics being able to finish. In some parts of Canada, you can grow some more indoor regular strains.
Most parts of Canada, when you're limited to that. For instance, if you grow a Bubba or something like that, there's a lot of decent weed. I haven't smoked a whole lot of really good Canadian outdoor short season weed. I would say no offense to Breeder Steve, but cream sodica would fall into that realm.
That was a purple one. That was some of the earlier stuff we were working with. I used to work with outdoor genetics. We saw this purple stuff that came out of Holland. It was pretty horrible. It looked really good, but it didn't taste that good. It didn't get you that high. I'm thinking the cream sodica was one of them.
To put it in perspective, Breeder Steve, when he released it, he immediately pulled it off the market and regretted it. Even though it was a good production strain, it was definitely lacking in some of those other areas.
Wow, that's interesting perspective. That's cool to hear. While we're on the topic of purple cannabis, you mentioned the purple cush earlier and you said it was a Canadian favorite. You got my brain juices pumping around. I had remembered that it was a popular one in Canada, but I was interested to know. Do you know which cutting of the purple cush that is? I know there's a few and I think the popular one is the SR whatever. Is it that one or a different one as far as you know?
I've got a couple. That particular one is a seed line that I run. It's based off of a Garberville purple cush. It's a California one, not a Canadian one. It's been around Canada for probably the early 2000s.
It got snuggled up in the door of somebody's car that was fleeing California on charges. There's a couple. Purple cush is a weird Canadian thing. First of all, a lot of the purple cush we have up here isn't actually purple. It was weird, especially in BC where on the commercial scene, it was really like all one clone.
For a few years, I think white buffalo got into it. There were these eras. In the early 2000s, it was purple cush and everybody was growing purple cush. There were a few different types, but it was mostly one clone.
Then there was another era. It was the hash plant era. If you go back earlier, there was a Northern Lights thing and a Big Bud. Purple cush was a pretty long-standing era in the early 2000s.
We talked to one guy who I'm pretty sure is the source for it. It was actually a California broker that smuggled up the clone. I think it was during that OG cush era. It was actually a cush. We call it purple cush. When I've grown out S1s, it pops out OG Finos. I think it was basically the first OG cush.
It doesn't look like an OG cush, but when you taste it, you know it's got that cush funk to it. When you pop seed lines out of it, not the Garber Bill, that's a separate one. The main one that everyone was growing was the BC Purple Cush. I'm pretty convinced that was an OG.
I've actually talked to the broker that supposedly brought it up. I'm pretty sure it probably came from him. He told me it was a Hollywood Purple Cush crossed with Bubba, which I've never even heard of a Hollywood Purple Cush. I wonder if it's a Hollywood Pure Cush.
He was a big broker. It was back in the first early days of that thing in California. A lot of the BC growers, it was an export market, so brought up this cut and gave it to a bunch of organized crime gangs to grow for them. This whole story totally, everything matched. I have lay bets. That's probably what it is. It matches what the S1s and crosses that have grown out come from it.
It's nothing special. It's a nice clone. The other thing I was finding funny about the Canadian Purple Cush is a lot of them didn't really go super purple. They have a little bit of purple in the calyx. If you really drop the temperature, it would be like lavender. It sounded a lot like the Urkel story from California.
Wow. There's so many interesting talking points you dropped there. I've certainly heard of the Garboville Purple. I mean, Gene, well-known breeder, he uses that in his work as well. Definitely some established provenance behind that one. You know what? I'm so stoked that you referenced that a lot of the Purple Cush doesn't go purple.
Not the very first because I've told this story on other podcasts. The first good weed I ever had that really got my mind ticking about weed was some green Grandaddy Purple. The second or third strain I got to try that was really good was some green Purple Cush. I always look back on it and was like, fuck, that was good, but I don't know if it was actually Purple Cush.
Then I just realized it actually, like my mate did tell me he got it from like an online Canadian weed seller or whatever back in the day. It could well be similar because it was definitely nice stuff, but that's cool. You've pulled a lot of those sort of stories together for me.
I would love to sort of move to a topic that's hard to get a lot of info about. You mentioned it yourself that the Hash Plant Era, it seems like Pink Cush has been popular for quite a while. From what White Buffalo told us, those Hash Plants and Pink Cushes are sort of from the same era. What's your perspective and recollection on the Hash Plant Era, so to speak?
The Hash Plant Era kind of started right from the start. I remember back when I was in university in the early 90s. I can remember some of those cuts. Champagne was one of them that came out of that same group of people. They were like biker cuts, I think. All the stories point back to a group of bikers. Champagne was probably the most elite cut back then. We'd never seen anything like it at the time.
It was going around back then, but it really kind of blew up where we had the early medical days. I can't remember if there were mandatory minimums around 10 plants or if you could get a medical card for 10 plants. For a while, it was these crazy scenes where they would drop down these vertical biker buckets.
It would be like a hempy bucket or whatever they call it. A big five-gallon pail and some hydro corn and a super high-powered bubbler in the bottom with coolers and stuff. It was really high-tech. They would drop these vertical thousand-watt bulbs. They'd have one bulb per plant and grow these massive, massive beasts. They'd be commercial grows that had 10 plants in them.
In order to yield in them, there was only a couple of streams that could actually do it. One was a hash plant and the other one was a BC Big Blood. I think the hash plant was decent quality. The BC Big Blood was horrible. That was their claim. If you wanted to grow the 10 plants, you had to grow one of these handful of clones. Anything else, you'd get three-quarters of a pound of light or something like that.
Champagne is an interesting one from a few perspectives. I feel like you don't hear about it as much as the King, but I have certainly heard about it a lot. How would you describe it? Is it like a Cush sort of plant?
I've never tried it a couple of times. It was going back quite a ways. I consider most of those more of like hash plants and Cushes. I find Cushes are more modern, OG type. I consider those ones more like a pure hash plant. They just tasted like hash. It wasn't like OG.
I'm a big hash plant guy. I like the effects. Up until OG Cush and Purple Cush and stuff committed, that's my preference for effect. I'm stuck smoking stuff that doesn't taste that great because it was just not bad, it just tasted like hash. That's what champagne is like. It looked good in a bag, it yielded good, but I would consider this a pretty generic, high quality, but generic hash plant.
That's interesting. Did you ever grow any of these cuts yourself in the early days or were they so tightly held that you just sort of got buds of them here and there?
No, definitely not in the early days. I've grown most of what's going around up until the last decade. I got whatever cuts were going through my extended crew. It was a tight scene.
I was rolling with these since my university days, since the 90s. Some of those guys were pretty connected and I'd get whatever they happened to be, which is usually some of the good commercial cuts. Most of the stuff was locked down pretty hard. Even if it wasn't, it was up until pretty recently. I did grow a lot of stuff like the grapefruit. It was a real famous clone back there.
I could have gotten it a few times, but I've grown out a crapload of grapefruit crosses. I have a good feeling of what grapefruit is like just from growing out 50 or 60 seeds of it. That's the same thing with the hash plants. I've definitely tried a bunch of them in the actual clone from dispensaries.
I've never grown any of those coveted ones. I've never really grown myself.
Yeah, not a problem. That sounds like you still have a really diverse range of experience, which is great to hear. Out of curiosity, did you ever try any of that fabled Breeders Steve DJ Short collab stuff or was that more of a seed release they did and it wasn't necessarily stuff passed out to locals?
I think that was pretty tight. I actually have tried some of the stuff. The funny thing about Canada is, I don't know whether it's actually true, but people are always between Ontario and BC. Most people live in three main parts of Canada. I don't know whether that's actually true in Canada, but definitely within the weed scene, you're never more than about three people removed.
I actually had two separate groups of friends that were all one person removed from that Breeders Steve crew. One of my friends was actually involved in that. I actually tried the Blue Crush or something. I can't remember the actual name, but it was Crush for sure. I did try that. It's good. I'm not a giant Blueberry DJ Short fan. I respect that. It's not my taste of weed.
I did try some of that and actually grew some of the seeds and they were decent. I think I grew a bunch of Time Warp crossed with that Blueberry Mail they used in that. It actually came from Red Legend Seeds. I grew that outdoor for a few years too. I definitely tried a few of them.
Wow. Interesting. You just mentioned Legend Seeds. I think a lot of people are probably unaware that DJ did that collab with them and a few cool lesser known strains came out of it like Red Eye Bride and a few other ones. What was it? Toe Jam and stuff. Did you ever have much of a positive impression from those ones? How come you think they don't get recognized as much?
The thing you have to remember about that time frame in Canada, the export market was all about it had to look a certain way. Almost no hairs. Really dumb criteria. If you think back, it had to be super light green. That was the main thing. A lot of that was commercial weed. It was decent. It was definitely good weed. I grew a bunch of it and it wasn't something that I would keep around. It was definitely good.
Nice. Good perspective. I know that you've done some different cultivation writing over the years for Cannabis Canada and Cannabis Culture. What was that experience like? Would you ever consider doing more of that sort of creative writing?
I think that was a moment in time. Basically, my history is that I was working since I was a little kid. I worked in the commercial greenhouse industry. I went to the top agriculture school in Canada. At that time, I was doing a lot of dead shows. I was hanging out with a dead crowd in that university.
One of my roommates was a big wholesaler. I think that was the Holy Trinity of things. My friend, the wholesaler, knew everybody in town. Our house was like anything good weed-wise that was coming through town was through our house. All the growers would come there. He knew everybody. It was all through a dead scene, largely.
Just because I had all that commercial greenhouse experience, I always got sucked in with a lot of those guys because I came from commercial greenhouse flowers and veg. Out of there, somehow I ended up working on the side for Cannabis Canada, which was part of the time. It was the same magazine. Cannabis Canada had turned into Cannabis Culture eventually. It was really an activist magazine. That was back in the dark days. You weren't allowed to really do anything there.
Love him or hate him, Mark Emery was the guy that owned that magazine. I don't particularly like the guy, but there's no question he did a lot of major good for Canada's cannabis laws and some other stuff. He was really pushing the boundaries. That was his magazine. If you hear people talking about Emery Seeds, it was all sold out of the magazine. It was an activist magazine.
It was really about, at that point in time, BC and Amsterdam were the two epicenters of cannabis in the world. California was still locked down pretty hard.
Even though it was a major player, nobody was talking about it in the international scene. BC was kind of the centric and Mark Emery was kind of a big egomaniac, so he used that to promote his stuff. I'm super proud of being involved in that. I think it really pushed the boundaries.
My niche there was, I took what I was learning from going to school and being in the commercial greenhouse industry and putting it into cannabis. I brought diff, which was a new thing back then. I wrote an article on diff and a bunch of stuff like that.
I took general horticulture things that were at the forefront of the floriculture and vegetable industry and brought it into the cannabis world. At the same time, Mark Emery had this giant seed catalog, which was, at the time, the only place in the world that you could buy cannabis seeds from without flying to Amsterdam.
It was this real hot commodity. Who knows how much money he made off of that? Definitely a lot. High Times was always the biggest, and then we were the next biggest. I can't remember how many, but it was quite a few million. Maybe I'm wrong. I don't remember the circulation, but it was a substantial circulation all through the world.
I think it was a moment of time where a lot of that stuff, before the internet was big, got replaced. It was good information at the time that I was putting out, but it really quickly got replaced by overgrow and stuff like that. It was a crazy time. We had reached a crescendo in 2003 or 2004.
This gives you an idea of who the guys running this were. They were just total activists. Dana Larson is the guy that I really have a huge amount of respect for, that nobody talks about. To me, he's the biggest activist in Canada ever. He's kept his head down a little bit.
It reached this crescendo when, at the time, the DEA had just opened up an office in Canada because they were concerned with all the exporting going on. They'd opened up an office in Vancouver, which is where cannabis culture at the time was based.
Mark Emery, Dana Larson, and a couple of other people from the magazine, the Drug Czar had actually come up to Vancouver and was going to give a speech or something, like a private function. These guys actually bought a table at it without people realizing there were a bunch of activists in the front row and heckled the Drug Czar through the whole thing.
That was the time when I definitely regretted being part of that organization because I didn't sign up for heckling the Drug Czar. The Drug Czar at the time, I don't think knew who any of them were, even though Mark Emery was shipping seeds all over the US like crazy.
From what I can piece together, he went home and said, who the heck are these people that heckled me through the whole thing? They were like, Mark Emery and Dana Larson, the biggest seed sellers in the world. They sell all over America. They started a big DEA investigation of the whole magazine's organization that ended up with Mark Emery going to jail and a bunch of crazy stuff that went around.
I don't think anyone knows exactly what happened, but it was definitely a little heart-raising. I had a situation at that time, which I'm still not positive what's happened, but I'm pretty sure it's what happened. At the time, like I said, I was based in Ontario, so all the articles I was writing were just being transmitted digitally.
I just knew they'd done this thing with the Drug Czar. I was like, I don't like the sounds of that, but everything was going smoothly. We've been operating for quite a few years with no hassles. All of a sudden, all this wonky stuff started coming. I was going back and forth between Dana, who was the editor at the time, and I was sending him articles. He kept coming back and going, I didn't get the article.
I was like, what the heck? There's this bunch of wonky stuff where we couldn't transmit emails. Looking back, we know that the DEA was on the servers looking through stuff. I'm sure it was something to do with that. I used to send them all through an internet cafe, so it couldn't get traced to me. I was pretty paranoid back then, so I'd always move around a little bit.
I guess I got complacent and I kept every Friday afternoon. It was a specific time, 4 o'clock on a Friday afternoon, I'd stop by the same internet cafe and transmit the article or whatever we were communicating about.
One day, I was sitting there and I was the only person in the cafe. All of a sudden, the door comes open and this cop-looking guy comes in. He walks right past the 50 computer terminals and goes right to me and looks over. I was like, that seems a little sketch. He left and I was like, okay, whatever. I was probably being paranoid.
Two minutes later, bang, he comes again with another guy that looks like a cop. They come straight for where I'm sitting. There's nobody else there. I got up and I was super paranoid back there. I was parked about three parking lots away in a busy area. I just first started walking and I was like, holy cow, they're actually coming after me.
It ended up with me running through this parking lot, dodging cars like it was in a movie with these two undercover cop-looking people chasing me. I got away and it sure felt like that was the DEA or something, but it seemed so crazy to be sneaking out of an internet cafe.
Two weeks later, they arrested and took down Mark Emery and arrested him and extradited him and a bunch of other people. I think it probably was. We'll never know for sure, but it was something I'm totally proud of. I think it was instrumental in changing Canada and the US laws.
I was always a big believer in genetics. That was always the limiting factor. There wasn't enough genetics or at the time know-how of how to grow stuff. I really believed in spreading genetics and spreading know-how of how to do stuff. I don't think they realize how much that probably made a difference because you couldn't get seeds other than from that organization.
It really, for I don't know how many years, it's probably like six or seven years, it really just flooded the world with high quality cannabis genetics. I'm super proud of that. Not super proud of really being associated with Mark Emery, but whatever, he did some good things.
You mentioned that for a good chunk of time, say five, six years, as you said, Mark was really the one flooding the world with genetics. I guess I'd be interested to hear, do you feel like a lot of what he stocked was good quality and was what it says it was? Because I always remember back to that Breeder Steve story where he rocks up with the sweet skunk and Mark was like, whatever, we'll just call it Sensee Big Bud or Sweet Skunk or whatever it was.
And I was just like, oh, okay, maybe it was a bit more like, just whack a name on whatever. What was your take? Do you think it was pretty above board or it was a bit like just whatever works?
I think it was a bit of both. I think it was mostly like, so how that started from what I remember is Mark, he was originally, everything was just coming out of Amsterdam and he had a guy, I won't say his name, but there was a guy that was working over there, that was living over there, that was kind of, I don't know what exactly he was doing there, but he was shipping, he was just buying seeds and moving them to Mark.
And then he was just reselling, at the time it was like Sagarmartha and Sensee and Dutch Pat, all the original kind of Dutch ones. And then that guy was actually one of the guys that came back, I believe, and started the BC Seed Company.
And there was a bunch of stuff like that, but there was a whole lot of knockoffs. So that was basically, Mark started off selling Dutch genetics and then he, I think, just figured, oh crap, you can just knock off this stuff and then sell. Nobody really cared. Most people didn't really know enough to care. They just were like, oh, it's Northern Lights. But yeah, I think a whole lot of it was just like F2s from a 10 pack.
But there was definitely some good work. Breeder Steve definitely did some real work. But I mean, to put it in context, at the time, I remember, this is way back in the early days when Steve first got started. I remember we kind of used to laugh at home because it had in the write-up, it was like his breeding operation under two 400 watt lights. It literally said it in the company description. So that's how stuff started. And he definitely, this Breeder Steve, I think the guy did some massive,
some massive work. But that was kind of the context is like, how big were these places? And also keep in mind, like the average size for grows back then was tiny compared to what we're used to. Like where I was from, like the four lighter was pretty much as much as most people ran. 10 lights was definitely, unless you were like organized crime, a 10 lighter was a big deal. And then if you were out in BC, 10 lighters were a little bit more common and there was definitely like some 30 or 40 and some big ones.
I would say the average grow at that time in Canada was four lights. So, you know, how much breeding was actually, you know, how much real breeding was actually going on. I think there was definitely some interesting stuff came out of there, but there was also a ton of like, just knockoffs that came out of pretty small population sizes. But I would say like, there's definitely some unique Canadian genetics that got spread around the world, like Mighty Mites that I already talked about came out of there.
Texotic Time Warp, which is a, you know, was a super to me, instrumental outdoor strain. UBC Chemo, which was one of the early that pretty sure it was like a Canadian bred, you know, not related to Dutch genetics. There's definitely some interesting stuff that came out of there and got spread through that seed bank for sure. But there was also a lot of just generic crap. There's lots of great stuff came out of that generic crap too.
I grew out the best Northern Lights I've ever grown just came out of one of those packs and I'm sure it was just an up to from Neville stuff or something.
Yeah, nice. And out of curiosity, have you been following any of the Northern Lights re-releases from say Todd McCormick or Inspector slash Matt Ride and have they piqued your interest at all or not particularly?
Yeah, I followed it. I'm interested, but I also remember, I think people, that's one of those ones that people view through rose colored glasses that most Northern Lights at the time it was, it was totally like the, what do they call it? The state of the art modern indoor Indica and it was, but if you compare it, if I had to take most of the, most of the Northern Lights was pretty generic.
So I'm really interested to see what comes out of that because I definitely tried some, a couple of really good Northern Lights, but I also, I grew a lot of different Northern Lights during that early nineties period. And most of them were just, we'd call them mids these days. Like they weren't anything special. They were just like hash plants. So I'm interested to see what comes out of that, but I'm not buying any packs of seeds any time soon.
Yeah. Okay. I mean, Hey, you've just piqued my interest. If I, this is a weird situation, right? But if I put a gun to your head and I said, you have to buy a pack of seeds right now, like what ones are you going to get? Like in terms of like, what, what would you get if you were going to get one? What, what interests you right now?
I really, I'm actually a big fan of like some of the stuff CSI Humboldt's got going. I really like those. I'm really a, I love that elite kind of elite or elite clone-esque one stuff. I'd probably try like probably maybe some of the, kind of like not the dog headband. I like the sound of some of the headbands. I've tried some really good headbands and you gotta remember in Canada, it's gotten a lot better, but we generally don't get most of the elite clones are BS, right?
It's like, it's a cookies clone and you get it and you're like, this is nothing even remotely cookies. It's just, it's gotten better now it's gotten legal that some of the real cuts are going over, but generally we didn't get any of that stuff. So I've tried a lot of chem. I've never tried the actual clones. I've tried a lot of Girl Scout cookies. I've never tried the actual Girl Scout cookies clone. I don't think I could, might've, might've.
There's a lot of stuff like that. So if I was going to buy seeds, it'd probably be something like a headband. Maybe one of the A5 type things it's going on A5 Hayes, but it would probably be like a headband or something like that.
Also, also one of the Urkels, the one I've never tried, but I've always wanted to is some of the Urkels. Cause I'd really like to see how that relates to a lot of the Canada purple cushions. Cause I would lay bets. It's probably really good.
Yeah, definitely. I have to agree. CSI has been doing some cool stuff with his Fem stuff and I myself have a pack of the headband cross lemon tree. No, sorry. Headband cross chem D it's going to be fire.
That's exactly the same. We're on the same page, man. That was specifically the one that I would probably go for if I had to, but I don't buy a lot of seeds. I'll never go through all the seeds I have in a lifetime. Anyways, I just basically go through clones and stuff that gets gifted to me.
Yeah, nice. That's, that's cool to hear that you've got a nice little stash there. If I could just loop back to a point you made a bit earlier just to clarify for myself and anyone listening it sounds like you're sort of the thought that that heckling with that drug czar, that talk may have been like, you know, the sort of catalyst that started the whole demise of Mark Emery. Is that sort of what you're getting at?
It was a hundred percent. There was no quite, if you look at the timeframe, it was literally a hundred percent what, what happened. There was no doubt at all. And there was some other stuff, which I don't want to get into because it's kind of hearsay, but I wouldn't be surprised if there was actually like an undercover agent dropped into that organization at that time too. It was like, I don't think most people realize like how much of a threat that group was really perceived by the DEA at the time, I think.
But no, there was zero doubt that heckling the drug czar absolutely was the start of Mark Emery's demise.
Would you say that largely speaking, it was the same as the US in that it was like groundbreaking, you know, you could get all this info, people sharing genetics, or would you say like less so of an effect than what the US saw?
The information was definitely groundbreaking. I can totally remember, I was kind of around since then. I was never a giant forum dude, but I was on there and I was right from the start. I can remember the first time Overgrow launched.
I remember there used to be another forum called, I think it was called Weedbase. And it was on a server, I think it was on something called Laughing Moon, which was, I believe, owned by Advanced Nutrients at the time, before they were Advanced Nutrients. And it was a real low key forum.
But that was the biggest cannabis forum in the world. And I remember going on there one day, and there was a post that said, you're all going to jail. Read this and get out or something like something crazy. And it was, things were paranoid back then. I was like, Oh my God.
And I remember clicking on it. And it was shebang that basically was the guy that started Overgrow was who posted it. Oh, don't hold me to this one. I'm pretty sure it was shebang. And it was directing you to this new site, overgrow.com and saying this was the safe place to go. And I remember going on it then.
And you could literally go and that was the time that I was kind of writing for cannabis culture. So you wanted to like keep up on all the latest what was going on. And I remember Overgrow was so small at that time, that I could click through in like, you know, 45 minutes and check every post that had gone on like that week or something in all the different subheadings. And then within like, when I remembering it was literally like a couple of months, it just like exploded.
So you couldn't even like follow the posts in like one sub forum in a evening. But there was a ton of information because it was just that was the first. Everyone's locked in their own little bubble. Like my whole cannabis world back then was about 10 people, maybe 20. Like you didn't even tell like, you didn't even tell like your best friends that you grew like it was really tight. And then the internet was kind of this weird thing where you could tell it just gave some anonymity and you'd be like, Holy cow, all these other people are doing this.
And I would say for me, I was already because I was always kind of on a dead tour during that time period or just in the 90s. And that was kind of the original. So I already had connections with way more people than the average growers had because I'd meet all these Americans on, you know, on dead tour that were into weed. But the average person like you knew like, whatever, a couple of your local crew and that was it. But no, that was absolutely game changing.
I said, I basically that's that in the DEA involvement. That's the reason I stopped writing because I was like, this is irrelevant. Once Overgrow blew up, I was like, this writing is totally irrelevant. It basically made magazines like that become like, you know, Reader's Digest or something.
But no, I think they were absolutely. And I personally, when I look back on that time period, I think two things affected cannabis laws more than anything. One was the internet specifically like Overgrow, Cannabis World, that type of stuff, just spreading the information. And two was people like Mark Emery Seed, just dosing the world with high quality cannabis genetics.
I honestly think those were the two pivotal things that pushed legalization forward.
I do definitely miss parts of it where it definitely, I don't like the stuff with Instagram where stuff goes through so quickly where you used to be. Like, for instance, I know that there's a thread on Purple Kush there that I always remember. And it's just like, that was a classic. There was a bunch of them like that, but they were just classic threads where it's like, it was like a thing on BC Purple Kush.
And there's a bunch of people posting and they're like, it was sitting there, you know, active for probably a few years and you got some good information on it. Where now, if you said something like that, it's a 24 hour discussion and then it's just gone into the IG abyss.
I kind of feel like it was a moment in time. I don't think it's probably coming back. There's still like go on there every once in a while. There's still some discussions, but it seems like it's kind of some of the older dudes that never moved on to sell.
Yeah. It's an interesting one. I'm like yourself. It would be cool to see him come back, but I'm not entirely sold myself. But given we are in the sort of modern legal climate, it'd be good to talk a little bit about that. I know that you've transitioned your work over to the legal market, working in the Canadian cannabis industry, shall we call it.
What's that transition been like for you as someone who historically was, you know, doing their own thing and now suddenly to be working around people, it's all legal out in the open. How's that been for you? Because I know that a lot of the American guys, especially some of the big players, even to this day, they still really struggle to sort of act in a way that reflects how legal it is.
You know, they're always still like sort of looking over their shoulder because of just the experiences. Would you say you've had a similar experience or is it a bit more casual for you?
Similar. So just to be clear, like I've kind of, I've been in the commercial scene for a long time. I'm kind of one of those people that I've been around. I think most people know me just because I've been around for a long time. I rolled with a lot of some of my friends were pretty hardcore.
I've always kind of kept my head down. So it's been a long time since I was like actively involved in the commercial scene. So my kind of thing is I've kind of always been around it on different levels. But I've never been like, it's been a long time since I've been like, you know, a baller.
And I've kind of I've worked in the green as industry. So on both sides. So I've kind of seen watch this kind of I think, what's the arm's length observer, so I wasn't I didn't really have anything invested. They weren't taking I wasn't making a living from the cannabis industry. So I wasn't hurting me seeing the legal stuff. I, I like I really like seeing people not going to jail.
Like, I think you can't lose sight of that. I've seen so many people's lives over the time just completely destroyed. I have one of my second, my second closest friend committed suicide. And it was as far as I'm concerned, as a fallout from being arrested and just having for growing at the time, it was a 600 water. And he was on the front page of the like, basically a personal growth front page of the newspaper for a week or two.
You know, tax people coming out by haunting him for years, and they destroyed his life over a 600 watt garden and he ended up killing himself. And I saw so many stories like that, that I just think it's important that everyone keeps that in the front, there's a lot of lives ruined. There's still people sitting in jail for stuff like that.
And I do find it. It doesn't have a lot of stuff that I don't like about it. So I kind of said I work.
I don't work for one of the facilities, I kind of work in like supplying and consulting some of the facilities. I've seen pretty much most of them across Canada. And the thing I think that stands out the most to me is what saddens me about it is especially in BC, there's a lot of cool places to live in British Columbia, like that don't have any jobs.
So, but traditionally, like basically since back in, you know, back in the 70s, but especially since like the late 80s, when the indoor stuff took off. That's what paid for people to live in these beautiful spots like the Kootenays, which is like the interior BC or up on the Sunshine Coast, which is like north of Vancouver or Vancouver Island.
There was no jobs there, but you could make a living running a 10-lighter or something like that. And that's pretty much done. There's still people doing it, but it's getting really hard. And that I find is that saddens me for sure. I think that was a really great part of like Canadian culture.
And you've seen, I've seen firsthand in some of those areas that were kind of black market centric spots. And also the big licensed producer opens up there and these guys went from making, you know, a lot of people weren't getting rich in the cannabis. They were making like, you know, 80 or $100,000 a year or something like that tax free.
And then all of a sudden they're making, you know, $50,000 and paying tax. So their wages just kind of got cut in a quarter. And then, you know, there's just, the money's not going into the local economy anymore. The money's going somewhere else. So that, that I really find saddening, but overall, like I'm pretty positive about it. I think it kind of went through a bit of a dead zone off the start where it just went really corporate.
And then there's kind of a second wave coming where I've got like, I've got a bunch of good buddies that run licensed places that are doing okay. And they're like legit dudes. Like they, I think they really love what they're doing and they're not super corporate, but it is what it is. At least nobody's going to jail anymore.
Yeah, hugely. That's actually a really relevant point I've been trying to talk to people about because you see a lot of sentiment these days about people feeling really frustrated that, as you said, you know, they can no longer pull $100,000 from their garden. It's now $50,000. And a lot of them get really frustrated about that and complain about the laws and, oh, we should have never gone legal, blah, blah, blah.
But as you said, at the end of the day, keeping people out of jail, or sadly in the case of your friend, you know, committing suicide. I mean, I know that that's not entirely related, but keeping people out of jail should be the number one metric of success. And it is unfortunate that people's livelihoods are affected, but yeah, it is good that we can hopefully keep people from being put in prison for just growing a plant really.
Yeah. And I think you got to keep it in perspective. I mean, why were people able to go make a whole bunch of money, you know, living in some cool spot where there's no jobs? It's because that's what you were paying for, you know, the risk and the risk is gone. I mean, it wasn't because they were master growers or anything. A lot of the time it was because they were risking going to jail. And I think a lot of them lost sight of that.
And you saw a lot of people that also, you know, I have a couple of friends that, you know, they're kind of genetics geeks and they've always got all the most elite clones. And I think they really thought everybody, and they do have some of the nicest weed around. And I think they really thought everybody was buying from them because they had, you know, these super elite cuts and they were a great grower. And then when they found it real quick was 90% of the people were buying from them because they had weed. And a lot of people just don't care about weed as much as you or I do. And they're just like, whatever's cheapest.
And those guys went down pretty quick. Sad, but whatever. That's kind of what the world's like.
Yeah, exactly. And it's, you know, it's about evolving with the times. And I still see a lot of people who are able to, you know, diversify their income streams and still stay in the cannabis industry.
I'd be interested in hearing that you referenced how some of the big companies that initially invested in the Canadian scene sort of went defunct. And now there's like this second wave. What's it like now? Do you think that a lot of the big ag has realized, look, we can't just come in here and make a bajillion dollars like we were hoping to, it's actually a sort of a technically challenging operation.
Do you think that we're going to see like a scaled back corporate version of it? Or do you think that people will come in, buy out these defunct facilities that are now for sale, like, you know, pennies on the dollar, and they'll try to do it right? How do you foresee the Canadian scene going forward?
I think I'll probably be driving around showing my grandkids one day, these rusted out old greenhouses and warehouses and telling them the story about this. You know, the crazy cannabis boom that never really materialized. I think just to be clear, if you look at what actually happened in Canada, a lot of it wasn't big ag money or anything like that. It was investment money.
So for instance, like the, you know, some of those big ones, like they came on and it was a, it was an investment thing. And like, for instance, the town that I grew up in, or didn't grow up in, but I've lived in for a long time, there was a big facility opened up there. And people started investing, I knew a bunch of people that literally became like millionaires, you know, invested, you know, $100,000. And all of a sudden, they're sitting on 1.2 million.
They just blew up. And then all their friends are like, holy cow, like Neil just made a million dollars on the $30 million investment with this LP. So then they all invested their money. So it was really driven by just the average person, all trying to cash in on this jackpot. And, you know, I was one of them, I made a bunch of money off the start and I lost it off the long term. But that's kind of what drove it. It wasn't a lot of like big money. It was a whole bunch of average Joes dumping their money and not knowing what they're investing in.
Then I think what happened is these people just had, you know, it was, I don't remember, I never followed it that closely, but it was like, you know, hundreds. I mean, the one place, just one of their facilities was worth $150 million. And they had like, you know, three of that size and all of them are shuttered. But there was just, it didn't make any sense. Like I remember myself and one of the other guys had kind of been around, not from the cannabis world, but just in that, you know, the horticulture greenhouse world for a long time. And we were doing the math. And I was like, I don't know, I'm thinking maybe 40,
50 acres could supply all of Canada. And then it was, I think at one point we were like over a thousand or something. It was just crazy. I don't think it didn't make any sense, but nobody was really thinking about it. They were just like, well, we've got, you know, a billion dollars to spend that all these investors gave us, so we better spend it. And they were trying to, I think there was a lot of fight for whoever had the biggest production space was going to win. And what's really proved out is those people all failed.
And now the second wave is kind of, it's still investors, but it's a lot of stuff like oil and gas decided to, you know, put some money into these much smaller facilities or some of the first nations, like the native Indian bands, you know, have some cash to put it in, more stuff like that. And they're much more realistic. Like they're smaller. They're not so ridiculous with all the regulations. And it makes much more sense the second wave.
But I think for sure, a lot of that first wave is just going to like rust or maybe it's going to grow cucumbers or something. I don't even know what they're going to do with some of those facilities, but it was definitely like, it was kind of like the gold boom. That type of thing happened.
Yeah. Yeah, certainly. I was thinking dot-com boom, but you're right. I guess the gold rush.
Exactly. Or dot-com. Or dot-com. Same thing.
Yeah. Yeah. A lot of parallels there. That's really interesting. So I guess from your sort of professional experience, when you go to large facilities, what are some of the big issues you see that are stopping them?
Maybe not the ones you visit, but just in general, like what are some of the hurdles that a large producers going to come across that are going to get in the way of them producing top quality product? Because I'm assuming they're all coming in going, yeah, you know, we're going to run these greenhouses. It's all going to be like the triple A plus, best on the market. And then maybe it doesn't pan out that way. What are some of the issues they have to overcome?
The issues now are a bit different. Like when they first started, you'd go in and be like, Oh my goodness. Like they literally didn't have a clue what they were doing. Some of them, like it was horrible. Now I would say most of them are pretty good. The issue that I see the most is it's just age. It's just the difference between all the black market guys, not to diss my black market brothers, but they're all, you know, those legal guys don't know what they're doing.
And I'm like, I've been in the black market guys, places more than most. And I've been in the legal ones. And honestly, a lot of those legal stuff looks better than the black market when it comes down. And the facility, like I said, they've just got great facilities. It looks great. And I have, I just had literally a place that I was at this week that I have seen, I would consider the top grower in Canada for the legal place. Like just absolutely gorgeous product. I've seen it come down. I've seen it on the dry table. I'm like, this looks amazing.
It's unbelievably high quality weed. And then I go to the legal store and buy the exact batch that I bought. And it's not that great. And I think the difference is mostly age where it's just by the time, you know, they cure it and send it out for quality tests and THC tests and get the results back and then get it up into the, you know, the pipeline, the distribution pipeline.
And then somebody, you know, the middleman buys it and then the end store buys it. And then it sits in inventory in the store before the end user buys it. I don't know how long that cycle is, but it's definitely way longer than the black market. And when I see it, I'm like, this, this looks like old weed. It looks like no different than good weed that I grew and stuck in a jar for, you know, a year or good weed that my friend was a black market grower did the same thing. It just looks like old. So for sure. I think that's the number one thing.
And maybe there's stuff like, you know, flushing it with, you know, nitrogen gas and stuff like that. It's just oxidized weed. I think there's a lot of other stuff in there, but that's for sure. In my opinion, the top one. And then the other one, I'm just like, for God's sake, somebody grow something other than like wedding cake crashers or nothing, not to diss it. I think those are great strains, but it's just like, everything's the same. Like there's not a whole lot of unique stuff out there.
And yeah, it could definitely, they could widen the palette, but I guess they just do what the market sells. But growing wise, a lot of them really on point. I think they get unfairly smashed these days. I think they're doing a good job.
Yeah. Nice. And out of curiosity, what are some of the really popular strains in the facilities at the moment?
Oh man, I honestly don't even bother keeping track. I just, I just call them like glitter cookies. It's just all different versions of cookies, which I, you know, I like cookies and I diss in it, but to me, it all for almost a hundred percent of it, just like, like different versions of cookies.
Like I said, by cookies, I mean also all the, I don't keep track of all the gelatos and wedding cake. I just consider all that coming out of that, you know, cookie family type stuff, but all that, you know, purple, dense glitter weed.
There's a few, yeah, I don't know. I definitely, it just seems to center on there, but I honestly, I'm not the best person to ask about the legal market because I've literally bought from the legal market about like two times in my entire life. I've just seen, I've seen a lot of it grown and I've seen the occasional thing that one of my friends will buy, but my whole, most of my like crowd is highly insulated, even though I see it all the time. All my, all the stuff I generally smoke or my friends smoke is all black market or just home grower stuff.
Yeah. Nice. Love to hear it. Love to hear it. Keeping the home grown strong. Now I would love to ask you, cause I've been following this myself, so I'm sure others are keen as well. You've done some killer looking GMO sweet skunk hybrids. I think you created them yourself. Would you be able to give us a bit of info on how those turned out? It sounds like a great cross of like new school meets old school. How did it go?
Yeah, that was kind of my plan. So it was just, I said, I really like some of those, all I said is that for your listeners, like sweet skunk is debatable whether it's a NL5. So for sure, sweet skunk comes back to about 1994. So it's just kind of like back in the Neville days. And we know for sure it had Northern Lights. It's for sure Northern Lights haze seed.
Maybe it has great fruit in it. Maybe it doesn't. Depends who you ask. That's official story. It came from Breeder Steve's camp, but it's regardless of what's in it. It's for sure Northern Lights haze dominant hybrid. And it's been around. I personally consider like one of the most elite clones in Canada.
Because if you look at like the crews that it came from, it came from Breeder Steve's crew and you look at the people that still hold that cutting around and they had access to Romulan and all these crazy genetics and sweet tooth and all that. And you don't see any sweet tooth clones still going around. You don't see any Romulan clones still going around for the most part. You see a whole lot of people that held on to sweet skunk.
So I kind of just to me, I just kind of to me as a classic like Canadian heirloom and I like sativas, but I don't like kind of like some bottom end to go with them. I don't really like the I kind of like some mercy and stuff. And I'd like some flavor. I like kind of some of the modern flavor. So I just reversed sweet skunk onto just all the clones that I had and happened to have a GMO in there.
And it wasn't actually my plan. I just kind of grew out the progeny of a bunch of different stuff that I had in the GMO one is the one that really clicked some of the I was just basically looking for to pull a really nice haze dominant, you know, personal cut out of it. And honestly, the I think which is kind of in line with what you hear with a lot of haze stuff.
It sweet skunk puts out a lot of junk. And I think that's kind of the story of haze is I don't know that anyone's ever going to release like a really great haze seed line that you pop like a haze dominant seed line pop like a 10 pack and you're like, this is it. This is the keeper. It's more like you pop like 100 and find one that's really nice and a whole bunch that are pretty mediocre. And that was kind of the story of sweet skunk.
But definitely there's some nice stuff in there. And there's also a bunch of really midsy stuff in there. But I got the ones I kept three out of I think about 150 that I popped that are all super nice, but a lot of them went right in the in the hash pile for sure.
I love it. No room for the week in the stable. That's really cool. And out of curiosity, what sort of project would you want to work on next given you've done a lot of the sort of haze type stuff with this sweet skunk project, do you want something different or you like more keen to get down the rabbit hole?
I kind of I've been around a long time I kind of between the I've traveled a lot. So I've kind of got to experience a lot of what's going around in the US a lot of what's going around in Canada, and I've gone to the Netherlands quite a few times. So I've tried everything and I kind of know what I like. And so I've kind of taken and said I'm not a commercial breeder. No, no interest in doing I kind of just breed for my own head.
And it kind of just comes into a few camps like I like purple cush stuff. I like stuff like the, you know, haze stuff.
And I like some of like the bubble stuff. And I've kind of got a pretty good stable. I think the only thing I actually plan on doing is that that haze project isn't really done. So both most of the stuff I probably don't have a lot of plans for that sweet skunk project was kind of the first stage. So one of the things I always really liked that stood out in history to me is Neville's haze.
So I bought a quite a few packs back in like the 2000 or so back when Neville and shanty released their original Neville's haze. I have no idea. Maybe it's the same now I personally doubt it but it's for sure the original Neville's haze which was the haze a male.
I can't remember the exact mix but it was a the two male hazes haze a haze C and northern lights. And that was like jungle. They had some crazy phenos that I would consider in that class the best that I've ever smoked, and I've never seen anything similar to it.
So that was kind of thing with haze is if you want to find a really good one that you want it's pretty expensive to be buying all those packs of seeds because I really think you need to buy like 100 to find something really good. And so I kind of went at it from another point of like, okay, that's the haze C side was the sweet skunk and I found something that I really liked kind of modernized a bit with the GMO, I just bump the turf and the potency up.
And now I want to try what I really wanted to just kind of one of those incense the Neville's haze type of types. So I right now I just reversed that bandaid aid number seven on the really late flowering like 17 week flowering haze phenos that sweet skunk.
And I'll probably try to find some other stuff that's got that haze a side in it to bring it in and then just sift through those but I don't really I guess they're technically breeding projects to me they're just sifting projects.
I'm not a, I kind of look at cannabis genetics a little bit different than a lot of people I kind of look at I used to be down the same line that are involved the IPLs and all that.
And I kind of look at it it's more like when they breed like trees or strawberries or these other like really out crossing species where it's just like you kind of whack an elite clone and elite clone and grow it a whole couple of seeds and take the one that makes the combination.
I don't really consider it much of a breeding project is just like a genetic sifting project. That's about the only thing I probably plan on on working like to make some more productive use of my space to grow in some of the clones that have sifted over the years.
Yeah nice beautiful stuff well I'm incredibly jealous I think that some of those are Neville's haze on to the 16-17 week sweet skunk phenos would be some beautiful stuff for all of our sativa lovers out there.
I would be interested to hear you just you just referenced it yourself you know flaring out some of the clones you've sort of acquired over the years.
What is the one clone that you used to have that you really wish you could get back?
Not many of them to be honest. I guess the one that stands out I really liked.
There was one legends used to have a legends ultimate indica which that was this Ortega clone that actually came from Ed Rosenthal crossed with the sweet tooth and I said I'm not a sweet tooth fan at all, but that popped out these crazy like Jurassic looking indica phenos.
And I used to run like back in the early 2000s or whenever whenever that was reader Steve was really pumping all that stuff out from Switzerland.
I ran quite a few packs of that and most of them I didn't like they're really sweet tooth dominant but they popped at these crazy Ortega phenos and those I really like they don't stand up like today the flavor definitely wasn't the same but they just had super insane mercy and they were just so heavy.
I don't think I think it was a fairly flat profile compared to like an OG or cookies or something like that, but they were just really heavy and it gives them. That's what I really prefer that when I miss I used to have a really good Ortega clone or whatever the Ortega pheno clone and probably the biggest one.
There's a couple of indica's like I used to have an old Northern Lights number one clone that was really good.
And it was like this super.
It's actually I got the very first picture ever posted on Instagram is from that clone. And it was like this super squat indica and it looked a lot like a lot of the Northern Lights you see, and the turf profile was just off the hook like and I've never tried anything similar to that.
But way different. I really like to get that one and that was one of those ones that to me always stood the test of time that you know people didn't keep clones a lot back then for a long because it was just whatever someone would grow for a year and there would be like police pressure on them.
And it was hard to get stuff back and that one I remember like losing a bunch of times and every time I went to look for it, you know over like a 10 year period I could always find a friend of a friend of a friend who still had that old NL clone that came out of Squamish in DC, which is a small place north of Vancouver.
And yeah, I mean I think that thing was like, I don't remember like we had it up I think I lost it maybe 10 years ago it was from like 1986 or 87 or 88 something in that definitely late 80s.
And I've never seen anything similar to that so I definitely like that I probably like, and then some of the insensitivity Neville's 80s seems to have.
Most of the stuff like I kind of.
That's kind of what I find interesting with genetics is the stuff is kind of repeat like that old famous Northern lard that Northern Lights number one clone that that I really like from back there it's pretty darn similar to Bubba and Bubba Scott, basically everything it had plus like some better flavor to it so I don't think we lose a ton of the stuff I kind of think a lot of it just gets a little bit improved and the name gets changed over time.
Yeah, certainly as I get more experience with the NLs I see a lot of Bubba in it for sure so that's that's cool to hear that you see that as well.
At this point I think it'd be good to run through some of our quickfire questions I've got a little alternative list of questions for you in case you had prepared some answers I wanted to keep you on your toes so I wanted to ask you in your opinion, what do you think is the most underrated Canadian clone or genetic.
Honestly, the cane is not a lot, the Canadian gene pool is actually pretty shallow and it's mostly American genetics underrated one.
I could go with an under under, sorry I think that my, this is my personal opinion I really like the death Bubba, which is like a modern one that's pretty commercialized I personally think that's like, that's one of the clones that I would, if I had to pick a couple I'd pick death Bubba I think that's the.
I think sometimes just because it's super popular doesn't mean it's not also super good I think that's a good one.
Nice, that's good I would be interested in hearing how does that differ from Bubba because I have heard and seen a lot of it but never really read too much specifics about it.
It's a Bubba I said I've never, I've smoked a lot of like Bubba from seed I haven't smoked any of the like pre 98 or like the ones you're like okay this is legit cut I haven't smoked that I'm like for sure that's to compare it with what I can tell is just a, it's a really nice Bubba, but it's got some fuel to it like a little bit more.
I think it was like, I think if I had to guess it probably originally came from pips weed from souvenir seeds or something like that. And the story was, it was because he's the only guy ever seen it was a death star or one of those death things that came out of Ohio.
It was like that I think it's a Chaco sour diesel cut cross with that sense and star is a sense he started it was around that Ohio area that's really good.
Crossed into one of the bubbles, and maybe it wasn't from from hips but I know he's made a lot of that stuff around that time period and it actually came into it was one of the dispensaries and kind of that gray market scene before we got legal, and it was like for a while it was like the top clone going around.
BC and it was locked down hard and I'm not even sure what I have the most common one that's going around whether it's the actual original I don't know, but I really like it for my personal thing I like those narcotic narcotic indica's but I just consider a bubble with some with a bit more fuel to it.
Yeah, nice. Okay. Well, hey, I'm gonna have to keep an eye out. That sounds like it's pretty nice actually if it's got a bit of sour D and sensey star in there.
Like I said, that's it's actually an American it's actually American genetics. It is good surrounded Canada like most of the stuff.
Yeah, okay. Out of curiosity. I like I know people say that, you know, pink couches had its day in the sun. I haven't had it that much but I think it's the best. Where do you rate it? Do you think it's like we're done with it or what's your thoughts?
No, so I'm kind of the opposite to most people how I do is I don't pay attention to the hype at all usually and I kind of go like I think oh, I think I told you before like oh geez, we're going around for like at least a decade before I even bothered trying them because I'm just so been around so long.
It's usually the hype isn't that isn't actually worth the hype and I've just wasted a ton of time chasing that crap when I was younger. So now I kind of just don't even pay attention and when something like death club is a great example where that BC usually the really good stuff floats the top and it stays around for a long time and when I see stuff staying around.
I'm like, oh, maybe I'll try that and pink cush definitely just passed that test. I personally think it's super nice. I like it. I don't consider it as good to me. I consider it very similar to like an og and I consider og better.
So I think it's like the same type. I personally think that og is a higher quality. I think being pushed probably yields better and it's a nicer growers, but I think it's super nice. I don't think it's probably going anywhere, but I personally like to choose between an og and I think I should choose og.
Nice, nice. Maybe a reflection of how little I've tried pink cush is why I still like it. Who knows? One of our normal quickfire questions we ask people. What is your most favorite cannabis experience you've ever had? So be it like, you know, just trying a certain strain, a certain hit of hash, like what really stands out to you as one of the most memorable?
Oh, most memorable. And again, some of these ones it's like, I don't know, was it really that great or was just because you were an experienced smoker? But like I grew up, it was all hash, right? It was, you got, it was all, I grew up when it was just imports around. You got, you couldn't even smoke. You couldn't even sell homegrown. Like if you wanted to sell whatever skunk number one, you had to like press it into a brick and make it go all prowner and sell it as Mexican or something.
So I kind of grew up around imports and the part of Canada's farm, it was all hash. And most of it was Afghan hash or, you know, that border hash it's produced on like the, you know, Afghan Pakistan area. And every once in a while we get something different. And this actually, when I look back, it seemed like really low quality hash. And it was like a blonde Lebanese. And I think in hindsight, that was probably not that I would consider Lebanese, like a super hipster sativa, but it's not like a, whatever. It's not like a haze or something like that.
I totally remember being at like a, whatever, like a bush party, which is on the side of this cliff and smoking this Lebanese hash for the first time. And that's one of the few experiences that I would say. So this is way back when I was like 18 or something like that. And back in the eighties. And that's one of the few cannabis experience that I would like compare to like taking acid or mushrooms. Like it was very psychedelic.
And again, maybe it was just the, I'd grown up smoking these like super heavy Afghan hashes. And maybe that was just one of my first real sativa experiences, but that one really stands up in my mind. It had a crazy flavor and this really intense cerebral high where I just remember sitting off by myself on the side of this cliff going into like deep, deep introspective thoughts. So that probably is the one that stands out the most still. It was a long time ago.
Sounds like a beautiful experience. I'm very jealous. I'm not sure I've ever had proper Lebanese hash, I think maybe years ago in Amsterdam, but like who even knows what that was really.
Most of it sucks. Most of it is not very good.
There you go. Okay. So we're going to drop you off on an Island. What three genetics are you going to take? Is it going to be clones or seeds? You want to do some seed sifting yourself? What are we going to leave you with?
No, I'd probably take clones. I've popped a lot of seeds in my time. I think I'm getting older. My retirement is when I grow clones really well. I would definitely, I said, I'm not a big sativa guy, but I really, the one I actually, I like kind of those heavy, heavy Neville's Hayes types. But other than for like what I would consider like a classic sativa, the only one I really smoke regularly is that Roberts Creek Congo. I would definitely take that even though I don't really smoke it a ton. I really like having it around for if you ever want to smoke in the daytime or anything.
Probably that Death Bubba and something purple. I don't know. It's like a purple cush or I like those almost like a, almost that cookies type, but ones that I don't even know what the turf profile is. That kind of funky purple cushy, like the lavender turf. I find that I've tried a lot of stuff that's pretty similar. I like that lavendery turf stuff, but those are probably the three.
One of those purpley lavender types, the Congo and some Death Bubba for nighttime.
Beautiful stuff. Beautiful stuff. So for our final question, I'd love to ask you if you could go back in time anywhere, any place to get one genetic or cut or whatever it may be, where are you going, when, and what are you grabbing?
I'm not a much, I know everyone talks about like their land, right? They're going to go back to Afghanistan and stuff. And I do actually travel a lot, but I don't really have a lot of interest in traveling to other countries. I really like traveling around North America. I would probably, and I also like people doing other, like a lot of the sifting for me, I would probably go on dead tour somewhere.
Both to catch some good dead shows and to catch some of some, that was all dead tour back in the day. Like that was really, to me, I look at it as like a funnel point where all of us genetics are all of us weed going around in the U S ended up on dead tour.
So I would probably take like dead tour, maybe back in like the eighties sometime, maybe just before the seed bank or something. So like definitely something in the eighties. And then I think you could catch the combo of like what was going around there before, you know, Neville just blew up the scene.
But, you know, I think that's really one of the nuclear events that happened in cannabis is Neville. Like just not necessarily that he was like the be all and end all, he just spread so much of very similar genetics everywhere. I'd kind of like to maybe go in the whatever mid eighties or early eighties before that was around. But I think there was a lot of domestic cultivation on dead tour and catch some Brent Midland shows while I was there. Cause he was an awesome guitar or awesome keyboardist.
Hell yeah. Sounds like a good one to pick. I like that a lot. So before I definitely want to give you an opportunity to give some comments and shout outs, but make sure you also let people know where they can find you on social media.
On social media, I'm just on IG, which is direwolf.og. I don't really do much stuff outside of that these days in the cannabis realm. And shout outs just all my black market people are still rocking on trying to survive or moving on into the new market. Best of luck to them.
Exactly that. So again, thank you so much for coming on the show, giving us a rundown on Canadian history, on the legal markets, the futures and a bit of your own plans. Again, Direwolf, thank you for coming on the show. Really appreciate it.
Oh, thanks for having me, man. It's always good having conversations with you.
