I just wanted to make a quick announcement guys.
First of all, some good news.
We're going to have some changes coming to the show and it's going to basically result
in more content.
So I hope everyone's excited for more episodes.
The bad news, however, is that SoundCloud is likely closing down in four weeks or so.
Most people do listen to our show through SoundCloud.
However, I've begun the process of uploading all of the content onto YouTube.
So if you could all remember to go over and subscribe to our YouTube channel, you can
stay up to date.
We'll put a link in the description and you won't risk missing out on any of the new content.
Hello and welcome to the next episode of The Podcast, a cannabis podcast for budding enthusiasts.
This episode, as always, was brought to you by 420 Australia, your premier clothing and
apparel store, as well as Organic Gardening Solutions, your one-stop shop for organic
gardening.
This episode, we're thankful to have Mr. Bob Hemphill on the show to talk about coastal
seeds, strain preservation, and more.
Hope you enjoy.
Let's get into it.
All righty.
So a big welcome and thank you to a true veteran of the breeding scene, Bob Hemphill of Coastal
Seeds.
It's good to be here.
The question I like to start off every interview with is, what was your first experience with
cannabis?
It was summer between ninth and tenth grade.
A friend of mine from the neighborhood, Ron, scored some Mexican weed and he had this little
homemade pipe.
We smoked one day after school at a party.
Then we smoked two or three days later.
After that second time we smoked, I knew I had a big love for cannabis because of the
way it just relaxed me.
I grew up in Northern Virginia, it was a high stress area, very competitive.
Just to be able to relax and connect back to nature type of vibe is how I always wanted
to live.
It was awesome.
What were the strains floating around back then?
I could only get Mexican and Jamaican and occasionally Asian or African brick weeds.
They were smashed and mostly sativa.
That's where we got our first seeds to grow.
We just pulled them out of some of the first sacks we ever smoked and we just planted the
seeds.
I had two really hard knocks years.
The first year I just left the plants in too much shade because I knew I had to hide them.
I put them in so much shade they ended up just falling over and dying.
The second year I grew, I had a plant growing and I had it flowering.
I literally brought it inside because of a frost warning and stuck it under 24 hours
of light because I didn't know it was a 12 and 12 light cycle that made it flower at
the time.
Really hard knocks.
During that time, were there any things around like the counter Bible or was this predating
that?
I guess it goes without saying you didn't have any family members you could refer to
because that's something I found is a bit of a commonality between a lot of people we
talk to.
A lot of people seem to have at least one family member who's pushing them along, but
you sound like you didn't.
No, I had a lot of older brothers and sisters, but none of them grew or really hooked me
up with cannabis.
It was actually the other way around.
Even from a young age, I was always giving my older brothers and sisters cannabis because
after that second time of smoking it, I knew I wanted it around me all the time.
I was hustling it and trying to grow it from the start just so I could get a free sack.
The first two years I tried to grow it, it was hard knocks, but that third year I left
it out and it was Mexican sativa and I harvested it.
It was amazing.
It was total citrus, amazing high.
At that time, Grateful Dead would come around.
That was when I was a senior in high school and that's when I started going to the Grateful
Dead shows.
The people were burning kind bud out from California.
That's most of the first kind bud I got was going to a Grateful Dead show.
Then the first time I actually got my hands on some kind bud seeds was 1995, right after
I harvested that first Mexican weed that fall at a New Year's show.
I scored some kind bud from Humboldt and I got dank seeds and kind bud seeds.
I grew them and shit was amazing.
I bred those.
Unfortunately, crossbred them to a Southern Virginia string instead of breeding them brother
to sister and keeping that line pure because that was really quality weed.
Was that outdoors?
If it was outdoors, did that just signal in your mind that genetics was the key to you?
What did it signal to you at that point?
You had kind of this awakening with cannabis of what was possible.
What was the first thing you were thinking like, fuck, I need to start doing this indoors
with good genetics or maybe something different, but what were you thinking?
I was always getting the High Times magazines and hearing about Sensi seeds and Neville
and all that shit and the amazing strains they had.
I knew good bud was out there.
Being in Northern Virginia was far and few between, especially for young kids.
When you're in high school, you're low on the totem pole.
We just pretty much had to make the good bud.
The first time I smoked some good Northern Alliance was Philadelphia Spectrum at the
Grateful Dead show.
It was in the fall of 94, right before they came and played the Capitol Center.
Smoking that indoor good Northern Alliance was actually from this dude that I knew from
Virginia, but seeing him at a Grateful Dead show, he kind of opened up more.
It was just amazing.
At that same time, everyone was out on a quest to get the best genetics.
I had a friend of mine who went to Amsterdam in early 95 and he bought packs of everything.
He'd get his hands on everything he could afford.
He actually got money from another friend of ours, too.
Those guys, they bought the four-way pack.
When we popped that four-way, it took stuff over.
Being with those guys, they had mentors unlike me who had taught them how to grow inside
and run shit, not just in a closet, but in a whole basement or a whole grow.
I was lucky to get with those guys.
The four-way pretty much changed it.
We had that and there wasn't much better at the time.
The only things I remember better was NL Hash Plant Cross.
That shit was amazing.
And then NL Hash Plant NLG13 Cross.
That cross used to come around to Northern Virginia and it was called The Kill.
That was the best weed I've ever smoked to this day.
I remember telling the guys, hey, we'll trade this four-way clone for that Kill clone.
They straight laughed in my face.
They just didn't think it was even a fair trade at all.
Where the four-way was, a lot of people considered, the best weed they ever smoked in their life.
This Kill was that much better.
To this day, the only thing that it reminds me of is Chemdog.
It was very loud and just very crystally and amazing weed.
And so, in regards to the four-way, do you think that that pack was a lucky pack or like
this was just at a time where Sensi was so good that every pack potentially had a clone
that good in it?
Well, Sensi was really good in the early 90s because I remember anyone that got a pack,
they found some good shit.
Maybe they didn't keep the clones because it was hard at that time to keep clones, but
everyone that was getting stuff was pretty good.
But I really think that four-way was very special because other crews in Northern Virginia
told me they bought several packs and never found anything near as close.
This thing was very skunky and pretty stony and very just loud flavor.
And so, the four-way has got some interesting genetics in it, you know, specifically the
Paki and the Indian.
You know, we see Paki a little more common than Indian, but you know, you rarely see
Indian at all.
You just mentioned it's skunky, you know, do those other genetics really influence it
too much?
Like, do you think that- So, you mentioned it's very skunky.
Do you notice any Indian influence or do you think maybe that's what makes it more skunky
than the others, so to speak, like some weird interplay between the two?
You know, it's a really complex strain.
Some people, you know, describe it as like a buttery smell when you're breaking it up
and then like a starburst smell and just kind of sweet.
But from like 10 feet away or if you have the bag in your pocket, it just reeks like
skunk, you know.
Like, if you brought it into a two-story house, the people in the second-story house would
say, damn this shit, what the fuck, who killed the skunk type of shit.
I remember one time I had long dreadlocks and I was, you know, waiting in line at a
gas station and the guy kept asking everyone in line who hit the skunk.
And I literally had to bite my lip just to not laugh.
And I finally, you know, got to the cash register and he's like, damn, someone really hit a skunk
out there.
And I can't believe the guy never thought that this dreadhead has a fucking sack of
weed in his fucking pocket.
He really thought someone had hit a skunk.
Nice, nice.
And so, just in terms of the whole timeline of things, did the roadkill skunk exist at
this time or was this before or after it had come onto the scene?
Well, I remember seeing skunk number one a few times in, you know, 94, 95, 96.
It was always a more citrus tone, never a loud skunk, you know.
Only skunk number one clones I know of people that saved is, you know, the Las Vegas Lemon
Skunk and then the UK Cheese.
And neither of them smell like skunk either.
I'm not saying there wasn't skunk phenos in skunk number one.
I'm just saying I personally never saw them.
Yeah.
So, you have the opinion that the roadkill skunk was possibly an Afghani, which is what
we've heard frequently on the show.
You know, every time I smelled something skunky, it was, yeah, a strong indica cross
for sure.
And so, one of the other cuts you hang on to and I see regularly on your feed is the
Black Domino.
Is this one that is kind of equally as good as the four-way or do you think maybe it's
almost as good but not quite as good?
But, you know, like if anything's within the ballpark of the four-way, then, you know,
it's like it's probably going to be elite nonetheless.
You know, to be honest with you about the four-way, the only reason I'm keeping it alive
is because of a special connection with it and what I hope it can produce in its offspring.
And that's what I'm seeing.
And over the years, it's always been a good producer for me.
But the Black Domino cuts I have are old Sensi stock and they're much stronger than the four-way
potency-wise.
And, you know, I prefer them.
And, you know, I'm always looking for any Black Domino cut I can get.
I have one that's 1995 Sensi seed selection I got from the Nature Farmer.
And I got another one up in Southern Humboldt at a harvest, Healing Harvest Farmers Market
held by the guys that hold Emerald Cup.
And it was actually their vending booth.
I walked by with a friend and we'd seen that they had Black Domino for sale.
And, you know, I'm like, oh, I want a Black Domino.
And he's like, well, you know, get to the end of the line.
And I turn around and the line's like, you know, 50 feet long.
And, you know, I go wait at the end of the line.
And, you know, it's fun.
You know, we're talking about weed the whole time.
And you'll get to the end of the line.
And he tells me they're sold out.
And, you know, I'm like a little, you know, heartbroken.
And my friend, he's a real smooth talker.
He's like, you know, can you go look?
And the guy goes and looks.
And he's like, oh, my God, there's one last one.
And, you know, we just start giving each other high fives and shit.
Because I was told, the only thing I was told about it before I got in line is it's old
Sensi seed stock.
And, you know, if it's kept around in Humboldt County and it's old Sensi seed stock, it's,
you know, it's a winner.
And yeah, both of them have a very narcotic stone, which I prefer in a bud because I like
something that'll relax me and calm me down.
And it's a mix of Pacific Northwest hash plant, Northern Light, Ortega, and Afghani No. 1,
which is originally known as M10, the landrace Afghani from the Super Sativa seed club.
So what males do you think partner well with it?
Like you mentioned it's really narcotic.
So do you think that, for example, crossing it to a Sativa would kind of take away from
that?
You want to keep it kind of in that Indica dominant realm or not necessarily?
Well, I don't have any, but I've always heard that Sensi seeds produce some fire, really
good blackjack, dominant jack hair crosses.
And then I personally, you know, got my hands on them and I really was excited to cross
them to the Northern Light's No. 1 male just to keep that old school narcotic Indica genetic
alive in the gene pool because it's, you know, that's my most sought after stuff and it seems
like no one's really offering that.
Luckily Kegu1 had the open pollination No. 1 Pureline that I'd never left the West Coast
that he had gotten from his friend Classic Seeds.
And I was able to select a male out of that.
First I popped like 40 and then I realized how good they were and I popped 95 and selected
the best male out of all those.
I really went for the side of the gene pool and then No. 1 that was like a spray paint,
you know, kind of a chemical.
And that was only, I only saw it in about 20% of the gene pool.
The other 80% was your more classic fruity Indica, you know, berry kind of smell.
And you know, I had some good friends up and we smoked all my chem dogs and all my OGs
and actually said they preferred the turpentine spray paint NL phenols over everything.
And you know, that's the type of male I was going after, you know, tried to match the
phenotype.
Okay.
And so, do you notice any of those NL characteristics in the chem dog when you were smoking that
or is it more of it was just like a preference over?
Well, you know, as far as chem dog, I always thought chem dog went back to Northern Lights.
But you know, recently now that I've really got my hands on some really good classic cash
plant cuts, I think it's maybe a combination of the two.
But that's just my guess, you know, just from how I saw we progress, you know, all the best
shit was Northern Lights crosses.
And then, you know, chem dog and OG came on the scene and no one knew what they were.
So, you know, there's some Afghani genetics that were similar to that or the same exact
genetics.
Okay.
And so, just out of curiosity, when you mentioned that Kegu had done the open pollination with
the NL1, had he made any comment about how the plants that you grew out, you know, was
there any little slight differences between that generation and the previous or do you
think that they were pretty much identical?
You know, like I guess I'm wondering, even through open pollination techniques, do you
think you do get a little bit of change over time or not really?
So from what I've learned from him, if you use as many males as many females, don't bottleneck
the genetics that you can keep everything in seed form.
That's how he's always done his stuff his whole life.
He never really kept clones until, you know, about 10 years ago.
They always just put stuff in the seed so that they could grow it again.
And you know, I wish I had known that in the early 90s.
I'd have a bunch of amazing lines now.
So in terms of the end product of the Northern Lights you grew out, have you seen yourself
or been given any NL stock or buds from, you know, any modern breeders that resembled
that or was it just totally different?
Well, to be honest with you, I feel like most of the Northern Lights genetics disappeared.
I was given some of Sensi stock recently to grow when I was growing those ones from Kegi
One.
I got some Bodhi seeds and grew them at the same time.
I was very thankful to find that Kegi's NL One was exactly what I remembered from a kid
and it was so much better than Sensi seeds.
It was ridiculous.
And what I grew from Bodhi was the NL Five British Columbia Sea Club open pollination
and a few other different crosses that my friend Kelly Depfest gave me.
They were really good, but none of them had that narcotic turpentine spray paint phenos
that I was really looking for that I was very excited to find in NL One because, you know,
we were hoping to use it and that was exactly what I was looking for.
So how do you think Northern Lights Five became this massive poster child for the cannabis
community if it sounds like Northern Lights One was way better?
When I grew the Northern Lights One versus the British Columbia Sea Club from Bodhi,
his NL Five had a way better bag appeal.
We're talking way better.
It had a more round nugg.
It actually had more crystals on the outside of the nugg.
But the effect of the NL One is exactly what I was looking for.
So with that being said about the better bag appeal on the NL Five, do you think that that
kind of highlights the issue of the compromise of quality traits within the plant versus
bag appeal over the years?
Yes.
When I moved to Northern California in 97, there was so much diversity in the weed grown
in Humboldt, Mendoza and Trinity County.
So it was amazing.
And then right about 2000, everyone had to have purple or it became a problem to sell
your weed.
And then a few years after that, you had to have OG.
And if you didn't have OG, the buyers didn't even want to look at it.
And at that point, a lot of people just dropped their old lines and everyone was growing OG
or purple.
There are amazing types of weed, but a lot of genetics were lost and it's a shame.
And so, do you think that people drop stuff out of their head stash rotation, so to speak,
I guess, because what I'm trying to say is I thought that there was always strains where
people always viewed them as like, this isn't something I can sell, like grow for sale to
the masses because like maybe it's hard to grow or it doesn't yield well or blah, blah,
blah. Do you think strains that even fit into that category were dropped?
Because I guess my initial instinct is thinking like, surely some people kept like the really
good ones, even if they just figured like, oh, I'll just grow it for personal.
To be honest with you, most people don't keep that good of a mother room or don't keep
strains for long. That's the reason I got the nickname The Librarian.
It's mostly because I just keep the strains for all my homies and I've been doing this
forever because just like when I was a kid, I just wanted to have good weed around me.
Once I have it around me, I just want to keep it there and I just take care of these plants
and very dedicated to it.
And you know, there are other people.
That's how I find these jewels and trading.
You know, when I got on Instagram, it really helped me gain access to a lot of genetics,
you know, meeting other people that kept strains like that, you know, but I kept a lot of
strains for my friends and a lot of times, even when they were just running one strain,
they'd come back and get the copy from me after a year or two just because I kept a
healthier copy, mainly because I never compromised them.
Never. You know, there was times where me and Hannibal literally had a bedroom in our
master bedroom, not even in the closet, just in the corner, just because that's, you know,
the kind of commitment I have.
And thank God she has it just as hard as me.
And she's actually encouraged me to keep some of the strains around forever that we
necessarily don't like the smoke.
Like the train wreck is a perfect example of that.
When I first, you know, got the strain in 1999, you know, it was amazing.
But that terpene will get to you after a while.
Kind of a joke about it being train wreck poison.
And so, on the idea of, you know, the whole librarian thing, what are some of the more
lesser known cuts you keep in your stash that you think would be well received by the
public if they were more well known?
The black domino.
You know, the public is, you know, different than me.
I'm a real serious indigo lover, you know, and anything that the public really likes, I
generally try to have access to.
But I feel like a lot of the strong calming indigos most people have kind of lost.
So stuff like the black domino, the Northern Lights, number one.
A lot of people don't have the real chem dog D, which is absolutely my hands down
favorite. You know, there's not many people out there, you know, producing those, you
know, authentic cuts.
You know, luckily people that's out there with Incredibles and they got the real deal.
That's going to be amazing for the weed out in Colorado.
Yeah. So this idea of the fake chem dog D, I've heard of this before.
Do you think that there's just like a bunch of S1s floating around or are you more so
referring to the D-Sys?
Well, there's a lot of people with the sister that think it's the D and then there's
tons of fakes.
Out in California, if you just go to any club and you can get any elite, they're all on
the menus at these clubs out here.
But 99 out of 100 times, they're going to be fake as can be.
And, you know, there's a million clubs out here selling chem dog and there's a million
fake breeders out there breeding with chem dog and people never seen it because like
I said, it's kind of limited and there's only a few people that really grow them
commercial, you know, and I mostly grow them for head.
You know, I just cover them myself.
Yeah, okay. And so, if we just jump back to that idea of you maintaining the clones
and your friends would come back and grab them from you because, you know, they couldn't
keep it as good as you, that got me thinking, what's the shortest amount of time
you've ever seen for a clone to go bad?
Like, have you seen a clone turned to crap in say like a year because or does it take
like longer than that, even if it's really poorly maintained?
Well, you know, I've selected females out of, you know, seed hunting and female hunting
and some of those are amazing from seed or the first clone and they deteriorate fast,
you know, and I couldn't tell you why.
And then some of these older, you know, really good clones I have, you know, they're
very old and they haven't, you know, degenerated as much as other clones that are
younger because like I'd say, for example, four way from 95 has degenerated more than
the chem dog 91 and I have the Romulan 1969 Romulan Joe cut and, you know, that thing
hasn't degenerated too much at all.
It's a, you know, it's a picky little girl.
She'll go on the pre flower, but considering she's going on 50 years here in a year or
two, she's fucking amazing, you know?
And then, you know, the train wreck is deteriorating on me pretty hard in these last
three years, no matter how healthy I keep it.
And I think it's just genetic, just like people, you know, it's, you know, people age
faster than other people and it's just a roll of the dice.
Okay. And so, just while we're on the topic, do you think that Romulan Joe's cutting of
Romulan is the oldest cut in existence or do you think maybe someone's hanging on to
something older?
The oldest thing I know of, I'm not saying that it is the oldest by any means, but I've
heard rumors that I might be even older than 69 because Pagan, an old forums guy was
working on the farm and Romulan Joe pretty much dropped it off with his boss kind of
deal in 1969.
And he held it on to it all that time and he has since passed away.
And so, what do you think is the backstory behind it?
Because what I'd heard was that either Joe or someone he knew was in the Korean War and
they brought back some landrace and it was just like, you know, selectively bred to be
squat and more indica, though it was a sativa.
That could be total bullshit, but I'd love to hear what you think.
You know, it's a squat little indica plant.
You know, it'll dent your head, man.
You know, it's a fucking it'll fuck you up.
That's some strong shit.
And, you know, like the Brothers Grimm produced some really excellent stuff with it, you
know, Space Queen.
So.
Yeah, the Killer Queen, yeah, I'm going to grow that out soon.
Yeah, I think the Killer Queen is the Airborne G13.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
True, true, true.
Sorry, what I was thinking was it was it was Vic High who made Space Queen.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, for sure.
I love the Killer Queen cut I have.
It's amazing. And I'm stoked.
I just acquired the Airborne G13.
Oh, yeah. How would you describe that?
That's actually probably one of the few things I wasn't able to smoke out of Tommy's
collection. I just don't think he had any around.
Yeah. How would you describe it?
Because he said to me he reckons it's G13 NL2 or something.
You know, that's what the old forum people say.
And, you know, I'm going to believe them and I've not got a chance to flower it out
yet. I'm excited, very excited.
I will have it ready, you know, in a few months here.
So.
I just got the cut all healthy and cleaned up and, you know, it takes a few months
because I don't like to flower things right away because I'll get a bad impression
generally.
Oh, really? So, you want to kind of do a little bit of revitalising yourself before you
get it in there?
Yeah, because I have so many clones and stuff.
I don't have that many times to just run them all new ones unless, you know, I
just want to have them really healthy so I don't get a bad impression and give the
adult clone its fair chance, you know.
Yeah. OK. And so, let's get to that revitalising of clones
because this is something you're very known for.
And I think the other kind of guy in the scene who's well known for this is Kevin
Jodry. And he often talks about putting the plant out
in the sun to veg, you know, like not letting it flower because obviously you don't have a
clone anymore. What do you think about this?
And how important is it to have that sun's role in revitalising
the clone?
It's huge. It's definitely huge.
But the most important thing is to have a good
mother room. I'm talking like everything most people out here just put
into a flower room.
You know, most people kind of keep their mom shitty.
And that's what I think deteriorates them.
You want a good amount of light on them.
You want good ventilation.
You want good humanity levels.
You need a lot of bright light to keep those old clones vegging.
You don't want them under some weak light.
You want some serious light over top of them.
And, you know, some you're going to notice they like to be off the side a little bit
more. But a majority of the old clones need a lot of light and a lot of
food, a lot of foliar feeding, I think helps, you know, regenerate these old
clones because a lot of times they have weak root systems, you know, and it's hard for those old
clones to root. And when they just barely root and they pop out these weak root
systems, they're never going to regenerate without foliar feeding.
And I foliar feed coconut, aloe, calcium 25,
a lot of compost tea, earthworm stuff, fresh
extractions and just alternate between all those things to get all the nutrients
in there. And I think that's crucial is the foliar feed them.
And then I think that helps them get the nutrient dense.
And then your next round of cuttings will be much healthier.
Okay. And so, we often hear about specifically aloe and kelp having
a lot of really beneficial hormones in them.
I mean, more specifically, aloe has the salicylic acid, which stimulates the
plant's immune system, which in turn has a big effect on kind of the whole rejuvenation
process. How long do you feel you need to be doing this before it's going to work?
Because I remember I was talking to Skunk VA about it and I was like, yeah, man, you need to
start using some aloe to help rejuvenate it.
And he was like, awesome, I'm going to start doing that.
But then the conversation was kind of like, well, how long do I have to use it before I'm going to start to see
effects and things like that?
So, how long do you think it would take through treating a mum really good, giving her
all these kind of foliar feeds and all the good things?
When would you expect to start to see some positive improvements on a sad looking clone, so to speak?
Every clone is different.
Sometimes it'll snap right around after first we foliar feed and sometimes it'll
take a month or two.
But you've got to be consistent with putting those products in.
And I didn't mention the kelp and the kelp is huge.
And Dragonfly Natural Medicines, Natural Mystic is huge.
Getting the alfalfa in there and just alternating it up so that you get everything in there is, I think, really important.
So, if we were to just jump back to how you were talking about keeping a mother room really
healthy, that brought up this idea in my head of what should you do?
Should you make your mother room a priority such that you say, all right, I'm going to have a
smaller mother room or, for example, less plants in there and I'll try to cater to them better?
And then it's like that trade off.
It's like, all right, well, I won't be able to keep as many clones, but I'll try to keep the ones I do keep in
better health. Do you think that's kind of a philosophy you would advocate or do you think?
Yes.
Yeah.
A hundred percent.
You cram too many of them in there and, you know, you start making your favourite ones, the special ones, suffer just for
random clones.
You're shooting yourself in the foot.
And to be honest with you, keeping mothers like this and all these different clones does not financially benefit at all.
You know, people making money or the people are monocropping the newest, latest flavour.
So, you know, you really just keep as many as you can keep healthy.
And, you know, that's why I'm pretty ruthless on them.
I'll call them if I don't like them.
I don't keep everything.
I just try to keep the rare things and everything else I want to smoke.
And a few close friends around me want to smoke.
But, you know, I do have about 80 strains that are certified and I got a bunch of testing too.
Okay. And so that raises a bit of a peripheral idea I've had on my mind for a while now.
You mentioned the idea of the people making the money, the ones monocropping.
I've said this for a long time.
I've, in fact, almost come up with my own little analogy saying at the end of a harvest, you've got kind of two results.
You can have one, some bud and you can like maybe sell it for some money or you can have new clones.
Because you've grown out seeds and you've kind of pheno hunted them and you sacrifice that monocrop yield to kind of find your new elite clone, so to speak.
With that in mind, how should people be rewarded for finding seeds?
You know, a lot of people criticize people who want to charge money for clones.
But at the same time, it's kind of like if I spent a whole cycle running seeds and at the end of it, I find one elite clone.
And in that same time period, you do a monocrop and make $30,000.
Is it kind of not analogous?
Like is that clone I found kind of not, you know what I mean?
Like I've traded a potential $30,000 or you know, like whatever the money value of the crop was to find that clone.
You know what I mean? So, how do people get rewarded for that given that people don't seem to like the idea of, you know, people charging lots of money for clones?
Well, you know, in my book, you know, anyone that's pheno hunting is highly respected and anybody that, you know, is putting in work to help progress,
you know, rather than just ride coattails, you know, rewarded or not, you know, even if they don't find that amazing, you know, you know, putting in work and helping progress it and save old stuff is, you know, should be rewarded.
You know, you know, like you said, you know, some of these clones, you know, are worth a lot of money.
I personally never sell them, no matter how much money someone comes at me with.
And I've turned down some ridiculous amounts.
But, you know, I'll pay money to buy them, you know, I mean, I'll pay money to get them into my hands, you know, but at that point, I'll never sell them again.
I'll just give them out to friends and trade.
Most of it's trade.
Yeah, okay.
So, that almost kind of like suggests like we need to value these community members who are, you know, really doing that pheno hunting for us.
I wouldn't say, you know, like give thanks because I mean, they probably deserve a bit more than that.
But yeah, do you feel that's an issue?
Do you feel the people who are doing the hard yards in the industry do get the credit?
You know, like I said, they do in my book.
And, you know, I think we should keep it that way, you know, keep it old school and mostly only deal with people that are new school.
If you know, you're trying to get into this game now, because it's legal in America and make a bunch of money, because you see dollar signs and you think it's fun and exciting.
I don't really want to deal with you.
You know, I want to deal with people that have been risking their lives, putting in work their whole fucking life.
And so, as kind of a bit of a final question on the vigor falling off over time thing in relation to plants.
You mentioned that different genetics fall off at different rates.
However, do you find that there's a commonality between clones losing vigor in that they tend to lose certain traits first?
You know, I've commonly heard that flavour falls off first.
You know, do you find that's true or do you find some strange?
No, like maybe the vigor falls off, but the flavour is still there or something like that.
No, I agree with that.
That the flavour and the smell are the first things to disappear and, you know, they'll still get you high.
But they don't taste as magical as they did, you know, a lot of these strains I have from the 90s.
So, with that being said, do you think, you know, so the poster child, the Chem 91 for, you know, kind of not to give it a bad name because it's still my favourite, but like, you know, it's deteriorated over the years.
A lot of people say that.
People say the potency is still the same, though.
But wouldn't logic suggest that the potency is reduced because we know that, you know, the more terpenes there are, the more synergistic that is with the high.
And for me, at least, the more terpene is, the more potent it is to a certain extent.
So, in that regard, has it not lost a bit of potency?
Well, on my opinion, with these old clones, to make them knock them out of the ballpark, to get them, you know, to their old school vigor and best, it's not going to happen every round, even with a healthy clone.
But I feel like, you know, sometimes I can knock those old clones out where they're better than anything new.
So, it's, you know, it just is not as easy and it's not...
You can't do it every round.
But, you know, sometimes they'll turn out just as good as ever.
Okay. So, kind of jump back a bit in time now.
When did you first decide you wanted to start breeding?
When I first got those kind butt seeds at that fish show, New Year's Eve, it was turning from 94 to 95.
And I wanted to have more kind butt seeds, you know.
I was, you know, I never had a lot of money and getting a bunch of packs from Amsterdam was, you know, it just, it seemed like too much.
And to actually get seeds from a sack, you know, that I buy on a lot, you know, was a lot easier.
And I just wanted to keep those around.
And unfortunately, I didn't keep them pure.
I crossed them to a strain from southern Virginia and, you know, grew those the next year.
And those were great. But if I would have, you know, kept that line pure, it would have been something special.
It was really good, stony, purple indica, you know, nice Afghani.
And so when did you make the transition to indoors?
When I got mentored by a couple friends that are the guys that actually popped that Fairfax four-way seat.
They were really good friends of mine and they had a house that, you know, and I learned how to do it like that, you know.
And, you know, luckily I was taught right from the start, you know, as far as when to take it inside.
Because my outdoor shit was ridiculous hard knocks.
It would have sucked to do all that inside with all that risk and power bill and stuff back east.
Yeah. And so just as a bit of a trivial one, what do you think was kind of the silliest thing you guys were doing back there indoors that you thought was like going to make the plant better?
But maybe in retrospect, are you like, what were you thinking?
To be honest with you, those guys were taught by some people that knew their shit.
The only thing I was able to bring to the game with them was the use of back on us and kelp to help make the weed taste better.
And that's kind of reason they brought me in is because they tasted that seeds that I had gotten from that fish show and they tasted the crosses.
Those two years in a row, I'd just grown that shit outside like in Northern Virginia.
Like we're talking in Cloverdale's and, you know, that's the thing in the highway where they loop to loop because no one really goes into that intermedian or along the railroad tracks and some some briar bushes and shit.
Because I didn't grow up in the country. It was more like inner city.
You could get to the capital in 20 minutes.
Yeah. Washington, D.C.
Yeah. OK. And so as time went by, when was the first time the Chemdog came to you in person?
It was fish tour and it was in fall tour.
And we went to Massachusetts.
I forgot the university.
And, you know, some of the kids that I met on tour were really excited, like, hey, when we get the mask, we're going to get Chemdog, you know, and be able to get Chemdog and fucking, you know, it was they just kept talking about it and fucking building it up.
And it was fucking it lived up to it as fucking good as weed.
Yeah. That was ninety six.
The fall of ninety six.
I did that. No, I sell grilled cheese sandwiches and I counted the money.
My friend made them and now they got buttered bread and I also sold, you know, any weed I could get the whole time, you know, just to get from show to show.
And we get to the next show. We just have enough money to to buy grilled cheese sandwiches, you know, and I'm talking we could get the butter, we could get the cheese and we could get the bread.
And we used to turn that into enough money in the parking lot to get tickets, sack of weed and hotel and gas money to the next show and just enough money to buy grilled cheese again.
That's awesome.
So that whole time, were you kind of thinking to yourself, I need to get these Chemdog genetics for when I want to breed with it?
Oh, to be honest with you, man, I never even thought of that.
But me and Chemdog had a good friend, mutual friend in between us.
And that dude was a true hustler and he was smart enough to keep our crew separate because of that way he could get the Chemdog from Chemdog and he could get the four away from us.
And he did that and he did that successfully.
And it's funny because we were at a lot of shows. I actually think Hannibal has a chillum from him from like 96 or 97 from my first show.
I need to get a picture of that to him to see, verify because it looks identical like his old work.
Okay, nice. And does this guy fit into the history anywhere? Is he just kind of a personal friend? Doesn't fit into any other of the story at all?
He's somebody that I never mentioned his name, but he's a huge, you know, respected guy, friend of Chemdogs.
And he's the guy that got the 91 and stuff to one eye who bred the dog walker OG out in Oregon.
He's another Virginia guy. He actually told me, you know, the four way is what inspired him to start growing.
And, you know, that's an honor and it's cool to hear a lot of people claim that, you know, that was the best way they've ever smoked.
But boy, has she degenerated.
So scrolling through some of your earlier posts on Instagram, we see things like the, I'm going to say this wrong. Is it the Puna butter cookies?
How do you say that?
Yes. Yeah. Puna, Puna butter. So Hawaiian heirloom strain and Kegu got those seeds from a friend of his.
And this is before I was in coastal seeds and he gave them to Bollywood Bam.
Bollywood Bam made that cross and the Puna butters really stabilize the cookies and there's some fire to be found in that.
And I think we just sold out of the last packs and that's that.
Yeah. So hopefully someone will keep a cut.
So how would you describe the influence of like Hawaiian land race slash heirloom strains?
Because it's one of those ones where there's not a ton of information on it.
You know, some people say Uji Kush comes from the Kripi, which is a Hawaiian strain.
And then on the other hand, you've got like the Molokai Frost, which is, you know, another Hawaiian strain, which doesn't seem to be overly similar to the supposed Kripi.
How would you describe the Hawaiian land race in general?
And then what would you describe that the Puna butter kind of brings to the cookies?
It stabilizes it. It didn't throw many harms.
You know, cookies throws a lot of harms and the Puna butter cookies in our testing throw zero and we sold a lot of seeds.
And I'm sure there was a few in there, but we didn't really hear any complaints ever.
So that's the main thing I brought to the table.
Kegyu really respects those old strains, you know, right before I became the coastal, they lost the Maui Waui, you know, and Kegyu was real sore about that for a long time.
The old brotherhood strain and he has high regard for the Hawaiian heirlooms because he actually got to smoke them in their heyday.
So, you know, I was a young kid on the East Coast, so I really don't know much about that.
You know, it's kind of I'm seeing some now through luckily working with coastal and Kegyu.
Nice. And so, how would you describe coastal seeds?
Because I guess it's kind of different from a few companies.
There's a few people who breed under the banner of it, but it seems like the overall project is, you know, land race slash heirlooms.
How do you think of coastal seeds, so to speak?
Well, coastal seeds is Hannibal Kegyu first. He started it.
He took Bollywood Bam as the first people to work with Kegyu and then they brought me in and Hannibal in and Kegyu's an OG, you know, he's 72 years old.
He's been growing since 1969.
So me and Bam just look at him, you know, just as a, you know, like a mentor and, you know, just we're lucky to be able to work with these genetics he has and to help him do this work, you know, because when you're 72, you know, life becomes a little harder than when you're in your prime.
And he's got all these genetics and that's actually the main reason I joined is because he had all these awesome genetics and I wanted to cross them to all these awesome old clones I had and I wanted to help them keep these strains pure.
And soon as I dug into the vault, you know, first things that, you know, grabbed my interest were the Northern Lights number one that's kind of disappeared.
It was quality, you know, top of the line when I was a kid and also the M10.
That's the second thing.
He got that from a friend of his in Santa Cruz, JR, and that's some fucking quality shit too.
It's also known as Afghani number one and, you know, those strains are pretty much not around anymore, not in quality form.
And I was very excited to see that both those lines were exactly like I remembered.
And, you know, it was very cool.
And Coastal Seeds is, you know, KQ's trying to grow the old Lannerace Pure Ones because those are the things he remembers when he was a kid.
And those are what he wants to smoke, you know.
I'm trying to bring back the Indica's.
Bollywood Bam is, he's really into flavorful food and exotic flavors and tastes and his favorite weed's the Urkel.
And, you know, he's going to breed for what he likes.
KQ's going to breed for what he likes.
Hannibal's going to select for what she likes.
And, you know, I want to breed Indica's, you know, and that's kind of what I'm going to concentrate on.
After I finish those two classic Amsterdam strains, I'm going to work with all the Lannerace Indica's he has.
And also working with the Panama Red that he had and the Keeper Pheno out of the selection after we had had it for a year and I grew it.
A lot of people were raving how good it was and KQ sent it to the lab and to our surprise it was a 2 to 1 CBD dominant.
And right around that same time he was doing it, he had just done an open pollination.
And when he does open pollination, he marks all the females and he keeps them separated and he uses as many males as he can.
And last summer in August, my dog got cancer and, you know, I wanted to treat her with everything I could.
And CBD, it was one of them.
So I was inspired by that and I went to him at KQ and I said, you know, give me the, give me a hundred seeds of the CBD dominant Pheno and I'm going to work it.
And I took them and I grew them and every one that wasn't CBD dominant I killed except for one that was THCV.
It had a ridiculous amount and the ratios.
We never send the finished product to the lab yet.
We might still do that, but the leaf sample, the people at Steep Hill told Bollywood Bam that this is special.
And they also told Bollywood Bam when he took the leaf samples in because he deals with labs and stuff like that, that three or four of the CBD females and one of the males had really, really high ratios of CVG.
And those are in the open pollination too.
And one of them was definitely a male and really excited to be able to bring that pure land-raised CBD to the public.
And KQ actually just sent some to Phylos.
So, you know, we're pretty sure it's just going to start its own galaxy.
So there'll be no debate, you know, it's its own land-raised CBD, you know, and I'm going to be excited to release that to the public this fall after it's tested.
You know, I did open pollination with like eight boys and 12 to 16 females.
You know, about 60 out of 100 were CBD dominant and any ones that were weak, I called off and I just open pollinated the rest.
So when you first did the CBD, sorry, when KQ first did the CBD open pollination, do you remember what type of percentage of CBD traits were there?
Because a lot of people often reference the older land-raised strains.
There was like potentially a reasonably high proportion of them that had CBD in there and it was kind of selectively bred out.
Do you find that that was the case or do you think that that selective breeding took a much longer process than just kind of recent years, so to speak?
Well, that was probably the case because, you know, back in the day they just said, hey, this didn't get me as high, fucking let's kill this thing.
They selected that as their keeper cup before I was in coastal seeds and, you know, I was able to just grow it when I joined and I found out how special it was.
I told KQ this is as good as anything I got.
I brought some to the Emerald Cup two years ago and smoked it at people with the coastal booth and everyone raved about it.
And at that time we didn't know it was CBD dominant and most of them aren't CBD dominant in that line.
But that, you know, that one mother that was CBD dominant, 60% of her offspring were.
And we're seeing now that I took just CBD dominant males and bred them to just CBD dominant females on the next open pollination of locking down the CBD genetics.
We're seeing higher ratios and it's exciting.
You know, it's a very good line because what I've seen in the land race so far is, you know, some good, bad and ugly and the stuff is good weed.
Like that we found out just because we kept that clone around to smoke and it's going to be cool to share with everybody.
Yeah. So, I think it was Bodhi who said that he found it was kind of like being a little bit high and a bit on tequila having the CBD Panama.
How would you describe the effects to people?
And I guess the extrapolation of that is when you do get it sequenced and you know it's its own land ratio, you got the proof.
Do you think that it'll open the doorway to a new type of high kind of like what Bodhi referenced in that, you know, you don't get bud these days.
It makes you feel like, you know, he called it I think tequila weed, you know, that's not really common.
Do you think that it could open the door to a whole new type of high in that regard?
Yeah, these old land race strains are definitely unique on high.
I need to get some pictures up on my Instagram account.
But, you know, it's not the prettiest stuff.
It's for the sativa lovers.
It's long, flowering, long, skinny buds, very terpene rich.
Some of them are similar to haze.
Some are cherry and lemon.
But KQ1 says it is the best strain to give him the munchies right now.
And I grow a lot of weed and I give him whatever he needs for it because he just got over cancer.
When he was younger, he just loves sativas.
He loves sativas.
And then when he got sick, he really got to appreciate these strong indicas I have because he said they just helped his pain.
You know, like the black domina, the chemdog D, OG kushes.
And it was cool to be able to introduce him to the strains at that time in his life when he needed them.
Yeah, without a doubt.
And so, do you think that the use of CBD treatment in conjunction with, say, chemotherapy, for example, is more effective than CBD on its own?
Yes.
You know, what I did with the dog was chemotherapy treatment combined with we did four to one CBD dominant.
It was a 40 pound dog.
She was getting about 100 milligrams.
And at first it was 75% CBD and then 25% THC.
And we kept it like that for a long time.
And at that same period, I was taking just pure CBD oil and rubbing it all over her belly and her armpits.
And so she's still on the 25% CBD, 75% THC right now.
And she had a hell of a tolerance.
You know, she got cleared up for cancer in January.
And we've kept her on, you know, just for safety facts because you can't even notice she's high.
She's got a very strong tolerance.
You know, I know grown men that can't handle 75 milligrams of THC, you know, and she gets 25 of CBD and I give it to her just to keep the cancer away because she had lymphoma.
And they said it was very close to stage four.
And they were pretty shocked by the end of her chemotherapy first round that she came in the heat.
And they said that that was extremely rare.
Yeah, wow.
That's a good outcome.
While we're on the topic of dogs, on your Instagram, you got a photo and it says headband underdog.
I thought they were two different strains or are they the same?
So, you know, Weasel and Fondo and the crew out there, they had a strain that had all those same names.
This is not that same strain.
This is a very good OG Kush cut.
And with the headbands, there is a lot of confusion.
Like my friend NotSoDog has that headband from a mutual friend of mine, QualityOverKwan, and gave it to him years ago.
We've all known each other.
I've known Quality for Quantity forever, but I've known NonsenseDog since like 2006 and Willits.
And he's got three headbands now.
One's Lumpus, one is the one from us, and one is Mandelbrot.
And, you know, DNA released a 707 and Swerve released a headband.
And, you know, so there's so many headbands and that's just so confusing.
But the one I have is I feel like the best OG Kush cut there is.
So, on the history of OGs, we commonly hear that the TK is the original, but I mean, it's still not confirmed.
You know, there's still a lot of people who dispute that.
What do you think the origins are?
Well, I think it's very interesting that Josh D's cut, the one also known as the Ghost, because that is the guy that shared it on Overgrow with a lot of people.
The Ghost OG, Josh D, the one that he took down to Southern California that got, was called Kush in Florida, that got the OG name, OG Kush in Southern California.
You know, I think that's the oldest one.
I think it's very, you know, there's something behind it because that and the TK both came from Florida.
And they're both amazing cuts and some of the best I have.
And are you of the opinion that it's most likely heavily Afghani land race in origin or maybe across and hybridized a bit further before the public got their hands on it?
You know, I think it's Afghani dominant.
The nugs are definitely very round and dense.
The Hai is very strong, you know, kind of Indica.
But, you know, it's a good question.
I think time will tell.
I think it eventually will come to light exactly what it is.
You know, I think it probably went back to Northern Lights because before OG Kush, the best strains were Northern Lights.
Okay.
And so, I read online that you could harvest TK at 12 weeks.
And so, I asked Duke about that.
And I was like, what's the go with that?
I thought it was like 10 weeks.
And he goes, oh yeah, like some strains have got like two windows, so to speak, you know, like it like peaks at 10 weeks.
That's a good time to take it.
Then 11 weeks, you know, not so good.
Then 12 weeks, you know, it gets good again.
And I was thinking, I've never really heard of that before.
You know, I don't doubt it.
But do you have any kind of, you know, personal experience with things like that?
Or have you heard of an idea like that?
Well, those are OGs and Chemdogs are some of my favorite strains to grow.
And I feel like the longer you can keep them healthy and they're green and still growing and, you know, not starting to die off and catabolize themselves, the better they're going to be.
You know, I like to take them definitely 70 days, you know, if not 77.
So, I like the long window.
I've always liked the stronger, more narcotic high of all those strains.
And the longer you let them go, the more better the buzz, in my opinion.
A lot of the Northern Lights are the same way.
They need to go like 10 weeks.
A lot of those old clones like I have, like Black Domina and The Dumpster, they need to go.
And what is The Dumpster?
We've read a little bit about it online.
I've seen it on your Instagram, but there's not a whole lot of information.
You know, I've heard two backstories and they're kind of similar.
It came from the University of Ohio campus.
One story was a guy went into a bar and he was having a celebration drink.
And he's like, you know, I'm going to buy a round.
You know, I just almost got busted.
The cops were on to me and I took everything and I threw it in the dumpster.
He was like, I'm buying everyone a round.
They didn't catch me.
And some of the guys in the bar were like, huh, what dumpster?
And then I've also heard another story where someone actually did get busted.
And the cops, it was early back in the day and they just maybe threw some of the weed in the dumpster.
And someone pulled a clone out who saw all the lights and stuff.
But it's rumored to be an old G13NL or a G13 Shiva skunk.
And I see a lot of Northern Lights in it.
I think it's Northern Lights something.
And what's your kind of hypothesis on the history of the real G13?
I'm kind of sick of hearing that story about the university thing.
Like I just don't think it's true.
Well, you know, KQ told me about, he grew up in Santa Cruz and lived there his whole life.
He told me about this girl and he just set up North and he said her name was Hash Cake Patty.
And back in the day, they used to, the smugglers, the Brotherhood and everyone else would smuggle hash and surfboards and whatnot.
And they were smashed.
And that's why she was called Hash Cake Patty.
And he said that she had heard about the government growing G13 and she just turned some seeds she found out of some Afghani hash and called it G13 for marketing.
I'm not saying that's true, but it really makes a lot of sense.
And he's very old school and everything you see from the government is a very sativa plant.
And G13 that Neville bred with was a very Afghani plant, similar to what the story, Keg, you said about Hash Cake Patty, finding the seeds in the Brotherhood's hash that they brought back in the surfboards.
It was smashed down.
Yeah, killer.
So, while we're on the topic of the Brotherhood, it's kind of something I haven't mentioned a whole lot, but as time goes by, it feels like they're becoming more and more important in the whole history of things.
What can you kind of tell us about the Brotherhood and what you knew about their contributions?
Well, they're the original smugglers.
I heard rumors that some of the guys that did the Endless Summer were part of that.
And that's when they learned to smuggle stuff back in surfboards.
And then later it grew so big that they were buying brand new Mercedes Benz and VWs out of Germany and shipping them over to Afghanistan and having them filled with hash and weed.
And taking that to California and then driving those cars already loaded with stuff to the college universities and supplying the weed that wasn't available.
And they're the first guys that brought Indicas into America is what I heard.
And before that, they were bringing Mexican sativas.
And they also brought a lot of the Mexican sativas to the Hawaiian Islands.
They were just the original guys.
Anyone that can get any genetics that anyone saved off of any of their imports.
That's what Keggy was looking for most.
Because when he thinks back, who brought the best weed?
When he smoked stuff, who had the best?
They brought the Thai.
They're just OGs.
They paid the weatherman to break Timothy Leary out of jail.
When Timothy Leary was in there for pot charges.
And they had Jimi Hendrix play private concerts for them on their property in Hawaii.
Cool on.
And so do you think it's safe to say that what a lot of people consider to be the original breeders like Neville and the likes most likely got their stock from them?
Oh yeah.
Or people that got the genetics from them and did the same thing I did just earlier in time.
Kept the seeds alive and bred them so they could have more of that the next year.
And not thinking of anything other than being able to have good weed the next year.
Interesting.
And so something you may or may not be able to comment on is the more I research to the original skunk story, the more this question becomes more pertinent in my mind.
In the original story the guest talked about, they speak of how the original skunk, it was actually a project which was trying to recreate a clone that was both unstable and didn't breed true.
And that was how they ended up like trying to recreate it.
I believe it was Mexican cross Colombian, but then they couldn't recreate it even just using raw land races again.
And so they hybridized it using the Afghani first and then crossed it back and made what we knew as skunk number one now.
But what I'm interested in is what was really that clone that like, you know, I guess the, you know, progenitor skunk, what did it, like, was that bowl stock potentially?
Like what was that, you know, do you have any idea?
You know, I really don't have any idea.
That would be an interesting question to ask KQ.
But I think most of the stock was Brotherhood back then because they were the ones importing most of the weed and hash into America.
So chances are, you know, it was Chanax that came from them.
I know the guys from Sacred Seeds were out of Santa Cruz.
And, you know, Sam, you know, I guess ratted everybody out and fled to Amsterdam with all those seeds.
Yep. And so are you of the opinion that Sam Skunkman is not a good dude?
I don't know him personally, but, you know, it's not a good thing to knock on your friends and then take everybody's work and go profit off of it.
That's not fucking cool.
Yeah, because I mean, there's a lot of stories around, you know, like what I've basically heard is that everything people give him credit for bringing to the market, he didn't actually create.
He just took it from someone else, you know, like notably Skunk and Hayes.
How do you feel about that?
You know, I've heard the online stuff and I've also heard what KQ told me.
And I know nothing about his breeding, but, you know, just turning on your friends like that and fleeing with the genetics, man, that's cold blooded.
Yeah, without a doubt.
That's, you know, all I know about that story.
Yep. And so a breeder who's very near and dear to my heart, Tom Hill, he releases a lot of strains which in many regards could have kind of fallen into projects by Coastal Seeds.
You know, he was very much doing the open pollination land race type of thing.
How do you view his strains? Do you have any personal experience with them?
Oh, I have high regard for all of his strains.
And he was also a pioneer in Dermal Triangle on growing giant trees, you know, like really monstrous plants, you know.
And his knowledge is amazing.
You know, he's somebody that I would love to meet.
His packy lines are amazing.
I hold a deep chunk in high regard.
Some people don't.
I hold it in high regard.
And, you know, he put out some amazing work, you know, and I love it all.
And so have you ever heard of any of the other lines that are not commonly referenced?
Because he only ended up having like, I think it was like five or six lines for sale.
But like you often heard about other lines he worked on, but just like they weren't released.
Like one that most notably comes to mind is he did deep chunk cross X18.
And I think he called that the boneyard or something like that.
But there was these other strains that he had made or was working on that had started to gain notoriety.
And like I think there was another line he had.
It was like the blue Afghani.
And, you know, like have you ever heard or worked with any of those or not really?
Well, I do not have the X18 and I would love to get some seed stock of that.
I only have the deep chunk line and I'd also like to get the pine tar.
You know, Tom Hill's Hayes is also another line, you know, I'd love to get, you know,
just to help, you know, keeping my personal seed stash for open pollinations, you know,
and to keep around and share with friends and trade.
Not necessarily stuff that I'd work for with coastal seeds, you know, just stuff for the preservation aspect.
And so, have you ever had what you would consider to be a true or accurate representation of Hayes?
Because it's one of those ones where, you know, like you still get packs that say Hayes,
but everyone who had the real stuff says like you can't really find it anymore.
Like it's just not the same.
I remember the first time I tried pure Hayes.
It was in Trinity County at the tribal stump in 1997.
That OG guy, B. Smith from Denny Canyon, gave a talk that year and fucking right in front of all those people.
He said he had like thousands of plants that were like, he's a tall guy.
He reached over his head like eight feet tall, just right in front of the whole crowd, police and everything.
I'm a real pioneer, but that same weekend I got to smoke Hayes for the first time and wow, it was fucking amazing.
And I've seen it a few times since then and it's definitely still there.
I know people that have original Hayes cuts, but you know, I don't know anyone that has a seed stock of, you know,
really good old, you know, pure Santa Cruz Hayes, you know, only Amsterdam Hayes.
And when you make that distinction, do you mean that the Amsterdam Hayes was worked towards that kind of less flavorful,
more kind of chilled out?
I mean, that's what I commonly hear from people or is there a difference, a different difference in your mind?
Well, you know, unfortunately I never got to smoke the Santa Cruz Hayes cake.
You actually knew one of the girls that trimmed for the Hayes brothers and he contacted her and, you know,
hoping she'd have some seed stock, you know, and unfortunately she didn't, you know, it's, you know, local Santa Cruz weed.
I heard one of the brothers is still alive. He's not into cannabis. He's in the other substances and he's into them heavily, unfortunately.
And I guess the other brother died.
Yeah, that's unfortunate. I guess we may never know unless Sam decides to tell the truth.
The Pacific Northwest hash plant is one that interests me because I have a feeling it's possibly one of those same plants
which came from the brothers blocks of hash. Do you think that's a possibility?
And how do you think that cut has persisted for so long?
It seems like it's not widely circulated, but it also seems to pop up here and there at the same time.
Boy, I really wish I knew who held it so I could give him credit.
I had seen that Bodie was breeding it with it and Kegue and Bodie are good friends.
I told Kegue, here, here's the list. Anything he fucking wants. I want that.
Because when I was a kid, you know, and I told you I couldn't even really afford packs of Sensi seeds.
And to actually be able to get one of the cuts that Neville was breeding with, it's a fucking dream come true.
So, you know, I got it and it's the funk. It reminds me of the Scully, the super Scully, the puck hash plant.
It reminds me of the HP 13. You know, what I've heard is pure Afghani, the land race. It's an amazing cut.
And how similar is it to the Scully? I mean, like in the sense that is the hash, the, you know, the PNW hash plant the same?
Is it just kind of look pretty unsuspecting and just kind of knock you down as well?
Yeah, they all have the same look. You know, none of them are very resinous, but it's the turps and just that real good Indica high.
You know, I grew the HP 13 back in Willits with my friend, Quality Over Quantity in 2006 and ended up dropping that in like 2008.
Because I just couldn't get the powdery mildew off of it. But that was an amazing strain.
And actually the most strain that I'm looking for the most right now. I want that one the most. It's amazing.
They all have very similar buds. And when you break them open, that's when the nose really comes out of them, you know.
And when you break them open and start tearing it up, it's just a very intoxicating nose.
And, you know, when Neville got the cut, he took his best Indica male, which was Northern Lights number one.
And he bred it to the Pacific North hash plant and released those NL hash plant F1 hybrids. And then he did a back cross and that is the hash plant seeds.
And, you know, it's really cool to be able to put the Northern Lights number one male up to these clones, you know.
Yeah. And so, I mean, with that in mind, I guess theoretically, because we should maybe state this for anyone who's not on board with this idea, is that we, or I, strongly believe that Skelly is the result of a plant from Neville's original, the seed bank, the hash plant seed stock, which is what we just said was the hash plant cross to the NL1 back cross to the hash plant again.
So, with that in mind, you could theoretically back cross Skelly either way.
Wait, no, you couldn't because you don't have a male of the hash plant, but you got a male of the Northern Lights.
So, you could back cross it that direction and you could also-
No, you'd have to reverse it, wouldn't you?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, some people, I know actually a backyard farmer in South Fork Seeds got an old hash plant pack and it was really old stock.
And I was just like, please give me a male. I want to make a triple back cross off the Pacific Northwest.
And they didn't get a male, unfortunately.
KQ has a friend in Washington that in 1989 did F2s off Pacific Northwest hash plant seeds.
And then a few years later, he did another breeding, took him to F3, and he's given KQ some of those seeds.
I'm extremely excited to possibly work with those males if his friend would give us permission.
If not, I'm going to do it just for preservation's sake.
And so, I wonder if you would ever be able to find out who popped the initial, the land-raised hash plant seeds that Neville ended up getting the clone of for his initial breeding.
I wonder who popped that, found that.
That's a good question.
I was hoping you would ask Bodhi that.
I'm going to have to have a conversation with Bodhi about that.
And he'll know the back story on who's been keeping the clone alive.
Because I know Archive and CSI also had it.
I noticed it on all three of those breeders' lists.
And then I knew KQ and Bodhi were good friends.
So that's who I went through to access it.
Yeah, okay.
I'm sorry I didn't ask Bodhi.
You'll have to let us know the answer.
Oh yeah, I'll get that question answered soon enough.
Yeah, fantastic.
I'd love to know.
But what I wanted to jump back to for just a moment was, you mentioned in a story a few minutes ago that you lost a plant because you couldn't get rid of the PM off it.
I've got a hypothetical for you.
Let's say you had only one cutting of a strain that you really love and it's got that same issue.
It's got PM, you can't get rid of it.
Would you rather lose a cut than potentially have to use some kind of systemic chemical type thing?
Or would you just lose it and kind of be happy with the memories?
So at that point, around 2005, I was one of the first people I knew that could get rid of powdery mildew.
It hit California pretty hard.
And before that, no one had really dealt with it.
After growing in Willits, Hannibalton, I moved up to Trinidad and Humboldt County and we lived right on the coast.
And I took Master Kush, Trainwreck, Sour Way, Purple Way, Sour Diesel, Headband, Pacific Northwest, Dog Shit, and the HP-13 clone up into that house.
And I was getting rid of the powdery mildew by getting the plants in a healthy grow environment, healthy humidity, good amount of light.
Healthy organic nutrients.
Growing the plants fast, spraying them with potassium silicate and neem oil at the time.
And that's my only method of attack back then was those two products.
And I had everything else clean for several runs of clones, you know.
And those two would just pop it out and I would just spray it on the plants.
And I would just spray it on the plants.
And I would just spray it on the plants.
And I had everything else clean for several runs of clones, you know.
And those two would just pop it out, the Pacific Northwest and the hash plant.
And I just killed them.
And I personally never used pesticides.
Strictly against it, 100% organic.
Nowadays, I'm not scared of anything.
I'm like, bring it on.
Because with my organic IPM regiments, I spray every other day with a Graco X9 paint sprayer.
Really hard when I'm cleaning up clones.
And I'll spray every other day with micronized sulfur for a month.
And then I'll switch to potassium silicate, neem oil, and essential oils.
And I'll spray every other day for a month of that.
And then I'll put them through like a week of green clean.
There's another product I'll use to just kill the fuck out of bugs and systemic or powdery mildew diseases.
And I feel like if you get enough of those products in the plant, they're in a healthy growing environment, growing fast, that you can get rid of anything.
And so here's the million dollar question.
Do you have to abandon crop if you get some kind of bug infestation?
You know, maybe root aphids, maybe mites.
If you're in flower.
Because that seems to be the big one I have issues discussing with people.
Like people say to me, you know, like I'm kind of converting to organics.
And they're like, well, what do I do if I get an issue in flower?
And it's kind of like, you just kind of avoid that.
And they're like, so there's really nothing you can do?
And it's like, well, yeah, you can't really spray the IPM stuff in flower.
So what do you say?
Like you just, prevention is the best answer?
So, you know, I've been growing since the early 90s.
And then I just told you how serious my IPM methods are to clean up clones.
And that's what I do before I decide to flower something.
I put them through literally two and a half months of every other day spraying.
Literally a micronized sulfur will kill micromites, spider mites, any fungal disease.
And then so essential oils, neem oil, and potassium silicate.
So I feel like you get in all those products in there, you're not going to have problems.
I've been growing forever.
Of course I've had runs that got fucked up by spider mites or powdery mildew.
But I grow, number one reason is for my personal head stash.
And I want really good, strong, clean meds.
And I'm dedicated.
And that's the reason I've developed that two and a half month of cleaning up clones before I bring them into my flower room.
And that also gives them really healthy so that I'm going to see their true genetic potential.
And not contaminate the rest of the collection.
And then I'll put the whole collection through that treatment once a year just in case.
So on the issue of PM, I've heard that some people say once a clone's got it, it's got it forever.
And the idea of it being systemic kind of hints to that.
But at the same time, I've never found hard evidence.
Do you believe that you can get rid of it?
Or you're just kind of beating it down to the point where it's not likely to manifest out?
I believe 100% that you can outrun it.
When I mentioned Hannibal and I moved to Trinidad and those Pacific Northwest dog shit and HP 13 kept persisting.
And we called those.
I didn't spray shit and we had no PM for eight years.
And I believe it was through getting the plants in a healthy environment, growing them fast and then taking cuttings off the top of the plant while you were hitting the plant at the same time with potassium silicate and NEMOS.
And both of those are fungicides in their own right.
And, you know, it might be in the stump.
But, you know, I took my stumps at that point, took the top of the cuttings and I fucking got rid of the stumps, you know, and just kept the tops.
And I believe 100% that you can get rid of powder, powdery mildew that way, especially if you use micronized sulfur, which I didn't know about back then.
That's even a tougher plant on the PM.
It's nothing I'd want to use for something I'd want to smoke.
But we're talking about cleaning up old genetics here so that they're not lost.
Okay.
And are you also of the opinion that sulfur is one of the more overlooked elements in when people are kind of building their soil?
100%.
It helps to bring out turps, I believe.
Yeah, fantastic.
And so, if we look at the discussion of genetics throughout history, people often say, oh, genetics used to be really good.
Do you think that what they're actually trying to maybe say is that there used to be more variety or do you think genetics in the past were better, like on average?
I think on average, the genetics are much better today.
I just think our genetic diversity has somewhat been lost, especially with the sativas that are very difficult to grow.
You grow them for twice the amount of time and you get these small spindly buds that is not really what the market wants now.
And some people, that's their cup of tea, those soaring psychedelic eyes.
And there's not many commercial growers that'll provide that for them.
And there's not very many places that people can go and buy those type of seeds unless it's haze or train wreck cross.
So, how do you tackle that issue of having really long flowering strains?
Let's just say an extreme example.
You're flowering a 16-week strain.
Sorry, no, let's just say 14.
No one's really flowering 16-week strains.
14-week strain, not that unheard of.
But should you be charging close to twice as much as a seven or eight-week strain?
How do you compensate that in the business model when, I guess, a lot of people are probably not going to expect, maybe they'll accept a bit of a price increase.
But maybe if you look at the flower time proportionally, they won't budge.
And that was the driving force that got us to this spot, wasn't it?
How do you think we tackle that issue?
You know, unfortunately, what I see is people that are complaining that there's no sativas.
But then when the sativas are available, they're not willing to pay any more for them, and the sativas actually get overlooked.
Pretty much, if you're a sativa lover, I recommend you get some good sativa genetics and grow them yourself in a greenhouse because that's where sativas really shine, in my opinion.
And so, if we look at the photos on your Instagram, a lot of them are from greenhouses.
In fact, you probably struggle to kind of find one in an indoor setting.
Do you do indoors at all or are you all outdoors?
No, I love indoor growing.
I keep a lot of my moms indoors currently.
I am excited actually to be moving them to my own facility with just me and Hannibal and Salinas.
I'm going for the legal permit down there, 10,000 square feet, so that we can keep the quality up.
But, you know, I love to work outside.
And if I had an opportunity to work in a greenhouse versus an indoor warehouse, I'm going to take the greenhouse any day of the week.
I love being outside.
I love being with nature, fresh air.
I'm not under the artificial lights, being under the sunlight.
And I'm really, really working hard to bring the quality of my greenhouse up to the quality of my indoor.
And, you know, that's a fun challenge for me.
Yeah, see, that's an interesting one in my opinion because often I find people, you know, they'll say outdoor is the best.
It's unbeatable.
And it's like, I think what they're really trying to say is like theoretically it can do better than indoor.
But rarely do I find personally outdoor that is better than indoor, at least my indoor.
How do you feel about that?
You know, like are you of the same opinion that like outdoor is the best, you know, in the sense of that mindset of like theoretically?
Or do you literally believe that or do you believe the opposite?
Man, I just like to be honest with myself.
And, you know, my favourite strains are indica.
And when I turn them out inside, they're fucking amazing.
And I'm getting close to that quality I feel like in the greenhouse now.
And I feel like greenhouse quality is definitely better than full sun.
I really love smoking full sun organic wheat, though, that being said, you know, if there's something about, especially if it's grown in the ground, you know,
and they can get some of the native soil and the flavours in the full season and just the whole experience is really good.
But, you know, if you're talking about growing an old clone, like one of my black dominos or one of my chem dogs or one of those old OGs,
indoor in a stable humidity and a stable temperature, those old client clones shine better.
They just like the stable environment.
I don't think it has to do with the lights.
I think it's more about the stable humidity, stable temperature.
Okay.
And so, you know, often you'll find that plants will grow slightly different phenotypically, slightly different taste wise and potency wise when you compare them indoors to outdoors.
Do you find that there are some strains that, you know, have one taste indoors and when it's outdoors, it's like it's quite a pronounced difference in flavour.
Like what strain to you has the biggest just natural variation when you transition it from indoors to say greenhouse?
Well, you know, the Chemdog D is one of the flavours that you can really hit or miss.
And I really enjoyed the full season sun grown I did last year.
It was really cool.
You get a lot of strains out in the sun and they're just going to have thicker stems and really shine.
But the best stuff outside, if you can get it in a greenhouse, is the sativas.
That's, you know, they just shine outside under the sun.
They don't like being close to the lamps.
They grow all tall, you know, and then getting close to that warm lamp, they don't seem to like it.
If you can get them in a greenhouse and just get them under the natural sun, they just, that's one of the strains that does turn out better outside than does inside from here are the sativas.
And so what's your favourite Landry's sativa?
To be honest with you, I really like this Panama Red stuff.
It's good.
I've been smoking the crap out of the THC Vena.
THC V Fina.
We haven't got the percentage tested, but I've been smoking that a lot.
And to be honest with you, I haven't worked with too many Landry's sativa lines.
Kegu, that's his specialty.
And like I said, I'm new to coastal seeds and I went for the old Afghani lines that I knew as a kid first.
And, you know, it's I have some cool old cuts, you know, that I like a lot.
One of my favourites is the monkey posits.
The soldier brought back Vietnamese black and he crossed it with the Nepalese highland sativa up in Michigan.
And that's a real clone that for like a 12 to 14 week sativa really has a lot of earthy cush flavours in it.
And they're really kind of grounding.
That's a paranoid of a high for sativa.
And that's one of my favourites.
The Pacific Northwest dog shit is another one of my favourite old sativa cuts.
Yeah, I mean, that's a plant we've never really spoke of on the show, but I think I read online that there's like a few fake shit cuts that go around.
What do you think about that?
Do you have you had anything along those lines or do you think like, no, it's just one of those cuts where there's a few.
There's other plants that have similar characteristics, but like, you know, it's fake essentially.
Well, there's a Humboldt dog shit, which is different from the Oregon Pacific Northwest dog shit.
And if you go to any of these clubs or dispensaries in California, they're going to have clones of everything on the menu.
And 99 out of 100 times, they're going to be fake.
So, it's pretty much you want your dog shit cut to come from a certain crew in Oregon, you know, because that's where, you know, it's the real one.
And that's what I'm big on my clones.
It's provenance.
I really try to get them through the right people so, you know, it's the right clone.
Yeah, okay.
And so, in general, when you're looking to do a breeding project, do you approach it in more of like a calculated method in that you kind of thinking what is going to pair really specifically well with a certain strain?
Or are you more so just like, I like this one male, let's hit everything with it and then see if any of them particularly work well?
No, I've kind of been doing kind of like in cross work where crossing these lines back into something that I think is in them, you know, or definitely confirmed in the strain, you know, to kind of stabilize it and bring it back to a pure form so that other breeders and friends can get these strains and back cross them further or take them and work lines with them.
I really want to provide old school genetics and stuff that's worthy for people to breed with.
Do you foresee a time where your breeding methods would have to change by virtue of just, you know, there's- let's just say we fast forward 10 years from now and coastal seeds has got an awesome menu with most land-raised strains on it, worked to a point where you're happy to have it publicly available.
Do you think you would then look at say doing some F1 hybrids with land-raised strains kind of similar to how Bodie does or what would you look to do at that point if, you know, you had to kind of- if you were forced to evolve out of just doing preservation work?
Well, I'm going to spend 50% of my time pretty much doing the preservation pure lines and then I'm going to spend the other 50% concentrating on these NL lines with the hash plant and M10 and working those.
Okay. And do you have an end goal foreseeable with those or you just kind of see where it takes you?
I want to remake that old kill strain from North Carolina that I used to got. That's the best weed I've ever smoked. The Rapture, the kill.
And sorry, you said that was a G13 cross NL hash plant?
NL hash plant, NL G13. Yes. Old school Amsterdam stock.
So how are you going to fill that NL G13 spot?
Luckily, I just got that airborne G13.
Okay. And you think it'll- it was maybe the airborne used originally or you like- because I guess what I'm thinking is the airborne G13 in my eyes is not like pure G13, you know, it's like it's a cross.
It's the closest I can get and it's actually- I think it's G13 by NL2. So it's actually half the work done for me.
Yeah. Okay. And so do you think the real original G13 is still out there or you just think like, no, we haven't heard about it for so long. It's most likely gone.
You know, I like to think that anything could be out there. You know, a lot of people that put in work don't come online. I just came online with my Instagram account a few years ago, you know, and I had tons of strains that people really didn't have.
And, you know, I've really shared them a lot, you know.
Yeah. Okay.
So you never know who's going to come out and bring a blast from the past. And a lot of time when these classics come up, they want cookies or Skittles or something like that for these old classic gems. And I'm happy to blotch.
So what is the most terpene-rich plant you've ever had or grown yourself? That's a bit of a just totally different question.
Wow, there's so many of them. Unfortunately, a lot of time when you get super high amount of terpenes in a strain, you don't really get potency. And that's a rare combination. You know, this lemon tree out of Santa Cruz, that's one of the few strains that really combines the two together. It's an amazing cut.
Yeah. Do you know the history behind the lemon tree? It seems to have gotten popularity really quickly. I mean, I think people may have seen it. Swamp boys breed with an S1 of it as a mother. So that's even a bit of an interesting thing in itself.
Yeah, I have the cut through Santa Cruz and it is literally, since I harvested it, it's like this top 10, maybe top five in the collection. I've heard it's, you know, maybe an old strain called a lemon drop or a lemon Thai cross.
It's a very short, compact indica growing plant with a very lemon strong flavour and a narcotic high. So very strong.
And so you think this isn't a new hybrid, but just something that's been unknown for a long time? And like, do you kind of know any more of the genetics besides the potential that it's the lemon drop?
You know, that's all I know. That's pretty much it. The rest would just be me taking somebody that's something else, you know? Might not be true and I don't want to lead anyone in the wrong direction, but I'm pretty sure that's kind of like what the guys are saying.
Yeah. So I mean, on the other spectrum of instead of being a hyper cut like lemon tree, what do you think is the most underrated cut? You know, the one that doesn't get enough cred for what it is?
You know, I think Kim Dogg-Dee sent down the best weed and I don't have that many people that agree with me unless I smoke it with them.
The Black Dominance are really good. The Super Scully, the Puck Hash Plant when done proper is really, really good. Red Lebanese Hash Plant I have is an amazing cut. The 88G13 Hash Plant. Those are all some of the most kind of underrated. I guess 88G13 Hash Plant's been getting a lot of respect because Bodhi used it.
Yeah. Okay. So just while we're on the topic, I guess you kind of already answered it. Overall, you just said you prefer the Chem D, but do you think the 91 is more potent than the D or no, the D actually takes the potency for you as well?
Potency 100%. When done right, I think they're both very picky, but you know, I think they're equally picky. People say the 91's pickier, but I think the D is very picky too. And it's mine and Hannibal's favorite weed.
Okay. And so what's the one cut you most wish you could get your hands on?
HP 13.
And are you confident it is still around?
Yeah, either through the Island Crew or the New York Crew. I could probably get it. It's just, you know, that's obviously a lot of work.
Okay. And so I found an interesting photo on your Instagram feed, you know, it's, I'm pretty sure it's like a compost tea from what you said in the description, but honestly, it looks like soil with these crazy mycelium hyphae forming all through it. Kind of looks like, you know, kind of the way Bokashi does to your topsoil. What's your recipe for an awesome tea like that? Because that was like the most photogenic looking tea I've ever seen.
Yeah. So one of the key ingredients for me to get that mycelium that's thick, it'll literally stop fungus gnats dead in their tracks. It'll kill them is the Grokashi. And then, you know, you mix that with some Dragonfly Earth Medicine, Brilliant Black, and then some really high quality compost and earthworm castings.
It's really, you know, really, I can't emphasize, you know, how important it is to get high quality of those two products and also to get several sources of high quality compost, several sources of high quality earthworm castings for the biodiversity. The keys are the Grokashi and the Brilliant Black. They just get it looking like a carpet.
And so in general, how would you describe your growth style? Are you like, you know, you kind of run like a no-till type of system or more of like a super soil type of thing or liquid? How would you describe yourself?
I would describe my style as I do a lot of top dressing. I do a lot of fresh extractions of earthworm castings and compost. I don't brew them. I'll just extract them into the water and water immediately. Lots of foiler feeds as we go into the first beginning of flower and through veg, you know, to really make sure it has everything it needs and the right parts of the plant and the top of the plant.
And then, you know, I just kind of, you know, sounds a little hokey pokey, but I just can look at the plants and, you know, I get high and I spend time around them and I can just read the plants and what they're lacking and how happy they are by how they're holding their leaves and how their growth is.
And I really feel like if you can hang out in your grow room for a certain period of time, look at your plants, kind of vibe off of them, leave for a little bit, go take a bunch of bong hits or, you know, smoke a joint, whatever you like to do, and then go back in and just read and vibe. You do that a couple of times a day for a long period of time, you're really going to be able to just walk into a grow room and look at plants and be like, that's that strain.
That strain is unhappy because of the way it's holding its leaves. I can see, you know, different strains by, you know, their leaves and just how happy they are. And, you know, you really, you know, it just comes with spending time with the plants.
And so, what do you think is the kind of upper ceiling of what one person can tend to in terms of plant numbers and giving them adequate care? Because I think a lot of people are worried about the idea of big companies coming along and, you know, like the idea of like a grower having to tend to like 10,000 plants in a day. And it's like, it's like, surely you're spreading yourself too thin at that point. The plants can't be getting enough attention. What for you is, do you think the upper limit?
Yeah, well, you know, I grew nine acres for a hemp company in Colorado. And by the time we got it back around to the other side of the field to water them, they were about to die of water. And, you know, that wasn't a fun experience. And since then, I've turned down a couple job offers to be, you know, head growers for large operations.
And Hannibal and I decided to, you know, go for it and put the whole life savings and to go get permitted in Monterey County in Salinas and get a 10,000 square foot permit. And, you know, that'll be cool because I'll be able to have the collection in there safe and a greenhouse and...
Yeah, for sure. And so, a question I wanted to ask you, because I think you might be able to give an interesting perspective on it. I've done some research on the history of Northern Lights, and I'm sure you're pretty well versed in it, given the projects you're doing. I have a feeling that the guy who first gave Neville the Northern Lights, you know, the Indian Joe, I have a feeling that's Romulan Joe. What do you think about that?
So, for a long time growing up, I'd heard that they were the same person. Recently, when I started the project, we did a lot of investigation, KU calling up old friends, me doing any research, Bollywood BAM doing computer research. And Bollywood BAM found this High Times article where it said they were the same person.
KU's research led to the fact that they are definitely different people from what I believe and what he told me. I think some of the original Northern Lights guys are on Facebook. I'm not on Facebook myself.
From what he told me, some guy named Herbie is the guy that brought him back from Afghanistan and gave him to Seattle Greg. Seattle Greg worked with two Joes, and one of them was Indian Joe. That's who KU's friend, Classic Seeds, met up in Oregon, and that's where he got the NL number one stock.
So, I think Seattle Greg is in the islands and that would be one hell of an interview if you could get him to talk.
Huh, interesting. And so, do you think it's with people like this where that old stock resides, not just necessarily for Northern Lights but for everything type thing?
You know, if they still have some Northern Lights, that would be very cool. We're not supposed to release the Northern Lights pure ourselves, so we're only supposed to release hybrids.
And why do you think they wouldn't want to come forward and get credit for what is easily the poster child of all cannabis?
I just think, from what I've heard, maybe he hasn't been approached by somebody like you. I think if he's admitted it on Facebook, why wouldn't he want to admit it on a bigger show and get further into it?
Hmm, okay. We'll have to follow that up.
So, I've been digging around on Instagram for a bit and I found a post which says that you have a legendary backstory behind the Red Lebanese Hash Plant and you think it could be closely related to the G13. What is that story?
Well, from my understanding, Howard Marks, the smuggler, gave Neville his two favorite strains, the Red Lebanese Hash Plant and the G13 from America.
Howard Marks is also known as Mr. Nice. He's since passed away. Rest in peace. He obviously was importing a lot of weed from all over the world to England and to Europe.
He shared some of those Red Lebanese seeds with somebody in California.
And by the way, Wood Bam was given the cut to hold on to because they knew he held on to stuff. And he gave it to me a few years ago and I've been holding on to it. It's from the same stock. I 100% believe that. From smell, taste, grow, stone. It's just, unfortunately, we just have the cutting. We don't have seed stock.
That's really interesting to know. So what can people expect from the Northern Light Crosses you've made? What type of plants should someone expect if they buy this packet? And more importantly, what would you advise each person to get? So if I'm looking for a real super narcotic one, which one is the one I should go for?
Well, to be honest with you, if they're not up to par, I'm not releasing them. And some of my favorites this far are the Black Lights and the Pacquiao, the Super Scully hash plant by the Northern Lights No. 1 and Sensi-Suits selection of Black Domino by Northern Lights No. 1.
Just because I like to smoke them others a lot. And I just like that old school narcotic Indica bus.
Yeah, okay. And so just last question on Northern Lights for the moment. Often I've read things online saying that the SSC, in a lot of their crosses, they used a strain called the Basic 5. I've heard people say that they think that's just like what they called the Northern Lights 5. Do you think they were the same or different?
I think that they were the same from my understanding. The Basic 5 was the NL5.
How do you think it got to the point where people think of Afghanis as these squat Indica plants and no one really thinks of them as these taller thinner leaf plants, even though they were definitely there?
From what I heard, a lot of the original hippies that went over there, they make their own hash and they preferred the little bushweeds that grew in the drainage ditches that were these really fat-leaved Indicas that were really slow growing, hard to grow.
And what the people were actually growing fields of was a taller growing variety, just easier to grow. And easier to grow an acre of because growing an acre of babakush is a pain in the ass.
Yeah, for sure.
So, Bollywood Bam got a bunch of seeds from his father, unfortunately right before his father was killed by a suicide bomber in Afghanistan. He calls it the last laugh after his father.
That's a much taller growing, longer inner node Afghan. I guess his father had connections and he got it from the Department of Agriculture over there in Afghanistan and the strain had 250 years of provenance behind it, documented.
It's not what we were all thinking. We were going to see Afghani. It was a taller, very drought resistant, very tough plant that had CBD in the gene pool, THC in the gene pool, purple in the gene pool, green in the gene pool.
They were a denser Indica nut, but they had a taller, stretchier inner node structure and something that would be better for large scale agriculture.
And the only time he's released any of that was for the auction for Mandelbrot Sun and he just kind of keeps that line tight.
So, would you guys ever consider working with it or you just don't see it having that much breeding potentially because it's just so suited for just an entirely different style of growing to what we do?
You know, Bam has done a few open pollinations on it and that's a question you'd have to ask him.
Okay. And so, how would you feel about ever doing a cross where you're really kind of mixing old and new, you know, like one of your old school lines, like, you know, maybe the Panama with something totally new, you know, like just to throw a random one out there, pure Cush, you know, one of the kind of more newer hybrids.
Well, you know, you'll see some of those for me, but mostly you'll see the older, you know, classics clones that have stood the test of time.
Bollywood Bam likes to breed with some of the newer clones.
So, you'll see that from him, you know, when he did the Puna Butter Cookies and the Holy Head Bam.
Those were two examples of him breeding in that style.
Mostly what you're going to see from Kegu is open pollination, Lanrys, Pure, Sativas.
So, that's the cool thing when we come together.
Hannibal likes something, Bollywood Bam likes something, I like something and Kegu likes something.
We all share genetics and then breed for what we like.
And so, are you kind of the same school of thought of what I think DJ Short is kind of quoted as saying is that, you know, at the end of the day, all that really matters is the end effect.
And so, I guess the underlying question I'm wondering is, what makes something worthwhile breeding for you?
Does it just come down to effect or does it have to be a compromise of things?
So, it's 100% effect.
I want, you know, to breed for strong Indicus, you know.
I remember and I want to have and those are the favourites in my collection and I have them fresher, you know, rejuvenated, not, you know, 15 to 30 year old cats is, you know, a really exciting thought.
Yeah, for sure.
And so, what is the biggest fear you have about the sweeping out slash, you know, kind of unrolling of legalisation in California?
How do you think it's going to affect things positively and negatively?
Well, unfortunately, there's a lot of people getting into it that see nothing but dollar signs and they're growing way too much weed.
That's why we went for the 10,000 square foot permit and it's actually the smallest permit available.
And, you know, that way we can pay attention to our weed and Hannibal and I can grow it and it'll be grown by us and not by irrigation or other people that we hire to work.
We can actually handle it ourselves and with, you know.
But, you know, I had to basically, you know, spend every single penny we'd ever saved in our life just to do it and it's been extremely stressful.
And the fact that, you know, it is going to be competitive, it's going to be hard, you know, for certain people to be nice like they were sharing genetics with friends and, you know, the greed, you know, just because everyone's putting their whole life on the risk.
That's not a good thing.
You know, the people getting into it from other industries just for money.
That's not a good thing.
Old school people being left out and taking advantage of, you know, that's the worst thing.
That's why I advise anybody team up with your friends and try to get a permit, you know, go wherever you can.
You got to get them now or you're going to be shut out in California.
And let's, you know, keep the power with the people that have been pioneering and working with this plant their whole lives.
They deserve it.
You know, one of the good things that's going to come out of it is, you know, me getting them out of collection and a place where, you know, I can go over 99 plants and keep them legally safe because in Santa Cruz I'm only allowed 99.
And then being able to select over 99 without fear, you know, and to be able to show stuff like that, you know, to people on Instagram, you know, because a lot of times they don't get to see everything just for safety's sake.
Yeah, without a doubt.
So, just to play devil's advocate, let's say the worst case situation happens where there is just a few large companies mass producing really bad quality wheat.
Do you think in that situation things would revert back to how they were before legalization where we go back to, you know, people just doing stuff underground, growing, you know, the better stuff and, you know, the black market blooms again?
So, you know, I like to think that, you know, this show will hopefully encourage people in California if they don't have their permits to go out and get their permits.
I would like to see the people that have been in the game stay in the game, you know.
But like that, you know, if, you know, I said Hannibal and I are risking our whole life savings on it and we're going to work our hardest to make it work, you know, and we work hard.
But, you know, if it didn't, shit, I'd be in another state in a house, someone else paying all the fucking bills, you know.
I'm never going to stop. I won't stop. I can't stop. It's what the fuck I do.
I didn't have any fear then. I'm not going to have fear, you know.
But I'm putting everything I got into making it in the legal industry.
And so a question that's quite specifically relevant to Australia.
Do you think that people should compromise for access to medicine if it's, you know, sub quality, you know, is it worth allowing like a pseudo medical system through if all it is, is, you know, like large companies, you even like specifically people like tobacco industries are really looking at getting in the game.
If it was just a few big providers like them, would you settle for that in terms of like as a society should we settle for that or should we be like, no, have to be able to grow our own or at least have, you know, some means of access to high quality medicine.
Yeah, I say overgrow the government.
Everyone in Australia should be growing their own medicine legal or not.
You know, if it's not legal, just don't tell anybody.
Don't tell anybody.
Just, you know, do it like we did in Virginia in old school days and make the good medicine there for the people and grow it good and from form your crews and, you know, form your networks to get the buds to the patients underground.
You know, definitely don't trust the man to grow your medicine.
You know, everybody should be able to grow their own medicine.
And if they're too sick to grow their own medicine, they should know that someone's going to grow up for him.
Let's stop fucking spraying pesticides on it or, you know, doesn't give two shits about it because I feel like it's a type of plant that needs love and it needs, you know, a caring person to take care of it or the medicine ain't going to be the same.
Yeah, yeah, I'm definitely the same belief.
And so just to kind of get into our last couple of questions, who's a breeder who you really like their work, you know, and, you know, bonus points if it's not someone who's just doing land race work.
Archive, CSI, Top Dog, Freeborn Selections, Dos Peros, Bodhi Seeds.
I know I'm leaving some out because, you know, it's the actually I feel like it's the golden age of America, American breeders right now with, you know, the selections and this, the community, you know, being able to get so many different clones off of Instagram and stuff.
And so many different people are breeding and going in different directions.
It's going to be cool to see how shit progresses because I know Coastal Seeds is going to be trying to provide the land race building blocks.
And, you know, there's people out there trying to progress stuff and bring new flavors.
So there's just so many different people with different goals and so many people breeding in America that it's, you know, it's kind of the golden age.
And so if you were just a breeder, sorry, sorry.
And so if you were just a grower and you had to go out right now and you had to buy one pack of seeds, modern hybrid, which pack would you buy?
Chemdog from Top Dog.
One of his pure chemdog crosses, preferably one of the Trez Dog back crosses because I feel like the Trez Dog triple back cross chem D he made is one of the best breedings in the marijuana community in history.
You know, he gave those Trez Dog seeds to High and Lonesome.
High and Lonesome bred the Dog Waltz and the Apple HL with Bodie bred with.
And then JJ kept him and worked him himself and made the Star Dog and their original New York City Diesel.
And there are so many keeper Star Dog cuts.
And my Dog Waltz cut is one of the most amazing and all the amazing stuff that's come from the Appalachia.
So I'd say, you know, just going to have to go with the odds that as history stacked down and go for some inbred chem from JJ if I had to go for one pack.
Sounds good. And so what are your kind of, you know, top five, top ten favorite strains for just smoking yourself?
Chemdog, OG, Black Domina, My Hash Plants and then more Chemdog D.
Nice tight list.
But I love everything. If I didn't love it, I wouldn't keep it.
So my headband is one of my favorites. I love Sour Diesel.
There's so many of them. I love all these new strains. I love Dosey Dose. I love the real good cookie cuts. I love the Sunset Sherbert.
You know, I just got that papaya. That's pretty impressive stuff. I'm smoking on that now.
You know, the strawberry banana from Crockett. You know, that's some serious fire.
A lot of stuff from Bodie. It's really good.
Hippie Slayer, Dread Bread. Yeah, it's pretty deep.
You know, I could never even remember all the cleans I have at once. That's why, you know, labeling a list is very important.
Yeah, no worries.
So if you could have one strain back that you used to have but have lost, what one would it be?
Oh, there's so many. So one is tough. I had Sagmartha's Bubbleberry from like 96 and that stuff was amazing.
Every pheno in there was amazing. I never had my hands on the Rapture Kill, but you know, that would obviously be it.
But I never actually got it. I did get some seeds and I later crossed those to NL AK 47 and made some really good hybrids that I would love to have those.
I was growing those in Colorado in like 99-2000. NL AK by Super Silver Haze crossed into the Rapture.
And I had two phenos back then and anyone I smoked them with, you know, would admit they were one hit shit.
And I'd have to say those. Unfortunately, I've lost all the seeds from that line.
Yeah. And so who's some breeders you'd love to do a collab with?
Bodhi, CSI, Top Dog.
Keeping it calm.
Those are guys that, you know, I've been putting in work for years and I highly, highly respect them.
Yeah. Awesome. And so if you could go back in time to anywhere to get one Land Race strain or seeds, you know, from anywhere, where would you go and what would you get?
I'd probably be buying from Sensi Seeds, a bunch of hash plant in Black Diamond right when they were released.
But if it was, you know, I had to go for a land race, I'd be in Afghanistan and, you know, like 1977 and the Hindu Kush Mountains close to Pakistan.
Nice. And so final question. What are your top traits you look for in a male when you're breeding?
He's got to be like the sisters that are keepers. You know, if the sisters aren't keepers, I ain't going to fucking breed with the male.
You know, keep them around for a long time and torture them.
Yeah.
Just make sure he stands. Yeah. Make sure you can stand that test of time. And yeah, don't, you know, mess, put him through the wringer.
Awesome. So thanks so much for coming on the show and for spending the time talking to us. I look forward to growing out some Puck you hopefully.
Thanks for having me. You know, I love talking about this plant and it was a real pleasure to be here and talk with you. You're an amazing host. Can't wait to meet up in session person.
Awesome.
A huge thank you again to Bob sitting down and talking to us.
Be sure to check out coastal seeds.
Particularly, there's the upcoming release of the Northern Lights lines through CTN.
A big shout out to 420 Australia and OGS as always helping to make this episode happen.
And a big thank you to you guys for listening.
See you.
