Welcome everyone to the first episode of The Podcast, a cannabis breeding and culture podcast.
Our first episode is proudly sponsored by 420 Australia, your premier clothing and lifestyle
store, as well as the Brothers Grimm Seed Company.
You know them, they're back with the favorites and more.
In our first episode, we have Duke Diamond, VA of the Brothers Grimm, who was kind enough
to sit down for the best part of three hours, as well as giving us a tour of the Brothers
Grimm facility in Colorado.
Although this show is a podcast, this episode was actually going to be a video episode.
However, unfortunately, due to a technology gremlin, the video didn't save properly and
we only have the audio.
However, this doesn't affect the interview at all.
Also, I just quickly wanted to apologize to Mr. Sol and Duke.
The first 20 seconds of the interview was cut out and this was when they were both introducing
themselves.
So again, my apologies, but we're just going to jump right into the interview just after
they've introduced themselves as we've walked into the first mother of the tour.
You're looking at the, this is a sour diesel skunk hybrid here.
You know, the original sour diesel was a skunk that came out of Virginia and it got crossed
with the chem dog and that made your sour diesel.
So what I did was I took the same genetic, my skunk is from the same family, and we crossed
it to the sour diesel to bring out more of the skunky side of things there.
So, you know, we have a couple of those right here.
We have, yeah, man.
And then over here we have the same skunk male to the chem dog.
So essentially we've made a sour diesel using, just using a regular male instead of like
a hermaphrodite accident, you know.
So having these two, yeah, we'll grow them out.
You know, we'll look at little different traits, you know, like little leaf traits, like how
thin, thick variegation or the serrations and branching patterns and things like that.
And then we can take these things and kind of assess them and we could actually use this,
like maybe a male from this to the female sour diesel clone and maybe out cross back
to the sour diesel skunk depending on what traits we're looking for, whether it be yield
or something cool like that.
Okay.
So you're almost doing a sour diesel IBL in a way.
Yeah, exactly.
Like we'll put it into a seed form to where like, you know, everybody chases down that
clone and with that clone, they kind of screw up, you know, because there's a lot of fake
ones, you know, and everybody over here wants to be a special little snowflake and they're
like, oh yeah, we got it, we got it.
They ain't got shit, man.
They ain't got nothing.
They got some bag seed from something that ain't even sour, right?
So it's pretty cool that if people could actually like grow that in seed form and be able to
experience that too and be able to like sprout seeds and actually have them come up sour
and diesel and, you know, have something good.
And just for everyone listening, you're referring to AJ's sour diesel as the original?
Yeah, like he didn't breed it or anything, but the guys up around Albany and up in New
York City, those are the guys who created her.
A friend of mine on Instagram, he goes by Skunk VA.
He's the guy who traded him the skunk for the chem dog back in 94.
And that's the crew that made the sour diesel.
It was an accident, really.
But, you know, it got made.
It's so interesting because I was wondering, how did you tie into the whole chem family?
Well, back in, let's see, I think it was 2004, I met a guy, chem dog, everybody called him
back in. It was Mass G for Massachusetts.
And G was his initial, his first name.
That just kind of bumped into him.
I was going and hitting up like music festivals and things like that.
And, you know, we decided like, hey, let's hang out.
And I had a cutting of, you know, ironically enough right now, Cinderella 99, which is all
that stuff back there.
Yeah, it's all Cindy.
But so he really wanted that.
And I was like, yeah, no problem.
So we get together and we're smoking and everything.
And he's like, yeah, you know, I got this stuff I grow called chem dog.
If you want to try it.
And I was like, yeah, man, absolutely.
So and here we are at this point.
This is the chem dog D right here.
So that's how you got your cut.
Yeah, he says, yeah, try this.
And, you know, he's a really big guy to huge hands, big, burly dude.
And he gives me this little tiny, tiny bong.
And he's like, yeah, hit it.
So I took two hits off of it and I started to sweat, man.
And I mean, fucked up like a soup sandwich, man, like really, really high.
And he's like, you think it's any good?
And I was like, damn right, it's good.
I love it.
And he's like, what do you want it?
And I was like, absolutely not.
Took him up some claims of skunk and white widow and a bunch of bunches
different stuff, G13 hybrids and anyway, he gives me this and gives me a whole
bunch of stuff like super snow dog and a whole bunch of cool stuff.
And then like over here, this is the original.
This is the what they call the 91.
It also goes by the skunk VA.
My buddy, he's he's the guy kind of held her safe for, you know, 20 something years.
So but that's her.
She she's a little more viney, you know, a little more lanky and everything.
But man, killer, killer weed on earth.
I mean, it's so, so strong.
And then like hell, everybody's always like, God, so much like OG and stuff.
So here this is the triangle Kush here, which is actually like the mother of all
what they call OG strains, you know, she's from Florida in 1992.
But yeah, you can kind of get a look at that structure and like how, you know,
she's very notey, you know, and then like you can look at the Ken dog and you can
kind of see some of those some of those same traits.
So, yeah, I hear a lot about the history of OGs and you hear about things like the
creepy and obviously triangle Kush quite a bit.
You think it's pretty definitively triangle Kush?
Oh, yeah.
So like you heard of Cornbread Ricky before, right?
Yeah, he's pretty big on Instagram.
Yeah, yeah. So he's got swamp boy seeds and stuff.
So he's the guy who gave that triangle its name.
I don't know if you all know about like the mysterious things of the world.
They have the Bermuda Triangle, you know, where Amelia Earhart was flying and got
lost in it and all that.
So the way I got that name was, you know, stuff would fuck you up so bad, man.
And you would yeah, you get lost where the hell you're going.
So they ended up calling it the triangle and like they're from Florida, too.
So, you know, that name kind of stuck.
But me and him have talked and, you know, these these plants, I can't really get into
it too much. But these plants, they're very, very, very closely related.
So it all boils down to a couple of people that were doing some things, kind of
running in the same circles.
But just, you know, that type of deal.
Old illegal world.
Yeah. So just stay on that same point.
A lot of your plants, they look so fantastic.
It's unbelievable how old some of them are.
What's your opinion on how to keep your clones nice and vigorous, you know, not letting
them go to crap over time?
Well, I would say the number one thing to do.
So I'll tell you what, man, I'm going to take you all on a tour to the mom area here
where we keep our old mother plants and all these good things.
Also, probably a little bit quieter, too.
Yeah, I know.
So like right here, this is a master kush from 1996.
Oh, wow. Nice big broad leaves.
Oh, yeah.
So like the key, I would say is, you know, you keep a plant healthy.
Now, when my cousins gave me this back in the day, you know, we kept things pretty
pretty healthy. Now, I got busted DEA back in 2007 and I had some friends, you know,
keep cuttings here and there.
And my one friend, we used to call him the butcher because like he'd keep a grass over
him 110 degrees.
He'd have spider mites.
He wouldn't feed them right.
You know, plant looked like utter dog shit.
So, you know, you get a cutting back from him and I mean, this looks terrible.
You don't even think this thing's going to live.
But if you take the cutting and I'll throw you a little trick.
So if you got something really, really sick, a plant, cannabis plant, they put off a
it's called salicylic acid.
That's part of their immune system.
So like to us, like be like me and you getting like some antibiotics to help us beat an
infection or something.
So what you do is you get aloe vera powder or aloe vera water.
Now, that's very high dose of salicylic acid.
You can water it with that.
And there's something else called neem cake that is really rich and it's called
azidactrin.
All these things help to support the immune system.
So if you give it that and then you're also, you know, like me, I'm a soil guy.
Everything's all organic soil.
So if you got a good microbial life in your dirt here and you got what it needs to
eat and thrive and you got a good light source on it, you can make that clone look
great. So if I told you that, you know, before you're seeing this, that when I got
this clone, it looked like something barely alive.
Well, you treat it good.
You grow out a big, nice mom like this and then you start taking good, healthy
cuttings. And once you keep that good, healthy cutting, long as you keep it healthy,
man, you know, they're good for for years and years and years.
Now, you'll have to excuse me, like some of these like this one, we just got through
taking a whole bunch of clients, man, for new breeding program.
But it's so beautiful.
Don't worry. Thank you, man.
But this one here, this is from 1984.
This is what urban poison.
Yeah, but still just as vigorous as can be kicking ass over here.
We have the airborne G13.
I forgot the exact year, but I think it's somewhere around like 86 or 88,
something along the lines.
But yeah, man, keep it healthy.
And then over here we got 88 G13 hash plant.
It's been hacked on a little bit for cuttings and all, but the one and nice.
Yeah, man, the one and only man, the Thrilla.
So just kind of looping back to the that other point you made, especially in terms of
talking about kind of the biochemistry behind it.
I love the Krebs cycle post you had on your Instagram.
And I personally know that you're an engineer, but I was wondering, did you do any like
biology or biochemistry courses at all?
Because you seem to have a fairly good grasp of that as well.
Yeah, they are.
So the school I went to, basically, they're like, you know, y'all are a bunch of country
pumpkins and like you guys, you know, you better learn how to work on a car or wire
something up or weld something or, you know, you kids are going to be screwed.
But they also say where I'm from is big, big agricultural area.
So we grew a lot of tobacco, soybeans, tomatoes, you know, about anything you can
think of. And we grow a little weed back in the woods, you know, a little supplemental
income. But we did have like some pretty decent little classes in high school.
Now, they weren't like very advanced, but it was enough to really get my interest
piqued. And basically, man, a little cheap library card.
I do all the research and I could and anything I can learn, man, I try to pick it up and
then I would apply it and I'd say, OK, that's good or it's bad.
And I just kept the good things and left the bad shit behind.
And yeah, it's definitely helps if you, you know, you get into a little bit of the
biology and that gives you a pretty good fundamental on how plants work and
photosynthesis and chloroplast and chlorophyll and all these different things.
But if you can understand why something does what it does, when it does it and how
you can help facilitate that, that's all the base knowledge you need.
And then like when you start finding out like, oh, OK, so these plants, when they're
stressed out or pissed off, well, they want to start producing salicylic acid to help
their responses.
So like think about what's this plant's response, right?
Like why does it produce resin?
Well, it's horny, man.
It wants pollen and wants to catch pollen and get pregnant.
Also, man, it's fucking bright in here, man.
They want to produce sunscreen as well.
And also like, you know, hell, man, like right now.
So I just plucked that leaf off right here, right?
So I plucked that leaf off.
It doesn't know I plucked that leaf off.
It thinks something's eating it.
So right now it's sitting there saying, oh shit, something's eating me.
What should I do?
So all of its responses are, you know, putting off resin for sunscreen to get pregnant or
maybe to produce more toxins or in our case, drugs like THC.
So when this little rabbit eats this little leaf, he's going to think twice about it
because he's all fucked up now, shaken and shit.
So you just kind of learn how to stimulate responses and then facilitate those
responses the best that you can, whether it's aloe water, salicylic acid, you know, or
coconut water with enzymes and cytokines to help it produce more plant material, in our
case, flowers.
You know, and you're just trying to give it everything it needs as well as kind of
teeth, isn't it?
Like the horse and the carrot, you know, you dangle it in front of the horse and it gets
you going.
Yeah.
So more or less, man.
So I guess this kind of brings us into this kind of domain of, you know, how much of
breeding and high quality production is science versus, say, an art, you know, there's
always this debate of science versus art.
And, you know, I frequently hear of people like your friend JJ NYC of Top Dog and people
talk about how he has this knack, this hunch for picking males, you know.
Do you think at the end of the day, a good breeder is just mostly going on a scientific
approach or there's a little something extra involved?
So the eye that people speak of, you know, like when me and Sol walk into a room and
we're looking at plants, what's striking in our eye where we say, hey, we're looking at
a certain trait in a plant.
It's basically that we've done it so much that it's a learned thing.
So it technically it is science.
Like we're basically boiling down to gene pairs and frequencies of these desirable
gene pairs, things that we like that we want to see more of.
So say, for instance, so make that strain, Grymdica, right?
You've seen them big ass buds, right?
Oh, yeah.
So the mother plant, the hash plant, it grows buds, man.
Like the biggest ones probably about, you know, oh man, it looks huge because of the
punch in my head.
That's right.
Y'all are millimeters and centimeters.
So like a bud would be like the size of an ink pen, right?
The longest one.
Now on the other side, it throws colas that are the size of a man's forearm.
Now, if I want to see those forearm buds on that female plant, I can say, well, in our
male, we know that, hey, you know, he looks like this.
The other male looks like this.
Other male looks like this.
So we could say that male one has a thinner leaf, maybe a particular smell to the stem
rub, and say he's thin and sweet.
Say male number two is super wide leaf and a little more fuely.
And say male number three is something in between the two.
Now, if we look at the sisters of these males, we could say that male number two, with
the kind of big fat leaves, his females, you know, counterparts, his sisters, throw big,
huge colas, right?
So these two traits could be linked.
So big fat leaf could also be linked to big fat bud and floral cluster.
Or it could be the opposite, you know?
So you would know to say that, OK, so the male that I'm wanting to roll with could be
this big fat one if I'm looking for yield.
So I take this big fat wide leaf thing, I pollinate this hash plant, and then we look
at the results.
So now in the progeny, man, we're looking at these children and these kids, man, we
notice that, you know, you're still going to see these thin leafed phenotypes, you know,
that maybe have the smaller bud.
And you're also going to see the other phenotype with the wider leaf.
And you notice, hey, they're throwing big, huge buds again.
So we could refine this a step further and take like a, you know, a male, same type deal,
female and take it to enough two generation.
And then we could do it again and take it to enough three.
And basically what you're looking to do is if you were only trying to do that one thing,
that's cool. But we're not that fortunate.
You know, our crops, we're looking for smell, we're looking for flavor, we're looking for
potency, yield, vigor, all these different things.
So you're trying to up the frequencies of all these desirable things and know how to
find them by these, like I said, these gene pairs.
So I might be looking at a leaf trait on one, come out with a smell trait.
I could be looking at health, even the serrations or how many leaves that it's actually
producing on these fan leaves or a number of different things.
There's root mass, there's speed of growth.
How long did the males take to get to sexual maturity was always a big one for me, like
as far as potency.
How fast is it veg?
Is it veg slow?
Is it veg quick?
Because all the plants, they have this energy in them, you know, like so if he's not
trying to grow super quick, that means his energy is in there.
He's going to do something with it.
So maybe it's going to be throwing big massive buds in flower or maybe all his energy
is going into resin production.
Right. So a lot of it is, you know, you go off of these things first, then you see what
you come up with at the end and then you can assess it from there and move forward.
Another step would be instead of the filial generation breeding, we could take these and
like say back cross it, you know.
So let's say now I'm throwing these big, massive, huge buds, but I lost a little
potency. But the mama hash plant, man, you know, puts your dick in the dirt.
So I might say, well, I'll find my male out of that F1 generation, look for that big leaf
trait again for those big buds and then back cross it back to the original mom and try
to regain some potency from there, you know.
Yeah. So with kind of that same topic in mind, we see like labs these days offering
tests claiming they can tell the sex of males before they've even got more than a
couple of nodes going.
How do you think this kind of thing plays into the scene?
Do you think it's like a fad or do you think this technology will legitimately find a
use in most breeders stable?
I think that with the price of it and the availability of it coming that I really do
think that it would help if I could put genetic markers on these things like these
pairs that I'm able to see with my eye.
It would help me along to be able to say, well, it's definitely this, you know,
they're science backing this up.
I had these markers put into place for yield and potency.
So it would it would help me along pretty good.
But I mean, you got to be a rich motherfucker to be able to afford all that right now.
And, you know, guys like Sol and myself, we've done it for so many years without
being able to go to a lab, you know, or any of these things where we can do it, do it
by eye and putting it on paper and recording these things.
So, you know, it does help.
But on the other token, like, you know, I absolutely need it.
It is a nice thing.
Don't get me wrong, but, you know, we can still accomplish what we're looking to do,
you know, without the labs and everything.
Yeah, for sure.
So kind of how you just mentioned you've been doing this for years.
Something I wanted to ask everyone I interview is take me back to when you first
started smoking. What was your initial acquaintance with cannabis?
You know, was it a family affair?
Was it you and some friends getting up to some mischief?
Mm hmm. So I had a friend in high school and ironically enough, his last name is
Blunt. I don't know if you all smoke Blunts over in Australia or not.
Yeah, people do.
But him and this other girl named Jessica, this little punk rock chick, and she had
some good weed and we smoked it.
And right then and there, I loved it, you know, like made me feel real good and calm.
I was always kind of anxious and I don't know, a little uptight and didn't really like
people. Well, I guess I still don't like people too much.
But it really did enhance.
Yeah, definitely enhanced things.
So from there, I'm like, well, I'm going to take these seeds out of this weed and I can
grow tomatoes.
I can grow everything under the sun.
So why should this be any different?
So I started growing it and my cousins, man, and they saw me, you know what I was doing.
I was 12 years old and had all these seedlings sprouted up and they were like, you know,
look, man, it is what it is.
You're doing what you're doing.
Let's let's help you do it a little safely so you don't end up in prison.
You don't end up all screwed up and we'll show you how to do it the right way.
And basically that year I turned into a water boy and I would help them take large amounts
of water through the woods, which really sucked.
It's the Virginia summertime temperatures like 110 Fahrenheit, 80, 90 percent humidity.
It feels like a jungle.
And you got snakes, man, copperheads and water moccasins.
And then you got, you know, hunters here, they have these people called game wardens
that make sure that you don't kill too many deer or whatever the hell.
But they also, during the summer months, they help help the cops locate grows.
So they were showing me how to be sneaky about it, how to hide it and all the right things.
So it was something of an apprenticeship.
And I got to learn how to make seeds for the next year or the following years and, you
know, how to locate the good plants and how to top them or pinch them and make them bush
out and how to feed them and how to make soil and make use of, you know, what's around you
and finding water and such.
So that's kind of how I got kicked off.
And so what was the scene like back then?
Was it all everyone was kind of insularly doing their own thing amongst their kind of
hill is the expression I've heard?
Or was it more kind of people were just starting to work together and get the ball rolling?
Well, in those days, like in my area, at least it was it was something that you kept very,
very quiet.
You didn't want to you didn't even want people knowing you smoke weed because like if that
joker man, he gets a DUI, which is here, it's driving under the influence of drinking beer
and driving drunk, you know.
So in order for them to get out of trouble, they would say, oh, yeah, officer, you know,
I'm drunk and shit.
But this guy up the streets growing weed or he smokes weed or whatever they tell on you,
then you're up in the damn prison and then they're free.
So there was that.
And then other people would just bother you all the time.
Hey, man, sell me a little bag.
I just want a gram or is this more trouble than it was worth?
So you just kept everything super, super, super quiet.
You damn sure didn't let nobody know you grow.
You that was like rule number one.
You don't tell nobody nothing.
You always keep it quiet as can be.
Yeah. So on your first couple of grows, what were they like?
You know, what type of technology were you using?
And I think more kind of interesting to me is what was the quality like?
So ironically, like, you know, my cousins, man, they started me off, they bought stuff
from the super city, the seed club that was their main place.
They like to get their seed stock.
SSFC. Oh, awesome.
Super awesome. Now, as a kid, I'm like, well, I'm looking at this magazine.
They're like, oh, yeah, bubble gum, blueberry, this and that.
And I'm like, oh, wow, look at these pictures.
And that looks like the shit, man.
I'm I'm going to I'm going to buy this stuff and I'm going to try to grow this.
And then you find out that it won't that good, man.
It really won't. So genetically, I was really started out on the on the right path.
Far as technology went in the early years, I was a strictly outdoors man.
Didn't really want to set anything up inside.
And not that I could, I was so young, you know, I didn't I didn't have a place to do it.
But so when I was 15, I got kicked out of the house.
Mom caught me with a few pounds of weed.
I was stupid.
I was trying to stash it in my closet and the whole house smelled like a dead skunk.
You know, just a few pounds.
So, yeah, just a few pounds.
And I was just trying to get by, you know, buy some comic books.
So, you know, that that happened.
And then I went down to the city, which is like Richmond, Virginia, and I was able to
hook up a little apartment with a buddy and I was like, hey, man, I can grow some more
of this, you know, I was like, all right.
So I got a it was actually a street lamp back.
And I wired it up and hooked up a single bulb with a parabolic reflector, which is funny
because that's how Mr.
Sol's got his rigged up right now.
But he's kicking ass.
But like I tell you, man, this parabolic reflectors, they do a pretty good job.
So so I hook up one of those now growing outside.
I mean, I was kicking ass, you know, I do real good.
So growing inside, it was a big learning curve because now I don't have Mother Nature
helping me so much, man.
Now it's kind of all up to me.
So it's too hot, too humid.
I mean, it didn't look good, man.
I'm I've been ashamed.
Like I wouldn't show show nobody that shit.
It was awful. So so I started getting some books and I'm like, man, I got a I got to
figure this indoor shit out.
So I got I think it was Ed Rosenthal called Closet Cultivator.
And then I had Marijuana Botany by Robert Connell Clark.
And the botany was more like a college textbook.
You know, it it taught me a lot of like why this cannabis plant is doing what it's
doing and why it's doing it.
But the Closet Cultivator gave me some ideas like, hey, you know, you get a little
dehumidifier, you know, you're looking to keep it around this temperature or this
temperature and a lot of little tricks.
So I took it to heart.
I really tried, you know, and I was like this.
I am not having my ass whipped by this indoor grow.
And I made it happen.
And it turned out really, really good.
And then I just kept trying to refine it a little bit each time, you know.
So and that's the other thing, man, people keep saying like, oh, that guy's a master
grower, man.
He's a master, man.
I'm going to tell you the day you think you got that plant mastered, it will show
you. You don't know shit, man.
It will humble your ass.
So you never master it, but you get a little bit better each time you do it.
And that's the thing.
Don't ever close your mind, you know, just keep it open and keep learning and, you
know, maybe not trying so many different things, but always be open to try something
different, you know.
And even if it sounds kind of weird and crazy, like when I started doing like molasses
and sugar and juice and, you know, pouring it on these plants, most people like, dude,
you're insane, man.
You can kill that motherfucker.
And but I mean, if you break it down into the science of it and you look at it, you're
like, oh, yeah, that makes sense.
And then, you know, proof's in the pudding.
So, you know, try it out.
And you're like, yeah, it's good.
Yeah.
So just touching back on how you mentioned RC Clark and a few others, who were the
people you looked up to in the early days?
Who were your go-to breeders and your gurus, so to speak?
So the first people that I spoke with, so I had a buddy, he had a computer, which was
awesome. I didn't have a computer, never used computers or any of that.
So he had Internet, which was like, oh, this is cool, man.
You know, you can look at porno and weed and everything.
And they had these forums, you know, and I'm like, OK, so like you can see these other
growers and they're taking pictures of their weed, which I was like, dude, man, that's
sketchy, crazy, man.
So some of the first people I talked to was like Vic High, Subcool, Mr.
Stoll. And we got to really, you know, sharing and talking about different ways of
growing and, you know, just kind of just sharing back and forth like, hey, look, this
is pretty cool or hey, I see what you got there, man.
That looks pretty cool.
And, you know, you kind of pick up little tidbits and tricks, you know, like one guy
might have a cool little soil recipe that you, you know, you add it to yours or he
might have a different way of growing or breeding or you never know.
And you just take all these little good tidbits, you put them together and wham, bam,
you know, you start coming up with some real winning recipes, you know.
So it sounds like you're in a pretty fortunate position to be able to chat to all of
these awesome breeders at the time.
Where did the original Brothers Grimm fit into things for you?
Were they kind of hitting their peak popularity when you were getting into growing?
Like, where did you see them in their initial incarnation?
It was really weird because like when I made my first order in 2000, like they were
known, but not like, you know, super hugely well known.
I don't really think people realize what they had or how good it was until after it
was gone, you know.
People would overlook things back in those days, you know, because you had your old
standby.
It sounds like today.
Yeah, yeah, it's exactly like today, but we almost have like the opposite problem
because like there's like a million of these guys that are like, oh, yeah, we're
breeders. It's like, bro, because you put fucking pollen on a marijuana flower, don't
make you a fucking breeder, man.
So you're a seed maker, a glorified seed maker.
So you got all this garbage out there to try to root through.
But back then there weren't that many people doing it.
But people were very afraid to change, you know, and like for for good reason, too,
because there was a lot of just chicken shit genetics and two.
But I saw the pictures and like soul's descriptions of the shit like piqued my
interest. You know, I'm like, yeah, I want to walk on the fucking man, you know.
Yeah, I want to, you know, smoke some weed to make me trip the fuck out.
Right, buddy. So, you know, like I was like, well, that sounds real good and a quick
flower time. So I'm like, all right, I'm going to take my money.
I'm going to get a money order and we'll send it on up to Canada, the Heaven
Stairway, and I'm going to get a pack of this shit and see what it's all about.
And it was so good that it's 2016 or a DEA raid later.
And I still got that same clone.
Had I lost that, I would be so butthurt, man.
I'd be really mad if I lost that, man.
Yeah. So, yeah, I mean, you know, they they were they were getting an end back
then, but they just didn't have the the recognition yet.
And then it was definitely afterwards.
Everybody's disbanded and long gone before people were like, wow, that was the
shit. Yeah, for sure.
So how did you initially get in touch with Mr.
Soul and kind of broach the idea of bringing Brothers Grimm back or did he come to you
with the idea?
Well, Subcool hit me up.
When the fuck was that?
Like like a summer, summer like like this time this year, wasn't it?
Or a little earlier.
Yeah. So it was probably around June of last year and said, hey, man, fucking Mr.
Soul just got told to me and he was like looking, looking to get back in the
industry, get a job.
And I was like, oh, OK, that's cool.
And he's like, you know, you know, any place he could come out and do shit.
I was like, well, you know, here in Colorado and, you know, there's there's jobs
to be had out here.
So ended up he gives me a call.
He's like, yeah, man, I'm ready to ready to rock and roll, man.
I'm like, all right, cool.
So I'll set you up with this little job here.
You can work with me.
And we got to, you know, working around each other.
We're like, yeah, man, you know, start making some seeds and we got the genetics.
We know what to do.
You know, why not?
Seems like the right the right mix, the right match.
And we just said, fuck it.
Give the world what it wants.
Resurrect Brothers Grimm.
Yeah, give them what they want, man.
That shit they've been missing.
That's it. So when you guys started brainstorming, what were some of the initial
ideas you had for Brothers Grimm?
Was it initially let's just re-release some of the classics and go from there?
Or did you kind of had some clear goals as to what you wanted to do in the future?
Well, we we definitely knew that right off the bat, you got to have the classics
stuff that like we were saying, people didn't realize what they had or what was out
there until it was already gone.
So, you know, having Cinderella, having the Apollos, the Rosetta, all these old
classics, you know, that was a definite you got to have it.
You got to have it out there.
But we did realize, like, hey, you know, we do have all this original stock.
It's only so much work to to get these done and back out there.
But we already know that the work from back in the 90s into the 2000s, I mean, it
just crushes everything that's around today.
Like, I can't believe these jokers have been working fucking 15 years and got this
chicken shit. But so, yeah, I'm going to try to be nice, man.
But I mean, really, it's fucking garbage, man.
So we know that's already going to be good.
But we looked at it like, OK, well, where did we want to go?
Like what what else did we want to do?
So we're picking up on some of his old stuff.
And, you know, I had a lot of my own things that I was looking to do and things that I
did way back that were like great strains.
But I didn't sell seeds.
You know, I'd sell some like outdoor farmer, you know, in the northeast or, you know,
just helping friends out or growing them myself.
So that's stuff that I know that the general public, you know, they really dig it.
So we were looking along the lines of that.
And then you kind of look at like, what's the world missing?
You know, like there's not really any really serious good haze hybrids.
You know, the JJ kicks ass with the Kim dog.
You know what I mean?
But, you know, there's a lot more work that can be done with the Kim dog and stuff.
You know, of course, there's like a million people out there like sour diesel and seed
farm and it ain't sour and it ain't diesel.
You know, so, you know, I thought that was a good one.
The skunk, you know, that kind of went out back in the 90s.
People talk about, oh, yeah, roadkill skunks, real awesome.
So, you know, that was something, you know, you have to resurrect that good haze
hybrids, good sativas, basically all the things that people want.
But it's really not out there.
And, you know, like a lot of the indica stuff, too, is, you know, real big.
A lot of people are getting indica stuff and they're like, oh, yeah, it's indica.
But it's really it's like it's more than a polyhybrid and it's not really indica
either. You know, it's not really that good narcotic drug traits that we're looking
for. You know, the stuff that just makes you melt in the couch like, oh, I can't
move, man. I want to get pizza, but I can't move.
So, you know, you need these things back in your life.
So and we got our old genetic collection back.
It goes as far back as 1978, some of these clones.
So, you know, we're able to really kick it off and get things rolling proper again
the way they should be, you know.
Yes, I've got a bit of a longer question here, but it does tie into those indicators.
So not too long ago, I was watching when Mr.
Soul was on the Adam Dunn show and he was speaking about his former partner, Sly.
And it made me realize that you and him have a lot in common, in my opinion.
And, you know, I hope I don't paraphrase Mr.
Soul wrong here, but he essentially said, you know, not only did he help him with the
breeding, but he helped him to kind of round out the offering in terms of bring some
other strains to the table.
And it certainly appears like you seem to do that in terms of the grimdicker and the
Hashmaster in the new release.
So how do you feel about this comparison to Sly and do you, are these new indica strains
kind of more your children?
Yeah, man, I definitely, I really, really like my indicas.
Sly did a great job, like one of my favorite ones was called Sugar Blossoms and that
was one that really didn't make it out a lot.
But man, it was really killer.
So like on the same token, like I love like the Cindy, I love the Apollo, but like
Green Giant was a great one.
Sugar Blossoms was great.
The Grim Widow was great.
So Sly, he was a pretty kick ass dude himself, man.
I'd say you'd agree, right?
Yeah.
Yeah, I got lucky both times.
Mm hmm.
Yeah, I got lucky twice.
And so when we look at the new Brothers Grim offering just recently put out, we noticed
that some of the strains have been slightly altered in their genetic composition for
re-release, such as the Rosetta Stone, which now has a pure Jack Haramother, as well as
the Apollo 11, which is now sort of a back cross.
Why did you guys decide to do this and how do you think it'll affect them compared to,
say, the former editions?
So with the, I'll start, I guess, with the Rosetta Stone.
So Cafe Girl, for one, it's gone.
She's not to be had anymore.
Yeah.
Yeah, he was saying he was he was planning to call her out before before it even stopped.
But I would say, yeah, it was like one of them things some people like.
Some people don't.
But the the girl herself would have been out of those three seeds, the most Jack leaning
of the of the group.
Me personally, I say like the the the genius is the most of the Haze dominant of the of
the group. The Princess to me is more of the NL5 dominant out of the group.
So when you want to do like Rosetta Stone, the Jack Harer is just mind blowing.
Well, the one that we use, it's the same one that Sensi would have used.
Jack Harer even selected the selected the clone.
So it's his personal cut.
Yeah, exactly.
It's very, very, very, very stinky.
It's got that super lemon pine haze font.
Yes. Sandalwood and all.
It doesn't have. Yeah.
Probably attract other men, unfortunately.
Yeah, there we go.
We got the name, man.
Yeah, man, we're shutting down the seeds.
We're going into the cologne and fragrances.
So but the structure of it, that Sativa haze dominance out of it made a made a better
parent than the cafe girl would ever made and would have given you a better improved
version of Rosetta Stone and kind of what it was intended to be is a very nice, hazy
put you put your mind in the clouds.
Yeah, a lot of Jack influence, man.
That's what we're looking for.
Yeah, nice. As far as the so the A11 is actually going to be just a 11.
It won't be a back cross or anything.
We just had to go grow out a literal shit ton of Cinderella 99 and find the right male
to use. And we've grown out more than what I'm even comfortable saying right now.
Yeah, no, no, we got her boy and that boy, he's lined up right in here.
We're going to make like a nice little little batch of nothing that I love in there.
So we'll have that Sunday hitting the genius and making a 11 from scratch.
The Apollo 13 same way.
It's not a back cross.
It's just made from just made from scratch the same same way as it always was.
P75 the genius and you got it.
So everything's made the made the same way.
But that Rosetta stone, that would be the one that is that is different.
Nice. But I mean, we could totally argue it's a bit improved even maybe.
Awesome. I'm sorry.
I didn't hear you. I was going to say I'm sure the Rosetta stones improved.
Oh, yeah, man, I'm going to matter of fact, I'll take you all on a little tour since we're
talking about it, man, I'll show you a couple of the different phenotypes of the
of the old Rosetta.
Just got to walk upstairs, man.
Oh, yeah. Here is a big ass Cindy.
Cindy, mom.
Nice. While we're talking about Cindy, I got a quick question on it.
Obviously, Cindy is actually a BX3, you know, it's a it's another word for the princess
BX3. In your ideal world, would you want all brothers Grim Strains to be kind of true
breeding in at that back cross level or do you think F1s have a good place in the
breeding world?
Well, a bit of both.
So like the Cindy 99, that's four back crosses.
That makes it very stable breeding stock.
Certain things I would say, yeah.
So there's to me filial breeding and back crossing, they're two different tools.
So certain tools work better for certain jobs.
So you could say like with Apollo 13 and Apollo 11, they're way, way better as an F1,
just that original F1 hybrid than they are as a back cross or F3, F4, you start to lose
things. So certain strains, you start to lose things in translation, you know, certain
things you can, you can back cross them, fill them out and improve them even, you know,
make them more potent or better.
Right. But certain things that just don't like it.
You can lock down smell, flavor, structure, all this.
But sometimes you start to lose that potency.
And a lot of that I attribute to the just that hybrid vigor, you know, having two
unrelated things or even two slightly related things go together and you create a
monster. But you take it beyond that.
You might be able to keep a lot of it, but some of it, you know, it's not going to be
as good as that F1.
So with us, we're like, you know, it's got to be meet the parent or beat the parent.
We don't accept mediocrity, man.
If it ain't as good or better, it goes right down the shitter, man.
We ain't having it.
So we want great, not good, you know.
Yeah.
So I'm not sure if you've noticed, but there seems to be like a current trend among some
breeders to just want to take everything to the F2 or the F3.
Do you think that this is a bit of the wrong kind of approach or do you think maybe
they'd be better off maybe back crossing things or just keeping them as F1s?
Certain things they could.
So when somebody makes an F2, a lot of people, they don't have the concept of what's
going to happen. They think, oh, wow, you know, they took it to F2.
It's going to be stable, right?
But that's not the case, man.
When you breed stuff to F2, if like I take, let's say I take like an indica plant and
a pure sativa plant and I make an F1 and we're seeing like five phenotypes, you know,
one should be more like the mom, three should be like a blend of the two and then one
should be more like the daddy.
So now we take it to an F2 and I think the ratio is like, the fuck is it, man?
It's like 9, 3, 3, 5.
So basically what happens is now you've got every color of the rainbow.
Yeah, man, it is all over the place.
You'll see stuff not only from the mom, but shit from her mom and her dad and all these
recessive things popping up.
You have to get to F3 or 4.
Yeah, before you stabilize.
Yeah. So basically, you know, you're just going to end up with this big nasty spread.
Now, it can be cool.
Like if me and you are looking for a very, very special something to use, like, yeah, I
mean, it could be cool.
But for people that are like, oh, well, take like Girl Scout cookies, right?
So you take that garbage, right?
It's already a polyhybrid.
Even if you do make an F1 with something, it's still a polyhybrid.
So now if you take that, you make an F2 and you got shit all over the place.
And somebody is going to say, hey, man, is that F2 Girl Scout cookies?
And they're going to show you this picture of a form cut Girl Scout cookies.
Man, you'll be hard pressed to find that sucker in them F2s.
You're going to see stuff all over the place.
So, you know, it has its place, but normally an F2 is like something that, you know, a
good solid breeding program and you're looking to really refine something during that
F2 search.
Or if I didn't find what I wanted to use as like, say, like a back cross to something in
the mom, I didn't really see exactly what I was looking for in my F1 population.
I might take it to an F2 to get that big diversity, to find that rare thing that I am
looking for, to where I have more of these gene pairs in one male per se, to take that
and then take it back to the mom, then use it.
Now, taking things to F3 and F4, like I said, you do stabilize them, but some strains
like it, some strains don't.
Some of them are going to say, yeah, we're going to be structurally great, but the
potency is going to go down.
The smell is going to water down.
Some of them get better.
So it's kind of a trial and error, I guess, from strain to strain to what, you know,
what you're going to be able to accomplish.
I found that cubing, like if you're looking for one specific phenotype and you're looking
to lock down all the true traits of that specific phenotype, you're really hard pressed
to beat the cubing method.
Yeah, of course.
So just touching back on the Girl Scout cookies, what's your general feelings about kind
of these more fad strains, you know, your Gorilla Glues, your Girl Scout cookies and,
you know, back in the day, the Blue Dreams, you know, do you think these strains have
a place in the breeding world or would you just never consider working with them?
I really wouldn't work with them.
Yeah, exactly.
It kind of it is what it is.
If you did want to put it into a seed form, I mean, you could go along the...
Yeah, it's nice.
You could go along and say, yeah, man, you know, we'll cube out the Girl Scout cookie
clone and we'll make it into a seed form.
Now, it could be done, but I'm not trying to work on something that I don't even really
like, you know.
The thing about Girl Scouts, it looks like super crazy resinous and it looks like it
would hurt you, man, but it don't.
Like I barely catch a buzz on the stuff.
It tastes real good, but hell, man, I know a bunch of shit that tastes good.
I mean, I go eat some Girl Scout cookies if I want to taste the shit, you know, but, you
know, that's I guess it's subjective.
Some people like it. I'm just, I don't know.
I've had better.
Yeah.
So getting back onto more your kind of strains, we've had some talk about the Durban
Tie Cindy 99 possibly being re-released.
Is there anything you might be able to share with us about that?
Yeah, we're actually working on it right now that that Durban that you actually saw.
So since the Teva Seed Club, they're the ones that made the Durban Tie High Flyer.
We don't we don't have it anymore, sadly.
Super killer strain, it's one of the best things I ever smoked in my life.
I mean, just ridiculously potent.
I mean, make you scared.
You know, you really get freaked out.
Hi.
So basically what we got to do, we have the best outstanding Durban I've ever, ever had,
ever seen.
I've never seen anything come close to this one.
And I have a really nice tie.
And now we have our Cindy male.
So basically what we got to do, we got to make it make it from scratch, man.
So we are we are currently working on it.
The first F1 outcross, basically step one of it's actually getting ready to go down
in like like 10 days, 14 days.
So it'll be something you'll see it by next year because we'll have to make two
different sides of it.
And we'll probably actually use one filial cross to find what we're really looking
for. And then we'll take that back probably to the tie or depending on how the
offspring turn out, what we're looking to lock down.
But yeah, DTC 99 will definitely be back out there because that shit's killer, man.
Can we expect to see any others from the former men you released or do you think that
might be the last of the first edition?
Well, we're looking at the we're looking at the the green giant, the grim widow and
the Durban tie Cindy 99.
Those would be the first things that we really get to get to working on.
Other things that probably see like something like the sugar blossoms again, you know,
the white widow hybrid.
What I'm really looking to do is so it's kind of weird.
The the Kim Dog D, the smell, the structure and a lot of things about that remind me a
lot of the princess and the genius actually reminds me a bit of the 91 in certain ways,
but kind of like on opposite ends of the spectrum where the Kim Dog is very much just
crushes you, man, for the genius is so like uplifting.
So I'm actually looking to experiment a lot with the combinations of those two, two
different gene pools and nobody else is really, really messing around with it yet.
So that'd be pretty, pretty cool, man.
Awesome. So keeping with the kind of topic of breeding, what would be kind of your
number one advice for a freshly starting out breeder in terms of what are
they best in terms of what's their energy best spent doing?
Should you be trying to grow out the largest numbers of one strain you can and trying to
get your selection right or maybe a few different strains and trying to find some unique
things to cross together?
What would be your advice?
I would say don't start breeding stuff unless you're super, super passionate about the
weed. Like if it's just like, you know, oh, it's pretty good.
You know, I enjoy it.
You want something that's really got your attention.
Like, wow, that's the best we have ever had in my life.
It works for me better than anything I've ever had.
This is what I want.
And this is all I want.
You know, when you have that type of feel to like, that's what you what you really want.
That's where it all kind of starts.
And then you might say, well, I really like it, but, you know, the structure on it is
god awful, man, you know.
So that might be your starting point is like, hey, I really love this stuff, but I want to
improve something.
Or it might have everything you're looking for all in one and you just might want to
stabilize that.
I would say if you know what you're looking for, trait wise and stuff, you wouldn't
necessarily have to grow out huge populations.
But the more you grow, the more opportunities you're going to see to find things that
that would go along with this breeding program better.
So where you might nail down like two out of the five traits you're looking to nail.
If you grew out, say, 50 of these plants instead, you might find that male that you could
lock down all these traits with this one male, you know, or a good portion of them.
So the more is definitely the better.
You don't necessarily have to, but it's probably going to take you longer to get to get
where you want to go with it.
But I would say definitely have a vision in mind.
And it's good to have a good diverse palette, as they would say, you know, like if you
wanted a good chef.
I mean, if the son of a bitch has only cooked barbecue his whole life and ate barbecue his
whole life, you know, you put him in a restaurant with like 50 things on the menu and
probably ain't going to be too good.
So it's pretty good to get around, try different things, grow different things, and you
can start to see things.
So like even in a polyhybrid, like Girl Scout cookies, right?
You grow that out.
Man, I don't see Girl Scout cookies, man.
I smell DERB and I taste DERB and I'm starting to taste little bits of Lebanese hash
plant. You know, I can start to pick apart all these different ingredients into this
stuff because I've grown them all.
You know, I've grown Northern Lights, I've grown the skunk, I've grown the Columbian and
the Northern Lights haze and pure haze and, you know, anything you can think of.
I've done grown it already and grown it in pretty good numbers to say, yeah, that's that
Fino, that's that Fino.
This is showing me this and that.
And I know this ain't going to breed worth a damn because it won't breed true for it and so
on and so forth.
So I would say, you know, definitely make sure, you know, you get well versed, grow in
different things, have a good goal in mind of what you want to do and make sure that it's
something that you're really, really loving, you know, like you're passionate about it.
So I would say that's the best advice I could give them.
And pay attention to detail, like even the smallest things like the serrations on a leaf
and the petioles and the colors of the of the stem and the flowers and the floral clusters
and the length between nodes and how they get tighter and like the ratio of how they get
tighter and every little tiniest traits that you can think of, even the lines and the
leaves, you know, all these things, they're all bound to something.
It could be something insignificant or it could be something big, like these serrations
might be potency that's tied to.
It could be yield.
It could be smell.
Hell, it could be fiber production and stock.
You never know.
Or it could be something insignificant, like, well, that's the arrangement of these lines
on this leaf is associated with that, you know, serration.
So keep all those in mind.
And as you're growing them out, you know, see what happens.
Like if you got notes saying, all right, they're thin, they got real jagged saw serrations
and they're tall and lanky.
You might notice those are your most potent ones.
And you might say the other ones aren't as potent.
So, you know, if you're going to find your male, you might be looking for these female
traits in a male plant.
Might be, OK, I'd make sure I get the saw serrations, thin leaf, you know, lankier male
is probably going to end up giving me what I want in my later generation.
Great advice, great advice.
So keeping on that theme of genetics, how do you think epigenetics plays into breeding?
You know, I've heard people talk about this idea of seeds coming from really good breeding
environments, you know, good plants that are taken care of well.
You know, they perform better.
You know, how do you feel about that idea?
Absolutely, man.
So I had some buddies that made seeds.
I'm not even going to put them out there like that, but they, man, they're terrible, man.
They're terrible growers and everything.
So they were making seeds on unhealthy plants, man.
So now if you take like human beings, for instance, right.
And you got a mom, man, she smokes crack.
She drinks 40s and malt liquor, man.
She's fat and nasty and not healthy at all.
Eats like shit.
Man, that baby's probably going to be premature.
It's going to be all fucked up and nasty and, you know, not what you want.
Now you take like, say like some chick that's big into yoga and eating right.
And she takes prenatal vitamins and all this and that.
Well, when she gives birth to her baby, it's probably going to be pretty healthy, you know.
Now it also plays a part in like, was daddy a big Olympian muscle builder and was she like an athletic type?
And, you know, that plays a part too.
But the health, the overall health of her during that time of carrying this baby, I definitely see it, you know, with the plants too.
If you've got a good, healthy plant that is of a good genetic background and you facilitate seed growth and like keeping these plants as healthy as possible
and feeding them because the seeded plant, they eat a hell of a lot of food, man.
So you got to feed them a lot.
I try to facilitate seed growth by adding boron.
Any source of boron is super, super crucial to good seed development.
Amino acids derived from organic soybean.
You know, a lot of a lot of extra little perks that I give them that I don't with, say, like a normal flowering plant, you know, that's like Sunseed crop or whatever.
And I do notice that when I sprout my seeds, I get a better germination.
They tend to blow through the ground a lot quicker and tend to see like a more vigorous plant, more resistant plant against like disease and pest and everything.
And they typically just overall vigor and health, you know.
So I definitely believe that, yeah, you want to take real good care of them when they're pregnant, man, or else they'll let you know.
Yeah, for sure.
So we've seemed to have gone through a few generations of different lighting technology within, say, the past 10 years.
You know, we've gone from HIDs to LEDs and now we've got these double ended Goveda bulbs.
Have you guys moved to Goveda as your kind of gold standard as a lot of the industry has or do you think the technology is not quite there yet?
So, you know, like I was talking about earlier, I was on the old parabolic reflector, you know, and there was the HPS air cooled hoods.
So like if you've seen some of them pictures I put up last night of them flowers, that's a grown in a basement under old ass HPS hoods, man, like garbage.
I wouldn't have thought so.
Oh, I know, right.
But so like if you're growing real good and you give them what they need, like you can still get good quality and, you know, get real good yields from them.
But I'm going to tell you, these double ended lamps.
Dude, it ain't even fair, man.
Like I was hitting like three a light on HPS technology.
Like I'm using these things right now, man.
I hope I don't blind you out.
But yeah, no, that's good.
We can see it well.
Yeah, man.
So those suckers, man, man.
Yeah, it just makes it so much like the plants just get bigger, buds bigger, more dense.
So I would say, yeah, the double ended technology, I would say, is very good.
I will say this, say, man, for y'all in Australia, don't buy Goveda.
They're in this company called Monsanto, man.
No, like the evil empire, man.
Like, yeah, I don't support suckers at all, man.
They're looking to take over the world and like not in a good way.
Yeah, so we got an analog.
NanoLux, man, that's the company I've been using and I really, really like their stuff.
I'm not like paid by them.
I ain't sponsored by them or nothing.
So like I'm just like you, you know, I got money I try to make and yeah, I'm going to spend it well.
So with the NanoLux, I don't see any failures with it.
There's another brand out there called Papillon, E-Papillon and the Phantom DE.
And I noticed here in this warehouse, like when we had like blackouts or brownouts where the lighting kind of flickers, man, their ballast would just fail, you know.
Now with these NanoLuxes, man, they don't skip a beat.
They don't break.
They're just great.
The design's very streamlined so you can mount them better.
The price on them, they're cheaper than Goveda or any of the others.
And they have a lot of really cool technology and features using like wireless controllers where they give you like a sunrise function where it might start off at 400 watts, you know, and then after 30 minutes it goes to 500 and it slowly creeps up over however long you want to set it.
You can replicate a sunrise and a sunset.
It has temperature sensing technology to where it says, OK, you know, I know that this guy wants my temperature to be no hotter than 85 degrees at this canopy.
So when it hits 86 or 87, the light says, oh, hey, man, I'm getting too hot for this guy.
So it goes from 1000 watts and it might go down to 950 watts or 921 watts.
Whatever it needs to do to satisfy that temperature set point, you know.
So they're really smart and really nice.
And hell, man, like I can even look at this shit on my phone.
Yeah, sweet.
Yeah.
Yeah, sorry for interrupting before.
I was just going to say, yeah, people in Australia are very aware of Monsanto and definitely fans of them.
So thankfully, we're up to date on that.
Good.
So the next kind of bunch of questions are kind of not so breeding related, more kind of the scene related.
And this is kind of an issue which is fairly big in Australia because we're just in the very early stages of setting up our kind of medical model.
So my kind of first question would be, how well do you think the American medical cannabis model is working for the patients?
You know, do you think it's been a net positive or I hear claims about people saying things are going backwards?
You know, what's your ideas on all of this?
Well, here recently, man, I don't even know if I should say it or not, but like I just I just went legit like a month ago.
So I never took the medical thing very lightly.
There were a lot of people that were like, well, you can grow, just go up the street and get this medical card.
And to me, that was kind of a lie.
Like, I'm not going to pretend to grow for a sick person.
Like they're not really sick.
I mean, they got to achy back the same way as I got to achy back.
You know what I mean?
Like we're all sick in that regard.
Right.
Yeah.
But they so there was that that whole thing.
Now there are sick people who are genuinely really ill that can use this stuff.
And those were the people that I wanted to take care of.
So I never in my life had really run into these really, really chronically ill people.
Um, mainly because like I don't I don't really get out much, you know, I'm constantly growing.
And the way it was in the old days, you don't talk to people, you know, you kept it quiet.
So I came in contact with some people here and like they were real sick kids, some sick adults that had multiple sclerosis, cancer, Crohn's, all these horrible, horrible things.
So I just started giving them weed like, yeah, man, here you go.
So now they're like, oh, man, it's so great.
So they're like, why don't you be our caregiver?
And I said, you know what?
I would love to be your caregiver, man.
That would be awesome.
If I could help you out, then that makes my day.
And then I'm actually doing my job.
So the way it went here was there was no like real legal recreational thing.
So everybody was like, oh, medical, medical, medical.
So these real actual sick people, you know, they were, you know, kind of had people giving them weed or selling them weed or they had a dispensary.
So now in the states where it went recreational, man, a lot of these people, they got thrown to the wayside.
Nobody wants to mess with them no more because they went and they got that record license.
And now they're just, you know, kind of shit out of luck.
Yeah.
So no one's no one cares about the medical patients anymore.
Yeah, man.
Sadly enough, there are places where they still do.
And it's kind of hit and miss on an individual basis, too.
So, you know, it's set up pretty good.
I don't know.
It's just it really just comes down to the individual, I guess.
If you're good people, you know, good things, you know, you can do good things for other good people.
But just know, like if you all get medical going, there's going to be a lot of rat bastards out there.
But they're already there anyway.
So just I guess the best thing to say is do the right thing, do what's in your heart and try to take care of sick people, because there are a lot of sick people who do need it.
And if you can do a good job, you know, grow some good, clean, organic, good quality medicine for them, man, that's that's a good thing.
You know, good thing to do.
Good karma on you.
Yeah. Thankfully, there are some people in Australia who kind of still look after sick people regardless of the legal status.
But I guess in that kind of same idea for a country like Australia that is just about to say kind of legalize things in the foreseeable future.
What do you think is maybe some of the traps or pitfalls, you know, some of the ideas that were presented as a good idea at first, which now in retrospect, you realize were not good things for the states?
Right. So that's like a big, crucial thing.
So like a lot of people, they say, oh, wow, you're going to legalize weed.
That's great. I'm going to vote yes for it.
But really look at what that law says, because like right now in California, they're trying to legalize it there.
But legalization with the California market, with the bill that they're, you know, trying to push through basically makes it worse, really, than it ever did, you know, before it was legal.
So like now it's like if that were to pass and you get caught with an ounce of weed, hey, you're a felon now, man.
Like they're going to send your ass to prison.
So basically it's set up for like big corporations to control everything.
So like they'll make it to where you're not allowed to grow your own for yourself.
You're not allowed to grow anything for a sick person.
They got to go to their local Monsanto growery and buy their cheap dog shit, Eagle 20 ridden spider mite infested crap.
You know, so whatever they do put in front of you, just make sure you all read it real good, man, because, you know, government's a sneaky.
I don't know about Australia, but I know in America you got to watch them suckers, man.
They'll fuck you any chance they get, man.
Yeah. Well, one of the major arguments or kind of ideas put forward is that legalization will be somewhat similar to tobacco in Australia in that there would be a few large companies running it all.
And very likely the potential of people not being able to grow their own medicine.
How do you feel about that idea?
Do you think it's kind of intrinsically important for people to be able to grow their own medicines or do you think, you know, a big Monsanto type company is adequately able to provide for people?
Yeah, so when I worked in Virginia doing like engineering and instrumentation and all that good stuff, I used to work for a company.
Y'all got Marlboro cigarettes over there, don't you?
I think you can get them here.
So I used to work for those people.
They're called Philip Morris.
But so with the tobacco industry or any industry, for that matter, they're high volume, low quality.
I highly doubt you would get anything beneficial from them.
Here in the old days, we used to have basically we call it a swag market.
You know, it was illegal weed grown in Mexico, mostly come in a brick, real cheap, pesticide ridden, not very good.
To me, those type of places will fill that swag void if they do produce anything at all.
But what you can do for yourself at your own home is far superior than anything that you'll be able to buy in a store.
So even in this market, like I'm in Colorado right now, if I go to the store looking for weed, man, I'm pissed.
Like it is awful looking, man.
So like what I can just do in my basement will kill anything you'll find in a store around here.
So they're not going to put the same amount of love into it as you are.
And you're not going to know like what did they spray that shit with and did they pull it too early?
Did they pull it too late?
Do they even grow what the hell you need, you know, like for you, for your ailments, you know.
So if you got crones or whatever and all they got is Girl Scout cookies, you shit out of luck, man.
You know, you need something, you know, more specific for what you're looking to do.
So I would say being able to grow grow your own is huge, you know.
And my thought has always been until they consider cannabis the same as a tomato plant, no regulations, it's a plant as any other plant.
Until that happens, I'm not happy.
I'm still like, fuck them.
You know, I don't like being regulated at all.
So fuck these assholes, man.
They, you know, plant's a plant and especially once medicinal and good for people, shame on them for even trying to regulate it, you know.
Yeah. So obviously you're an organic fanatic like myself.
What's your opinion on organics versus synthetics in terms of, you know, do you think synthetics just reduce the flavor and the terpenes or do you think it actually reduces the medicinal value compared to organics?
Well, that's a good question, man.
So I've seen a lot of hydro weed.
Some people can do it good and do it right.
And I grew hydroponics myself even, you know, way back in the day when it was a cash crop thing.
You can grow a good product hydroponically, but I can grow a better product organically, I guess you could say.
It still would have medicinal benefit, but you would get more medicinal benefit, you know, of course, from a better product.
And that being organic, I found that growing organically, it was less maintenance.
It's actually less work.
The plants actually grow better and bigger.
That used to be the argument of a hydro guy is that, well, you know, you might have a better taste or smell or whatever, but hey, I yield more.
Well, not the way I grow organic.
You don't, you know, you might need it, maybe, you know, but I'll take the Pepsi challenge on that shit, too.
So, you know, honestly, it's cheaper, it's easier, you know, it's better for you.
That's for sure. You don't have to worry about flushing fucking plants for 14 days to get shit out.
Like, you know, I'm not going to put nothing in it that, you know, I don't want.
So I don't know.
It's just kind of nasty weed.
I have one buddy that grows hydro and he's probably like the only person I know of that actually does a good job that I would actually smoke.
But if he were to grow in organics, shit, man, it'd be that much better, you know?
Yeah. He only does it out of necessity, though, like it's the only way he can grow in his current situation.
Yeah. Yeah.
So I'm not sure if the idea is as prevalent in America as it is in Australia, but currently there's this big trend to kind of push CBD as the medical component of weed and to push THC as the recreational component.
How do you feel about this?
And do you think it's a bit of a misrepresentation?
Yeah, absolutely.
So like if you look at the research, so CBD, you know, prevents like the metastasizing of cancer cells, whereas THC actually kills the cancer cells.
So I actually see them both like you don't want just one, you know, one or the other.
You would actually you want both.
And then there's like the medicinal benefit of like terpenes, you know, whether it comes off of a CBD plant or THC plant like muricine and all that good stuff.
Like they all have their own medicinal benefit.
So, you know, having one without the other, as far as the medicine goes, they're kind of pissing in the wind.
So, you know, you definitely got to have both, you know, and not just for cancer, but for
anything, anything really pain, nerve, nerve damage, stuff, gastrointestinal stuff, depression.
You know, there's so many different benefits for the stuff, you know, so.
And it's not as simple as just THC gets you high and CBD heals you.
Yeah.
Even in recreational need, you want to know, call it that.
The different cannabinoid profiles change the different.
Yeah.
High, the perceived high can be greater from a plant that has lower overall THC than another, but its profile.
More CBG and CBN.
Yeah.
We don't know what that code is yet, but there is definitely an interplay.
The different cannabinoids that add up to something that's greater than the sum of the parts, basically.
And we don't understand how it all works yet.
But it's certainly not as simple as just pure THC, just extract that and leave everything behind.
That's not going to be the solution.
Neither is getting just pure CBD.
Yeah.
Because like you can smoke, say, like a Thai plant, right?
Finding the right blend.
12% THC, right?
I can go get an Afghani plant, 12% THC.
I smoked that Thai and I'm like, oh, geez, that's strong, man.
I'm gonna gotta go hide.
Then I could smoke that 12% Indica and just be like nodding out.
So what's the difference?
THC is THC.
It's the whole profile.
It's the THC in combination.
The other cannabinoids, the propyl cannabinoids, you know, your THC-B and all that good stuff.
And in combination with, you know, the terpenes, that's what makes a Thai a Thai and a Ghani a Ghani,
you know, and an Indica and a Sativa's differences, you know, and the different
medicinal benefits of that.
Like you take somebody with ADHD bouncing off the walls, man.
I could give them a nice, strong Sativa and probably chill their ass out, you know.
Whereas I give it to this other dude or myself and I'm like, oh, Jesus, man, that's too much.
Man.
Yeah. So touching on that synergy that kind of you and Mr.
Sol just mentioned, we often hear people talk about how they will say, you know, kind of like your example with that Thai or a
haze, for example, you know, these strains would never test as high as what strains do today.
However, people would often claim there's no ceiling to them.
How do you think that gets lost?
You know, do you think that's just over time, over hybridizing strains, you lose that or you gain a ceiling in the high?
Because a lot of people will claim, you know, new strains have a ceiling, you know, whereas some of the older ones don't.
And that was why that was so memorable.
There is there is that like there's certain ones that, yeah, the land race, there's something pure in those chemotypes that
really doesn't have that ceiling.
And if you look at a lot of the old hybrids, like, say, like the Durban Thai high flyer that had no ceiling and you could get so high, you
turn white faced and sweaty and puke.
Yeah, they were they were they were based off of land races, you know, Durban, Pinetown, Durban, Sativa and pure Thai.
They didn't water it down.
They had two land races and they stabilized them well.
They paid attention to their breeding program and they didn't accept mediocrity, man.
They made sure it was strong as shit every time they did it.
And yeah, so you can lose some doing some bad breeding practices.
The other thing, the testing, so like you guys over there, you all see Girl Scout cookies or whatever tests, 35 percent THC, 40 percent THC.
I'm going to tell you, that's bullshit.
The guy that got that tested probably knows the guy at the lab or the lab says, hey, if we keep turning out these big numbers for these guys, they're going to keep coming to us to get the testing done.
Right. So the guy at the corner is giving you a real test on it.
And he's like, yeah, you're like 18 percent THC, which is a fucking lot, by the way.
Guy down the street gives you 32.
So now in the market, say like in Oregon, for instance, that's probably like the biggest place I see this problem is that there's guys there like going to the dispensary with weed that says, yeah, this test at 42 percent THC.
Bullshit, man.
So now the guy at that lab is making a killing because everybody wants to go get tested with them.
They get these good numbers.
Now at the dispensaries, the whole market is driven by THC percentages.
So like you got like an uneducated public, they think THC is the only thing getting you high.
So like we got Apollo 13 at Apollo 13, like on a real actual legit test is like I think it was like 16 percent.
But I'll tell you what, man, my God, that's 16 percent gets me higher than any so-called 30 percent Gorilla Glue that I've ever had.
So, you know, there's quite a bit of bullshit part of that.
And really, I mean, on a legit test, like my buddy gets his stuff like legitimately tested, the same bud that we could take up and get 35 percent, it's really only about 22 percent.
So, you know, it's a few different factors involved in that.
And because something's resinous doesn't mean that it's very high in THC.
Like you've seen those pictures of that 88 G13 hash plant, right?
Yep.
And you've seen how frosty that is, right?
Covered in snow.
Oh, yeah.
What do you think it tests at, THC?
Uh, if I had to guess those wild figures, probably 29 or something, 30.
That's what I used to think, too.
Yeah, it's like 19 percent.
Oh, wow.
Yeah, I've seen pictures of peyote purple, which is a notoriously low THC percentages, but very frosty.
Yeah, man, very frosty.
And it's all these other things on it.
Like, you know, that 88.
I don't even like smoking that shit, man.
It's too damn strong.
Like, I mean, it just, I mean, it's like a time and place.
It's like doing acid or something.
And like, you know, there's the right place, the right time around the right people.
And it just makes me eat, man.
Like, I can't keep fridge with groceries in it, man.
I'll be eating pizzas and pudding, man, and chips and dip, man.
It ain't no good.
So that's good for someone that had stomach problems, you know?
Yeah.
Yeah.
So do you think we'll ever get to the point, even with accurate testing and new technology, where we can ever
quantitatively put the medical value of cannabis on a plant?
Or do you think we're never going to be able to put a number on it?
You know, there's always going to be a synergy and you're just going to have to try, you know?
Yeah, I think part of it, part of it, I think.
So, like, what gets me just completely blustered, man, like it is, it's like the
best thing since sliced bread for me.
I could give it to Mr.
Soul and he would agree like, oh, yes, it's very good.
But something else works for him.
So I think a lot of it has to do with just the uniqueness of like how our brains are wired and we're all individuals.
So I think part of it's going to do with that.
But I do think that, you know, across like a large enough baseline, I can say like 88G13
hash plant makes me starve and hungry.
Everybody I smoke it with, they just want to eat and eat and eat.
So certain things like that are, you know, they ring true across the board.
So as we're starting to kind of like document these things and, you know, keep our records, because like in the old days, you couldn't keep records, you know?
So now we can.
The lady that was getting me all hooked up with all these people that I'm growing for that are real, real sick.
She's got a person that works with the University of Colorado, and he's very, very interested, you know, he's master degree, PhD doctor guy, right?
He's very interested in like recording all this data that we're coming up with of what works for what.
And so it turns out, like I knew all these people were very sick, but it turns out that their illnesses are kind of like rare illnesses, you know?
So it's kind of cool to see what's working for these certain things.
And then you got more common things like cancer research and, you know, neuropathy, you know, you know, you got in a bad bike accident, you know, bendings are all screwed up.
And what works for that versus the next thing?
And I really do believe that at the end of the day, it's going to come down to the terpenes, the individual terpenes and how they help affect it.
Because like a lot of people think, oh, yeah, we're just going to cook.
You know, we're going to cook this shit in the butter.
Yeah, we're good, bro.
Yeah, yeah, I'm gonna take him next door and show him the motherfucking monsters.
You out of here?
Yeah, yes.
You thinking Wendy's?
All right, Bubba, I'll see you.
Yeah, I'm sorry about that.
That's all good.
All right, Bubba.
So, yeah, I think it's going to come down to these terpenes and like people say, oh, yeah, you know, I'm going to cook some cannabis butter and that's like a cure all.
And, you know, I'm going to give it to this guy and I'll give it to that guy.
Well, man, when you cook it, you got high temperatures, man.
You go, you go cook all them terpenes off.
So by the time we're said and done, we've converted Delta 9 THC to Delta 11 THC and we got a whole shit ton of CBN now, you know, degraded THC.
And it's kind of kind of dysfunction, kind of the same, whether it's Thai or whether it's an indica or whatever.
So I think a lot of it really does boil down to, you know, the smells that we're smelling, you know, and how these things help.
Like they just found out like the Mersenne terpene, you find that a lot in like your purple strains, your indica's, right?
They work on the same receptors as opiates do.
So like I had buddies back home and they were all hooked on heroin and everything, right?
Bunch of dope fiends.
I could give them good indica's, man, get them off that dope.
One, it'd help with the stomach.
So they ain't throwing up so damn much.
And two, it's acting on that same receptor as that dope was.
So they're not jonesing for the dope.
So now they're smoking good indica and then they're able to kick that heroin.
You know what I mean?
So like there's all types of benefits.
Yeah, that's interesting.
I've heard of people being able to quit heroin with weed, but then you hear about other people who say it's not so effective.
So maybe it's just a case of some are getting the right strain for the situation.
Exactly.
Okay, so just kind of on a bit of a different note, if someone kind of asked me to summarize, you know, the kind of the current scene,
I would say that we're almost having a bit of a renaissance of the past.
You know, if you look at people like Frenchy Cannoli bringing back kind of the old hashish forms and then furthermore, like we could definitively argue that there's an organic renaissance going on.
People are really getting back into it.
Do you kind of agree with these trends that we need to go back to the old practices, kind of back to basics and look to master the methodology as opposed to develop new technology?
Yeah, so I used to make hash oil back in like 98, 99.
Made it up to like 2003.
Yeah, we used to call it BHO, butane honey oil, aka hippie crack.
So I'd make the shit out of it, man.
Now, I knew damn well that stuff won't be so good for you, man.
And when I'd smoke it, I mean, it gets you good and good and baked, but it won't nowhere near as good as some good dry sieve or bubble hash that was made properly.
So I think it's going to come down to a good blend because like there are some pretty cool technology out there now.
But if we could kind of integrate some of those old ways into a little bit of our new technology, like take like the rosin guys, for instance, right?
They're making the rosin now.
Hey, that's a pretty good little alternative right there.
You know, you don't have any solvents.
There's nothing to purge out.
Tastes good, smells good, gets you baked.
So I think, yeah, if people were to start becoming a little more in tune with like what what we used to do back in the day before there was, you know, dab rigs and all this shit, you know, you could sit down in your house with the bubble bags and make all the hash you wanted.
And you didn't have to worry about blowing your house up.
You know, you didn't have to worry about some cancer causing damn hydrocarbons up in your shit.
You know, and it tasted great.
You know, it was awesome.
That's what you wanted to do.
So like me personally, man, like I don't I don't smoke no hash oil, man.
I'm probably in like the dab capital of the world right now.
Dudes around here smoking, looking like crackheads with torches and shit.
So I don't touch it, man.
But I will make my own bubble hash.
I will make my own dry sieve.
I got no problems with that.
But I do only it's kind of like a rare occasion, you know, like if you're into drinking, right, you know, people drink beers casually, you know, you and me after work, whatever.
But hey, on the weekend, time to start doing shots of bourbon or whatever.
So I kind of think of it as the same way.
Or if like I'm really hurt, man, my back is tweaked or whatever.
I can say, hey, man, I'm going to load up some bong hits or whatever of, you know, this dry sieve and really kick my ass and feel feel like a human again.
Yeah. So it's kind of interesting you say that, because in Australia, the concentrate kind of game is just taking off and people are really jumping all over the BHO.
Would your kind of advice be stick to the more solventless types of concentrates, if possible?
I would like I do know some guys that are very good and making BHO, but they also have a laboratory and they have a lot of very expensive equipment.
Yeah, man, it ain't like blowing through like old stainless turkey basters and some power back on the porch.
Right. So I would say you got to kind of know where your stuff's coming from, because if you talk to like Joe around the corner.
He might not be purging it too good, man, and that ain't good for your lungs.
But you might know a guy, you know, a couple of miles down the road that does do a good job and you can enjoy it.
But I would say try some dry sieve.
You probably won't see a lot of it in your area.
Like it's never been a big thing even here in America.
Right. Like they you don't really go to the store and say, hey, there's some solventless dry sieve.
Because that BHO is easier to make.
But what you can do is you can get your grow on, grow your own and then, you know, get you some dry sieve and screens and just make your own.
And I mean, it's cool.
Little dab rigs and all that is too much work for me, but they are cool.
And if you got one, you like to do it.
You can do it with the dry sieve.
All you got to do, man, once you got them heads good and clean and it's nothing but trike heads, you take that, you apply a little heat and some
parchment paper and you pull it off, man.
And it looks just like shatter and you can dab it and it tastes better and it gets you way, way, way more fucked up, man.
You don't lose any terpenes doing dry sieve.
You know, you don't lose the thing.
And it's pure, it's clean and it's good for you too, man.
Yeah, awesome.
Yeah, I know you're right.
Unfortunately, I've never been able to try any dry sieve, but it's on my bucket list.
So people often talk about this idea of returning to land race roots, you know.
Do you think this is the case and it will get done?
It seems like it's been this idea that's been floating around forever, but no one ever really seems to do it, or at least it never seems to take hold within the community.
You know, do you think we'll just continue hybridizing endlessly?
Well, you got, so you look at the mass public, you know, guys that are trying to make seeds and this and that.
But the thing with them is most of those guys are chasing a buck.
They ain't chasing a passion.
So there are some guys over here that are very passionate.
A couple of friends of mine in California, that's all they do.
They don't even sell the seeds.
They could, they could sell them and probably make a fortune.
But their main thing is preservation.
You know, everything from old Colombians and Mexican, O'Hawkins, Thai and Cambodian, anything, everything you can think of.
And they want to make sure that it remains pure and they remain safe in a good seed form.
And maybe eventually they will sell them, but they're more into like, you know, giving them to a guy like me and say, hey, you want to use it in a hybrid or whatever?
And I'm like, oh yeah, you're damn right, man.
So I can say that when you do like all these guys with the polyhybrids and stuff, I could take something from them, introduce a land race to it and make it pretty damn potent.
There is something to be said for reintroducing a land race back into a hybrid.
It really does, does, does the trick like that grimdick.
That's a Afghani land race right there that's been reintroduced to what, you know, was a work hash plant, which is like three different, really, really nice Afghani from different regions of Afghanistan that they bred together in a breeding program at Sensi to make the old hash plant.
So I'm just reintroducing land race vigor back into it.
And, you know, you can you can definitely do some damage, man.
Yeah, great. And so do you think we'll ever see, you know, the the new skunk number one type thing or, you know, the new Northern Lights five?
Or do you think we may be a bit past those days?
Oh, no, man, I know this dude, he's he's working pretty hard around the clock working on those.
Um, I would say what month is it, man?
It's July.
Yeah, so I'd say around Christmas time, be looking for looking for a roadkill skunk that'll be coming from us.
We're growing them out right now.
Like earlier when I was in that bright ass room before I got the rambling on bitching about Girl Scout cookies or whatever, I was in a whole whole room full of different stuff.
We had the roadkill skunk up there.
We had the Rosetta Stone, some A13, et cetera, et cetera.
But yeah, like that's another one of my big ones.
That was something pretty near and dear to me, like when I was growing up and my cousins had made it and everything.
And it's something that I don't know why it really isn't around or nobody was on to the same shit we were on to back then.
But we're going to bring that back.
And that's something definitely people.
Hey, do y'all got skunks over there in Australia?
No, no, like the animals.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
No, we don't. We don't have them.
Man, they stink so goddamn bad, man, they will spray.
And if you hit one on the road, your car will reek.
I mean, really, really.
I've heard the story.
The region of Virginia I'm from, they're all over the place, man.
So we could get away with growing big, big, big, huge rows of it in the woods because people drive by and go, oh, God, what is that smell?
Like, oh, the skunk spraying around here, I guess, man.
They don't realize in the back 40, we got like 200, 300 of them girls growing, you know.
The perfect cover story.
Oh, yeah, it was good.
That's awesome.
Yeah, so I'm going to have to do it, bring up the dreaded topic for all breeders, feminized seeds.
What's your thoughts on feminized seeds?
I could probably guess, but I think that there is a bit of an argument to be made that, you know, a lot of really good clones have come from hermaphrodites, from feminized seeds, you know.
So what's your thoughts?
Do they have a place or not in your library?
Well, they do.
And like anything, like we were talking about filial crossing or back crossing.
So there's certain tools that you can use for certain jobs.
So with feminized seed, there's a right way to do it.
And then there's the wrong way to do it.
So the wrong way is like the typical way of just like, hey, man, we'll get some collateral silver, man.
We'll reverse this sucker and make a bunch of seeds and we'll just throw them out there.
There is a right way of going about it, too, which would basically be like during your first, it's not really an outcross, but during your first selfing where you've hermed this plant onto itself or another plant.
Our old trick was, you know, you grow out a bunch of them, you put them in a room and about day 28 of flower, you start doing a disco light effect up in there where your lights on, lights off, lights on, lights off.
And you try to, you know, you'll weed them out.
You'll find the ones like they'll show pretty quick.
Now, out of like, you know, a hundred and something of these females in there, you might find one that will not herm out on you.
Not easily.
That would be one that you would probably want to back cross back to the mother or do it like that.
Now, when you're, when you're feminizing, you're, you're cheating yourself out of a chromosome.
It could be one that's not, not so much affecting what we're looking for.
You know, it could be a structural thing or a color thing or what have you.
A lot of the times guys do it, it's cheating out the potency.
A lot of it.
So I think like you can do it good, but you need to have a lot of numbers and you need to run these stress tests or else you're going to be passing that hermaphroditic trade on.
And you're actually, you're going to be cheating yourself out of a good chromosome, like potency or something like that.
So like you can do it.
But to me, like if you do it right, it's more work and I'm not trying to do any more work than I need to.
So, you know, and there is like, you know, I was talking to some guys there from Europe and dudes in Spain and down in South America and like, they're not set up like, like in America, man, like our service, like on a house, like electrical service.
You got like 200 amps.
Like, you know, it's pretty, pretty good, man.
You can, you can grow out a lot of weed, but say in Holland, man, you, you're, you're getting ready to like blow your breaker panel by having one light, you know?
So it's very important for these guys to know for a fact, hey, I got females, man.
I don't have much space and like, it's worth it.
And like, I can sympathize with that a little bit.
So I could see where a guy wants to do that.
Agricultural guys, let's say like we're so legal that we can grow out fields and fields and fields of weed, 100 acres worth of pot.
It would be beneficial if I could grow from seed each time and throw out all these seeds and know for a fact, I don't have any males to call.
There will not be any gaps in my rows.
I'm going to be good to go.
That's pretty cool too.
So, and like you were saying, a lot of the really good ones came from accidents, man.
Really good accidents, you know, but accidents nonetheless from a hermaphrodite.
So, you know, there is some things to be said like that chem dog, man.
Every time like that thing gets pissed off and throws out some pollen, everything it hits makes a legend, man.
But that's just part of the way it breeds, man.
It breeds that chemotype along with that hermaphroditic pollen.
So when it hits something, it's god awful potent, just like the mom was, you know?
So there's certain ones that will do that, but not all of them do that.
So just, you know, that's the only part to keep in mind, I guess.
Yeah.
So what's your thoughts on people using other breeders genetics?
You know, do you kind of frown on people making F2s and then using them for their own projects?
Or do you think as long as they kind of ask permission, it's all right?
Yeah, the permission thing is probably like my one thing.
And the way like we do stuff, we actually encourage people to use our stuff to help their breeding program along.
Our only thing is like, just, you know, give a little shout out, you know?
Don't be like, oh, well, Cindy 99 or Durban Tye Cindy 99, I'm going to call it Cantaloupe Hayes now or something like that.
And I'm like, yeah, we just bred that.
We made it, you know?
Now, if they were to be like, oh, yeah, it's Brothers Grimm, blah, blah, blah.
We use this in our program.
That's pretty cool.
And, you know, I like that.
And like we kind of saw ourselves as like the breeders breeder, you know, we'll make shit that you would want to breed with, you know, something that would help you out.
So Cinderella 99 is a good example of that.
As far as like people that make like F2s and they're like, oh, yeah, I got these Grimdicka F2s, $20 a pack.
You know what I mean?
Now, that pissed me off a little bit.
I'd be looking to kick that dude's ass.
Yeah. But, you know, it's it's I guess like I just see a lot of like very ununique people out there that do this stuff.
And I just I guess I would say, like, I wish they would like do some of their own work and not really just write off all these people's work, because, you know, it is a lot of work.
If you if you are going the original route, whether you're snatching up land races from, you know, different parts of the world or, you know, putting a lot of work into something, it does take work.
But, you know, some people, they take that shortcut.
Isn't that all too common?
And they don't really put in the work either.
They're just kind of like sprouted a 10 pack, got two males.
That one looks good.
And that one looks good.
Fuck it. Make some seeds, make some money, you know.
And then they just end up polluting the gene pool worse than it already is.
You know, they didn't improve nothing.
They didn't really make nothing new.
And they just kind of screwed around.
Now, I do have friends that have like, you know, they're like, what do you call it, like a closet, you know, closet breeders.
Right. But the difference between them and these guys, well, they ain't selling them.
They're just goofing around, having fun in the basement and just growing shit out for fun.
You know, that's a different thing.
But when you put in a pack and you put a label on it and you're charging people for money and you're showing, you know, some picture or something in a description that ain't nowhere near like what it is.
And that's Fugazi, bro.
Like that ain't cool.
Yeah. So kind of on that same topic of ownership, I've been hearing a lot of talk about patenting of strain names, patenting of strains recently.
You know, are you able to maybe shed some truth on it?
There seems to be a lot of rumors.
But from what I've heard, it seems like the end of the cannabis community from what some people are talking.
It seems a bit ridiculous.
Yeah, it is, man.
Yeah, there's one thing, you know, about stoners, man, they paranoid and they like to like to have their little conspiracies and things.
So a while back, I talked to a guy that was doing like a genome project and I was giving him all these samples of all these different things out of the collection.
And like, OK, well, you know, tell me something I don't know.
Like, you know, I'm going to give you say this triangle Kush right here and I'm going to give you this OG Kush and then I'm going to give you this Chemdog.
And I want you to tell me, like, are they related or where do they come from?
And I'm going to give you these landrace Afghanis.
Do any of them show hot from coming from this region and stuff like that?
And, you know, it's pretty, pretty cool stuff.
And I was like, so, you know, when you map this this this plant, can you give me a piece of paper saying, you know, this is what it is?
This is a very unique genotype here.
You can't replicate this.
You know, when the patent office opens up, can I patent this?
The answer is no.
Unless you genetically modify something, you can't patent it.
So that's how like Monsanto does what they do.
They genetically modify potatoes, soybeans and shit.
So now they're able to patent those things.
Right. But they can't patent the soybean and we can't do it the same way with cannabis.
You know, so like my question was like, well, what if I get land races from all parts of the world?
Can I patent these?
So that way, when Monsanto does come around, hey, I'm going to beat these assholes to the punch and maybe I'll sue them and we'll we'll have a big ass bonfire in the office buildings.
You know, so they were like, no, it doesn't work that way.
So unless you genetically modify it to make it unique, you can't patent it.
So that now the the name.
So the name game.
Yeah, you can. Well, I don't know about abroad or nothing, but in America you can patent a name, you know, like a brand name like Coca-Cola or.
I heard the Chemdog name had been patented or something along those lines.
Yeah, man. Yeah.
He ended up doing it.
Us and some buddies, man, we were talking like, you know, a lot of people use your name and make a lot of money on you and you're sitting at the house broke.
Which, by the way, like if you all think like Chemdogs, like some big high roller, you know, making all this money, you see his weed everywhere.
Nobody gives him shit.
Like, you know, me, JJ, a few of the crew, you know, the Kim family crew, you know, we always help out.
Right. But a lot of these guys are claiming to breed with Chemdog.
Ninety nine percent of them.
It ain't it ain't even real Chemdog.
They're just using a name.
Also, they they you know, even if they do, they don't they don't kick anything back to the gas.
So we're like, well, you know, these guys make all this money using your name.
Well, let's put an end to that, you know, because maybe one day soon the time is going to come to where these patents do make it make a difference.
And what happens if some jack off patents your name?
Yeah. Now we're getting sued for growing shit that, you know, we help, you know, get to this point.
Using his own name.
Yeah, man.
And people, hey, man, I'll tell you a funny story.
This dude was on Instagram, man.
We just chewing his ass.
He ended up he he trademarked or patented Kim fan.
You believe that shit?
What? Yeah. Yeah, man.
And then we were telling him, like, bro, you can't do that shit.
And he was like, oh, yeah, yeah, I can.
I got the patent. I'm like, man, you fix him to get your ass whoops on.
So everybody's just like, yeah, we see you, man.
We're going to take care of this.
So anyways, the guy gets scared and he's like, hey, don't want no problems.
I paid like 300 bucks to have this done.
Give me 300 bucks and it's yours.
So we got the money up and made sure that our man's got that, too.
But I mean, people, people are crazy, man, especially Americans, man.
Bunch of crooked, shiesty bastards, man.
That's why I want to I'm going to come live over there with y'all, man.
Yeah, I mean, you'd have to say goodbye to all that beautiful clones.
No, I know how to get them over there.
Hey, that ain't no problem.
But then you're all set.
Oh, yeah. Yeah.
No, so I'm an Australian, Australian wife or something, man.
She give me a green card or whatever.
You wouldn't need to buy it, don't worry.
I think she'd love your accent.
Sweet game.
Find me one of them surfers, man.
Them surfer chicks, bro.
Yeah, so I was about to say, if you're willing to, you know,
would you be willing to talk a little more about Cam Dogg?
You know, he's kind of a really illustrious figure in the industry, you know.
As you pointed out, you know, a lot of people probably do assume he gets,
you know, some kind of kickbacks from people using his stuff or just,
you know, somehow intimately tied to some kind of financial gain from the seeds.
You think he's just more of, you know, a mellow guy?
Like I know he used to breed.
Is he kind of stopped doing that?
Yes. So when I got out of prison,
so I went in February 2007,
then I get out like around November 2009.
So I like I'm playing it cool, you know, like I'm like, all right, I'm getting out,
man, DEA, they're probably still watching me.
They don't think they got what they wanted.
They think I'm high rolling in some money, which I won't.
But whatever they want to think.
So I'm like, I'm not going to contact nobody
because if I do contact somebody and they are watching,
I'm going to lead them right to my friends and my family.
And I ain't going to have that.
I just got through pulling all that time for not running my mouth.
So, you know, I'm just going to chill.
Yeah. So I get done with my probation and I traveled to Arizona.
That's like middle, like the desert out in America.
It's like middle, south middle part of the country, you know.
So I get out there with old friend from Florida.
He was the East Coast guy with me.
And we just got to talk and I'm like, yeah, I can.
You know, how's old G doing?
You keep in contact with him.
And he was like, yeah, you know, talk to him a little bit.
I'm like, yeah, man, we we ought to get a hold of him, you know, just,
you know, catch up.
So we go and I mean, it's like the next day
and we see the damn news strip popping up.
He got busted.
Dude snitched on him.
So now I don't have it on paper.
And like there's really not like a whole lot of proof.
But you know who Rez Dog is?
Reservoir Seeds.
I was kind of avoiding bringing his name up in relation to Ken.
Yeah, I know. Right.
Fucking knew the old fucking.
Yeah. Fucking ex like a vampire, man.
So that joker, he gets popped and starts running his mouth, man.
Gypsy Nirvana, a bunch of dudes go down right around the same time.
He knew where G lived,
you know, had hung out with him before.
Anyway, now, geez, pop, you know, he's going away.
So we're like, well, fuck me, you know.
So don't don't hear from him, you know, and like I'm in Arizona.
I end up going back to Virginia and doing my thing there.
And I'm just, you know, staying quiet.
And then so basically, you know, I hung around Virginia for my for my parents.
You know, they were really old when they had me and they weren't doing too good.
So anyway, when my father passed away, I said, you know what?
I don't like living here no more.
I'm tired of getting hunted down like an animal.
I'm getting the fuck out of here.
I'm driving straight to Oregon.
So I drove all the way to Oregon, man.
Second, I touched down, call up sub cool.
My, hey, what's up, man?
Made it all the way out here.
Got all my old clones, got the whole shit.
Let's do let's do something cool, man.
So he's like, hey, man, you want to get a job working with the cannabis people?
You need to start an Instagram.
And I'm like, I asked, what?
Like, I'm not a big technological dude, you know, like you probably tell.
So I'm like, all right, fuck it.
I'll start up an Instagram.
And sure enough, OG hits me up, Kim Dogg Glass.
And I said, oh, shit.
Awesome, man.
I know if he was in the joint, out of the joint or whatever.
So get to talking.
He was like, yeah, you know, everything's all right.
But they took my house, man.
They find me like seven hundred thousand dollars, man.
And ain't got no money.
So I started taking up glass blowing again.
And back in like oh oh five or six, he tried to give me all of his glass
blowing equipment.
And I told him, no, I said, you might end up needing it again one day.
And thank God he didn't, because now he's fucking blowing glass with it.
That so he's.
Yeah. So he's still back in Massachusetts blowing glass, man.
And by the way, if you all want some real cool old school, heady glass, man,
hit him up. It's Kim Dogg.
And it's spelled D.O.G. by the way.
Everybody's that D.O.D.A.W.G.
That ain't the way to spell it.
So it's C.H.E.M.
D.O.G. underscore glass.
And yeah, he make he makes some real, real nice stuff, man.
Yeah. Everyone needs to go and pay their respects and buy some glass from Kim Dogg.
Yeah, he'll he'll hook it up, man.
And he puts a lot of little millies on it, you know, so like y'all, y'all got
y'all seen South Park over there, right?
Yeah. The cartoon.
Yeah. Yeah. He's got a bunch of shit from that, man.
Like he made me a little bald.
It's got a tally on it and stuff and Hermit Simpson.
And, you know, we were all big deadheads, too.
So, you know, a lot of a lot of grateful dead stuff on there, too.
Yeah, I was about to say I've just organized to get my
my Kim family shirt through Heddy's and heirlooms the other day.
So I'm excited to get it.
Hell yeah, dude.
Yeah, they're good. They're good shirts, too, man.
I got my Peabod shirt on today.
Oh, nice. So now.
Yeah. But yeah, man.
Yeah, they're they're all good people.
And we weren't like we're not like everybody always saw like,
yeah, you're like some rich motherfuckers, like some real high rollers.
And at the end of the day, we just a bunch of like broke ass,
dirty ass deadheads, man.
They're just like we just love growing weed, man.
This is like a passion.
So we're not any famous star
high roller, whatever.
You know, we're just a bunch of farmers that like growing weed
and believe in what we do on, you know.
We like to help people and, you know, yeah, spread the love.
You will. Ain't enough love in this world. Too much hate.
Yeah, I can totally agree on that one.
So does Kim kind of keep out of the limelight due to his kind of notoriety
nowadays and he just sticks to the glasswork?
Is that kind of why he stopped breeding?
Because I know that he made things like, you know, the geese and stuff like that.
Yeah, he had the geese.
He had the dog days.
There was the snow dog.
Yeah, that was back in the good old days, man, like where we were
just having fun, man.
And, you know, the
the laws and the cops, man, they
they put a they put a quick end to that.
And like myself, if they were to come through the door right now.
Well, actually, now I'm all protected, so I'll tell them to suck my dick.
But like last month, if they were to come through the door,
I was looking at like 15 to 20 years, man.
And same same goes for him.
I think they got medical worries that, but, you know, he's trying to keep it down
low and, you know, just kind of mellow out.
And maybe, you know, when some more laws change or whatever, you'll see him
see him out and about a bit more.
But, you know, he's a family man.
You know, he's got his kids and he's got his old lady
that tries to keep him out of trouble and, you know, that whole deal.
So, yeah, man, the real good dude.
Like I say, he's real, real into his glassblowing, too.
He used to blow glass on dead tour and sell them out in the out in the parking lot.
Oh, really? So, yeah.
Yeah, man. Yeah.
He's been doing this shit a long time, man.
That's really cool.
And so I guess my ultimate question would be,
have you ever spoken to him about what he plans on doing with those remaining seeds?
Oh, man, the DEA took them.
Really? Yeah.
I've never read that.
Yeah, they're in the.
Yeah, they're in an evidence room somewhere, man.
Yeah, yeah.
They they took them bastards.
But I think this is groundbreaking.
I don't think this no one knows about this.
Oh, yeah, man.
Yeah. When they come and got him, they got his seed collection, his clones and all.
But we collectively, you know, we kept all of our own seed
breeding, old seeds, clones, and we got it all.
We got it stored away and he's he's well set.
And then plus, you know, the the the mother plant that produced these Kim dog
seeds. Yeah.
So it's still around.
Yeah, you could say that.
So we, you know, fuck them, you know, they
whatever they take, man, we'll build it bigger and better than we had it before.
You know, so they ain't gonna stop shit.
Yeah, that's a huge thing I say to anyone.
As soon as they find something unique, you need to delocalize it because it's just too
risky to hoard things.
And, you know, I always use the example of the alien technology strain as much as it
might have been a bit of a fad.
You know, it doesn't exist anymore because the guy who found it didn't give any cuts
out and then he lost it himself.
Yeah, man, I know that guy, too, man, I remember when he's probably see.
Yeah, yeah, that's.
Yeah, I remember like they're just land race Afghanis, man.
That's all it's all it was.
And I found a good boy.
I remember he showed me pictures of it when I was a little man, had the cod
leadings and like one set of leaves going out and had fucking frost on it like a bug.
Oh, shit. And that's the one he used, called it the alien tech.
And, you know, it does good.
As I was saying, there's a lot to be said about, you know, you introduce land race to
a hybrid, right?
And you can you can do some pretty cool stuff, man.
Yeah, sure.
So kind of the last of the more extended questions, what do you think is the best way
for a kind of a community to grow if it's in its infancy?
So in reference to, say, Australia, we don't really have clones that get passed around.
I'm sure there are people with high quality clones, but we don't have a scene really.
You know, that's something we're trying to establish.
What do you think is the most important thing?
Do you think it would be trying to get, you know, get people to be passing genetics
around and from their strains will develop?
Or do you think maybe try to work on getting the legalization model and then you've got a
bit more room to work within there?
So what what I guess the idea to us back in the day is like when everything was illegal as
can be, it was the passion and all that driving us to make something better.
Or like we find something cool, man, we keep hold of it.
And then like, you know, you meet guys, you know, you're grateful that tour, you know,
these guys, a couple of years they they grow killer weed, you grow killer weed, you trust
each other and you're like, hey, man, I got this awesome roadkill skunk, man.
You want it? You can hold on to it for me in case something happens.
I can come back and get that back for me.
Like, yeah, cool. Well, I got this really awesome Afghani.
Do you want this? And absolutely.
And that's it's like starts off as a slow network.
And then from that, you know, I might have that Afghani and then call him up in a year
and say, hey, man, I was fucking around, grew some roadkill seeds and pollinated your
Afghani. Here's some seeds.
He grows it out, finds another clone.
Then he might have another buddy.
Here's this clone.
And it really starts off slow and clone trading up until, I guess, the real legalization
was going on, like with the medical and all that.
It won't it won't really a whole lot of people trade in a whole lot because trust issues
and you didn't want to let people know you grow like those.
So like the old forums like overgrow and stuff like that, you know, we did a little bit of
trading because you could maintain your anonymous a little bit, you know.
So like for the longest time, you know, a name like Duke Diamond, you think I probably
look like a pimp, you know what I mean?
Gold chains and you know what I mean?
So it was an alias.
I just tried to make the opposite of what I look like and who I am.
So, you know, like us to me, like years ago, this would have been nuts, man.
Like nobody knew my face.
Nobody knew where I was from or what I talk like or none of that.
So as the things progressed, you know, these dispensaries open up, they start selling
clones and, you know, people are openly trading a little bit more.
It kind of starts like a wildfire, man.
It gets out of control quick.
But the problem is you get a lot of illegitimate cuts like a guy's like, hey, man, I
got this sour diesel, right?
Now sour diesel at all, you know, and but it gets passed around to one hundred and fifty
people that all swear to God.
This is sour diesel.
I paid one hundred dollars for this cutting or my buddy wouldn't lie to me.
You know that whole whole.
Yeah. So I would say now, like in your in the infancy of it over there, just keep
growing from seed, find your really exceptional stuff and just hang on to them, you
know. And as you all get more and more and you get that more community thing where
whether it's a forum or you all are so far along to where we can all go down to the
park, like some cannabis rally or whatever, and you meet people and, you know, just
treat it like you would anything else.
Like if you grew tomatoes in your vegetable garden and your neighbor's cool and he's
into it to, you know, hang out, man, and, you know, help each other along.
Yeah, man. So basically don't shy away from giving people you trust things that you
want to hang on to.
Yeah, like I always said, it's good to have a good backup guy.
Now, you backup guy, like if you're in like the breeding world, you don't necessarily
want to pass things out because it's like giving out the Coca-Cola secret.
You don't want everybody to have it, you know.
But there were certain things I made that, man, I wanted everybody to have it, you
know. So, you know, pick and choose on kind of what goes out there.
But I will say this.
People are people.
And if you don't want something to ever get out there, never give it to a single soul.
But be prepared if something happens and you lose it, you don't lost it.
So, you know, it's just kind of one of them deals too.
Yeah, for sure. So for the last little part, I was just hoping we could just do some
kind of more lighthearted, short, random questions, just maybe novelty interest to
people. So the first one is, if you could go back to one...
Pantene. I use Pantene, buddy.
Yeah.
Good conditioner.
It's looking good.
Oh, yeah, man.
Solid. So if you could go back to one place and one time in history to get some land
race seeds, where would you pick and, you know, what era?
I'd be in Afghanistan and I'd be in Lebanon from like the 70s, man, right before 1978
when the Russians tried to invade Afghanistan.
I'd be all over that sumbitch.
Back when the Hippie Trial was open?
Huh?
Back when the Hippie Trial was open?
Yeah, man, exactly.
And I'd be I'd be rounding up stuff from there.
I would have probably done that and.
Hell, man, anywhere in Thailand, if I knew I wasn't going to get caught and like
executed by a firing squad for finding some seeds, I'd probably be all over that place.
But yeah, primarily like Lebanon, Afghanistan, Pakistan, right along that Hindu Kush
mountain range.
Yeah. So next one, what's what's the worst thing to happen to the scene since you've
been involved in it, in your opinion?
What's the worst thing you said?
Yeah.
Man, where do I start?
I don't know, man, I would say.
Shit, man.
Where to start?
You can throw a few out if you want.
I would say when legalization happened, you had a lot of rich people with money just
looking to score more money.
They don't know shit about what they're doing.
The quality went down, the prices go up and they just screw the whole game up for
everybody. They don't know shit.
They're like the number one problem for like misinformation.
I went into this one store just to have a good laugh at what was in there.
And Bubba Kush, man, it was the shittiest looking weed I've ever seen.
And they say, yes, Bubba Kush, man, it's bubble gum cross the Kush.
I was like, yeah, you don't say, you know, and like you'll hear, yeah, Kim Dogg, man,
that's some this and this crossed together and we made it here in our shop.
Like, yeah, OK, cool.
So that is one.
Two, I would say like High Times magazine, man.
They're terrible.
They're there.
It's just nothing but just bullshit.
Long time ago, it used to be full like a lot of good growing information and good
stuff. And now it's like, what's the latest rapper rapping about?
And, you know, a bunch of titties and ass and advertising, you know, most of the
magazines, advertisement for really shitty seeds and shitty seed banks.
That, you know, it's not good.
And then if you do get a little information, it's buried underneath some interview with
some rapper who doesn't give a shit about medicine or cannabis community or whatever.
He's just concerned with money and making songs and they glorify people like that.
There's like certain ones even they were informants, man.
They were snitches.
These people were like pieces of shit.
And they're sitting there glorifying this guy in a magazine.
And, you know, and like they're killing us and they don't care about us.
But, you know, they're going to they're going to do that because of the money.
So the guys are really just chasing the money.
They forgot about the passion and the real reason why we do what we're doing, you
know. So that's definitely a real bad one.
And then, yeah, the the the the pollution of the gene pool is a pretty bad one.
That's been going on for a while, but I'd say in the last two, three years, it's
just gotten real ridiculous, you know.
So those those are probably my top three, top three groans and moans.
Yeah. OK, so who's a breeder who you would love to see the Brothers Grimm do a
collaboration with?
Hmm. So we got we got two that are coming up.
Oh, they're getting ready to get started.
Yeah, man, you got one with Top Dog Seeds and we have two favorites and Swamp Boy
Seeds, too. So they're two two friends of mine, Cornbread Ricky and JJ.
So we'll definitely be doing those two for sure.
If I had anybody else, my mind's kind of going blank, but you can definitely be sure
we'll be doing some more cool stuff.
With other people.
But yeah, those two right off the top of my head, we're definitely doing those.
So we'll have like a little Triangle Kush Cindy 99 Hybrid and a Star Dog C99 Hybrid.
Oh, awesome. So what's your current favorite strain and what's your favorite strain of
all time?
Mm hmm.
Damn, that's a tough question, Bubba.
Um, God.
Well, shit, man, that's tough, dude.
Sorry.
You're a tough man, man.
Um.
I don't know, I would say.
I can I can give you like a top 10.
Yeah, sure.
I'm sorry.
So I would say like for daytime, like I need to do work and shit like that.
I'd say like the Cinderella 99, the Apollos, you know, this would be definite favorites
for just getting stoned as shit, man.
I would say Kim Dog, you know, hands down, without a doubt.
Um, if I want to feel weird, like trippy, weird man, like Durban Tie, High Flyer, the DTC
99 stuff along those flavor and like just put me out, knock me out to sleep, you know, I
would say Hash Plant, that 88 Hash Plant.
Those are definite, definite winners.
And for flavor, I have this thing, you've seen it, Local H, that it's more sour than
sour diesel.
So for flavor and stuff, I would say that like Triangle Kush 2.
Triangle gets me fucked up, though, man.
I get real high, man.
I'm not going to lie.
I did.
I don't get much done.
I did actually spend quite a while googling Local H trying to figure out what it was.
So there was a band in America like y'all, y'all probably heard it.
You know, I'm talking about Local H.
They had a song called Any Better.
Yeah, I found the band.
I was trying to find weed references.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, man.
Well, see, like I never, I never really let that out.
I had one buddy back home.
He was a hermit.
He don't leave the house for nothing.
And when I was rounding my clients back up, he was the only guy I ever gave it to, because
I know he don't talk to people, man.
He talks like animals and trees and shit.
You don't leave the house.
So I know it ain't going nowhere.
Not off of that property, at least.
So I give it to him.
Go back years later, man.
And he's still doing the same shit, man.
Growing the same strains under the same equipment and everything's good and kept.
And I got her back.
And so back in the day when we when we originally made it, we were growing it out.
We're like, wow, this shit is killer.
And we were playing that local.
We had local age to CD as good as dead, you know.
Anyway, it's playing on loop.
You know, we've done dried and cured it, smoke it.
And like there was a line in the song like you just don't get it.
And I was like, yeah, motherfuckers ain't going to get this, man.
We're keeping this one in house so they get the bud, but they ain't getting this.
So we ended up calling it Local H.
Nice fitting name.
Yeah.
So kind of on the opposite end of the spectrum and feel free to list a few.
What is your favorite?
Sorry, your most hated strain slash what are some of the worst in your opinion?
How long you got?
Let's see, man.
Man, that's a tough one, too.
I'm not I'm not real big on Girl Scout cookies or any of its hybrids.
All the fake sour, all the fake Kim dog, I hate that.
They think nastiest, we nastiest, we
I don't know, since the since the seeds, man, they put out some fucking garbage now.
Man, like it ain't like it was in the 90s and 80s.
There's stuff now. I mean, it's just atrocious, man.
We had this shit here in America.
The Canadians are growing it.
It was called Beasters, man.
And Beasters, it looks like it's thick old wet nugget
and not a damn try come on it.
And you got no actually does have a smell.
It smells like hay.
And the shit was dirt cheap.
You could get it like pounds or cheap.
So at the Dome College kids make a couple of bucks.
But it was worthless.
We are so nasty.
It was so bad.
We even had shirts that said friends don't let friends smoke beast.
So that one was pretty bad.
So like most of like what since the seeds grows out now, it reminds me of the beast.
Yeah, fuck that shit.
A lot of what you get commercially available in Australia
is pretty similar to the beast is from what I've heard.
It's it's not good at all.
Yeah, it looks like very orange looking hair, like you got pulled about two weeks
too early, super dense, but no resin smells like hay doesn't get you high.
Yeah. Maybe one of our big problems is the use of plant growth regulators.
It's it's really predominant.
And yeah, it's just horrible for the scene.
Yeah, man.
And the whole like the whole deal is man is like.
Like it just starts off real small, like was that fucker
T.S. Elliott, the fucking poet, you know, he had the whole thing.
It doesn't start with a bang and starts with the slippery slope.
It really is, man.
So if you get some good seeds, get getting over there.
Look, you're a man.
And you get some you get some good some good grow technology.
And the best way to do it.
I used to do this when I was doing solar panel engineering is
if you learn one, you do one and you teach one.
So if everybody takes that approach, like you learn some good ass
soil methodologies, man, you grow out some killer weed.
You turn on your friend to it and say, hey, smoke this shit.
And when they're like, man, how'd you do that?
You're like, hey, man, let me show you how easy it is.
But I'm going to show you that in return, when you get done chopping,
you need to show a friend and then they in turn show a friend.
And within a year, you'll have a pretty big, organic,
good killer weed market going on there, man.
That just starts with good genetics and, you know, a good, good foundation of,
you know, organic growing skills, which I mean, it's really easy.
It's not even not even that hard, man.
You know, my dumb ass can do it.
Anybody can do it. You know what I mean?
Yeah, I think that's what's surprising is like how much easier organic is.
And yet somehow it's so like hydroponic is so much more prevalent.
Yeah, man, like I mean, shit, like these fucking plant, man,
I think I got no battery, man. We're going on a tour.
So all these plants in here, man, this dirt is
let me think this over a year old dirt, man.
Like I haven't amended it. I ain't done shit.
And look at all these motherfuckers, man.
I mean, nice, big, no deficiencies, man.
Gorgeous, nice, healthy and green, you know, just happy as can be.
And I mean, the simple, simple man, all I do, you know,
just give him tea, you know, every two weeks and, you know,
there's no deficiencies in this shit.
You know, they're nice and nice and stout and bushy.
And is that 88 right here?
Gorgeous.
Yeah, man. And I mean, it's super simple is purple.
Big old bus thing. Yeah.
I don't think I've ever seen one that big.
Oh, yeah. That's what she said.
Sorry, dude, I had to get you, man.
Nah, it's OK.
Yeah, man. So, yeah, it's big old purple oracle.
There's that Jack Harris on you.
See how tall and lanky that fucker is, man.
He's certainly not Indica.
Yeah, definitely not, man.
But it throws some big buzz.
So this is the genius right here.
The mother of all the Apollos and stuff.
Do you guys keep the genius and the princess on fairly tight lockdown?
Oh, yeah, man, absolutely.
Like, yeah, we never really, really got that out.
There's a couple of people that held on to it as backup, but they're kind of the same deal.
They're hermit types.
They don't really associate with other people.
So, yeah, this is the princess right here, right beside the genius.
So I'm sorry they're all kind of hacked up from taking clones.
But I was about to say, is it because of the clones or do they have quite a different structure?
The princess looks to be more kind of Christmas tree-ish.
Yeah, exactly, man.
So that just goes to show people, you can take one little gene pool, man,
and man, you could go on infinitely working that thing.
You don't need a million strains.
Like, we can work probably 50 different variants just off of one plant.
Even though this princess and this genius, they're sisters,
but they grow totally different, man.
Like you said, Christmas tree and then that long, kinky, kinky kind of branch thing going on, you know?
That shrub, I love that shrub structure.
Yeah, man.
But yeah, like and you know, like when one of these moms like gets too big, like this Cindy,
we just took some clones off of her.
We're going to retire this mom.
So over here, we got all these clones getting rooted, bro.
Yeah, what happens is we'll take the healthiest one
and then I'll come back over here.
You see that big ass trunk on that sucker, man?
We'll chop her off.
I'll cut a little hole out right here.
Yeah. And I'll drop that clone right back in there and just give it water.
And I'll grow another one of these.
That's the same same pot, same everything, man.
So like this, that just happened not too long ago with this one.
That's a gooey.
So that's it.
Dropped it right back into the same pot.
Yeah, the gooey is a strain which not many people seem to know about her,
in my opinion, yet it's certainly one which should get more attention, I think.
What's your opinions on her?
Oh, it's killer, dude.
I ain't nothing on earth more pineapple-y than that thing.
And it's like, it's really killer.
Yeah, very potent gooey breeder.
He's like he's like one of them unnamed breeder legends, man.
Really good dude, knows how to do his thing.
And just gets overlooked by people.
And I don't know why, but yeah, super killer, man.
Yeah. And then, yeah, and all these just like I said,
they just went right back into another pot.
This is a strawberry diesel coffin cut right here.
This would be like one of our new releases.
It's getting hit with Cindy 99 and we're making it's called the Ice Coffin.
So that's a hybrid coming.
And we'll have the sour diesel bean pole.
So that's a sour diesel coin grows right there.
Jesus. So anybody gets those and they look like little indica plants,
they're full of shit.
So, yeah, it's big old tall bean pole.
And this is one of our males.
See how thick that is for a male, man.
Gee, that's such beautiful structure.
Yeah, man, that's our new Cindy male.
One out of a thousand.
Is that the one I saw on the Instagram, which is the
the kind of the genius phenotype?
Now, that's that was another one.
That was our P75.
Oh, yeah. Sorry, my mistake.
Yeah, man. Oh, you're all good.
That one's you said we keep them kind of hacked up,
so they're not the prettiest, but that was that one.
It's kind of hard to see the whole.
You can see he's got great branching.
Yeah, man.
So, yeah, man, like we got got males and males and males
and most people throwing them away, but that's another male.
And there's that Apollo 11, mom.
Oh, no.
So, yeah.
So like, I mean, you know, like if you take, like I say, 11, it's genius.
And then you got Cinderella 99 as a male.
So you see this plant, you know, it's a Tiva leaf and everything.
And you've seen the buds on Instagram and it smells like ripe red grapefruit
and tastes like gummy bears. Right.
So then you take over here.
Sounds divine.
This is what I'm saying.
So this Apollo 13, this is
P75, which is the precursor to Sunday 99.
So it's 75% princess, whereas C99 is 94%.
Right. So that little percentile difference gives you a totally different plant.
This thing smells like skunks ass and mango and tastes like fuel.
So just, you know, just from that slight, slight change, man.
So it's pretty and you can see it's got a wider leaf.
You know, it's the little bit coming through from the sheave of skunk,
which is skunk in 05.
So, you know, just off of one little change, man,
you end up with a whole lot of difference, man.
Yeah. So when you guys started making these again
and you decided to reuse the P75 genetics, for example,
was that because you kind of thought that the genetics were proven
and it was worth using them?
And, you know, maybe, you know, for example, the I believe it was a Shiva skunk
male, Mr.
Soul originally used, you know, was the kind of idea that, you know,
like that was a really good male.
It was a solid foundation to work from.
Or was it more so just kind of saving some time thinking, you know,
like why make P50 again and work it out when we could just start from P75?
Yeah, so we know that like the P75 generation, that certain things were
were able to happen with that generation.
And it tended to
not overdominate the mother so much.
So it made like more sense to use it in F1 outcrosses, like say,
you know, Rosetta Stone, for instance, right?
We can use that.
We add some speedy, nice, you know, influences and everything,
but we don't like overwhelm what we're really liking.
We like the mom.
That's why we're using her to make this F1 outcross.
So if we like her, you know, we want to add like some cool shit to it.
You know, we'd like to improve it, but we don't want to like overdominate it.
Now, if we want to really make something really new and like overdominate
or, you know, make something kind of completely different,
we'll use that Cinderella 99 and then that actually, you know, does it saying.
And the main reason is just the way that P75 passes its gene pairs along
and the frequencies of those gene pairs.
It makes it like a real good dad for making some unique F1 stuff,
but at the same time kind of remaining true to mama, you know?
Yeah. Yeah, of course. It makes perfect sense.
So, I mean, just looking at the garden, I mean,
obviously people will get to see when they're watching this,
you know, the plants look fantastic.
What's kind of the biggest thing you notice when you walk into someone else's
garden? What's, you know, what's the big mistake most people seem to be doing
or, you know, just a common one you kind of come across?
They water too much, overwatering.
I have to admit, I'm a bit guilty of that myself.
Yeah, the overwatering is a real fine line.
If you're doing organics and you got real good microbial life,
it's actually really hard to overwater them to the degree where they're like
adversely affected, you know?
If you use smart pots, you know, them fabric pots? Yeah, man,
those are the shit. You get like 30% more yield in them socks too, man.
And you can't really overwater them too much.
Like they'll dry out pretty good because they breathe real good. But I like to,
you know, like I'll water, but you know, I'll feel them out.
Like if I lift that pot up and you know the weight in the bottom,
like it looks dry, man, but you can feel that weight in the bottom,
let her out another day until she's kind of whitening up a little bit.
And I like to go every two weeks. So like, let's say like at room,
I'm going to show and y'all, you know, it's this day one,
I watered them yesterday. So like, I mean, they're good and hefty, right?
I'll let them get to where like,
I feel that weight in the bottom because I know like those roots from the
transplant haven't made it all the way to the bottom.
But when I water them again,
I'm only going to water them about enough to dampen up that top two thirds
again, right? Just to keep the plant going.
And then like I kind of maintain that for about two weeks and then I let it come
to not totally dry, but that pot's pretty damn light.
Most people are freaked out, but you'll notice, man,
the leaves will be up there praying just like that, you know,
that lets you know, they're, they're happy, man. So then you, you know,
you give them water and you repeat that process. And then after two weeks,
let her come to a little more of a dry, it helps to tease the roots along.
It allows them to breathe some real serious, good breaths of oxygen.
And typically when I let them dry out the next watering,
I normally try to make it a real healthy feed.
So they kind of uptake a lot more.
And I also like to reintroduce more microbes because like by letting it dry out
a little bit, if I lose any microbes, you know,
by letting it get a little too dry,
I'm putting them right back in so they can keep shitting and getting, you know,
so you know, every two weeks, you know,
you keep that schedule you won't get no root rot problems.
You won't get no fungus gnats and things like that. And, um,
actually in agriculture, it's called a crop pushing.
So like you're kind of starving them almost to that little bit.
And then when you do hit them, they, it's like me and you, man,
you starvest for a couple of days and then throw us in like a buffet, man,
me and you're going to eat. So we're sick.
Like our guts are going to be all swole out like, Oh shit, they ate that much.
But they kind of do the same thing and you'll see them flowers start to burst
and out like crazy, man. That's what I was saying.
Like you kind of with a horse and the carrot thing, you know, like you,
you kind of want to stimulate them to do something,
but you also kind of want to reward them with what they need to respond that way
with it, you know? So yeah.
Awesome. So I don't know if you've seen it, but, uh,
a new kind of hot thing is a vapor pressure deficit.
How much are you a believer in this whole vapor pressure deficit if you've ever
heard of it? And, uh, even kind of the more general question is, um,
what's your kind of number one growing tip for people? You know,
if you could give someone one growing tip to someone who already grows, you know,
what do you think something people kind of do wrong?
Um, overfeeding. Um, I noticed a lot of plants, man,
they especially ones that have more of the sour fuel-y taste,
they tend to eat less. Now, like when they're overfeeding them, they think, Hey,
man, the plant, it ain't burning. There ain't no burn on the leaf.
So obviously there, you know, it's not too much, but that's actually,
that's wrong, man. Because sometimes you can feed them too much.
They won't burn, but they get complacent.
Like they'll just sit there in limbo, just not really getting any bigger.
So I noticed a lot of people feed too much and like those fuel-y strains, man,
like I can feed, like if my one buddy's doing his normal thing,
feeding the shit out of this plant,
I can feed a third of the amount of what he's feeding it.
And I'll yield twice as much as that sucker.
So some plants are used to doing a whole lot with very little.
And you kind of look at like their origins. You know,
if you're on the top of a mountain in Afghanistan,
you really ain't used to getting a whole lot of rain and used to getting a whole
lot of good food. So when you do get a little bit, you can do a lot with it.
But you know, too much, man, they just get complacent on you.
So I would say don't overfeed them and try, try different things, you know,
and take it slow. Like you can't, you can't learn a strain in one grow.
I've grown some of these things 20 years and I still learn new shit about them
each time. And they're kind of like people, I would say
their language is sign language,
but it ain't like deaf people sign languages, plant sign language.
So if you can learn how to speak their language,
you leaps and bounds ahead. So you learn how, like, how do they sign that?
Hey, I need calcium. Hey, I need nitrogen or Hey,
I'm happy as shit or whatever.
You learn their signs and each plant's going to be a little different.
And it's just like your close friend that you grew up with for 20, 30 years.
You know, when he's tired, man, he's got that certain look about him.
You know, when he might be getting a little hungry, a little grumpy,
and you'll start to pick up on these things with those plants.
So get to know them just like you do any, any,
any person or friend of yours or whatnot. And you know,
just take it slow and try a little bit, you know,
start low and work yourself up. And then you might say, okay, well,
you know, I got less yield this time. And I fed just that little bit more.
Let me go back to where I was last time. That was about right.
And play around with your harvest dates. You know,
one day can make a considerable difference. I got one strain.
It's got a 48 hour window. You're up there at like 28% THC.
And if you miss that window by early a day or two or late a day or two,
you're all the way down to 20%.
So 9% 48 hour window. So play around with that a little bit too.
Like I mean, it should have blow your head off if you get it right,
but it's real good either way. But man, you hit it just right.
Oh, it's a tough window of opportunity. It sounds like,
Oh man, it's so tough. And like, if you were to be around me working, man,
you laugh your off. I was sitting there pacing back and forth by the plant all
day. Like, man, should I pull it? Is it ready? I think it's ready.
Did I up in the beginning? Am I off a day? Am I on a day? Am I ahead of day?
Man, shit. And I don't know when to pull it.
And then I just go by my gut and say, well, it seems right.
And then I pull it and 99% of the time I'll get it.
And sometimes shit happens.
Yeah, that it does. So, uh, time for a bit of a random product endorsement.
What's a one product you'd recommend to everyone?
For growing? For growing weed?
Oh, you know what? If anything, if you recommend it, it must be good.
Oh yeah. Um, I was going to say something dirty as shit,
but I ain't going to do it. Um, yeah, you know what I'm going to recommend?
So I would definitely recommend for growing, I would say, uh,
Dragonfly Earth Medicine. Uh,
that is hands down the best product I've used ever.
Like a lot of that stuff is like what I used to have to make on my own,
which, you know, I never had a problem with,
but growing this amount at this scale, it, uh,
it does make it a little difficult for me. And man,
the results spoke for themselves, man. I won't,
I won't go back to using anything else.
So I would say the Dragonfly Earth Medicine line,
that makes organic growing easy as hell, man. You take all that,
you know, secret knowledge and little tricks and all that stuff,
and they've done it all for you.
They got it in a little bucket and you just take a scoop,
throw it in the water, pH it, let it brew and you're good to go, man.
It's real easy, simple, and it's real nice stuff.
And they're real nice people too, man. They're like Buddhists, you know?
Oh, nice. Um, so I think that just about wraps it up to be honest.
Um, is there any, uh,
shout outs or any just general comments you wanted to make?
Oh man, shout outs time. Uh, it's everybody in Australia,
man. Uh, y'all are cool ass people. And, uh,
I'm glad that, uh, you know, that y'all can legally do this thing, but, uh,
don't do like America did and get it all screwed up. Just do what's right.
Follow what's in your heart, grow it good,
grow from your heart and try to help people.
And I never met an Australian person I didn't like.
Everybody seemed all genuine and good hearted and wanting to help people,
you know? So I think y'all are going to do awesome with that. Um,
if you are doing it and you ain't in the realms of the law,
my daddy always said, if you ain't going to be good,
make sure you good at it. You don't want to get in trouble with the man.
And then, uh, yeah,
a big shout out to the fucking Kim family and all my people back in fucking
Virginia and all the cool growers around the world, man. And you know,
love y'all very much. Try to do a good job for y'all and hopefully,
you know, bump into y'all one of these days. And, uh, yeah,
I reckon that's about it, my friend.
So there you have it. A big thank you to Duke and Mr. Soul again.
I hope you enjoyed it.
If you did subscribe and all the usual stuff in order to keep up to date with
us and we'll see you next time.
