Hello and welcome to the next episode of The Podcast, a cannabis podcast for budding enthusiasts.
This episode, as always, was brought to you by 420 Australia, your premier store for 420
lifestyle and apparel, as well as Organic Gardening Solutions, your one-stop shop for
organic gardening needs.
In this episode, we're grateful to be joined by Inspector, who's the head of two companies,
as well as a true veteran of the scene.
Get set for some cannabis history, breeding tips, and what you can expect in the future
from him.
Here we go.
All righty, a big thank you and welcome to a man who heads not only one, but two breeding
companies, Inspector of CSI Humboldt and Pirates of the Emerald Triangle.
Thanks so much for coming on.
It's good to be here.
The first question I like to ask all breeders, what was your introduction to cannabis?
I'm definitely a second generation grower, breeder, etc., etc.
My dad started way back in the 70s.
He was growing indoors in the late 70s.
He showed me his grow rooms back when I was a little kid, with smoke in my face when I
was a little bit young.
I don't remember that, but passed me the joint when I was 9, 11.
I was definitely watering plants by the time I was 8 years old.
For my uncle, not so much my dad on that one, but yeah, I started pretty young.
Awesome.
Did you remember any of the strains that were when you can first remember things?
Because obviously you're not going to remember at 8, but maybe when you were 14, 15, do you
remember what they were growing?
Well, when I was 18, the very first cutting my dad gave me was Northern Lights that he
had got from some of his buddies who I think brought it down from the Seattle area.
Before that, he had this strain, not strain, but he had this cutting that had come from
either the Portland or Seattle area back in the early 80s.
I'm thinking somewhere between 82 and 84.
He swears to this day that it's the best stuff ever.
I remember when I was pretty young, sometime between 8 and 10, he opened up his hidden
grow room.
I mean, it was the most gorgeous, just 16 Kush plants in this 6 foot by 6 foot room
under a 1,000 watt metal halide.
To this day, I'm looking for something that looks as gorgeous as that.
Definitely something Kush.
He received that as a no-name plant from the Portland, Seattle area, but he was told it
was bred for 80 degrees and 80% humidity.
Now, this is where it gets a little weird, but he always harvested it at 28 days flower.
Okay.
Right?
But outdoors, it wasn't even ready until mid-November.
But anyways, with that said, it was a no-name strain.
Probably about 1989, I think, he got this other cutting after he'd lost that first one
from the cave junction area in Southern Oregon.
This plant kind of looked halfway between an OG Kush and a Bubba Kush.
This cutting was called Uriah.
He gave me that plant in the mid-90s, and I held it along with cousins and family and
friends up until the early 2000s.
That's another one of those ones that just got lost to time.
It smelled and tasted exactly how we'd supposed to smell.
Anytime anything comes even close to it, it's like, oh, that's a keeper.
Ones that have come closer, like my Bubba S1 Bomb Threat, Irene, like a phenotype of
a purple dog, a purple dog bud, which is Urkel times Chem 91.
Even some of the triangle Kush times Urkels, they hit that.
That is what weed is supposed to be.
I don't know.
Just from my earliest memories, anyway.
Yes.
That's so interesting.
You just touched on so many points we'll have to dive into.
First one, do you think that that strain, which you kind of hold as the benchmark, do
you think that was a predecessor to the Bubbas and the Urkels and all that, or do you think
it was the other way around, like it had already been blended together?
Oh, it was definitely ... I wouldn't say it was a predecessor, but I would say that possibly
some of the OGs and Bubbas and stuff maybe just share certain lineages.
Yeah, okay.
This might be wrong, but if we just go back to how you mentioned, I think you said at
18 you got to see the grow room and you saw the 16 Kush plants.
Was that the defining moment for you where you kind of were like, this is for me?
That's a good question.
I don't know if it was a defining moment.
I think I was casual.
I was honestly, I was casual into the growing from the time I was 18 until the time I was
about 20, I guess 21.
And then I kind of had to make a decision, pursue a real world job like I was doing or
go full time growing.
Well, you see how it turned out.
Awesome.
And so what was the first strain you bred and what caused you to decide to breed?
Well, I mean, growing between 94 and the early 2000s, there was definitely accidental things
and me and friends and family started the seeds and everything.
But then around 2002, I had kind of a little mutant activity going on with the purple urkel.
I had this 12,000 watt room and I had roughly, I think nine, maybe it was 108 plants of urkel
and a couple other things in the room.
And one of the purple urkel's branches basically turned full male.
Okay.
Right?
Yeah.
I mean, you got over 100 plants and they're all females except for this one branch and
it turned totally male.
And so I took that male branch and I pollinated a bunch of stuff with it.
I pollinated urkel, made urkel S1s, made train wreck urkels and a handful of other urkel
hybrids.
And I grew a, me and my cousin and some other folks grew a bunch of those seeds out and
there was killer stuff in those seeds.
And that was about two years before I got online.
I came online in 2004 and then I really started learning like, oh wait, you can turn them
into males.
So it sounds like things were fairly self-directed.
With that being said though, were there any breeders you were keeping your eye on at that
point and thought like, oh, I like the stuff these guys are doing?
Before 2004, I mean, I'm just a emerald triangle kid living in the backwoods of Humboldt and
Trinity County.
I mean, yeah, we didn't have, I didn't have internet myself until roughly around 2004.
So I didn't even know what a breeder was.
Oh, awesome.
Okay.
So did you just work with your own stock from year to year?
Oh yeah, yeah.
All the stuff I inherited from my dad and his friends and other friends.
Yeah.
Awesome.
And so if we fast forward, I think it was in mid-2000s you decided to start CSI or was
it even after that in like 2010 maybe?
I started CSI three years ago.
Yeah, because that's what I thought.
I was like, was it 2014 I thought I read?
Yeah.
I mean, I'm breeding a lot of the same stuff that I bred over 10 years ago.
But yeah, I didn't start the company and start retailing until three years ago.
Yeah.
So I mean, I guess a question some people might be wondering is, why did it kind of
take you so long to get into the commercial game?
I mean, honestly, I was just growing my outdoor crops and just going on vacations and having
fun for a good bit.
And also, every time I checked into it, I looked into doing the whole seed thing.
And every time it was just like, you got to sell them overseas in UK or Spain or something.
And then even legally getting the money for them, it was, yeah, it wasn't easy.
So I was just like, nah, too risky for me at the time anyway.
Yeah.
Okay.
And then I guess just to have a distinction, what was the reason for starting Pirates of
the Emerald Triangle?
Why did you want to have the two separate brands for people who aren't aware?
One's for the Feminize line, one's for the regular line.
But did you just kind of get the idea that or the feeling that they wouldn't gel together
as a brand, so to speak?
So to be honest, I always wanted to do Pirates of the Emerald Triangle.
That was kind of the name of my buddies and me and just what we did around Humboldt and
Trinity and Mendocino even.
But when I started up a seed company, my closest friends and my ex, they liked CSI Humboldt
over Pirates.
They didn't think Pirates was marketable.
I was like, okay, I'll just go with Pirates or CSI, sorry.
And then as time went on, I was like, well, I still kind of want to do my original idea
of Pirates.
So I just kind of segregated them.
And so if we just kind of jump back to a while ago, you mentioned the bomb threat bubba.
This is interesting.
Archive also uses this one as a mother.
How long has that one been around for?
I actually was under the impression, I'm probably wrong, but I thought Fletcher popped that
one, but it was you.
Oh, yeah.
I sprouted, it wasn't even a large seed pop.
I sprouted 20 of my Bubba Kush S1 seeds back in 2006.
From the same breeding that Obama Kush came from, that my buddy popularized up in Portland,
Seattle and everything.
But yeah, I popped 20 seeds.
And weirdly enough, it was my favorite commercial plant of the bunch.
It had kind of like a lemon lime type of thing.
My favorite plant out of that bunch was this Lemonhead's Candy Bubba S1, the number 12,
but nobody could grow it after the first seed run.
I mean, it was just a horrible plant to grow.
And so everybody who I gave it to lost it real quick.
The bomb threat, though, it ended up sticking around and people liked it.
And I didn't even keep it for a long time.
So I probably didn't have it for two or three years.
And then I realized everybody I'd given it to still had it and absolutely loved it.
And then I got it back.
But yeah, the reason a lot of people think Archive sprouted it is because I entered bomb
threat flowers that I grew in, I think, 2013 through Archive Seed Bank, through Fletcher's
company.
And then it won third place at the high time show that it was entered at.
So even though I grew it, he got kind of the credit for it.
Bummer.
I mean, it's still good?
Yeah.
No worries there.
Awesome.
So I mean, in terms of the bubba, if we want to dive a little deeper into it, a question
I always get asked is, like, comparing the bubba to the Oregon Afghani.
I'm not sure if you're familiar with it.
But a lot of people, like, hint that maybe bubba comes from Oregon Afghani.
But I always got the impression it was the other way around.
Do you have any kind of opinions on that one?
I would probably agree with you.
I honestly think more than likely the Oregon Afghani comes from bubba.
But then on the flip side, the Oregon Afi could be its own thing because there are a
lot of plants around the Emerald Triangle that have that similar look.
It's just old Afghani type plant.
And so, do you know much about the history of bubba before Matt?
Or if that is the truth you're kind of going on at this point?
I tend to believe the story as far as Matt and Josh.
Josh D.
And so, if we use that as a bit of a segue, I got told the other day that someone was
like, oh, the OG that Josh brought to the scene was Ghost OG.
And I was like, no, I thought that was Triangle.
And they said, oh, yeah, they're the same thing.
And I was like, I thought they were different.
What do you think on that?
Well, it's a little bit complicated.
But the way I read it is, what Matt brought from Florida is a bag seed, I would assume
most likely from Triangle Kush.
So imagine a Triangle Kush S1 that they brought over to the Southern California area.
And then the Ghost is basically just the cut that Josh or their people sold to Oregon Kid,
who sold to Ghost.
Which it's weird calling it Ghost, even though it's really just the Josh D. cut.
Or the Matt Berger's cut.
So it's not the S1, you don't think?
Or it may be?
As far as like a S1 of TK?
Yeah, of TK, sorry.
Yeah, I would imagine it's an S1 because that's the way the story plays out as far as Matt
Berger saying they got some seeds in a bag.
And I've met a lot of people who grew or bought Triangle Kush back in Florida, around
the whole Orlando area, and the greater Florida area, back in the mid early 90s.
So it definitely was there.
And I mean, that seems to make sense to me because the Triangle to me, it doesn't have
really any hints of lemon in it.
The Ghost is quite similar in my opinion.
But how did we make that jump from there to the, you know, like the real heavy lemon pine
OGs we have now?
Do you like- Commonly I hear the idea that it was S1s led to that.
And I can totally believe that.
But the one thing I struggle to grasp is where did all that lemon come from?
I just struggle to believe it was recessively in the TK.
As I think maybe some kind of lemon male came into the story, for example, maybe to make
like SFV or something along those lines.
Right.
Well, kind of take it like this.
I mean, when I asked one Bubba, I mean, you know, you don't hear anybody saying Bubba
tastes like lemon lime or Lemonhead's candy.
And yet, just out of a simple 20 pack, I pulled both those types out.
My buddy grew out 35 just a couple years ago of my fresh batch, and he found a lemon lime
one.
And he also found one that was just super fruity, just like, you know, berries and such,
you know.
So there's a lot of stuff hiding in S1s, you know, or even S2s that come out, you know,
when you grow out, you know, the seeds.
OK.
It's not- S1s are never replicas of the mother cut, you know.
So just as a general question, I was thinking about it last night and I was kind of
struggling to find a clear example of where there was an S1 that was better than the
original plant.
And I was wondering, do you- can you think of anything that jumps to mind where it's an
S1 that's clearly better than the parent?
Honestly, most people who smoke bomb threat think it's better than its parent.
I've got Mendocino Purple's S1s that are definitely better than the parent.
I've grown Urkel S1s that are better than the Urkel.
So most lines so far that I've done, you know, definitely have individuals that are easily
better than, you know, the parent tissue.
OK.
So-
And do you think that that comes down to the quality of the breeding?
Like, does good feminizing practices affect the end quality of the seed?
You know, I was actually just listening to your podcast with Matt Riot-
Yeah.
On some feminized stuff.
And I'm one of the firm believers that I do not think you can change the genetics no matter
how the feminized seeds are created.
I think if it's accidental, I think if it's, you know, on purpose, you know, STS Clear
Silver, you know, Gibrelic Acid, I think you're always going to create the same exact seeds no
matter what.
You really can't change base DNA genetics, I don't think.
But-
OK.
You know, I live in the backwoods.
So, you know, what do I know?
And so, like, I mean, with that being said, do you think then that we should try to avoid the
stigma around like hermy seeds, so to speak?
Because something I've always noticed is people will call like, let's say bag seed, you know, so
that's like unintentional male flowers on a female causing seed.
So people will call bag seeds S1, but then they'll also call like a properly made feminized
seed an S1.
And I always thought, you know, should we call them the same or call them different?
I guess in your mind, they're the same thing, right?
There's just no difference.
The only thing with bag seeds that throws a shadow of doubt is there's always two or three
opportunities, you know, options, really.
They could be S1s, they could be feminized hybrids, you know, one plant hermed onto another,
or they could be random stray pollen from a male plant.
So you really don't know with bag seed 100% unless you really know your plants well, you know,
and you're responsible for those bag seeds.
If it's from some random bag, you never know.
Yeah.
You know.
Okay.
So are there any clones that you've worked with that you would consider to be like really highly
recessive and maybe not ideal for feminizing in that they might make some alright S1s and the
quality of the S1s is really good.
But as soon as you put that pollen onto another plant, it just the result on is good.
That's a good question.
You know, I don't know if I've even ever thought about that before.
A lot of times I don't even point people to S1s particularly because most S1s in my experience
you know, tend to have like 40 or 50% like recessive genetics themselves.
And with the S1s you end up with generally close to 50% of the population just being weak and
inbred.
You definitely get some strong, you know, good quality plants.
But it's all with just pure S1s it's almost like a throwaway.
So a lot of times feminized hybrids work better with an outcross than they do with an S1.
So I don't know that's not exactly the question but you know.
No, that's awesome.
And so I kind of like the follow up to that is a lot of people will often kind of say that the
plant that's being turned into the pollen donor will tend to be more dominant in the cross as a
rule of thumb.
Do you find that's the case or it's still just down to the individual plant?
If it's like a dominant plant in crosses and it kind of regardless of if it's the donor pollen?
It definitely varies.
And this is something I definitely want to work on more myself because I've done a lot of opposite
crosses like where you take say you reverse babakush and you pollinate purple urkel.
And other times you reverse urkel and you pollinate babakush.
A lot of the breeders like say Sam Skunkman, he'll say they come out the same or he'll avoid the
question.
But honestly I don't know.
I mean I really want to run out like large hundred or thousand lots of these seeds of these reverse
crosses because even on the small level I've done them it almost seems like they produce different
results depending on the pollen donor.
So it's definitely variable but I don't know if I can fully answer that question for sure.
Yeah, no I definitely would have to disagree with Sam on that one for a few reasons.
I mean I'm pretty sure DJ is short throughout the idea that he said I always prefer the more
sativa of the two plants in my cross to be the female.
So straight away like he's agreeing that there is something to that idea and it's not just
irrelevant.
And then more so I was thinking about that myself because I've kind of toyed with that idea myself
with just some kind of pollen and I found that I definitely got better results doing it one way than
the other.
So then it got me thinking well was it the case that you know the way that worked well was the way
that's better or was it just the case that when I did it and I got good results I just did a better
male selection that run and so the results came out better.
Right.
There's a lot of variables so it's I think there definitely needs to be some more scientific you
know regimens to you know say yay or nay on that question for sure.
Okay.
And so I mean if we just kind of jump to a bit of a different topic for a moment we were talking
about the Erkle before for some people at least the Erkle is like the oldest cut they have in their
library.
When did you get the Erkle and as a follow up what's the oldest cut you've got in your library.
I got Erkle around 2001 and pretty much the whole family and everybody everybody I knew had this
Erkle you know around that time.
It was the number one most popular strain in California and beyond you know for a good five five
plus years there.
Oldest cut I still have the Humboldt snow or the snow.
I got that back in I think 99.
I had a bunch of older cuts but I lost all of those in 2002.
So I think the snow is the oldest one I still have.
So I think I read a post from you.
I mean you've already made the snow hybrids and they're about to be released soon.
But I remember like when you very first started doing it you were like oh yeah I'm making these hybrids.
I don't think people will be so interested in them but I'm just doing them for me mostly.
Why do you think people would be interested in the snow.
Do you think it's like not really desirable compared to today's stuff.
It's just not fancy you know it ain't no purple punch it ain't no gelato or wedding cake you know.
It's not all these designer you know hyped up things it's just old school you know.
It's stuff that you take one to hit too many back in the late 90s and you're puking in the gutter.
So how would you describe it for someone like me for example who's never had pure snow.
Is it kind of like a sweet strain looks pretty frosty on your Instagram.
Yeah it's a frosty I just describe it as like a frosty hash plant a little bit piney skunky
hashy just kind of old school flavours.
And originally the snow actually I guess came from the Eugene area you know.
I've even heard it potentially being related possibly like a sister cut to Trinity.
And then you know both of those possibly related to four way.
But that's just you know things that I'd like to iron out with some folks and actually see if any of that pans out.
Trinity is an interesting one I don't think we've ever really spoken about it on the show.
But the thing which caught my eyes besides you know like the ambiguity of the genetics and the name or whatever.
A lot of people comment like it's gone downhill over the years.
It's sometimes it throws nanas apparently and some people say the flavour is not quite what it used to be.
I'm always interested in cuts that have degraded versus cuts that haven't.
Would you consider it to be one that's really degraded and would you still work with it I guess.
You know I've never flowered out the pure Trinity.
I've recently been given a cut of Trinity that may or may not be the original.
I seem to you know it definitely looks like what I know of as the original.
So it is definitely one that has potential for you know S1s.
But then again if it actually came from four way then four way might actually be a better bet to you know dig into and see what's in the genetics.
Yeah interesting interesting.
And so if we just jump back to the Urkel we were talking about in a moment.
Do you have any ideas about what the genetics may be.
We've heard mad farmers speculate that on the father's side it was maybe a predecessor to Northern Lights 2.
Do you know anything along those lines or anything in general.
You know I've always heard since early on after I got it there was a couple of things I was told when I got it.
One it came off of Bell Springs Road and Bell Springs Road is basically a back road between Humboldt County Garberville and Mendocino County.
And you know I honestly I want to dig up Tom Hill one of these days if he's still alive.
I'm pretty sure he is but you know because a lot of his genetics came from this cat named the chemist.
And I kind of almost wonder if this chemist isn't responsible for Urkel or isn't you know once or twice removed from somebody who's responsible for this Urkel.
Because people said that it was a Pakistani time skunk number one.
And that was kind of like you know almost common knowledge you know around Southern Humboldt.
You know so could be true.
Never know.
But I'm running out a bunch of pine tar cushions right now and there are a lot of people that are saying that it's a skunk.
And there are definitely a lot of plants that resemble Urkel S1's.
So.
Yeah awesome.
What can you tell us about Tom Hill in general?
I mean I don't know if you're aware Mean Gene last episode said that the chemist is Tom Hill's dad.
I don't know if you knew that.
I didn't so I thought that's cool.
And the other cool thing to that is is anyway what can you tell us about the Pine Tar Project?
There's some photos on your Instagram.
It's a hard one to come across.
I had a few packs of X18 and they didn't germ so I was mighty impressed when you got I think you said 230 out of 300 or so.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So what's the goal with the Pine Tar and what can you tell us about Tom Hill in general?
Well just to recap on the Pine Tar Cush.
So last time I actually saw Tom in person was a couple of years ago at the Golden Tarp Awards.
And he promised me he had a thousand seeds left of the Pine Tar Cush.
And I told him you know the work I was doing at the time.
And he's like oh well you know I'll give you my last thousand and you can do a big open pollination.
And since then everybody I know and you know who knows Tom including myself he's pretty much dropped off you know the weed growing planet.
So you know I was left to basically round up just a bunch of Pine Tar Cush seeds from you know the community essentially.
You know.
Yeah.
But wait did I lose the question?
No no and then what do you hope to ultimately get out of the PTK project?
I just think it's a quality pure Indica line.
So I mean the thing I've been doing for the last few years at least is just preserving and reproducing all these you know just pure lines.
I've done you know Columbians, Burmese, the Pakistani Strawls, you know the Pine Tars now, a handful of others.
So it's for future work.
Okay.
And how do you think it compares to his other strains?
We've had a few people say that they've heard the Pine Tar pretty much blows most of his other work out of the water especially the Deep Chunk which is interesting because it you know it's got such a cult following because it looks so cool and it's pretty interesting but at the same time it's pretty bland.
Right.
Deep Chunk by itself is definitely boring.
I think there's good qualities to Deep Chunk.
I reproduced that one as well from some of his old 2003 stock.
But the Pine Tar yeah definitely is one of the ones out of his lines that you know has definitely been one I've been wanting to preserve for a long time.
The X18 as well.
I've grown a little bit of that out a couple times and every time it produces some really nice just you know land-raised style plants.
So nothing that you know people really want these days you know.
Yeah.
But stuff to build on.
Okay.
And so I remember watching your interview with Kevin Jodry and you mentioned that the OGKB pheno comes out in Urkel S1's about 10% of the time.
So with that being said do you feel like there's a bit of Urkel in OGKB or just a common lineage between the two?
Oh I definitely think that some part of if they're telling the truth and everything the Cookies family I definitely think there's some Urkel in the Durban F1.
You know.
Okay.
And so do you think that that is the case?
Like do you think they really know what they've got?
I get the feeling they probably don't.
We don't.
They.
Yeah that's a tough one.
They might or they might not you know.
I've got buddies down in Mendo who have known them since they were kids and most of those guys think they don't know exactly 100% what they have or what they're working with.
Yeah okay.
Well I mean maybe a more underlying question.
Do you think even though they may not know what it is do you think they were the ones where like operating the room where the seed was originally conceived or the alternative story is they got bags of it and then they were just the ones who popped it?
Yeah I think they're probably responsible for it.
But that's more you know folks like me and Jane you know down in Mendo would definitely know more about that than you know where I was up in Humboldt.
Okay.
You know the back of Trinity.
Well the other little popular idea at the moment is that some common ancestor of the cookies or possibly even just the straight parent in it it's an S1 is the cherry pie kush.
I'm not sure if you've heard of it.
Do you have any opinions on that one whether it is possibly in the you know the bloodline?
You know it could be and cherry pie is supposed to be a granddaddy purple times Durban F1 or something to that effect right?
Yeah I think the one that is kind of getting touted at the moment is actually apparently different to just straight cherry pie and they call it cherry pie kush even though I'm sure cherry pie gets called cherry pie kush by accident but apparently it's different and the story that's going around especially from the Gage Green crew is that you know Girl Scout cookies is just an S1 from this plant and apparently if you grow this plant it's a little bit self evident.
Hmm.
Interesting.
Well yeah I know the plant it was the one Tim Blake was growing.
Yeah and the PFA crew.
Yeah yeah yeah and then of course Alan I forget his name.
Atkinson or Atkinson.
Yeah I mean I've heard his story.
I don't know.
Yeah.
I mean.
Go for it.
I was going to say with that being said just to go back to OGKB do you think OGKB is like an S1 of Girl Scout cookies or do you think it's maybe one of the original seeds from the original stock which is kind of the other story that goes around.
You know I've always thought you know it was just S1 or whatever whatever but I met this fellow a few weeks back up in Portland.
His his he went by the handle OG Kush breath.
Yeah right.
Right.
And he he's the guy that you know he's the source of the OGKB clone and he swears up and down as the original thing.
So I don't know.
Yeah I've read a story from him saying and he swears he popped the seed and so it's like oh OK.
But yeah I think that's maybe where that that second story I mentioned got traction because if he did pop the seed well then yeah who knows.
Anyway just maybe a last little question on the cookies thing will you ever consider doing like a cookies S1 project and the reason why I bring this up is because you know you got to give it credit it's been around long enough that you kind of have to consider it like a really elite clone like it stood the test of time it's still around.
So you know will you ever do that.
OK so this is a little bit embarrassing.
All right.
So I kind of took a break from the Internet for about three years from 2008 to 2011 and I stayed out of you know any you know we this that or the other.
I enjoyed a little break.
And then when I came back it was like cookies cookies cookies cookies.
Like what the fuck is this cookies.
Like what happened you know.
I mean everything was cool and I left.
So I come back and there was all this hype and I was just like oh hell with this you know this stuff you know.
I got a kind of the forum the forum kind of cookies grew it out and you know it was nothing special.
Then I grew it out a couple more times and probably the third time I grew it out it was just like damn this is some really freaking good weed.
And honestly it's taken me a few years to you know wrap my head around it but I'm like if there wasn't all this hype around the cookies I would honestly think it is some of the best weed I've ever you know grown and smoked.
So I kind of wrap my head around that just this last summer and I was like you know what I don't care who I'm doing it for I'm doing it for me.
So actually right now I reverse the forum cut which is actually you know my favorite one that I've grown so far and I'm just making me a bunch of you know forum s ones and then hybrids just to you know because every single Girl Scout cookie hybrid I grow has really good stuff.
Even though you know you definitely have to weed through you know all the unstable ones out of the bunch but you know once you're through that there's really good quality plants out of all the ones I've grown.
So yeah.
Yeah fantastic and so what type of female would you consider ideal to be like the receiving end of the pollen from the Girl Scout you know what's the type of plant that you think pairs well with the Girl Scout.
Yeah you know right now I don't know because I haven't I probably have I don't know four or five at most.
I think something that is kind of similar to like the stature of cookies like an OG Kush or kind of like the old family purples the oracle OG is that I have some of those I think would blend really well and kind of keep that
structure up and that popcorn look because my favorite plants are always popcorn plants which is you know dank nuggets you know along the stems.
Yeah.
That's how the old ones I grew up with were so.
How do you think they got so small sounds like a bit of a weird question like the nuggets but like I look at all the predecessors that are thrown out there as possible Girl Scout cookie parents and you know for example.
OG Kush you know similar structure small little golf ball in August but it's like they took a markedly step smaller in the Girl Scout cookies and it's like I don't know it just seems like an odd try like it's probably just recessive genetics or whatever but yeah it just seems odd that they got so small but so potent like do you have any.
About how that happened like selection or lottery ticket combination type thing or.
Yeah it could just be a well then again you know who's to say because you know the form cut which is probably the most widespread one has a small popcorn nuggets but the.
The OG KB and the thin mints I don't think whether they're the same or different they're not as small as as the form right.
So just some form of you know recessive recombination you know especially if you think maybe it's a you know and s1 or possibly s2 whatever.
And so that's interesting point just mention s2 we've seen more breeders come out using s1's as mothers but we've even actually started to see people use s2's as mothers.
Do you feel there is a risk in doing this or do you feel like maybe if you choose to do it you just need to test the progeny harder as a breeder if you're doing so like what would be your recommendations as a buyer would you be like buyer beware or no go for it.
You you definitely get.
More uniform results using s2's or breeding with s1's you know.
So I think the further you get like s1 s2 maybe even s3 you're going to get tighter and tighter phenotypic you know variation.
I've seen it myself when you know I do a feminized hybrid with just the mother plant and then I do a feminized hybrid with the s1 s1 selection.
The phenotypes are a lot tighter and you know some of these guys like good old Sam skunk man you know they're not going to be advertising all over the place but they've said it you know I mean those guys are you know breeding stuff to s1 s2 s3 s4 s5 and that's how they're you know isolating exactly what they want out of the plants you know.
But then you got all these people who are running around being like oh feminizes bad and it's like why is the you know guys who have you know the broadest you know experience in the game you know being like this is the way you do it you know.
Yeah okay and so I guess with that in mind do you agree with the idea that there is an increased risk of hermaphrodites with feminized seeds.
Um you know that that's a tough one because pretty much every single land race I've ever run it has plenty of hermaphrodites I mean even Tom hills pine tars x 18 deep chunk you bring those inside all of those have you know a good percentage of hermaphrodites.
You run out any regular seed OG Kersh chem dog this that or the other you give them a certain level of stress they all have hermaphrodites you know the feminized seeds definitely have their share.
It definitely gets worse if you take extreme hermaphrodite like say something that breeds strong hermaphrodites like Girl Scout cookies and cross it to another extreme hermaphrodite you know like Girl Scout cookies times sour diesel.
I mean I see companies every day selling seeds just like this I'm like how are they not getting a hundred ten percent hermaphrodites you know but people still under certain circumstances are getting you know great plants that don't have the herm problems out of them even off the worst hybrids.
Yeah okay and so maybe this one you may not know the answer to because it's kind of a bit abstract I guess but in terms of the girls get cookies where do you attribute the hermaphrodite traits back to do you think it comes from like a possible OG side and then it's just been kind of aggravated in this situation.
There's definitely a strong hermaphrodite trait in OG Kush and it's not even so much that the OG Kush itself because I've run tons of different OG Kush clones and I've never really ever had herm problems out of them but when you breed it you always get you know anywhere from 10 to 20 percent and if you have a you know a little tent with you know a bunch of light leaks or hit them with you know extreme you know extreme you know extreme heat you know extreme humidity you know extreme humidity you can get a lot of herm problems out of them.
You know doses of fertility you're going to end up with even more than that you know.
Yeah.
So the OG is definitely one proponent but Girl Scout seems like it might have a couple couple things in it.
You know how the general recipe Durban F1 times fluoride OG is supposed to be Girl Scout cookies.
Well I bought a little sack of Durban F1 off of Cookie Monster down in LA earlier this year and man that he pulled it out of this bag and I ain't seen more bananas in a bag in a long time.
It was like whoa that's one herm strain so I don't know.
It's like there's so many people who are like apart or peripherally apart of Cookie Fam that to me it's almost hard to know who's what you know like there's there's the people who you would consider the main you know like burner and his crew but now it's almost like no no no they're not Cookie Fam it's like it's the scissor guy and you know these other cookie monster and all that.
And so to me it's almost just like man it's almost like just so muddy it's hard to know what's up you know.
Right I think the core fan is like S-Flux capacitor Jugga and then and then burner of course as hype man.
Yeah and then like what happened to Pi guy for example is he still there?
I don't even know.
And in the original stories they were saying like he's the one who knows the genetics blah blah blah.
I've tried to stay out of it for so long but you know.
I'm dragging you in.
I do.
No I have curiosities myself you know so you know I've got some experiments I'd like to be running hopefully this winter if things work out.
Yeah.
Well the thing I always thought to myself is why doesn't someone like just Fem just regular Durban to OG Kush and see what comes out.
Because you know that must give you some hints right because if the F1 part of that Durban F1 is really a mystery well maybe doing that cross would maybe help allude or I don't know.
I mean I've run this Durban for a long time and man I have a hard time maybe I just need to run the OG KB and the Thin Mints.
But I have a hard time seeing a lot of Durban at all in Girl Scout cookies.
I mean Durban is extremely high in terpenoline and that's the smell you get out of train wreck Jack Herrera you know that kind of stuff.
So that doesn't seem to be a strong component to Girl Scouts in general.
Yeah this may be going to be an unpopular opinion but I always found Girl Scout cookies to have like a certain licoricey aniseed component to it.
But then when I got to smell the Colorado Durban I was like this doesn't smell like aniseed at all to me it just smells like really sweet and like that's it like not getting any licorice not getting nothing.
And if I just smelled that I would have been like I don't think this is a part of cookies.
Right right and that's the thing too the most popular clone of Durban going around the US is that one in Colorado.
It's actually everywhere it's kind of weird.
I've gotten multiple cuts of it and it's the same thing you know it's just high terpenoline.
I mean it's extremely high it tests at like between 4 and 5 percent terpenoline.
Yeah wow just that one terpene yeah.
Yeah most trains don't even test at 1% for all their terpenes.
Yeah yeah it's certainly pungent it's really really pungent.
So a question I was interested in probably should have asked it back at the Urkel part I might even cut it back in there.
For me I was really surprised by how thin leaf Urkel is and I guess just in my mind I was expecting it to be a bit more akin to like a barber because of you know like the real indica medicinal side of it.
Do you think that this indicates there's a lot to be said about thin leaf indica's and you know like where are they now type thing.
Well I mean that's a really good question.
So back to the you know the pine tar cushions that I'm running out right now.
And even to go into like the Pakistani shatrals that I work with and work with you know via Canna Biogen.
These are all you know Pakistani indica's you know whether it's pine tar you know the shatrals or x18's or whatever.
But all of these are more thin leafed indica's.
They're not that broad you know hash plant leaf or that deep chunk leaf.
I've got a male pine tar right now that looks almost identical to Urkel.
And then I've got another male that smells just like Urkel.
So I'm like ooh you know future projects we'll see.
Yeah interesting.
And then would you ever consider maybe trying to like recreate like Urkel for example in the sense of using a few strains which you saw different characteristics in it but not ones that you thought were specifically a part of the Urkel makeup.
Almost like a re-mix type thing.
Yeah no absolutely.
I mean you know hearsay has it that you know Urkel is a Pakistani times skunk number one right.
So I mean I've had UK cheese since 05.
You know I'm like well why don't I just take one of these select you know pine tar cushions and cross it to UK cheese and see what pops out you know.
Yeah that'll be really cool.
Right you know.
And that falls exactly into a lot of stuff that you know really kind of entertains me is I like to recreate things and see you know how things combine and blah blah blah.
So yeah awesome.
And so last kind of question on the Urkel.
What is the difference between the Urkel and the Mendo perps?
They're extremely different.
The Mendo perps comes from my buddy down there in Mendocino.
He sprouted the seed back in 1998.
I'm sure you know his handle on IG not so dog.
But it came from he got the seed from this old man out of Kovalo sprouted the seed and you know it is a very unique plant.
To me it looks like kind of an Afghani type.
It has that kind of Afghani broadleafed look to it.
I've S1'd it.
I grew S1's you know back in 04.
Grew a bunch of S1's a few years ago of it.
And it doesn't seem like there's really any sativa in it as far as the S1's go.
But there's just a lot of unique terpenes just you know stuff I haven't seen in any other plants.
Yeah okay.
And so.
Sorry go on.
Well it's very different than Urkel.
Urkel tends to be a cold dependent like it needs a little bit of cold temperatures to purple up.
To purple up whereas the Mendo Purple it has more of a natural purple to it.
But the S1's of the Mendo Purple have an extreme a percentage of those have an extreme natural purple.
Almost a black just from the start of flower.
Ah fantastic.
I think I've actually spotted a few photos of that one on your feed.
Yeah really dark.
If we're just going to jump topics for a moment.
I wanted to ask you about all the pure kush's going around right now.
It seems like they've gained a bit of traction recently.
There's like the Sugcut, the LA Pure, the Topanga.
I don't know how to say it's a suburb in Cali I'm sure.
Yeah there's all those different ones.
I've heard from a few people oh they're similar slash the same.
What's the differences and what is it when they say pure kush like to me it brings like TK to mind.
You know like no lemon just kush.
Is that kind of what it's like or not really?
Yeah you know I'm with you on the whole pure kush thing.
My buddy got this pure kush clone back in 2005 and gave it to me.
It came from Orange County.
Some big warehouse grower had paid $5,000 for the cut.
And I've had it ever since and it's just an OG kush.
It's a good OG kush.
It's more of an earthy hashy OG kush.
No lemon or you know all that.
No pine saw but a lot of people really like it.
But it's no relation to the Bubba S type plant that Sug Knight you know has or had as pure kush.
And then on top of that there's a bunch of clubs out of like Malibu or wherever.
Topanga Canyon pure kushes that aren't even the same cut as the one I got back in 05.
And these didn't even pop up for another what 5 plus years after that.
So I mean it's one of those things where you know you could try to figure it out or you could just
yeah.
Just let it be.
Right.
Just to quickly clarify something.
Do you think like is it the case that the Sug cut is actually from Sug Knight?
I just thought it was just like named after him or whatever.
Um okay.
So back in 04-05 there was this guy on Canvas World.
I'm not sure if he was on Overgrow but he was he was heavy on Canvas World.
And he got this cut that was originally labeled PK.
And he actually called it maybe it didn't even have a label because he actually called it Bubba
kush at first.
But then he found out it was a PK and he was calling it Purple kush.
And then he was like no it's not Purple kush.
Then he relabeled it Piss kush.
And then he was like no that's not it.
And he was like okay it's pure kush.
They told me now it's pure kush.
And he did some breeding with it and blah blah blah and sold seeds on a Canvas World you know
via Heaven's Stairway.
So it was just a dude who used the handle Sug Knight.
Oh okay.
Nothing to do with you know.
Yeah I figured that he's too caught up with his shit with Biggie to be breeding.
Yeah yeah yeah.
But you know there's still some cats I think who talk with him.
You know cats like a rude boy and you know grow hard.
But I'm not sure if he's too much in the game anymore though.
Yeah it's interesting how so many people have almost ducked out when it would seem like it's
the right time to put your head up.
Right right.
Yeah so a bit of a maybe a controversial question.
What's the deal with Purple Punch winning at Chalice which is a little bit of a while ago
admittedly.
But everyone I've spoken to says that strain has no potency.
It looks great sure but shithouse.
And then it's winning like Jungle Boys are winning cups with it and stuff.
Like how does that work for you?
Do you rate it better than what other people do?
Like.
Okay so all Purple Punch is is you know you forget some of the names on them right.
All it is is OG Kush times Urkel essentially.
Yeah.
Right.
You know and I just grew out you know well over 100 OG Kush times Urkel.
You know that all the OGs had different names but all the Urkel was just the same.
I had Purple Punch phenotypes in there.
And what those those plants are is they're extremely frosty and extremely pretty and
just gorgeous plants with you know decent smells and everything.
But yeah they don't exactly you know have the punch.
A lot of times when you have a lot of entries into a cup
and people are having to smoke all those entries you know just one after another.
You know bag appeal and you know that kind of thing is going to really
weigh out a lot on that competition.
Yeah.
And so.
And so do you think that there's almost an inherent flaw in the way that cup judging
is done these days in that you know it's just like the judges are just overloaded.
Like for example we're trying to run a little cup in Australia at the moment and one of the
rules we're having it's all online but one of the rules we're having is that the judges are
only allowed to try one sample each day.
And so many people have been like that's such a good rule.
And it's like and it just doesn't seem to make sense why they wouldn't do it in the
States.
It's like is it is it that poorly organized that they can't get the samples out early
enough or like what's the deal just too commercialized and they don't care about it or.
Too many entries a lot of the time and yeah really honestly you got it right there they
don't care.
I mean I love the Emerald Cup you already know.
But how can anyone judge 400, 500, 600 entries in one month you know what I mean.
I mean you can kind of break that down into you know there's a lot of stuff just not even
getting tried.
Yeah you have to assume right.
Right.
Right.
It's either like whatever's like hit number eight or nine if the day is just a blur.
Right.
Oh well.
So I mean in general though do you get concerned about that because I brought this up in a
previous interview given like seed sales are affected by if a strain wins a cup is that
not a little bit of concern to you given that things which maybe shouldn't be winning are
winning and likewise things which you know you've made which are maybe really phenomenal
like they just get they slip through the net type thing.
Right.
Right.
Um I think eventually the real quality stuff will kind of you know rise up and you know
it just might take a little bit longer you know.
You know kind of a word of mouth style versus you know everybody you know just oh it won
a cup let's go get it you know.
I mean stuff like Irene horrible bag appeal you know.
Um you know nothing to look at at all but everybody who smokes it she's like you know
oh wee you know.
Yeah that's what I wanted to ask you about because the Irene has got a lot of traction
recently again archive he done a few hybrids with it I believe you have as well.
It's one of the two the other one was the F cut of OG.
I noticed that the F cut and the Irene are quite unique you work with both of them.
What do you like about them and why do you think we don't see them so much in other people's
work?
Well Irene for example as extreme at least for a long time she was extremely hoarded.
And a handful of years ago I got her from you know you know via a couple friends from
Rude Boy and I just I didn't even think nothing of her you know I was just like whatever and
I threw her out in my yard you know in a 200 gallon bed and grew her out and it wasn't
even until you know late in the fall about mid mid September when I was like oh what's
this you know.
Because she was just smelling something fantastic she didn't look like nothing special all the
way up until there.
But then you know I gave it to you know obsolete I gave it to you know doctor from archive
and a couple other people with Rude Boy's you know permissions of course and that's
where you know they started making the hybrids with it and you know a little while after
I followed suit.
But she's just a really really good quality smoke I mean she's nothing to look at whatsoever
and she has this weird mutant trait where she grows nuggets on her stem pedials.
So you try trimming it and it's like all the nugs all fall off of the stems when you
clip them off and it is it's terrible she's she does have a lot of pros in those departments
but man she is some good smoke you know.
Nice and what about the F cut?
The full cut?
The F cut I mean I've called it faux g-kush you know f-a-u-x you know but early on that
came from dankiest OG from Icy Mag and you know they called it some of my buddies named
it the F cut because they were like oh it's just a fake OG so F stood for fake.
And it was just a quality cut I mean the first time I smelled it I was like oh this is some
of the best smelling you know OG I've ever smelled and it was you know grown by dankiest
himself when I first smelled it.
But it definitely breeds a little bit different than some of the OGs.
A lot of the OGs kind of breed tall and lanky just like a normal OG whereas this one it
breeds kind of smaller and shorter so.
Okay nice quote.
So what OG cut in your opinion is kind of the most underrated one you know like what
you I personally I love Larry and I feel like it doesn't get enough credit at times.
Right I've never tried the Larry myself I've kind of wanted to but I mean I tend to mostly
stick with the triangle cush just because that's the one I believe is you know the one
that started it all and I figure if you can you know reverse that one you should be able
to pull out all the other OG cushes out of it you know just S1 style so you know and
when I breed with the triangle cush compared to the others I tend to get you know the broadest
spectrum of you know phenotypes whereas with a lot of these others it's like a lot narrower
and tighter.
Yeah okay.
So.
And so.
Yeah I don't know.
Yeah sorry go on.
Oh I was just going to say I don't know if it's you know underrated at all it's just
you know my preference for the OGs.
Yeah okay and so what do you think predecessors the triangle you know what was that strain
that Matt and Josh got the bag of weed of?
Well the triangle cush that I have came from Big Ricky he gave it to you know Docta from
Archive and then Doc gave it to me but that cut Big Ricky cornbread Ricky he claims you
know he's had that since 1992 and that predates you know Matt and Josh's you know OG and he
claims he got it as a cut you know.
Yeah okay.
So I mean he's essentially the one to talk to but you know some of those stories get
a little hazy a little bit.
Yeah okay and I mean but if you had to speculate what do you think the parents of the triangle
would have been I've heard that you know just like some land raise possibly like where how
do you think now it's a bit more refined than that?
It very well could be just like a Pakistani sativa hybrid I don't even want to get into
the whole sativa thing because you know I'm no sativa expert I like them but I don't have
the time to grow something that takes 24 weeks yet but definitely like a Pakistani sativa.
And so if we just take a jump now from kind of the feminized chat over to the regular
stuff you know let's dive into the emerald pirates of the emerald triangle stuff what
is the next project you're looking to do under that line you know what's the next
male you're looking to work with?
Oh that's a good one I've been toying with a few different things I definitely want to
toy around with some pine tar kush hybrids for sure you know being that I'm you're spending
the time to you know grow out a huge lot of them and then I'm going to breed directionally
from this you know this lot but you know we'll see where that goes.
I might toy around with some orange type stuff I've been talking to some buddies and we're
looking to put together a nice old school orange cornucopia so to speak so you know.
But I don't know I haven't made any long-term plans quite yet.
Okay and so that orange one you just referenced I've kind of noticed citrus in general is
like orange citrus especially is very on the up and up even beyond just tangy we're still
seeing things like clementine being used quite regularly in modern crosses with that in mind
do you think there's something about the citrus terpenes which specifically the orange
ones which allows it to kind of work as a flavour of the month more so than other things
and what I kind of get by that is I find that like let's just take typical tangy slash calio
type terpenes I find that they're sharp like a sword like they cut through things and it's
like if you had a bag and it's grown well you could have just one bud of you know that
type of stuff in there with a whole bunch of other stuff and it just it cuts through
the rest and so in that regard I kind of think like it's good that like you know it's a good
flavour of the month because it's got these characteristics which suit being flavour of
the month you know it's really loud and obnoxious and people get a big blast out of it you know
do you think that that will persist on beyond this fad because it's kind of like calio was
around then it died out and then tangy came back it's kind of revitalized it do you think
we'll fall off again or it'll stay more present this time?
I think things kind of move in circles right yeah so you know like the purple cushions and
the purples and the grapes you know they had their heyday and then they fell off and then
they had another heyday and then they fell off and I think it's probably you know the
same with the oranges and the bananas and this and that that's and the others me personally
I would like to have all the flavours in a seed form so that you know it doesn't matter
you know what's popular today or tomorrow or the next day you know I can always just
be like oh well I'll pop you know 100 of those or 100 of these you know so you know on one
side I definitely breed for the public but on the other side I'm always breeding for myself.
Okay you know and so what type of genetic base would you want to use
to kind of get those orange flavours into your cross?
Um as far as like the well for one there's a good three or four clones that circulate
some of them probably held pretty tight that are all just extremely orangey old school clones
have been around for 20, 30, 40 years. I've already played around a good little bit with the
8077 Kali Oak clone which dates back to roughly about 1980 and then there's some other ones that
some of some of my buddies hold that are definitely strong orange types and I'm working with
some other cats who have some old school I guess you know orange Kali Oak
seeds so I might you know just try starting there and see where that leads me.
Do you find that some of the current modern orange hybrids are a little lacking in potency?
You know most of the orange strains seem to be a little lower you know on the potency tip for sure.
I honestly don't think I've come across anything just super orangey and super potent at the same
time. Yeah interesting interesting and so if we just jump back to the work you're going to do
with the males do you want to specifically look to just breed with the males or do you
look to just breed with heirloom males because that's already a trend you know if we look at the
previous Pakistani release you did maybe I should more ask do you have a bit of a thing for
Pakistanis you know we got the the PTK and then your original releases can we expect more
Pakistanis or maybe different land races or just modern males even? I definitely like to lean
towards the heirloom land races but you know quality inbred you know older lines are
definitely a potential as well. One thing I think even just like a redux or something
I almost think that if you take a strong tropendoline male like I found in the
the Pakistani Chitrals and if you cross that with you know some type of Calio
I think that tropendoline added to the orange actually is one of the ingredients to
kind of almost spike that orange pungency you know through the roof. Okay interesting
yeah I had a feeling that the terpenes definitely played some role in that especially if you
consider like if we just both agreed that orange terpene weeds tend to tend to be a bit lower well
that's maybe a good indication that terpenes play some bigger role in that all. A follow-up
question to the previous one I wanted to ask though is did you ever get like weird questions
or funny looks from people given you called it like for example you'd be like oh this is the
chemdog f1 the purple urkel f1 because while it was correct in the naming sense it is a little
bit ambiguous for what today's buyers are used to and while someone who's more experienced probably
wouldn't have an issue with it I think some people were probably like what like is this just pure
chemdog or like you know something like that. Right you know I mean I get tired of the name game
like a lot of us do and yeah for those I almost just wanted to breed them for myself
and start from a starting point where I can just call them f1s f2s f3s f4s back cross ones
etc etc and I figured you know if people already are going to name their keeper cuts
whatever they want you know which is kind of commonplace these days so I was just like I'm
just going to get lazy on this and just f1 just call them all f1s and you know the the lineage
is right there on the package so it's you know no dispute what it is but yeah yeah I definitely
there there was a small handful of of nitpickers being like oh how can you call you know the clone
f1 I'm like you know come up with your own name I don't care what the name is it's an you see what
it is. So that's an interesting point you just mentioned about people naming their favorite
clones I'm certainly guilty of that myself but I think the one little caveat I place on myself
is I only do it if I feel the clone is not only a keeper but also quite unique from what you would
typically get from that stock so it's almost like a little bit of its own thing in a certain regard
right and but but like it still muddies the waters because you got someone like me who's like
fanatic about making sure things are listed correctly and all that because I'm you know I
deal with how muddy it gets firsthand all the time but at the same time I can understand you
know like me having a name for something and then maybe if in afterwards I put brackets like
you know whatever like the actual genetics it might be confusing for some especially people
who aren't as fanatical like maybe they just pick and choose which parts they want to say it is or
whatever do you think that's a practice in general we should just avoid and find some better way of
you know like naming our favorite clones or whatever or do you think like on the whole it's
not that damaging I guess to the whole name game considering where we're at yeah no it definitely
gets tough I mean I'm a nitpicker myself when it comes to lineages and history and changing names
and stuff so yeah I mean I've I've I grew up with that kind of stuff where you know early on we you
know there was a train wreck and then you know five years later somebody else is calling something
different train wreck and then they you know give out hundreds if not thousands of clones and all
of a sudden everybody you know knows that they're cut as train wreck whereas we knew something else
as train wreck so the name game is is it's definitely tough I mean yeah I there's there's
no right answer to it and just out of curiosity in a previous episode Bob Hemphill mentioned
he's had train wrecks so long he's just like so over it nowadays like so sick of the Terp profile
is that happened to you as well he says it happens to a lot of people yeah yeah I mean
I definitely don't almost ever go for my my train wreck bag but I still you know have sentiment
you know sentimentality that that word yeah um for for train wreck you know it was one of the
earlier ones um I think I got it in like 99 we were buying sacks of it you know back in 1994
you know um it was actually different than the 99 one but you know um but uh yeah you can
and definitely get tired of some things but I try not to throw the ones I like to
away yeah yeah I think he actually expressed a similar sentiment um what I would be interested
in knowing though is what do you think the genetics are of train wreck because everyone
I feel like it's almost people don't want to guess because they're like oh well you know train wreck
was just the name for the style of breeding where you just put it all you know like the one male
around all the females and just let it go and I get that that's cool but I still feel like the
people in the know would be able to have some kind of guess of what it is you know like I've heard
you know it's like a three-way hybrid of land races or something like that like what do you think
you you know um considering the fact that you know um the the one that you know spread out
um from Arcada um in the late 90s is not the same one I I kind of tend to think that
it it might have been uh almost the terpene profile that you know if you smell that terpene
you know it's it's the same uh terpene that's in Durban poison you know um so I um I kind of
wonder if it's just not oh you smell that and you think oh that's train wreck because the earliest
dated train wreck literature that I've come across um is from 1982 in Mendocino County wow that that
dates it back you know yeah I mean it was nothing but land races and train wreck you know
yeah so and so just as a bit of a curiosity question
as far as you're aware what's the oldest clone in existence
I'll give you a hint if you want a few people have said yeah probably Romulan
um yeah I don't even know how how old Romulan is um or even how available a legit piece of Romulan
is because Romulan is one of those ones that kind of got uh screwed up a lot you know in the whole
BC scene where they started yeah they started putting out a bunch of hybrids as Romulan and so
everybody has a hybrid of Romulan that they're calling Romulan yeah you know um but uh does that
one date all the way back to Mendocino in the California blue indicas I've heard it goes back
to 69 damn huh interesting but it kind of what you said does hold true because what I heard was
the case so basically there was a guy and he was kind of doing his own thing for ages and he had
got it off Romulan Joe in 69 and then went to the next one and then he got it off Romulan Joe
like you know the internet came about he came back so I think there's a whole lot of room in that
time frame for things to have changed as you said but in saying that you know I got a few good
friends who they're pretty confident it's the real deal and so you know who am I to say otherwise but
um yeah as far as I'm aware the cut was lost so to speak to the masses and then it was just this guy
who popped back up and um was kind of like oh no you know I got it and I've just been a hermit for
the last 30 years or whatever so yeah like if it's true shout out to that guy yeah yeah yeah
no I actually was a kind of curious to um check out that cut because that cut is if if I'm not
mistaken the original Romulan cut is kind of almost a lankier um plant with popcorn nuggets
um you know kind of like oh gee but a different looking plant for sure so I mean I've heard a lot
of people say that the PNW hash plant is the source of a lot of really good cuts um potentially
the the same hash plant that Neville originally used in the seed bank to create a lot of his lines
um I think I've seen that you've got that one or you had some experience with it what's your
opinions on that um I'm not gonna say I have that one I have an old hash plant from up in the
Seattle area Pacific Northwest um but also there's a bunch of hash plants up there you know
like the U-dubs and all those um so it's definitely one I can't you know trace back to
okay and say for sure this is you know the one or whatever um but I I know whatever whatever Neville
you know collected and worked with was definitely a quality piece for sure yeah and so do you value
like his stock as the highest stuff you could possibly get like if someone said to you
I've got a pack of the seed bank I've got a pack of SSSC and I've got a pack of
Boal gear you know brothers of the eternal love which one would you pick
uh I'd probably tend to go with Boal yeah and so what out of their stuff would you be most
interested in if you could get it I just mean you know uh I like the original sources Neville seemed
to be like a collector who came over to the U.S. and Boal seemed to be like not so much collectors
but essentially collectors who collected from other you know the sources of origin
so Neville is like a step removed from where you kind of want to get the you know the stuff from
and all Neville's stuff was all you know hybrids anyway yeah yeah he didn't do pure lines another
thing which I was interested in is I'd heard that some of the Boal stock was hit and miss
which I thought was interesting because it's like if you thought about it you would you'd swear that
it's got to be the most undiluted point so to speak where you could get seeds from at least
commercially in the western world do you agree that it would have been hit and miss or do you
think no it should have been all fire no definitely hit and miss because land pure land race uh you
know seeds are extremely variable and the amount of breeding that you know has actually been done
on a lot of them is is is not it's not very selective you know at least from what I've seen
you know um so yeah I can definitely imagine you know just based off my own you know land race you
know preservation runs you know there's there's a lot of garbage and then you can you know find
good stuff but it's not what most people want it's it's also why I don't sell any of that kind of
stuff is because even though people think they want it they really don't want it you know they
they grow a 10 pack and they're like oh fuck pirates you know like all he's you know reads
this crap you know okay so and so yeah would you ever consider maybe taking a very select
stable phenotype from a land race stock you found and maybe like doing some s1s on it seeing how
stable it is and releasing that where it's like look you want the land race afghani here's a
somewhat refined but still undiluted version of it right well even better um when I take a
a land race and actually grow out 100 or 200 of them or even something you know as a simple as
a preserve you know um you know heirloom land race like pine tar kush um my my step one is always to
um do an open pollination where I take all the boys and I pollinate all the girls um
and then I I when I do that I also make my selections for the next round and I pull out
all the select boys and all the select girls the best of the best of those big lots and then I
directionally breed those so it's you know it tightens it up a lot and gets rid of all the
garbage and for you know um you know for a next generation if I sprout those seeds it's going to
be a you know a lot more uniform a lot more quality and then you know I can go from there you
know um with multiple generations to really isolate quality it's all about selection that's all
breeding is okay so I've got a bit of a hairy question which might be hard to answer might be
easy people often talk about if you were to get land race genetics yourself you'd likely have to
do some you know refining some culling all of the usual business they mention my question is in
relation to a lot of southeast asian land races people will always say expect some hermaphrodites
what would you do though if basically every female you had showed hermaphroditic traits have you just
like hit the losing ticket there or is it possible to breed those together and then in the
f2s to try to find something which didn't have aphrodite or is it just like you know not worth
wasting your time if you can't find semi-stableness in the first generation right I would definitely
say open pollinate uh just like I do already um all your females times all your males and then
grow out as large of a lot as you can and pull out um the least hermaphroditic out of the bunch
and then you know breed further with those um and oftentimes um if you know you narrow it down like
that then you can outcross it to you know something else that's probably more stable
and then get into the f2s of that and actually pull something out that
you know potentially won't have the problems. So if people take a glance back at those earlier
seed bank magazines often there'll be a little comment saying are inbred for four generations or
something along those lines is that the type of time frame you should expect if you're going to
try to embark in such a product a project or is that the time frame to expect if you want to do
it to the highest level because a lot of people will say that you know like the early year was
phenomenal and some will say well it's because it was done properly is four generations like
overkill to the point where like you're going to have a really really good product
or just the standard? Well honestly uh a lot of the old ones um uh they they pushed f1s
like they they searched you know line a and line b they either used a clone for you know the mother
and then searched you know through a lot of plants for you know the male and then you know
they released f1s a lot of times you know um uh oftentimes um it all depends on how how well
it's bred you know between you know f1 and f4 whether that f4 is quality or garbage you know
and unless you grow them out that's the only way to tell. Yeah and that's kind of I guess a point
that perplexed me for a long time you know back in the day theoretically there was the least amount
of information about cannabis breeding around of course there's general breeding philosophies
which are applicable to cannabis and Neville was utilizing those but what I struggled to understand
is like you just referenced someone takes an f1 takes it to the f4 usually it's shit by the f4
because they haven't done good selection along each step of the way and so it's horrible and so
like it's hard for me to believe that a certain amount of that didn't happen with Neville because
it's almost like what he was just like or like extending it to most breeders back then you know
it's like what everyone took things several generations it was always an improvement at
each step they seemingly did it you know like it didn't take him a year to do each generation they
seemingly did it probably like you know each three-month cycle they progressed a generation
yeah and so it's like were they like gods of selection like how you know what I mean it just
seems odd because I've got some Apollo 13 f4s and I got some f1s and it's just like night and day
difference and I can't help but feel like a similar thing must have happened to a smaller degree maybe
right right and a lot of times breeders aren't selecting from very big pools at all I mean
I've read how you know certain breeders you know are only selecting from 10 seeds at a run
I'm like well you know that's not much that's not much reading right there I mean
I could do a lot of work if I'm only doing from 10 but I like to work with at least 100 and
if it was a perfect world yeah thousands would be real nice yeah you know and so I read an article
and it says that you are really well this is going to sound funny but it said you're a really good
interview because you're able to articulate your thoughts on males quite well and I think
honestly that's probably the question most people listening to this show are interested in you know
how would you describe your ideal male you know is it dependent on each project and
more importantly what characteristics to you are good characteristics that you look for
oh I mean I'm fairly simple with the boys ideally I'm looking for something that
you know puts on some frost is stinky and usually that's kind of a benefit too you know if they're
frosty you can actually get you know some of their terpene profiles off of them I've got buddies
like with a 707 seed bank he and I think archive might do it a little bit too but 707 he
he reverses all his males with floral so he can really get a good solid you know
smell on you know what they're like and kind of get a better look because it reverses them
and makes them kind of more of a female plant but yeah frosty males you know stinky males
and then bottom line is you know grow out the progeny and see what happens
and so I guess it goes without saying because I mean you just mentioned it you
think that resinous males are good or maybe superior to others do you believe though that
the terpene profile you get off rubbing those trichomes is pretty much what it's going to
pass on or there'll be some variation or it may not have any correlation
it really depends it depends if the if those terpenes are receptive or dominant you know I've
had some males that are extremely dominant and then others that just you know go right underneath
you know and the and the females terps you know pop right out on top so it's extremely variable
variable yeah okay and so how do you feel about the idea proposed by both
there's a lot of readers actually but like notably dj short and tom hill throw their
weight behind it that the idea that there may be something to males that also produce a few pistols
in terms of them being like quite good males you know like I guess what you would say is
males showing intersex traits of being a female you know how do you feel about that
um honestly I I definitely don't agree um that um males that show intersex are are better um
I think um Sam Skunkman said it best uh you know a herm is a herm it doesn't matter if it's a female
herm or a male herm and I've seen plenty of male herms you know um and a lot of people I don't
think even um spot the the male herms out because most breeders I think kill their males two to
three weeks in the flower and don't even flower out the males and a male is just like a female
he's gonna herm a lot of times between six and eight weeks into flower and also a male is gonna
tend to frost up you know six to eight weeks into flower just like that female you know I mean so a
lot of people they kill their males before they ever frost up before they really get their terpenes
you know um fully you know developed um and so they never really know what they're breeding with
you know so and so you know I'm sorry go on oh no I I mean uh I I tend to you know um oftentimes
let my my my male plants flower out like a full eight weeks or more you know just to see what
what they produce yeah just out of curiosity have you ever seen a male plant do a similar
thing to a female where like at the end of the flower cycle it'll produce some intersex
um you know like nodes in order to maybe try to self-replicate or do you think that's more of like
a deeply ingrained female trait as opposed to a male trait oh yeah yeah yeah no that's what I was
saying a lot of times the males don't don't put on pistils um until six weeks or further into flower
yeah interesting and if you were to get some of those seeds created on the male pistils
and you pop them what would you expect the offspring to be like you know I've never
sprouted them and I've got at least three lots of seeds that are male times males
in my fridge some of them I've had there for quite some time um and if we're gonna you know
we're gonna believe uh guys um like Sam the skunk man who's actually sprouted these say
these seeds and grown them uh supposedly they come up with uh um something like 25 percent female
plants uh and then uh 50 percent kind of inter intersex male plants and then 25 percent male
plants but uh I haven't personally sprouted them so so as like maybe a smaller breeder who doesn't
have like not not you but as someone else who doesn't have a lot of facilities maybe they're
just toying around with their like you know a few tents or whatever is there any way you could
recommend being able to hold on to a male and being able to flower it at the full length without
just ruining your crop? Oh that's that's tough I mean um when I do it um I either um am doing my
open pollinations and so I just leave the males in the room for the whole time and just take care
of them to the end or other times I have uh pulled out all the males um and uh um basically just
filled a full you know uh four by four tent with something like 80 or so males um and uh you know
just kept them you know going in little six inch square pots you know for eight weeks you know it
gives you that idea of what you you know what you're looking for but um yeah as long as you
have an isolated space um it's not near the females it's just fine. Okay and I mean you just kind of
mentioned an interesting topic we've asked a few different guests what in your opinion is the ideal
way to pheno hunt and so what I mean by that is what's the smallest size pot for example that you
think you can run a plant in and you still get an accurate representation of the plant but you know
like it's it's fairly small and you can fit a bunch of them in and do some good hunting?
Yeah um I think the smallest I'd prefer to do is probably about like a two gallon a two gallon pot
um which you know the two galloners I use you can put 36 on a table any smaller than that and
uh I don't know if you're getting um enough of a representation and you're gonna lose quite a
few because of you know plants drowning out and just being too small to keep up and yeah yeah.
And so something people will probably notice if they check out your Instagram is um you're a fan
of running like the beds with like all the same strain in the bed are you like a big advocate to
this do you think people really need to start doing it themselves or do you think it just
happens to suit you and you know it might not work for everyone? Um beds definitely uh um have their
pros and cons um I generally have way more stuff than I can handle and I don't have a big crew to
help me so I need you know stuff to be as easy as possible and so you know for me uh you know
running 10 or 20 beds is like running 10 or 20 pots you know I mean I only have to water 10 or 20
um you know versus hundreds and hundreds of pots you know so it's it's definitely a necessity for
you know um somebody who's not running a big crew or anything. Yeah okay and do you find that uh the
plants will try to out-compete each other if they're not of the same strain because that's an
idea that gets thrown around a lot but I've never actually toyed with it myself where you know people
say oh if you run if you run all all seeds from the same strain like they'll just they'll exist
harmoniously but if it's two different strains they'll fight each other and you know one will
come out on top do you think that's a bit of an overstatement? Um no no um if if you have something
fast growing um in the beds uh yeah uh and something slow growing yeah the the fast growing
ones are gonna blow away the others. I always try to kind of match what I'm growing in my beds
I either do a full bed of just you know one one type or I uh you know just make sure that
they're planted so that you know nothing's gonna get you know drowned out and sure even still
you know there's still seedlings and plants that do get drowned out from time to time but I'm always
running you know 16, 25, 36 you know or more per bed so um you know I get most of them to come out.
Yeah I know I was gonna say looking at um some of the I believe it was the purple urkel TK hybrids
or something along those lines they were they were all really uniform I was so blown away
impressed I was like fuck like that would that seems like it would have been a challenge to
keep that going happy. Right right I mean luckily I've had a lot of experience doing it so um
some of these runs just you know you throw them in you trigger them two weeks later and they just
do it all themselves so. Yeah awesome you know and just a quick little curiosity question do you use
CO2 at all I think that it's fat it's fallen off a lot like I think it used to be a lot more of a
bigger thing than it is now like where do you sit on that one? I have um I I toyed around with it 20
years ago um a little bit um but I I've never I've never really used CO2 at all um and you know
when when I was commercially cropping inside I mean I was still pulling you know two two and a
half upwards of three pounds of light um even on some of my seed runs you know where I'm growing
straight from seed I'm I'm hitting two two and a half pounds of light um so uh no CO2 uh passive
passive intake just active exhaust and no air conditions air conditioners or nothing like that
but I'm also on the coast so you know it's cool in my neighborhood. Okay and just um to clarify
for everyone are you an organic guy you a new bottled guy where do you sit on it or how do you
do you feel it affects the end product ultimately? Oh yeah I'm I'm organic um and I'm extremely
simple uh I really don't use barely any bottles at all um I mix dry amendments uh into my beds um
you know like fish meals bone meals uh or like fish bone meals kelp this that the other um and I
just mix all that stuff in you know at the beginning of each run and then I water with plain water
as simple as it can get uh and basically I'm prepping to do you know a really big
indoor organic row in the future um that's going to be automated so that's what I'm working kind of
my my uh my setup towards you know just automated organic pure water you know um yeah keep it simple
yeah and after my heart um so with that being said do you find that the end product is is
dramatically different like I'm of the opinion that um you know I guess anything grown to the
highest level is going to be really good but as a general rule of thumb I find organic even if it
was let's just say you had a strain and you only consider it to have been grown to say 80 percent
of its potential and we have two buds one organic one synthetic or you know like bottled nutrient
type thing I believe that if it's not maxing out I think if they were both 100 well grown they'd be
pretty similar but if we're just talking say 80 or less than 100 which I think is the realistic
situation most of the time it's not grown absolutely perfectly I think the organic one
wins out by a fair margin do you agree with that or do you think maybe it's a more of a closer race
than I'm giving it credit um honestly I think sometimes uh some of my buddy stuff that combine
organics and chemicals um you know uh tend to tend to be a little more pungent and almost a
little more tasty than just pure pure organics like I do um years ago I used to do a chemical
organic you know thing and I I think I it definitely came out more pungent when when I
was combining the things um it was um I was definitely getting high yields back then I'm
using a lot of bottled this is and that's and all that kind of stuff but uh I I haven't honestly
done a side by side uh trial to really I think that would be the best bet you know just side by
side same environment same everything but you know keep one organic do one you know chemical
and then you know see what you know really uh your taste buds tell you you know what I mean
you know are you a bit of a um an organic snob you know are you happy to
try whatever or you know like would you get down on some jungle boys stuff
I'll try some stuff even um even if I don't know where or how it's grown I think we we all tend to
uh take in and imbibe uh stuff that hasn't been you know done the best so from time to time so
I'll try a variety of stuff awesome awesome so let's change topic for a moment get to subject
near and dear to my heart and probably most people who listen to the show chem dog you are actually
probably one of the I guess to the public one of the lesser known aficionados but for the people
in the know I think a lot of people know that you are probably one of the foremost chem dog experts
especially in regards to um how they grow being able to compare them between each other often I
hear people tell me you know parts of the skunk va story which I'm very familiar with and I'm like
and they'll be like oh yeah and skunk va posted online and inspector was the guy who vouched for
him and was like yeah that's the chem dog and I went and checked the thread and sure enough you
are the first person to kind of chime in and be like yep that's definitely the 91 and so yeah you
know why don't you give us a quick little rundown on your history with the chem dog and how you kind
of got entwined in it all yeah that was an accident right there um so basically uh um it kind of stems
from jason king's cannabible um that came out um early 2000s and he was raving about this chem dog
right and so um it was kind of on my list you know if I ever came across it you know I'd love to
check it out well you know come about 2004 2005 um you know I got a chem dog cut um you know from
one of my buddies and doing research on it it didn't look nothing like a chem dog you know at
least uh what I believe to be you know a legit chem dog and then uh um I was talking to my buddy set
at uh 707 seed bank and he was like oh well you know I've got the original chem dog from skunk va
I was like well sweet you know and so you know he he basically gave me uh you know the chem dog he
had gotten directly off of skunk va and um skunk va you know he was on overgrow back around 2005
and he had posted pictures up and I think g was on there and g was like yep that's the chem dog
so everybody you know who was pertinent to the discussion had you know pretty much validated
skunk va's chem dog as the one you need so I was like that's the only one I want right there
and then when g sent uh joe brand some seeds and joe brand started the one through four um
you know I I told my buddy at the time you know hey you know run down to sonoma and you know get
me some cuts off those seed plants because he'd been talking to him so he did that and he was all
excited about this that and the other chem dog hybrid and all I all I wanted was that chem dog
one through four and so I got those and then when g came out to uh to do his 2006 tour you know uh
he he gave uh you know multiple buddies uh the the chem dog d and the chem dog sister so I got those
you know from obsolete and then I also got another chem dog d from joe brand um but essentially you
know by 2006 I had I think what seven different chem dogs you know all from you know the sources
and so you know I grew them all out and well you know and so how did you kind of go from
having grown them to being more kind of what I consider to be the man who a lot of people think
is possibly the only holder of like the one to the one and two because I think you were the only one
who really put up like detailed descriptions and photographs of the one and two and everyone's
always really interested like do they still exist and because there's kind of a bit of a vacuum
around that general discussion I think people just assume like oh inspectors probably got it
well it's kind of funny because when I ran those four out um joe brand he he sprouted the seeds and
he grew them out that summer in 2006 he really only gave the one through four to two people
me and this uh this other cat um down around the bay I think um who's actually um turns out
his buddies with you know some of my buddies down in Mendo but anyways um so there was only two
people who ever had the one through four um aside from Joe Brand um and uh um anyways uh when I ran
all four of them out um I wasn't a huge fan of the number one it was kind of um kind of a more hazy
thing more sativa thing just floofy buds um didn't really have the small profile that I really cared
for um I really liked the two though it had like cushy popcorn nugs on it um had a like a bubblegum
diesel smell to it uh it was really nice anyways um so I I gave uh I think at least three or four
of my buddies um the chem dog to cut um and then I kind of right around that time or a little after
that time I kind of just dropped my entire mother collection and took like a three-year vacation a
little sabbatical um well when I came back um my buddies are all you know they all had the chem dog
two and I get it back and I grow it out and I'm like wait what the fuck it's not even chem dog two
you know I had scrapped the chem dog one or so I thought well as soon as I grew it out I I knew I
was like oh man and every single buddy I had given it to same thing um so uh I had accidentally
given everybody chem dog number one and nobody had chem dog number two so to this day we still
have chem dog number one but nobody's seen chem dog number two since about 2007-2008 so um
but the the chem dog number one is kind of unique I mean it's extremely high in myrcene
it tests at I think upwards of like four percent myrcene which is really strong for just a you
know a monoterpene um or whatever they call it and uh um it's a 12 12 plus weaker um just as
potent as any of the other chem dogs um but uh yeah it hasn't it hasn't really gotten too
widespread since uh since Joe Brand started sprouted that seed and I think pretty much
anybody who has it um got it from from me or you know one of my buddies who I originally gave it
to. Okay and do you think the chem two is most likely just gone in general or do you think maybe
someone's got it? It's it's definitely gone I mean I made a couple hybrids with it back in 06-07
you know uh chrome chrome grew uh the chem dog two crossed a deep chunk that I made I think in 07
um but uh um yeah I'd say I'd say it's safely gone. Okay and then so I guess the big ultimate
money question is what do you think the genetics behind it all are? Like chem dog? Yeah where do
you think the chem dog comes from? I think chem dog is just uh um I mean uh I've my my uncle uh
growing up um he was a professional photographer and he kind of traveled the world a little bit
um collecting seeds taking pictures then he brought a bunch of those home and so I've got
you know he passed away in the 80s the mid late 80s and so I've got all these pictures that he
took of you know these pure land race indica and sativas and everything that he grew out and uh
the chem 91 is very similar to some of these pure land race indicas um that he had in the early 80s
um and you know I wouldn't be surprised if it wasn't something pure like that or maybe even
just you know um some type of Mexican uh you know indica or you know some type of sativa indica hybrid
you know from the early days back in Oregon because you know Joe Brand is adamant that that
came from you know those pounds came from uh you know southern Oregon area. So you're one of the
few people who I know still has contact with Joe Brand what can you tell us about Joe B you know
what's he doing does he plan on popping his head up again? He wants to he wants to he's trying to
get his life back together that's for sure you know um so hopefully it works out and he doesn't
get caught up in things again you know yeah he's definitely been through a rough 10 years that's for
sure. So if we just jump back to the feminizing for a moment you've asked on a fair few lines
which one in your opinion has the most treasure locked inside of it which maybe isn't apparent
on face value like you know if we reference the the barber you mentioned earlier it has that lemon
lime in it you know I guess that's not really self-evident that's locked in there by any means
what what in your opinion is the greatest treasure trove straight into S1 I guess?
Oh see that's a tough one because I really love a lot of the S1 babas um they're extremely unique
uh some of the Urkels they're they're rare but there's some just pure grapey you know uh I don't
know just potty just um really high quality um ones in there but overall um my favorite I think
and this is just a personal thing um is uh the Mendocino purple S1s um there's so much
variation in those so many different terpenes um it's it's extremely uh variable in in the S1s um
with so many different plants and just expressions uh it's definitely bar none my favorite even
though it's not you know even remotely one of the more potent uh you know ones out of the bunch.
Yeah no worries and so I mean we heard from Bob Hemphill in a previous episode
um you know that NotSoDog was the guy who popped the seeds do you know if it's true that he
initially actually got two seeds and there was a male and he may or may not have culled it?
Yeah um okay so when I met NotSoDog um he actually hit me up on Instagram
and I had known some of his you know friends and acquaintances and buddies over the years
and turns out we'd uh we'd even been to the same parties down in like
Sonoma and Mendocino and stuff um but we'd never met and anyways he hits me up on uh
Instagram and he's like hey you know I'm the one who sprouted the seed blah blah and I'm like
um from probably almost 10 years ago um I had met some kids who actually knew him
and they had told me his you know story way back then and I was like you know um
didn't you have a male and a female you know and then the male um accidentally got killed when a
light fell and lopped off its top and he's like how did you know that story?
I'm like well I got a weird memory and you know I might have met you know some of your friends
but yeah he's like I didn't tell almost anybody that story and yeah anyways so he he knew I was
legit I knew he was legit because his story was like just added up you know all the way so yeah
yeah we've we've buddies ever since. That's awesome and what do you do you think it's pretty
safe to say that male would have been something special also? It could have been it could have
been yeah but and so what do you think about the idea of if you pop feminized seeds and you find
a full-on male so it's not like a female that shows male tendencies but it's just a straight
male and you can't find signs of a female what do you think the go with that plan is like is it
safe to treat it as if it's a male like if you wanted to breed with it would you go ahead or?
You know I'm in a tough position uh with that one because I have grown out literally
thousands of feminized seeds that I've made and I still have yet to find one single legitimate male
um I've followed other people who have supposedly made the same exact
uh S1s and S1 hybrids um and they've pulled like multiple males out of their stuff
um so I honestly think you know 99.9% of males found in feminized seeds are from pollen
contamination um basically there's male pollen somewhere and uh yeah um that's where the males
come from um in all my growing of S1s I've found what initially sexed or sexed as male and one of
them um it was obviously a Pakistani hybrid and I had done a Pakistani um pollination in the room
the round before and I had thought I thought I cleaned the room proper but I'm pretty sure you
know obviously I missed one grain of pollen you know um and then another time so that that right
there is pollen contamination um the other time I had a bomb threat feminized hybrid um sexing as
a male um and about two weeks in the flower it was all balls and then it just started putting on
hairs and it went full female after that so that is just an extreme hermaphrodite so
out of out of thousands of femmes that that's my experience with males and I think pollen
contamination um is is the majority of the males that people find but who knows. Yeah I mean it
certainly seems like a plausible explanation while we're on that topic of like I guess you know kind
of uh underlying issues with seed production how do you feel about the rise of the more larger
breeders who I guess essentially have the market and the resources to outsource their seed
production do you do you think that this is we're entering like a bit of shaky ground with that or
do you think that quality control is not likely to suffer from doing so? Um I definitely think
there's uh some definite pitfalls with that I mean some of the stories I've heard and I'm sure
you've heard plenty of them too um a lot of these big companies they don't make their own seeds
and a lot of times you see people growing some of their seeds out and it is not even remotely
as advertised you know um they're pretending they're using or they're saying they're using
this cut or that cut or the other and it doesn't resemble anything what they're saying you know as
far as progeny goes I mean uh I don't me personally I don't believe in outsourcing at all myself
um but I know most of the big companies do it. Would you ever consider kind of scaling up your
operation to have like I guess a bigger crew involved or do you always want to keep it
reasonably hands-on yourself? Um I think as long as you know um I have a good oversight on
everything um I could probably uh you know handle handle doing it with the crew um and as things you
know progress at least here in California um I'm definitely need it you know gonna need to go that
way um I mean I have a small crew now but you know ideally you know you need a uh quite a large
crew to go through the kind of numbers and you know um doing as much of the research and development
as I'd like to do so definitely gonna need you know a handful of growers and you know just
workers and all that kind of thing to to do a project like that. Yeah okay and so you know
we've mentioned a few times in the episode already like the terpene content of plants I'm noticing
that terpene content seems to be quickly overtaking in terms of like consumer preference the idea of
like THC percentages you know it's like first THC percentages came around people got hooked on that
idea now terpene percentages are out you know more popular people seem to be like it's gaining
traction readily like the idea of let's get real high terpene strains do you think that this is
going to be a lasting trend or just more of a fad thing because I guess the underlying kind of idea
is that at the end of the day as much as the numbers of THC values you know may be boosted or
detracted from the popularity of certain strains people still kind of agree that you know like it's
just about smoking it and like that's kind of the best measure at the end of the day do you think
that will probably apply to the terpenes as well or you think it'll be like a lasting thing?
I think it'll last at least for a good while especially considering a lot of the higher
terpene strains people are using for concentrates and so you don't even necessarily need that high
of a THC to make a you know high THC you know potent you know concentrate and then so then all
you need really is your you know high terpene you know content so I think especially the way
you know everybody's going with you know the flavors and all that you know it'll stick around
for a good while I think. And do you buy into the whole flavor game? Oh I love flavors you know
otherwise you know I wouldn't have a hundred different you know cuts sitting in my mother room
um so I you know I love oranges, grapes you know apples you know I love all skunks and
all the others you know so. And is that something you strive for in the breeding like if you were
to kind of list the main attributes you're looking to breed when you do a project like you know like
good structure, good yield you know all that type of stuff is a good flavor profile something you
highly value or not necessarily? Oh definitely um my two uh um my two criteria generally are
effect you know and not necessarily high THC but just quality effect for you know my chemistry
and then you know flavor you know um so aside from that I don't breed for a sturdy fast-growing
big plant you know none of that kind of stuff I want flavor and effect and everything else if it
falls in it's cool if not you know I got what I want you know. And so currently what plant
is the best example of that for you you know what's your favorite plant in terms of flavor and effect?
Um my favorites uh in the last couple years have mostly come out of the the Urkel hybrids um
I love phenotypes uh a lot of the OG uh OGs times Urkel um I like uh the Chemdogs times Urkel um
and uh there's a couple others uh offhand I'm not thinking of right now but uh those are definitely
some of my favorites over the last couple few years. Yeah yeah so I mean given you've done
so many purple Urkel hybrids and Bubba Kush hybrids what do you think is your favorite
crosses you've done out of all of those ones you know out of the Bubbas what do you think Bubba
paired with the best out of all the ones you made and the same question for the Urkel?
Um the Urkel definitely um Triangle Kush uh that one just sped out so many just you know
unique and just tasty uh phenotypes that's a that's an easy one um with the Bubba
there was a handful of them um what was that one the um the Bubba um I like the Bubba Bubblegum
that one had a lot of nice ones uh it's been about three years since I've grown all the Bubbas out so
um do you plan on restocking um either the Bubba or the purple Urkel feminized lines in the near
future because I noticed when you did that um I think it was earlier this year possibly even um
restocked the lines that was like the second batch you'd made of them kind of so it's like
a third in the works so to speak? Oh I haven't restocked any and uh I just have you know a
supply of what I have um yeah and uh I don't plan on remaking any uh any of the hybrids um a lot of
the ones I even you know sell aren't you know aren't original they're not even anything new
you know other people have sold the same exact ones um I'm mostly making these for myself um
and then you know I put them on the market you know for other people too
um but uh um I don't plan to remake any of them um at most uh I like to uh you know go through large
populations of the S1 and then I might you know make an S1 feminized hybrid that kind of refines
um you know the hybrids and maybe cross those to you know some of the better ones that I liked
from each round but as far as just remaking yeah no. Okay are there any special factors that go into
determining if a strain would be specifically good for reversing so is it just the case that you just
pick the strain you want to reverse and that's the one you want to reverse and that's it or is it
kind of like you look at a whole bunch of strains and you think oh well there's a few characteristics
in this plant which would make it good as a donor specifically?
Um well to start to start CSI uh I definitely uh kind of went with tried and trues um I'd reversed
the Bubba in 2006 I pretty much reversed the Urkel in 2002 you know just with the the accidental
thing you know and saw what it could produce and really liked the results so um I was basically
building off of stuff I already knew and had already done so I I knew it was quality stuff
um you know um with the um with the future future lines it's definitely uh you know some of the ones
I reverse I definitely might not even release because they might not produce uh you know
what I hope they would you know. Yeah okay and so if we just jump back to the labs for a moment
where do labs sit for you? Do you use them at all? Not interested in the percentages? Do you feel
the percentages are just over inflated at the moment? My buddy works for one of the more legit
labs um and he uh um well his his lab tends to test uh a lot lower percentages than uh some of
these inflated labs that most people want to get their stuff tested at which is one of the reasons
why uh I don't generally you know use that as a proponent of my advertising campaign because um
something that tests you know for me at 20% will test at another lab at 25 or you know 26%
so um you know I definitely take all that data because um through it through my buddy you know
we test all the um the cannabinoids and the terpenes um but uh um I don't exactly you know
release the data because you know all that. Yeah secret sauce. So how do you feel about the whole
kind of uh increase in popularity of like getting everything phylos sequenced? Are you a proponent
of it? Are you against it? I've heard there's kind of two camps on the whole idea. Right um
I'd like to get some things phylo sequenced but you know phylos approached me uh a few times over
the last couple years and um I've been adamant I mean they'll test anything I got for $300 a clone.
I'm like I'm not paying for you know you to tell me what I already know you know um honestly they
don't even have a complete uh system because they don't have the base clones to begin with
on a lot of things. I mean unless they have a legitimate you know chem dog 91 to start their
galaxy with. Unless they have a triangle kush to start their OG kush galaxy you know um if they
don't have the core tissue that's responsible for all these hybrids then they don't have a galaxy
you know. I mean I've got a bunch of tissue you know the the 91, the TK, the you know the Mendo
purple, the the original Urkel you know um all of which you know can can be at the core of certain
galaxies but if they're you know galaxies don't include those uh they're not going to be accurate
you know. And so I've heard that um there was certain people who feel like you shouldn't get
it done because if you get the sequencing done you lose the ability to like patent or you know
like claim ownership over the plant because when it's in like the public domain it's you know it's
no longer yours to claim. Have you heard anything like that and and if it were true would that be
something that put you off it or do you think that you know like the idea of trying to claim
ownership of a plant is a bit silly? Uh that's exactly kind of how I feel. I mean I know there's
definitely cats doing that and I think it's ridiculous um you know uh but you know how it is
you can't stop progress. And so how do you feel about I guess you know the somewhat controversial
subject or just the controversy this idea has been surrounded in in that seeking permission to breed
with a strain from someone else before you use it you know how do you feel about that? Does someone
have to hit you up if they want to use one of your males from one of your strains in like a
strain that they're going to then go and sell or where do you sit on that whole issue?
It definitely uh is a matter of respect you know I definitely appreciate it you know um I don't view
it as necessary I don't look at my seeds as possessions especially if they're sold um but
even if they're given you know um I'm very adamant on if I give somebody something and
you know there's restrictions or anything on it um I'll tell them straight up uh but uh you know
you know otherwise uh you know people are free to you know work with gifts and especially bought
seed to their heart's content I just think you know um it's definitely respectful to ask ask
breeders and you know the sources uh you know approval if you want to work with their stuff.
Yeah okay and so just to play devil's advocate what would you do if you wanted to use a male
let's just what would you do if Tom Hill hit you up and said hey I just changed my mind on the PTK
and I actually don't want you to use it do you think at that point you know that respect should
go so far as to like canning the project? Right um that'd be a tough one that'd be a tough one
um I would definitely respect Tom and and and his wishes for sure um you know because you know I
just think that's how we should all be um you know uh as for you know the PTK my number one
goal is just for preservation of the pure seed line I mean that's above and beyond um anything
else that stems of it is just a bonus but you know um honestly I think Tom just as an example
um is is one of those people who kind of understands he doesn't hold um any of those
lines as his possessions I think he he views them as he was just a keeper of those genetics
for for his time I mean and that's how I view things you know we're all just keepers you know
for for you know as long as we are a keeper and then it needs to go on to the next person you know
but you know there's plenty of people who are you know opportunists and you know they they get 10
seeds from somebody and it's off to the races to you know make that next hybrid or just reproduce
it and sell it you know but yeah yeah you know I saw the funniest man the other day it's like
I was like a guy like trying to start a seed company it's like I need a kind of girl scout
cookies and a 10 pack of seeds and it's true yeah it's a good one um so who are some of the breeders
who you really enjoy the work of or you know you really think highly of their work and even maybe
go so far as to be like their stuff is you know like I feel they follow similar ethics to I do
and I would even be happy to possibly do a project with them because I we could meet eye to eye on
that right I mean uh I'm I'm not shy about you know my favorite readers um and I I like to consider
my favorite readers friends um I'm I'm definitely a huge fan of Bodie I mean he's he's he's one of
the best in my book um Mean Gene uh you know he's rock solid you know um if if there's a spot where
he could make an extra buck he's gonna tell you the truth and lose that buck over over that dollar
um which you know I definitely can respect um so you know guys like that who just have that you
know integrity and just honesty and just you know they're they're not just looking out for that
dollar in themselves um those are definitely the you know my favorite breeders and the ones I you
know look up to yeah okay and so if you were just a grower or free or maybe a better way to put it
is if you lost your whole collection as it were seeds clones everything and all you had to name
was like you know like 150 bucks so basically you can buy like one packet of seeds which pack would
you buy to restart the empire damn you drive a hard bargain
one pack uh uh does this include I don't have any friends anymore no one's going to help you out
oh that's a really good question um
no no no I'll go with like I'll go with like some gelato times wedding cake
no get that money quick yeah yeah and then I can afford more packs that's probably the best
answer ever so kind of relating what would your advice be to a newly emerging breeder more
specifically when should someone feel comfortable to not only release but that they can feel
comfortable charging for the work and you know like and I'm not talking about like you know you
just make some seeds and give them to your friend like that's cool but like when should you feel
confident that you have done the adequate work to be able to approach a seed bank and be like look
you know you know maybe you could consider stocking my stuff and I feel like it's of high
enough quality you know like should they wait a certain time like or you know what what's your
advice in general well just from what I've seen you know at least in the present present time
um you you know I I'm not going to stop anybody from breeding or you know uh creating a seed
company or or going with it you know with even limited experience um just because it seems
these days that it's more about branding um you know than anything else um but uh in the future
hopefully the bar gets raised to where uh you know um you actually need to really be a professional
one and really have a a strong understanding of the cannabis plant and you know how it breeds and
you know what to even look for when you're doing selections you know in the future and so do you
think breeders who come to the market with like you know one parent from top dog and one parent
from pirates of the emerald triangle and I've made a whole bunch of f1s guys do you think that's like
there's a place for that like or do you think people should be like looking to you know maybe
do more work than that like and more importantly I guess my other question is do you think that
it's a bit of a cop-out for someone to maybe develop a male and by that I mean like it's
not just an f1 maybe they've even taken it to the f2 or like made an f1 then crossed it to another
one of their strands so you know like they've got some ownership over it but then they've just
crossed that to like 10 clone only's and that's their whole offering you know like how do you feel
about that um I mean in in in today's world I think it's you know par for the course um you know
it it is what it is uh um it's not ideal but um there there's cool stuff to be found and you know
lots of the hybrids and some that you wouldn't even think you know would turn out you know
um really well so yeah yeah okay I I definitely have a different perspective than I used to
I used to have more of a purist idealist perspective and now it's like well there's
101 ways to do it and you know it's up to the consumer to choose you know who they want to
support yeah okay and so last little question for this segment if you could only hang on to
one clone you've currently got which one um
um just one yeah uh if you want to do three
ow about three I if you're giving me three uh I'd probably hold on to um triangle kush chemdog 91
and uh three is still limiting because I like urkel and mendo purple both
but uh uh I'd probably I'd probably have to stick with the mendo purple
ah it edges the urkel
yeah I mean the urkel breeds better but there's there's a lot of potential in that mendo so
yeah yeah awesome to hear I think that's something maybe a lot of people wouldn't
necessarily think off the bat it's also personal preference not everybody's going to share it
yeah okay and I mean just out of curiosity do you find one is more indica leaning than the other or
they're both about the same oh the in uh the urkel is definitely more indica um the the mendo purple
is more of a a daytime type of thing oh really um yeah it's just it's it's terpenes are just
you know oh wee so next bunch of questions were once submitted by our fans first one what's your
preferred method for selfing I guess they mean you know like thiosulfate so colloidal silver
what's your route I uh always do silver thiosulfate um just because um it's easiest
you only have to spray them two or three times at most
versus colloidal where you pretty much have to spray them every day or something like that
and what time period do you spray the plants because I know that's something which kind of
varies a little bit like do you spray them before the other females get in there during
usually a lot of times you have to spray your target female about two weeks before so you have
to flower her two weeks in advance of the rest of the plants spray her at trigger you know and then
when the other plants get in I generally spray it um spray her again um and lately I've been doing a
thing where I tend to spray every 10 days so just to make sure you know um she uh she stays a he
um yeah so uh um if you if you uh spray when you trigger you're not gonna be getting pollen until
about five to six weeks into flower generally um but if you spray two weeks in advance you're
getting that pollen between three and four weeks which is you know ideal yep yep okay and so have
you ever did you keep the donor plant completely segregated or have you found that it can be in
the same room and you give it a spray and it doesn't have impact on the other plants in the
room yeah I just make sure not to get any of the spray on the other girls yeah and it's just fine
same room fantastic so do feminized seeds have a place in breeding as mothers in order to create
reg seeds from there oh yeah oh definitely I mean you know I don't want to give out all my trade
secrets but I mean uh half the reason I you know reverse my lines is so I can isolate my favorite
parts of each plant so I'm looking to you know pull out my favorite um you know examples of
a plant through the s1s and actually breed further into the future you know not only with you know
s2s and everything but you know with regular seed out crossings with s1s and s2s so okay I
definitely think yeah and I think we've already kind of touched on this but just to nail the point
home what is your favorite chem um well for um for raw power and smoking I think the d is really good
but for you know a purist and from an idealist perspective the 91 is the only one I really
you know want a long-term breed with because I think it's the original mother source of all the
chems and just as a follow-up from myself do you believe that with the right partner the chem 91
could produce some seeds which rival its potency or do you think that it in itself is kind of like
the one in a million in terms of its potency and it's quite unlikely you'll get stuff as potent
from it in seed form um well if you think that the chem d um is if you think along the lines of
is it's a most likely a feminized hybrid of the 91 itself it's a lot stronger than the 91
um a lot of the chem 91 hybrids I've personally bred um they test higher um than the the original
chem 91 so I think uh you know there there's a lot stronger potency held within its genes than
generally is expressed through the cut itself yeah okay and so we touched on the humboldt
snow a bit earlier do you happen to know the origins of it per se well um the the guys I've
been talking to seem to seem to um seem to think that um it originally came from the Eugene area
up in Oregon and um they're saying that um well it it's it's essentially the the same as Oregon snow
um but they they they're they're saying that it's uh most likely a uh bag seed
or not essentially a bag seed but uh um possibly like a feminized hybrid or a selfing
of uh the Fairfax four-way um I'm looking to you know kind of look into that a bit further myself
um but it seems like it has a lot of potential and I've had I've heard multiple
um you know stories from multiple sources uh that seem to point in you know some some version of
that direction so yeah awesome I just want to also you know add to that the Fairfax four-way of course
um it's a basically a Pakistani Afghani um Indian cross to skunk number one so it's three land races
and then skunk number one so yeah certainly have you grown it out no not yet but I'm looking
forward to yeah I would say have you got you got you know someone who's got it because it's
definitely around yeah yeah no it's definitely around I know people with it awesome awesome
because what's interesting about that one is um Bob Hemphill had said that in his opinion he felt
the four-way had degraded over the years more so than the chem 91 and um however the four the
four-way was popped in 95 I think he said and so what he was trying to get at was like it had
degraded more so in less amount of time um have you got any experience with that do you have any
cuts which maybe aren't as old as the chem 91 but in your opinion they've degraded more significantly
than it has in you know a shorter time frame um you know most of the the old cuts I have
are fairly solid um except uh I don't know that's a whole different discussion with the whole dud
thing I don't know if people are referring to kind of the dud thing or if they're just talking about
you know lesser degradation I think they mean like just as time goes by the end product is just not
as good as it once used to be even though it's been growing quite well right right yeah I don't
know um I mean the the snow I've held for almost 20 years still produces the same exact uh you know
quality that I remember 20 years ago yeah I think maybe like the caveat that's placed on
that conversation is that it's totally dependent on like how the plants are stored so if you're
like a cash cropper and you don't really put much time or effort into your mother room it's just
literally serving a purpose of like taking clones you know what I mean like over years like those
kind of neglected conditions is what leads to it whereas you may just not see that whatsoever
because you don't put them in those conditions whatsoever right right oh mine get treated a
little rough a little rough okay maybe there's hope for all for all of us out there who need
to improve our mother stations right right so next question what information can you give us
on the big bad bubba uh which one's the big bad bubba um quickly check I think it's is it one of
your crosses I think it's like fire oh gee chem d yeah fire oh gee chem d um it's uh across the
baba um it's just a um just a high quality uh um you know hybrid of the three that I give away for
free it went under another name okay it went under another name the fire oh gee chem d um and uh I
just give it away for free because I had the seeds and it's quality but I don't exactly want to give
credit to the fellow who it came from okay you know all righty so next question when did you get
your baba cut and who was it from and what do you think baba is exactly genetically um okay so I got
my baba in 2005 from my buddy uh 707 seed bank um he goes by the names uh sierra skunk and shahbud
you know on the various forums um and he's been on the forums I think longer than I have
so I got that from him in 2005 and he's had it since at least 2000 if not a little little earlier
than that um uh archive got the same baba from him as well and a handful of other cats and his
was sourced you know down around the LA area um from a glassblower buddy um uh you know 17 years
ago and uh um I I believe it's uh you know just straight from uh you know Josh and Matt's uh
you know extended circle down there and do you believe that whole story that the parents was a
strain called baba and they crossed it to the og or do you think that's maybe not entirely accurate
I think that's probably it's as accurate as anything I mean at first I didn't believe the
story and people I knew who had met that like uh Matt you know or like ah he's full of shit but
then you know um you know as time went by and I saw a few little you know um uh other things that
led me to believe different um I definitely believe you know it's a simple story and
it doesn't have a lot of real bs it's it's it's almost too honest you know it hermed
it hermed in my closet under the stairs you know so you know okay and then it's a real sorry a
little follow-up one to that was out of your baba hybrids have you found any which on the whole stay
quite true to the baba but get rid of the horrendously long veg time
stay true to the baba
I wouldn't say so because baba uh the baba hybrids tend to segregate in two different directions
they're either um about 50 of them are like baba which you're not losing the veg time there
um and then the other 50 tend to you know grow um a lot more vigorous like the mother plant
um that they came from and they tend to have the mother's tarpaint so you know um
faster growing baba not quite yet okay maybe one day yeah so have you ever done a back cross using
feminized pollen um so you know like you make like a feminized cross and then you hit one of
the offsprings of that with the same pollen you used to make the feminized cross um I think I have
uh well let's see uh so I I did obama kush um basically uh mendocino purple cross to uh
baba kush and then I uh well I didn't name it obama kush
my buddy uh up in thigard uh he named it obama kush
throwing him under the bus right there but anyways so I took that clone and then I pollinated it with
baba kush again so that's kind of a back cross of sorts and then you know even katsu baba could
kind of be considered the same when I cross katsu to the original baba I think that's kind of a back
cross or something of sorts and so what is the go with um I've heard of like obama kush being like a
totally different genetic makeup to what you listed as is there someone else who tries to like
take credit for it or something I think it was like a dispensary and they said it was like
super skunk and something else and right um well to clarify there's definitely at least three or
four different obama kushes because everybody named their favorite kush after obama you know
when he first came up right yeah um so uh there's a obama kush down in san diego um there's an um
an obama kush over in michigan um there and then my obama kush which is extremely popular around
uh portland and eugene and seattle the pacific northwest um you know that that came from me and
my buddy you know tiger so um leafly or leaf fly or whatever they they call themselves um they have
it as a afghani og or something I don't know but uh um they're they're based out of oregon
so they should kind of know you know what the the popular obama from that area is I don't even know
yeah you know they're notorious for um having incorrect information about strains
right exactly my favorite one is the chem 91 you go look it up says chem 91 is a cross of chem
dog and skunk number one literally says that oh man and then me and my buddies have talked to
him a little bit and they're like oh we'll change them you just have to hit us up and it's like yeah
sure you will yeah you know what's funny I hit I sent him an email one day and I said why don't
you guys just pay someone to like just do this properly and like fix all the things and they
sent me an email back being like oh we just rely on information submitted by our users
um and so I was like oh okay so that's why we're in the state we're in right now
right yeah oh well next question how are you dealing with making the transition to the legal
market we'll see um yeah it's it's gonna be interesting uh yeah no no no telling right now I
worst case scenario I'll have a good high paying job for some corporate big money cannabis um
best case scenario I'll have my own company and uh you know find a little niche that I can fit into
that'll support all the research and development that I kind of want to do in the future but uh
yeah yeah okay um so this one's I'm not entirely sure what they're getting at so just choose to
answer it how you will what's the best way to pollinate something without having it seed your
whole room and this is the part which doesn't quite make sense take it out of the room and spray water
on it after so I I don't think they're talking about a male maybe they're saying if I want to
pollinate a female and I do pollinate it should I then like take it out of the room and like spray
it down after it's accepted the pollen or yeah yeah no I understand what they're saying I mean
if if if you have mobile plants where you know you have your plant your female plants um in a in a pot
that you can actually bring out of your room and put and say like a dark tent or something uh you
can you can definitely just pull that plant out pollinate it in that little private tent you know
all by itself leave it there for 24 hours in the dark is just fine um the whole time and then
spray it down with water just like they're saying and pop it back up in your room and you won't have
straight pollen because water kills all the pollen and it will produce all the seed it needs to
without pollinating your room yeah awesome are you able to give us a little more information on your
10 slash 14 light cycle um that's usually only a light cycle um I would use for uh longer flowering
sativas or in the heat of summer if you want to reduce temperatures or if you want to pull off
a crop a little earlier um than normal I generally don't use them uh unless it's a heat issue or you
know I want to ripen stuff up early um it definitely affects the yields a bit just because
you're you're losing you know a good portion of time um but uh yeah uh it it's a time and a place
type of thing yeah okay um what's your favorite place to eat in the triangle
huh man I wish we had good food around here
oh it's rough oh shoot uh honestly uh I like some of the little Mexican joints as long as
they have good margaritas nice yeah um
um what's the difference between granddaddy purple and the southern humble purple
um well I'm not exactly sure what cut goes around the southern humble purple
I mean uh granddaddy purple of course is urkel times uh salmon creek big bud
um whereas uh southern humble purple generally refers to just purple urkel
um or a purple urkel type so it's it's kind of just a vague maybe generalization a bit
yeah yeah okay and what's the difference between graypape and purple who do you think purple
urkel is the dad or how do you think it offshoots from it that's a good one um I I ran out you know
beds full of uh urkel um granddaddy purple uh great babe you know Pakistani purple uh black
bridgefield black afghan just a ton of these different purples from around the triangle
years ago and uh the great babe uh supposedly has the same heritage same exact heritage as urkel
um but it seems to grow a little bit stronger and a little bit faster
than than the urkel I've had since you know 2001 2002 yeah interesting
what is your soil recipe for indoors I know you you touched on it you know what's the
you know without listing weights and stuff you know what are the basic amendments you're chucking
in right um basically um I keep it simple I just you know for my own needs I use a black gold cocoa
blend and then uh um I mix in uh like some bokashi um let's see what else some insect frass and then
fish meals fish bone meals uh alfalfa's kelps um it depends on which run sometimes I just go
you know with a little bit of uh high nitrogen stuff other times I'm throwing in a bunch of
extra rock dust green sands you know long-term release stuff and then I always uh add a nice
chunk of a diatomaceous earth and uh you know omri uh natural um because anytime you're doing organics
and cocoa and all that yeah you got to keep those gnats at bay yeah little motherfuckers
all right so why make an s1 given there's such a stigma around feminized seeds
especially compared to other norcal growers I look at mean gene and lumpa I think maybe what
they're saying is like you sell more because if you did dregs I don't know um yeah no I
understand the question I mean honestly in the future um a lot of people are probably gonna
lean towards um well done consistent uh feminized seeds over regular seeds because a lot of people
aren't gonna have the time or the space to even grow males or even need males um you take the
recreational market in Oregon and California where everybody's allowed to grow four to six plants
I don't think anybody any of those people are going to want to grow males
you know I mean if you're only allowed such a limited number of plants you know uh feminized
seeds are essentially you know um a perfect option and a lot of the stem stigma behind
feminized seeds is is kind of false you know I mean anytime somebody starts going on and on about
how bad feminized seeds are um I ask them well hey your regular seed breeders are they using chem
dogs diesels og cushes girl scout cookies all those things came from feminized seeds crossed to
a male plant of some sort you know so it's just like you know people need eventually they'll get
educated and realize oh wait how come you know the the most notorious breeders in the entire world
like sam scott man and chimera are you know huge proponents for feminized seeds yeah like the
brightest things out there you know I don't know okay I was about to say sorry sorry to that viewer
I butchered the question but we got through it from our buddy p bud mike who you have in the
fight last night wait what how um I'm a simple man real simple um I only like a few things and
most of it's just weed so I don't even do sports uh that's just me you weren't you weren't hoping
one was gonna edge in front and now all right are we are we talking boxing yeah I don't
all right all right um what were some of the traits about the Pakistani chitral
that really drawed you to it and what what were the ones you looked for in the mail you selected
oh so with the chitrals um one of the things I really liked about it um for them in general
was the fact that they're extremely strong and like uh pining and limiting and terpenelein
and they don't have a lot of the common just Amsterdam terpene is just myrcene and caryophylline
you know there's so much stuff out there that is just loaded with myrcene caryophylline
that these you know just pungent you know over the top sharp astringent you know terpenes are
are kind of refreshing you know and I use more than one male um you know in in the breeding um
with the Pakistanis um but uh they they definitely were strong plants um stable plants
and uh um we're we're as close to you know what I was um you know looking for out of the line as I
could possibly get yeah okay without particularly and will you use that male for other projects or
do you think you kind of retire him after this um I might use uh I might use him a little bit more
um yeah I've still got a a couple few of those males um set aside and I definitely know what
he breeds for um so there's definitely a potential for future breeding with them yeah definitely
awesome what do you think the genetic makeup of the black is
uh okay wait so um are we talking about the black I use probably yeah okay um you know honestly I
have no solid idea I mean this plant basically grows like a bigger baba kush plant um it has a
fairly unique profile and at first I thought it was nothing special um as far as you know I just
figured it was like a baba hybrid of sorts but um I guess it dates back quite a ways um in the
hind palm area of uh trinity county and I didn't even know this until I kind of refreshed recently
but uh um it was even featured in uh I think Jason King's either first or second cannabis
but as far as you know exact lineage I mean my cousin sourced it at least 10-12 years ago out of
hind palm and uh from there I don't know aside from it just being you know very similar to baba
kush but with you know different terpenes okay and how did the pachy male in general influence
the chem dog in the crosses you made like how did the crosses come out basically
um those are actually some of my uh favorite ones out of the out of the f1 hybrids um they basically
uh made the chem dogs terpenes uh kind of exaggerated made them more pungent uh more sharp
um so like with the chem d um I mean I ended up with you know just ones that were
extremely pungent um and one of them in particular uh it just uh it smelled like just
super sharp uh motor oil like grease almost and then it tasted exactly like that um which
you'd think was a bad thing but it it was strong so it was kind of a good thing
awesome awesome and so an interesting question sandalwood coffee and pine these are terpenes
which don't seem to really pop up as much anymore do you have any kind of theories as to why that
might be do you think they just fell out of favor or maybe they were like not really dominant
terpenes or I mean uh me and a couple buddies we love pine so there's there's a lot of pine stuff
we're working with and towards um that's one of the reasons why you know I like the uh the
pakistanis because uh there's a lot of pine in them um you know pining a pining b you know
and uh then urkel urkel has a lot of pine in it which you know that might even you know entertain
the whole pine tar kush you know parentage theory right there too um also another reason why you
know growing out the christmas buds because you know looking for uh pine terpenes but
over here we love pine uh sandalwood um i'm not so sure um what was the other chirping
oh coffee yeah well there's there's definitely plenty of coffee this guy just needs to get his
hands on some baba kush yeah yeah there's no shortage of coffee um yeah so this one i might
cut out because it might if the answer is what i think it is it might reveal too much but basically
someone's messaged us and um they've said do you know if sierra skunk is the guy that skunk va
is like his friend who lived in tahoe and basically in skunk va story he's like yeah
i had this friend in tahoe and i gave him the chem dog and you know go there and we'd snowboard and
blah blah blah um maybe that's not enough info for you to really answer that one but this guy
seems to think it's the same person okay oh so he's wondering if you know anything about that
yeah sierra skunk isn't isn't the guy from tahoe
awesome do you like to use any specific types of growing in regards to like training you know
are you like a lollipop dude are you like a main line a few colors you just let them do
their own thing what's your kind of take on it all um i like natural um so as as natural as i can
but i also like to clean up the unders and uh clean up the sides so i kind of close to lollipop
but somewhere between lollipop and uh a natural plant structure you know is how i like to do it
okay awesome and what method do you find is the best for trying to yield the most generally speaking
um i mean being that i'm not really going for yields ever uh
you know um i i'm i'm one of the people who uh firmly uh goes with the there's 101 right ways to
do something so i think you can get high yields with a dozen different methods you know yep so
whatever works best for you is what i always tell them all righty so we'll just jump into our last
few questions just kind of little short answer ones what is your least favorite strain
oh least favorite huh huh damn those are usually the ones that you just toss right yeah
man i don't know huh i've tossed quite a few
hmm i don't know if i have uh any least favorites um i uh i ran out of land race uh
what was it a pakistani yorkon recently and it was absolutely terrible you know i was i was gonna
i was gonna do a reproduction of it and i was like what am i reproducing here this sucks
so a recent memory that's pretty bad what do you think is the most overhyped strain so not
necessarily like you know like blue dream it's real hyped but like what strain do you think
gets a good rap on the whole but it's actually pretty trash right right um oh there's tons of
them these days huh yeah yeah yeah um i i mean me personally you kind of nailed it with the damn blue
dream i mean uh it's been so popular um up here uh i mean even some of my kid brothers have run
like 99 plant gardens of nothing but blue dream and you know the past five to ten years and i've
never even grown the plant i'm just like no thank you so i'm gonna give it to blue dream nice um so
in terms of both like you know breeding side of things but as well as also like the general
political domain what do you think is the worst thing to have happened to the cannabis scene
since you've became involved in it well i'll be probably recreation recreational legalization
uh i mean i don't i don't know any any uh growers at least in california um who really voted for it
um and i mean just watching what's happened in colorado and washington and even organ you know
coming on now i mean uh it's it's pretty much killing uh it's killing uh the way things used
to be in a anyways so what a lot of people what are kind of like the pitfalls that are
that were oversighted you know like what's happening now that's like the problem is it
the case that people are losing like their right to grow or like the numbers or what's up with the
legalization it's just mass production uh big money commercial grows um you know one one you
know huge row can wipe out you know a hundred or a thousand you know small farmers you know so
i think it's just been a way of life you know in northern california and uh you know oregon and uh
just around where i grew up um and it's not going to be that way for much longer at all
so yeah so what do you think is the biggest mistake you see like kind of newly emerging
breeders make biggest mistake uh probably crossing a one male times one female yeah
small selections small selections and um the one-to-one model the one-to-one model is
never good you know and then final one oh no sorry no final one second last one
what is kind of your growing tip for everyone listening you know what's a little secret you
think maybe not a lot of people do when growing and it helps out it could even be like you know
the use of a particular supplement i remember one time someone said make sure you use silica
you know that's awesome um let me think uh the simplest thing thing i oh i'm yeah right there
keep it simple um i i see it all the time people try to complicate their growth you know they they
use a dozen different you know bottled nutrients they they try to they they kill their plants with
kindness you know and they don't even manage to you know um reap the rewards of everything
they're given so i i say don't forget about keeping it simple because you can produce
excellent quality excellent yields and save yourself a bunch of headache and money by just
keeping it simple yeah without a doubt all right on to the real last question now
um i like this one because it gives good insight into all the breeders if you could go to one place
in time and history um geographically all that where would you go to collect land-raised seeds
ooh it would probably have to be you know can i have a um uh a resource um yeah there
there were certain years that were really good for hash production you know back in the 60s and 70s
i just need to pick the right year yeah i definitely go to you know somewhere along the
hindu kush mountains you know afghanistan pakistan um i'm definitely more of a an indian
indica type myself so you know somewhere somewhere in the 60s and 70s uh right right
about around them there that'd be about right for me sounds fantastic any comments shout outs
anything like that you wanted to make um oh i usually have brain farts during these things so
i think i'm good yeah no worries hopefully we covered it all i think we have honestly
thanks so much again for coming and you know dropping all these knowledge bombs on us and
helping us fill in all the blanks oh yeah thanks for having me so there we have it guys
a huge thank you again to inspector for taking the time to sit down and talk with us
i hope you guys enjoyed it inspectors definitely being one of the most requested
a huge thank you as always to 420 australia nogs as well as all our patreon fans
you guys are really the lifeblood of the show and everyone needs to thank you for the increasing
content over the last few weeks and for what's to come check out the patreon page if you haven't
already and otherwise see you
