Hello and welcome to the next episode of the podcast, a cannabis podcast for budding enthusiasts.
This episode, as always, we're grateful for our amazing sponsors, CTA Now, number one
seed bank in the game, guarantee on satisfaction, not just germination, no reason to go anywhere
else. Why would you? On top of that, all the best breeders in the game, your number one
stop, go hit them up. Likewise, Coppett Biological Systems, best in the business for all beneficial
bugs, predators, and your feeds and microbial solutions to keep your garden happy, healthy,
and pumping along to give you the best harvest possible. Get on top of it now so that your garden
produces the most primo harvest you've ever had. Also, a huge shout out to the Patreon gang, as
always, helping support the show, life, blood, and all. We are so, so grateful. Hope you enjoy early
access to this episode. And if you want to help support to make episodes happen and get yourself
early access to some future episodes and exclusive content, go check out www.patreon.com forward slash the podcast.
Hope you guys are ready for an epic part two of our chat with Chimera.
Let's get into it. Yeah, it's pretty wild. Just to jump back to some of the stuff about David
slash Sam, because we have had over the years a plethora of pretty interesting questions
asked about him, which we've never really been able to have answered. I guess one of the ones I
was personally interested in is that a lot of the stories around the strains that have come out
through David have sometimes portrayed him as not really the active breeder, but more of like a
steward. And in that regard, I mean, like if you look at skunk, there was often a lot of credit
given to sacred seed. And if you look at haze, you know, obviously his neighbors kind of developed
that one. Where do you see him in the picture of like, do you view him as the creator of those
strains or more of just someone who brought them to the world? No, he bred skunk one from scratch.
Anybody that says different just doesn't know. Like Dave assembled that from scratch.
Haze, you're right. It was these two dudes that were known as the Haze Brothers.
He tried to introduce me to them actually one time in California and just through circumstances
of the meeting, it didn't work out. But they created the Haze. Mel Frank created or collected
the Afghani one. And I think he also gave him the Turban Poison, which came from Ed Rosenthal,
which Ed Rosenthal actually didn't collect in South Africa, which is the common belief of the
story. Ed got them out of some flowers at a coffee shop. So that's the truth about where Durban
Poison came from. It was out of seeds at a coffee shop. The California Orange, Dave also brought
that one to California or sorry, to Holland. But he collected that one from a grower at a harvest
festival. And he, you know, Dave is a member of the, you know, the Seed Savers Club of America.
Like he is an insane collector of plant seeds, not just cannabis. And what the story he told me is
that he met this grower up at a harvest festival. He had the California Orange. Back then, there was
no seed business and that just didn't exist. But because Dave was an insane collector, he said,
hey, do you mind if I get some of those seeds and can I work with them? Can I breed them out and
play with them? And the guy gave them to him freely. And he brought all those things over to
Holland. So that's how the whole Sam the Skunk Man thing kind of started over in Holland.
But everybody, I mean, you look at Dutch Passion Sense, all their seed catalogs. I mean, it's pretty
clear that David was the person that brought all those things. So some of them he created and some
of them he just ushered in. Yeah, and he made a lot of hybrids. I mean, I helped him catalog his
entire seed collection, which is, to my knowledge, the largest cannabis germplasm collection on the
planet. Like I don't know anybody that has a larger one. And it's pretty impressive. There's
a lot of stuff in there that the world doesn't even know about. Just weird land races and weird
plants, you know, just with strange traits that people don't even think about. And it's all there.
But yeah, I give credit all to David for that. And he's more than willing to, he'll tell you
straight up. No, these ones came from Mel Frank. These ones came from so-and-so, the Hayes brothers.
I mean, Hayes isn't even, everybody says, oh, Hayes, as if it's one thing. Hayes isn't one
thing. It's many things. It's a series of plants that were created over multiple generations being
hybridized with one another. And every year they would add in a new cross into the mix, right? So
Hayes is really a family of siblings and half-siblings and cousins.
And there's many different types of the Hayes. There's the purple Hayes,
you know, obviously the purple Hayes, there's all these red and green Hayes. There's one that was
called Christmas Hayes. There was New Year's Hayes, right? They were super long flowering
ones that weren't ready until the new year. And they all are different variations of hybrids
between Mexican, Thai, South Indian, and a little bit of Afghani at times.
Wow. I mean, so many different avenues again to go into. The most pertinent question to me is,
did you ever get to try what some might call the real Hayes, even though you just explained there
is no one real Hayes, but you know, often people reminisce about Hayes, but can't exactly vouch
that they've been able to try verified real deal. Have you? And what was your experience if so?
Yeah, I've tried a bunch of different things from being over there, you know, and usually
they're hybrids of plants that were, David shared with people that were over there. I mean, you know,
everybody's heard of Neville's Hayes. Those were David's non-preferred Hayes plants that he gave
to Neville with the promise that Neville wouldn't reproduce them pure, right? He said, take these
things and make hybrids of them fine, but please just don't make them pure because I'm selling them
pure. And as people are want to do, they don't like to do that. They'll tell you anything to
get it in their hands. And then once they've got it, it's a whole different thing when they can
make money off of it. But yeah, it's just a family of plants. And really what we know now is the
Hayes are mostly like, you know, the amnesia Hayes. That's really what you find over in Holland.
Those are terpenelein plants. They're terpenelein dominant plants. So it's kind of in the same
family as train wreck or I think the DNA guys sell it as, what do they call it? Like citrus skunk or
lemon skunk. It's lemon skunk. That's what it is. But lemon skunk, actually, everybody thinks, oh,
it's high in limonene. It's not. It's high in terpenelein, right? And terpenelein to some people
has a little bit of a fresh lemon scent, even though it's to me, it's more piney. So there's
those and then there's the pining plants, which are a little more rare and the limonene pining
plants as well. And they all kind of fall into that Hayes family, like again, what I call equatorials.
Yeah. That's amazing. I mean, you kind of just quickly alluded to Neville in the mix there.
I've always been interested by the fact that he was donned the moniker of like the king of Hayes
despite the fact he got them from David. Do you feel like that was sort of like a misnomer,
the fact he got that title? And as a bit of a follow-up, do you feel like NL5 Hayes is like
a really good poster child for Hayes? Because I think a lot of people suggest that, you know,
like the NL tames the Hayes to the point where it's like, you can do it indoors. Do you feel
like there was actually a lot better, but it just, you know, it didn't really see the light of day
sort of thing? It made it more accessible for people to grow, but I wouldn't call the NL5 Hayes
like on its own Hayes. If you inbred it, you can pull out Hayes like plants from it. But the NL5
Hayes is way too big for a Hayes. It's just got way too much biomass. And that's the influence
of the Afganica in there. So yeah, it's the Hayes are very, like I said, they're very equatorial.
They're very long flowering, they're very thin leaves, they're very low yield,
small resin glands. They don't have a ton of scent. Like they'd probably fail the 1%
terp test. At least the old ones were, they'd need to be improved.
But they did have a nice headspace, right? They did provide that nice, clear kind of effect. And
you know, what people call the ceiling where you could, or ceiling lists where you can keep
consuming them and getting higher and higher. I think again, it's like, because they weren't
25% THC and you could smoke them without burning out, right? THC is by, it's got a biphasic effect.
So at small doses, it's invigorating, but at large doses, it makes you lethargic and kind of feel
like, I don't know, I don't know if there's a better word for it than thud. You know,
it just kind of like, it just kind of like takes it out of you. And if you've ever done large doses
of edibles, I mean, it's kind of a similar feeling. And then we see that not only in humans,
but also in rats. You know, if you look at the neuroscience of cannabinoids and administration,
at a certain point in time, people, you know, you get energetic on a curve and you get to a
point where it plateaus and then the more you consume, you're actually going down, not getting
up anymore. Sure. And I mean, how do you feel the comparison between Neville and David is given that
I think a lot of the time, and I'm probably guilty of this myself, people hold Neville in a bit higher
regard, or maybe feel he may be contributed more. Do you feel like that's maybe inaccurate? And
what's your thoughts on Neville in general? Can I say, don't speak ill of the dead?
Sure, sure.
Yeah, Neville is a controversial person in the cannabis world, let's put it that way. And
he took some risks that David wouldn't risk. I mean, remember, David's American, Neville's
Australian. And so when David moved to Holland, you know, he knew that the United States was a
machine, right? And that there was all these systems in the United States that were part of
the machine. And that if you wanted to stick, if you wanted to throw a stick in the wrenches of the
operation of the American machine, that they're going to come for you. And so David never did any
business. And once he left, he didn't, he wasn't involved in doing business in the States. Neville
did, right? Neville set up someone in the States and I was actually doing distribution, I don't
mind saying this now that he's passed, but you know, he actually set up seeds. They were shipping
them over from Holland and like soup containers, labeled soup cans. And they had someone that was
actually distributing. So the money would come from the States, Neville would collect the money
and then they'd get the seeds would be shipped back out of the States. And that's why the DEA
went after Neville, because something happened and the plot became known and they went for him.
He was a smart guy. Like I actually didn't know him too well personally. I tried to interact
with him a couple of times and he was, let's say he wasn't receptive to it.
But same with, you know, same with Scott. Like I have a really great relationship with Scott.
I got a lot of respect for the work that Scott has done, Shanty Baba, I mean,
from Mr. Nice Seed Company. But for some reason, people want to be divisive in the cannabis
community. So it's like, they kind of put themselves either in the Scott camp or the Neville
camp or the David camp. And if you're in one camp, then you can't be friends with everybody else. And
I'm not like that. Like I, you know, I try to be friends with everybody in this space because it's
like they're all, they've all got interesting histories and they've all got lessons to teach.
And I just want to understand the plant from their perspective, because I mean,
they're our elders, right? And so George Cervantes actually introduced me to Scott.
And I think Scott was kind of apprehensive of me at first, because he was like, oh,
you're that chimera guy and you're in the other camp. And we got past that pretty quick. He came
to realize that I, you know, I wasn't any threat to him. I wasn't, I had no malice towards him at
all. In fact, I respected him for the works that he had done. And we developed a kind of a mutual
respect thing. But he had really been poisoned by Neville, right? Because Neville had said,
it had told him all these awful stories about David that just weren't true.
And he used to tell me, oh, yeah, but he works in the DEA. And I was like, Scott, dude, that's
not the way it is, man. So I think that, you know, and truthfully, you probably know Mr. Nice
Seed Company, which at one point in time was Neville and Scott, that kind of went, you know,
Neville, towards the end, he wasn't involved with it anymore. Right. And they had parted ways a bit,
too, because, well, just because of stuff that I'm not going to get into. But I think that
the Internet, with the Internet especially, you know, the cannabis community for a period of time
existed only on the Internet. Right. We couldn't interact with each other
one to one on person and the Internet, the Internet and Overgrow and all these other
websites that we used to use, you know, cannabis, all that kind of stuff.
They provided an opportunity for people to reach out and connect with each other in a way
that we couldn't do before. I mean, it just those technologies didn't exist. And it was a really
great thing for that. But the really bad thing about it was that there's just there's become all
this nonsense stories that people have made and promulgated. I mean, you can go to Wikipedia and
read about a whole bunch of nonsense about David on the Wikipedia stuff like it's somehow fact and
it's just not. And for whatever reason. Those things have really resonated in the cannabis
community. Right. Because again, we're so as a whole, we're so anti science. We're so anti big
pharma. We're against the man. Right. Because again, we've been kicked in the teeth by the
police and the justice system for 50, 60 years. So it's natural that we have all those those fears.
But I think in on the Internet forums, they really fester into this like psychotic,
untrusting place of like really what just becomes mostly lies. You know, I read stuff on the
Internet that I know for a fact didn't go down that way because I was there. Right. But I'm
reading it on the Internet as if it's fact by some guy posting it as if it's like gospel from God's
mouth. So in a way, while the Internet really helped us get the seeds out and spread the message
and teach people how to grow and even teaching people how to breed and some more advanced stuff
about cannabis, there's been a lot of negativity that's come out of it. That's that's, you know,
I think frustrates and frustrates a lot of the old timers and myself as included included.
And it gets to the point where it's just like you don't even want to do it anymore. Like you don't
want to post and share the information because all you're met with is people telling you that
you're a liar and that you work with the D.A. or that, you know, it's just all this nonsense.
It's really it's kind of a shame because it's done a disservice to the history of cannabis.
Right. And so I've always when I've been over in Europe and I've tried to meet all these different
folks in the industry, I really just want to meet them all and understand what their perspectives
are for cannabis, because I'm interested in the history, like I guess kind of like we're doing
with this talk now, but I'm interested in the history and the reasons why people were doing it
and the motivations and how they got their start. And. There's been in the cannabis industry a lot
of smoke and mirrors, and I really hope that that goes away and now we're going to see the next
generation of people that are they're able to be open and honest, they're able to show their work,
they're able to teach the next generation how to do it better. And so I really do feel like quite
hopeful for cannabis and positive for cannabis in the next 20 years. And I really look forward to,
you know, I was talking to a friend from England the other day and Guernsey, one of the little
islands off in the South Sea or southern whatever it's called the what is it the Bay of Biscay?
They're all, you know, they're talking about legalizing a full adult use model and
just off the coast of England. They're a British colony or protectorate or whatever it is. But I'd
love to see them legalize. I'd love to see Australia and New Zealand legalize. Really,
I'd see the whole Commonwealth just legalized straight off the bat. That would be a nice quick
start. And then the rest of the world will eventually catch on. And I think that that's
going to be great for so many reasons. It'll probably lessen the impact that alcohol, the
negative impacts that alcohol have on society. And there's just so many benefits that can come
with it. You know, you know all about the medical aspects and everything. I mean,
I'm not going to sit here and preach to the converted, but it's, you know,
cannabis can do a lot of benefit for society. You know, we've seen this with the, you know,
the British soccer hooligans that used to go, you know, they go to different countries and there'd
always be these brawls and fights with everybody getting drunk. And when they'd play Amsterdam or
they'd play Holland in Amsterdam, that wouldn't happen because everybody was stoned, you know.
So there's a lot of good that can come from cannabis and societies using cannabis. And
it would be great to see a lot of Neville's old work being grown down in Australia. I mean,
Australia has got a great climate for these equatorial plants. And it's a shame that it's,
you know, they're still throwing people in jail there. It's nuts.
Yeah, definitely. Definitely. And many points resonating with what you just said, but I feel
like it is such a shame that we do still have this kind of culture in the scene of like being
attached to one camp and you can't just kind of try to be okay with everyone, you know, because
as you've alluded to that's through being able to kind of float in between the rifts, so to speak.
I feel like that's how the truth can come out and you can avoid these sort of issues like human
should with Scott thinking that Dave was a part of the DEA and whatnot. And it's kind of sad that
the three, arguably the three big pillars in terms of like Scott, Neville and Dave,
weren't able to kind of keep it all together because it's kind of this fragmentation sort
of thing you alluded to. But just to jump back to Dave for one moment, something which has been
asked probably more so than any other question about him, which I would love to get your
perspective on is, did he ever talk to you about his thoughts and whether he intentionally ever
changed skunk from what people would say was like the stinky early version to the sweet? And like,
what's your overall perspective on that? Yeah, he loved the sweet. I mean, that's just what he
loved. That was the end of the spectrum. The first few generations, it had some stanky plants in there,
but those weren't the ones that he preferred. And so, like all breeders do, they select towards the
type that they like. Got to keep in mind the context of the years, too, that was going on,
like late 70s, early 80s, or we call it mid to late 70s, early 80s. You grow skunkweed back then,
man, you're going to jail. Right? It's like you're stinking out the whole neighborhood. And so,
they would be selected away from that. And that was just part of his choice because he liked the
resins from these other plants better. Right? They made what he considered a finer hash.
David, since many, many, many years ago, is not a cannabis flower consumer. He's a
hash and concentrate consumer. And he used to have the finest hash in the world. Right?
What everybody called the 50, and it was like 50% plus THC. It would turn to liquid as soon as you
put a flame to it. It was the first dab-able concentrate extract that I'd ever seen,
before dabs were even a thing. And he had that level of quality.
So, again, he selected the plants that he liked for that purpose, and that's what he did. Right?
So, that's why skunk is the way it is. Everybody talks about the turps and skunk. It's actually not
a terpene. There's rare volatiles that the plant produces that have to do with smell, or they
influence smell. And so, terpenes, everybody thinks that terpenes is the whole story, but
they're actually not. They're one of the major factors in the scent, but there are a few other
chemicals that when they get mixed in with these terpenes, they're kind of like, I call them scent
or flavor modifiers. Right? And they actually use some of these compounds in the perfume industry
to change the flavors of, or sorry, to change the scents of different perfumes.
In the community at the moment, there's this really kind of popular drive to find the
roadkill skunk. You know, my thoughts are that it's most likely gone. And touching on a point
you just made, some of the smells around this sort of quote roadkill skunk, I've got to believe that
they're kind of more thiol-based, you know, sulfur-based compounds, and maybe not even
technically falling under the strict definition of a terpene. Do you think that's the case? Or do
you think that the other point of view might have some credence to it where it's that there's a bit
of like rose shade glasses and maybe it wasn't really like a skunk dead down the road sort of
thing. Where do you sit on that one? Well, I'll tell you a story that might tell you. I've got a
plant that is very, very roadkill-like. I've got a few of them actually, but one of them is a
terpene-dominant plant. So, it's actually of the same flavor profile or what we call the flavor
class. So, flavor class is like, they have a general terpene profile arrangement that is kind
of a fingerprint. And then there's like all these different plants that kind of fall into that
grouping. And so, this particular plant is a terpene plant. And so, up close and when you're
it's right in your nose, it's got that lemon skunk kind of like, we have a product here called Mr.
Clean Pine. I don't know if you have that in Australia, but it's a concentrated liquid cleaner
that you add to water to wash the floors. And that's got this real, that's a terpene-alene kind
of smell to it. But when you have the flowers and they're up close and you're breaking it up, that's
what you smell. But I remember harvesting a couple of rooms of this stuff and I was moving it across
town in my knapsack and there was something going on with my car at the time. And I was like,
decided I was going to get on the bus and go across town with these bags of dope in my knapsack all
sealed up really well. And I got on the front of the bus and walked to the back, you know, halfway
to the back of the bus, essentially got to the back set of doors. And I remember someone just
saying, do you smell that? It reeks like a skunk. And I just promptly got off the bus and walked
home across town rather than take the bus. But the point of the story is that the smell that you
smell when it's right up close is different than the smell that you smell when it's in the bag.
And yeah, you'd come into a room and you'd open it up and it would be like, it smells like a skunk.
And it does have a reminiscent nose of a skunk. But when you actually get it out and you grind it up,
it doesn't. Right. It's actually different. And now I know there's going to be 100 people
online telling me that I have no idea what I'm talking about and that, no, the stuff that they
had, it was a skunk right down to the end of the joint and all that kind of stuff. Fine. Maybe it
was. Maybe it was just higher in these compounds. But I think that, you know, I know for a fact in
having had access to these chemicals to make terpene standards and things, when you have a
molecule at one drop versus, you know, one, like, for example, say you've got one microliter of a
substance and you put it on a piece of paper and you take the same substance and you put 10 times
as much on a different piece of paper, they smell different. Same substance. Right. So there's
something to do with like, like maybe like with that, with THC and the biphasic response that we
also have these responses in our nose. Right. That like, you know, one molecule of a of a smelly
compound is enough to trigger a certain effect in your nose and more. It might elicit a different
response. Again, knowing that each of us have different neurochemistry and smell is also based
on neurochemistry. It's just a chemical signal that's being transferred to your brain. And
so, yeah, I think it's partly something to do with that. And I don't know what the true answer is,
but there's something in that whole thing. And then there's always something to, you know,
nostalgia. Right. The weed that you had that one time when you were with your best friend at the
lake. It's like those things all influence your perception of the experience. Right.
Yeah. Hugely, hugely.
And looking back on it, it's pretty easy to say, no, no, that was skunk weed, man. I mean,
it's not like a skunk. But I bet you if you were able to transport someone back in time and make
them smell the same thing, they wouldn't smell the same thing again. Like, you know, I don't know if
you're interested, if you like beer or anything, but I know when I was a kid, beer to me, it used
to smell like skunk. It doesn't smell like skunk to me now. Right. It's because that I've learned
to appreciate the different notes that exist within the context. And it's the same with weed.
Right. Like part of. Part of smelling things is like knowing how to break apart the effect,
because, again, you're not smelling one chemical, you're smelling a symphony of chemicals.
Right. And the total of those, it's like a symphony of musical notes, like the totality
of the orchestra is what makes the sound. You're not listening to the flute, right, or the oboe,
for example. Right. It's the totality of the whole thing together that you hear. And being able to
train your ear, you're, you know, in the context of a symphony, being able to train your ear to
pick out the oboe or the the bass guitar or whatever it is like that takes a little bit of a skill
and and training and time. And it's the same thing with with your nose and cannabis. Like when we
smell cannabis, we're smelling this orchestra of molecules that come together, come together to
create what we perceive as an experience. Right. But when you when you have the individual chemicals
at your disposal and you can smell limonene on its own or osamine on its own or beta-caryophyllene
or I can list, you know, any one of the really 30 major terps that are that are in cannabis.
Then we have a language that we can agree on. Like, for example, you know, if we're sitting
in a park and we look up at the sky, you and I can both point at the sky and say, OK, that's blue.
Do we agree? Yeah, that's blue. The clouds are white. The leaves on the grass or the leaves,
you know, in the grass or on the trees are green. That flower is yellow.
Right. And we can we can have a shared experience because we're both looking at the same thing.
And then we're applying a label to that thing that we're looking at. Right.
We don't have that ability with terpenes or with with scents without having the individual
chemicals. And that's why people say stuff like, oh, it smells incense or it smells like roses or
it smells like, you know, X, Y or Z. Right. The rose actually smells like geraniol. Right. Or
or the lavender smells like linalool. But we don't know what those individual components smell like.
So it's hard for us to have that consensus where we point to one thing and say, this is this. And
only when you actually get the individual terpenes or the individual notes on their own, can you then
we can then both share the same vial and smell it, you know, in a socially distanced manner.
We can both share it and say, OK, this is linalool. This is limonene. You know, this is
osamine or whatever terpene you want to choose. You know, people are always blown away when I
show them pure limonene. They're like, it doesn't smell like lemons. No, it doesn't smell like
lemons. It smells like orange peels. Yeah. Everybody assumes it smells like lemons. Right.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I got a bottle of limonene in my fridge and I do the same little thing to people.
Yeah, it's great because then and what's that that's about is building
a consensus of the words that we use to describe these things.
Right. Rather than trying to describe them by referring to some other thing.
Right. Which, again, is it's on itself like it's like, oh, it smells like roses. Well,
roses are also a symphony of smell. Right. There are a symphony of notes that make up
the overall scent that we perceive as one thing. Right. And so until you have the ability to learn
the individual components of that smell, it's really hard to communicate on things because we
just we don't have a common language like that, like we do for colors.
Yeah, of course. Of course. I think, yeah, just a point you touched on, which I really struggle to
try to get through to people at times is how like chemicals at different concentrations have
different smells. And like I try to make it simple to understand by talking about like
ozone, you know, the smell after rain, petrole. Like it's sweet in low concentrations,
but if you get a big jar of ozone, it smells horrible. Yeah. But yeah, I guess it is a bit
of a concept to wrap your head around. I'd love to jump into some more kind of technical breeding
stuff at this point, because I think that's an area you're going to be able to provide a really
great amount of insight into. Something I've always wondered about is I think it might have
been a forum post, but somewhere along the line, Dave wrote an article about how he reversed some
males and got female seeds out of it, and 25% of those seeds were females. Would you ever consider
doing this sort of project if say you only had one male and you wanted to like line breed it out and
get some females out of it? Or do you think it's just too much of an effort?
No, it's not too much of an effort. It's actually not that hard to do.
It's no harder than or no different really than making feminized seeds with STS.
There's some challenges in working with the populations. Again,
you got to understand about the plant breeding.
To be perfectly frank, to cut around the whole discussion and go right to the end,
I think, and this might be controversial to some people, I think that male cannabis
plants in the drug breeding world are probably on their way out.
If you make all female seeds or gynoceous seeds, I don't like to use the word feminized,
but if you use gynoceous seeds right and you make them right,
they're every bit as good as regular seeds. In fact, they're better than regular seeds
for a couple of reasons. The obvious reason that in your next generation,
you don't have to worry about dealing with a bunch of males.
I mean, truthfully, if you're growing out a thousand plants and 500 of them are males,
that's a big waste of time and space. The resources to pull them out, even if you're using genetic
sequencing or PCR-based method to identify the males at the beginning, that's a cost, right?
It's not free to do that. It costs money. It costs money to plant them. It costs time to plant them.
It costs money in terms of nutrients and soil and space in your grow room and all that kind of stuff.
So, to me, males are a big hassle to deal with. Sometimes I work with male populations, but if I
do, I typically don't do the whole thing. I don't do the whole thing. I just do the
one-to-one breeding. I typically don't do one-to-one breedings with males,
unless the plant has some incredible, unique trait that I can't do it another way.
Usually what I'll do is I'll combine the pollen from a percentage of the population, call it 10%
to 15% of the plants that I see, I determine, or I believe are the most suitable for whatever that
population is. And then I'll mix the pollen or use those plants all together in the same room.
And that way, because that's really the natural way that cannabis breeds in a natural stand,
okay? Like if you, you know, call it 30,000 years ago, if you're walking through the Tibetan plateau
and you find a stand of cannabis, you're not going to find one female together. You're going
to find a group of plants, many males and many females, and the males are pollinating all the
females. And that natural state of breeding is what we call out-crossing, but it's actually
called an obligate out-crosser. An obligate out-crosser is a plant that needs another individual
from a different genetic type, maybe a brother or sister, but maybe another plant far away to cross,
to hybridize, to make offspring, right? That's a consequence of having a dietitious population
where you have males and females, right? So it's a lot more akin to the way that humans breed,
right? Where humans also need to have, you know, they need to have sex with another individual to
be able to leave offspring, right? You can't clone yourself. You don't just have kids willy-nilly
unless you're, you know, the Virgin Mary. Everybody else has to breed together to make offspring,
and there's a genetic consequence to that, meaning that the child is actually a hybrid,
right, of two different parental types. So when you look at, you know, everybody's got a mother
and a father, and I don't know if you've got brothers and sisters, but if you look at, you know,
your family, you don't look like your mother or your father. Like, you don't look like your father.
If you have a sister, she doesn't look exactly like your mother, right? They have some traits
of both the parents, and you don't look like your siblings unless you're twins.
And so that state of breeding is really much more similar to cannabis than, for example,
tomatoes, right? If you're growing an heirloom tomato variety, you can plant a seed, grow it
into a plant, harvest the fruit, take the seeds out of the fruit, plant those again the next year,
and the fruit from that subsequent year are going to look like the year before and the year before.
And for 10, 20 generations down into the future, the tomato is going to keep coming out looking
the same. Well, cannabis isn't like that, right? And the reason it's not like that is because
when you constantly breed to another type, you're constantly introducing new genetic material into
the mix, and you're losing some genetic material every time, but you're also gaining new stuff.
And so you don't have this uniformity that starts to develop in plants like tomato that are what we
call self-crossers or self-species, selfing species or inbreeding species. And those types of species
get to be more homogeneous and more uniform over time because their breeding system actually purges
genetic variation rather than increases the genetic variation. Okay, so from a breeding
perspective, it's actually a lot more work with cannabis to make things uniform. And through some
of the work that I've done down in the States and especially having access to the chemical,
to the laboratory where we would grow hundreds of plants and every single plant would go to
the laboratory. And so we would get back not only the phenotypic data that we would collect during
the grow, you'd also get the chemical data from the laboratory. And so we would be able to take
two plants that had a very similar to an identical terpene profile, and we'd cross those together.
Whereas if you took plants with divergent terpene profiles and you cross them together,
you wouldn't have the same level of uniformity in the offspring.
And so because male cannabis plants don't produce the traits of interest or even of import to
drug cannabis growers, right? You don't use male plants in
growing drug cannabis. You only use them for making seed.
Those male plants, people don't, it's like, I use this expression and some people don't like when I
use it, but I'm going to use it anyway because I don't care. If you're breeding humans for breast
size, it's pretty easy to select the female humans that have big breasts, right? How do you select a
male individual for big breasts? They don't have that characteristic. It's what we call a sex-linked
trait, right? Only one gender really shows those characteristics. And so if you were running a
human breeding program, which we can't do because of ethics, but if you were running a human breeding
program, you would probably look at male plants that had sisters with large breasts or mothers
with large breasts. And that increases the probability that they'll have the genes for
large breasts, but it doesn't guarantee it, right? Whereas when you're selecting two females and you
can find a way to cross two females together, like we have done with creating feminized seeds,
you can do what I call positive selection for the traits of interest on both sides of the cross.
And when you can do that, trust me, because I've done it in the laboratory many times, when you
bring two types together that are almost identical, the chances of the plants being
more uniform are way, way higher. So what I've noticed is that you make more genetic progress in a
generation when you're doing it that way. You also have the added benefit of not having to remove
males from your subsequent population, right? Like I said, if you've got hundreds or even thousands
of plants, having to go through and write rogue out habits and traits is a lot of work.
But if you can't breed half your crop or kill half your crop, that really is a pain, right?
It's a real, real inconvenience. Yeah, of course. And I mean, gosh, so many avenues to go down.
Something just to kind of follow on with that is there's long been a discussion within the
community about whether there's any realistic significance between, say, a feminized seed
application versus one that's just purely a result of maybe a stressed environment,
some sort of hermaphroditic event. What's your thoughts on this? Do you think that there is
some sort of difference or that they're fundamentally the same thing? Well, it's both.
I can't tell you it's the same in one or the other, but it's actually both. Okay, sure.
Let me put it this way. I'm just trying to think of how to put it. We have a basic tenet as breeders,
but it applies to plants, but it also applies to animal breeding. And that tenet is like begets
like. And all that means is the plants that you select as parents, it's very likely that the
traits that you selected for in those parents are going to reoccur in the next generation. Okay.
And so if you're using a plant that goes, intersects, again, hermaphrodite, it's not
technically a real word for plants because a hermaphrodite flower would be a male, would be
a one single flower that had male parts and female parts. And that's not what happens with cannabis.
We have flower clusters that have male and single female flowers together. And so that's really
called intersex, not hermaphrodite. Hermaphrodite would be if it was half a male flower and half a
female flower. So intersex is the proper term for that. But so intersex plants, they have, like you
said, some either genetic predisposition to have both sexes on the same plant or in the case that
you mentioned, under a specific grow room stress or environmental stress, they produce male flowers.
Right? Well, if you use those plants that produce male flowers under that given stress, like begets
like the next generation are going to be more likely to be predisposed to making male flowers,
given that stress appears. Right? So by using plants, like you said, that are maybe like
late flowering, this is the way Dutch Passion used to do it. And Soma kind of does it this way as well.
They call it rhodolization. When you use these plants that are producing intersex flowers,
either late in the cycle or due to a pH fluctuation or light cycle fluctuation or whatever it is that
throws off the hormonal balance in the plant that makes it produce male flowers. If you select,
if you positively select those traits, those traits are going to be more likely to be present
in the next generation. And so all that says is intersex plants are going to have a higher
likelihood of making intersex offspring. Whereas if you select plants that don't have those
intersex characteristics and then you create, you use, you know, STS or silverthrush solvate,
for example, to force those plants to produce male flowers, the next generation of plants are
going to be less likely to produce intersex flowers. Right? So everybody will, typically
the cannabis community, you know, whatever, look for the short, easy explanations. And it's like,
the explanation everybody comes to is, oh, we sprayed this chemical on the plants.
The next generation had intersex offspring. It's the chemical that's doing that. And that's
a wrong conclusion. Right? It's the thing is, is that they selected a plant that has a higher
likelihood to go intersex and that trade is amplified in the next generation. Right? So
yeah, they are very different things. You don't want to use plants that are likely to produce
intersex flowers as parents. Right? Because again, like begets like. Those, the progeny from those,
those parents are going to be more likely to be intersex.
Yeah, sure. And this is something that I've long suspected and tried to explain to people that like
fundamentally at its core, cannabis is a plant which doesn't have discrete sexes, you know,
it's, it's actually both at the same time and we've just bred it from like this malicious sort
of plant to try to be more dioecious. So I guess my question is, do you think we'll ever get to a
point where we have bred cannabis selectively enough that we more or less don't see any
expression of the other sex in the, in the say a female plant, or do you think it's,
it's almost genetically impossible? Well, it's not genetically impossible in any given
plant because we have lots of plants that don't go intersex. You know, it's, it's like, it's,
it's a continuum, right? It's a spectrum. And at one end of the spectrum, there's plants that don't
go intersex at all. At the other end of the spectrum, there's plants that are completely,
like you said, malicious. I would disagree with you in saying that they don't, that there are
discrete genders in cannabis. There's two things. There's discrete genders and then there's females
that are intersex, right? So you can have a female plant that is female, but intersex,
and you can have a female plant that is female, but not intersex, right? We do understand the,
the genetic basis now of, of gender in cannabis. And it's, yeah, it's almost,
it's, it's almost 100% sure that we're right. But in the plant world, you know, you know what it's
like in nature. I mean, there's exceptions to every rule, right? Like there's, there's human
children that are born intersex, right? That they have some gender from each. The X and the Y
chromosome, they undergo crossing over. So there's genetic material exchange between
the male and the female. So you can have males that don't have the, you're not going to have
genetically male people with Y chromosomes that have female reproductive parts. You can have
female people with two X chromosomes and no Y chromosome, and they have male reproductive parts,
right? So there's always going to be exceptions to every rule when it comes to biology.
And so I think that, yeah, as a whole, in the species, we'll never get rid of intersexuality
because it's, it's part of the, the thing that's coded into the species. But if you want to grow,
you know, one of the easy ways to do it is to grow plants and select clones that don't go
intersex. And then you use those plants for your production. I think over time and a proper
breeding program, and now that we're starting to get access to genomics, genomic companies that can
support cannabis breeding programs, that we will be able to identify genetic markers related to
intersexuality and we'll be able to select against those markers and create populations that are much
more resistant to intersexuality. But that's part of our process and part of our,
our learning experience that we're going to have to go through over the next, you know, like I said,
however long, 20 years. Funnily enough, all female breeding is probably going to be the way that we
will do that, right? Because again, when you're selecting males, unless you have genetic markers,
it's very difficult to tell whether that plant has, will be intersex because again,
the males don't show that characteristic. So how do you select for or against a characteristic in
males that you can't see? Right? So in fact, using two female plants that are highly resistant to
intersexuality, that might be how we breed out intersexuality, right? Which is, maybe seems
counterintuitive to some people. I know that, you know, there's a lot of people, again, it's kind of
a trait in our community that it's like everybody wants it to be as natural as possible. That's not
the way that cannabis evolved. Well, truthfully, the cannabis that you're smoking today is nothing
like the cannabis that humans first encountered, right? Like the cannabis that humans first
encountered was a tall, was a short little plant that probably produced very little flower and a
few seeds and no discernible cannabinoid content or terpene content. Certainly not
what is comparable to today's modern hybrids. And so if you want to be, if you're like kind of hippie
minded and anti-science and you want everything to be natural, organic, you know, the way mother
nature intended, you're probably not going to be supportive of female-female breeding.
But I think that if you're serious about breeding cannabis for its chemistry, which is what we do
as drug cannabis breeders, that it's really kind of undeniable that the effects that you can get,
the, sorry, the progress that you can make using female plants or only female populations
is, it's pretty significant if you actually use a lab and screen the samples, you know,
from male-female crosses and female-female crosses. I think most people would be surprised
that, of the differences in the amount of genetic gain that you can make in a generation.
Truthfully, some female-female crosses don't work. I mean, a lot of females,
they contain intersex genes and when you self them or when you cross them to other female plants,
yeah, you get a lot of intersexuality in some lines, right? It's not everywhere, but it does
happen. And you just, you either do your best to pull those intersexuality traits out or you don't
use that line. I mean, I said this last week on, or a couple of weeks ago on Shango's podcast, but
you don't, you know, in the plant breeding world, not every, you don't step up to bat every time
and hit a home run, right? There's a lot of fail, failures. You might fail 90% of the time,
right? And that's okay because breeding plants is about taking the best of the best of the best,
right? You're taking the cream from the crop and using those to forward the next generation.
And so it's okay if things don't work out. It just means that you don't work those lines,
right? Or you work them a different way, right? And you focus on the ones that do work,
right? That's another one of David's quotes. He's like, I love killing plants. You know,
I love killing cannabis plants. And I was like, really? And he's like, yeah,
of course. It was like, that's how you, that's how you make them better.
You got to get rid of all the junk. Yeah. A hundred, 150% on that one. I think people are
sometimes a bit too attached to plants to realize when maybe they're not worth keeping around.
Just to extend on a kind of idea you touched on. I remember one of the ideas DJ mentioned when we
had a chat with him was that he always had this sneaking suspicion that males, which showed
intersex traits, might be of more value than just what you would call a male that doesn't.
Do you have any sort of speculation on maybe where that might come from or if there's any
maybe validity to that, if you've seen that or toyed with intersex males at all?
Yeah. So David, and David also has talked a lot about this with Hayes and apparently Hayes,
you know, throws like easy claims up to 75% of the population are females. It's a much higher
sex ratio, which is bizarre because it doesn't really fit our scientific understanding.
What DJ is talking about, I think there's probably a scientific basis for what he's noticed, right? So
I don't know if you've looked into how the silver thiosulfate chemical that we use for
creating male flowers on female plants. What it does is it blocks a receptor in the plant
called the ethylene receptor. And ethylene is one of five major plant hormones.
In humans, we have, you know, you'd probably know more than I, but with your background,
but we have lots and lots of hormones, many hormones that do many different things. In the
plant world, there's really five major ones. And one of those is ethylene. And so people might
heard of this trick with either avocados or bananas. If you had a green banana and you take
it and you put it in a paper bag and cinch the top of the paper bag, the banana will go ripe
yellow more quickly than say one open sitting on the counter. And the reason is, is that when
bananas mature, they give off this gas called ethylene. Okay. And ethylene causes the banana
ripen. It also causes plants to, it also causes plant flowers to open and bloom. Okay. And so
if you're able to block that receptor, the ethylene can't do its job. So think of it like
Narcan or naloxone, the anti-opioid drug, the drug that all the police carry now to give to heroin
people that are overdosing from heroin, that molecule blocks the heroin receptor or the opioid
receptor. And therefore the fentanyl can't bind to the receptor and cause all the downstream
problems that it does, the shortness of breath and blah, blah, blah. Right. And so when we do that
with the silver thiosulfate or silver nitrate, the silver molecule actually blocks the ethylene
receptor. And so we shut down that biological pathway. Okay. We were turning off the effect of
that, of that hormone. Okay. And when we do that in cannabis, the plant produces male flowers rather
than female flowers. It's just a simple one, one hormone receptor pathway. Right. Conversely,
if you take a male plant and you spray it with a chemical called ethaphon, ethaphon is a chemical
that is absorbed by the plant and it breaks down into ethylene. Okay. So if you spray a female
plant with this ethaphon chemical, you're introducing more ethylene into the plant and
the male plant will produce female flowers. And that's what you were talking about when you asked
about David making selfs or hybrids or reversing males, as you call it. So really it's about
playing with this one pathway. Coincidentally, I mean, we were talking about flowers opening and
maturing and, and, you know, really there's this arc in ethylene production over the flower cycle.
Cannabis probably goes through that too. Right. And I don't think anybody's really measured that.
And it's actually quite hard to measure ethylene because it's, it occurs in such minute quantities
in the plant. But yeah, like ethylene probably cycles the levels of the plant of the, of that
hormone probably cycle throughout the hormones. And that actually could be very well be why
we have males or some plants that are predisposed to throw male flowers at the end of the
cycle because there's a change in the ethylene expression in the plant. Right. So anyway,
it's just interesting to know that that's how it works. And it's likely that what you're talking
about with DJ is that like humans and like cannabis does and all these other traits,
there's variation in the levels of these chemicals that the plant produces. Some plant,
some genetic backgrounds might have low levels of ethylene, but some plants, maybe they produce a
lot of ethylene, right? So if a plant produced a lot of ethylene, you might have a male plant that
would show a female flower because again, excess ethylene to the plant changes the phenotype a
little bit and it makes it produce female flowers. So that could very well be what DJ is talking
about is that he's actually unconsciously selecting plants that have a really high ethylene load.
And as such, they're more feminine males. What a brilliant answer. Cause you, you also
answered my next question, which was going to be about breeders claiming that their seeds have a
higher proportion of females and things like that. So perfectly answered that. The following question
was going to be, I've always kind of thought that this idea that I'm about to talk about was kind of
incorrect, but you would hear some breeders talk about how, you know, germinating seeds in hot
environments will give you more males, things like that. Seems counterintuitive to the idea
that the sex of the plant is largely genetically based. I mean, although there could be some sort
of like epigenetic change, I guess, what's your thoughts on like after the seeds been produced
factors, which could contribute to the ratio of sex upon germination or something like that?
Okay. Well, let's just put the sex conversation just to the side for a quick moment and,
and have a conversation about population sizes and statistics, right? So if you have a population
of a hundred people, call it label them one to a hundred, right? On any given trait, say that
they're tall to small, the smallest guy is one, the largest guy is a hundred and there's one of
each. So there's literally, you know, one, two, three, four, five, all the way up to a hundred.
And you then go into that popular, you put them all in a paper bag and you reach your hand and
you pull out three at random. You might get like, say, say, say whatever, you don't shake up the bag
very well and you put your hand in after and you, you, you pull out numbers 96, 97 and 95, right? So
you add the three up and you take the average and you decide, okay, 96 is the average of this
population. Well, you're going to be wrong, right? Because the small subset of the plants that you've
looked at doesn't match the overall population. And that's something in statistics we call
sampling error and people can Google that if they want, but there's a whole field of math about that.
And I think a lot of the results that we see in the cannabis world is that people are actually
not doing proper sampling or they're not growing large enough populations
upon which to make the conclusions that they're making, right? Like when we do this kind of stuff,
when you talk about males and females, there's a really basic science thing that we use and it's
called the Chi-squares test. It's spelled C-H-I-dash-square and you can look that up. But
the Chi-square test essentially is your observed results minus your expected result over your
expected result. And that gives you a number that you can look up on a table and you can base on the
number of plants that you're growing and seeing. Like for example, we would expect that 10 regular
seeds, five of them were going to be male and five are going to be female. And if you grew out a
population of a hundred, you'd probably end up seeing like, oh look, there's 47 males and 53
females or vice versa or something close to that. And the larger the population you grow,
the more close to 50-50 you're going to get. But if you grow three plants,
it's like flipping a coin three times. You might get heads three times by flipping a coin.
Well, does that mean that every time you flip that coin, it's going to be heads? No, right? It just
means that you didn't flip in enough time to get an accurate sample of the population, right? So if
you buy 10 seeds and you only grow three of them and they're all males, you might conclude, well,
all the seeds in this seed line are males. But that wouldn't be a correct population. It would
be an error that you're making in your conclusion because you didn't grow enough plants. And so I
would argue that most cannabis breeders, again, working in small spaces and closets and not
working in fields and not keeping proper records, that they're making these conclusions based on
observations that they've made. But the observations that they've made have been on too
small of a population to actually say it's true. So when you hear a breeder say, yeah, well,
the plant, you know, this population produces 70% males. Well, it's like what? So you grew
seven plants? Or you grew 10 plants and seven of them were males, right? Like that's not a
statistically significant conclusion, right? And plant breeding happens to be heavily stats-based.
It's a lot about math and numbers and measuring traits and looking for population means and
outliers and all that kind of stuff. And it's really boring and not exciting to talk about
when you just want to get high and smoke a bunch of weed and talk about turps. But again,
there's a science that goes on behind all of the data. It's like there's a genetic dance. There's
a biological dance that goes on under the scenes of plant breeding. And you really have to understand
that science and apply those scientific methods to be making conclusions that we're making.
And again, I'm not trying to talk bad about anybody else in the scene for not having that
set of knowledge, but you got to understand that people just need to understand that
you can't make conclusions like that off of small populations because
many, many times with small populations, you end up having this artifact called
sampling error, right? Yeah, yeah. A perfect, perfect description of that sort of situation.
And I remember when I was having a discussion with James Bean, the owner of Seeds here now,
he mentioned to me that someone contacted him and was like, I got 10 males in a regular packet.
And this person is obviously pretty upset. And James was like, congrats, but you won the lottery,
like. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, well, it's true. It can happen, right? You flip a coin 10 times,
you can get 10 males. It's rare, but you can happen. Yeah. And you know, I just, when you
have that kind of stuff with people, you just give them more seeds, man. Like why people freaking
out? They're just seeds, you know? Hook somebody up. If somebody has a problem with your seeds,
why are you trying to drag it out? I mean, sure, there's people that take advantage,
it happens. But you know what? What does it cost you to give a customer another 10 seeds? Nothing.
Yeah. And I think that was his resolution to that. And he also even made the point of saying,
you know, you should feel good because there's probably, you know, a bit of a,
like an assumption. But you know, there's probably someone out there who got a 10 female pack
because of you. Everything has to balance out in the end, right? It's all about probabilities.
And so for every, it's, you know, these things are all graphed on what we call a normal
distribution or a bell curve, right? And so for every one person, that's what one end of the bell,
there's also somebody that's at the other end of the bell.
Of course. So something I've always been really personally interested in is many moons ago,
when I was a wee lad, I remember reading your article on a forum about how cubing is a myth.
And this blew my mind because I, up until that point, I was, you know, very devout to the idea
of the cube. And I guess the question that I always wondered when I learned a little bit more
about genetics was I might be misunderstanding maybe some of the points you wrote about in that
little article, but essentially what I took away was that you could get to where you want to be
in like a BX1 more or less. Would that be a fair kind of statement to say?
Okay. Well, so a first bat cross generation, you can get as far as you can in a third bat cross
generation, but there's other plants in that generation are still going to be the equivalent
to the F1 hybrid. Right. So the point that Sol was making, and you've got to remember Sol was,
is or was, I don't know if he still is, but he's an engineer. He's not a biologist. Okay.
So if you don't understand how biology works and how meiosis works specifically, meiosis is the way
that cells divide to produce germline cells or sex cells that become, you know, female eggs or
male sperm or male pollen or female ovules on a plant. If you don't understand that,
it's kind of hard to, you know, if you're making conclusions as an engineer on biological processes,
then you don't understand those things. You're probably going to make a mistake.
And so, yeah, in the third bat cross generation, or even in the first bat cross generation,
yes, you're going to find plants that are like 99% like the mother plant, say that the mother is the
recurrent parent in the bat cross generation or in the bat cross scheme. Sorry. The truth is,
is that you're going to find another plant in that same generation that is, it still has 50%
of the genetics from the male. Right. So as a whole in the population, yes, the population as a whole
only has 25% of the genetics from any, from the male and 75% of the genetics from the female.
But that doesn't mean that every individual in that population is going to be like that. Right.
And so if you're using a male, if you're selecting, again, if you do this poor kind of breeding
practice in Canada, where you use one plant that you select from your first bat cross generation,
you might choose the plant that is still 50% of the male genome. Right. And you cross it back again,
you actually haven't gained any genetic progress over time. Right. To move it over time, you have
to do that back cross. And you're essentially trying to drag the entire population towards
the female, the genetics of the female. Now, look, that female of her in and of herself
might be a hybrid plant. Like if that female was an F1 plant back crossing. And I think I was
talking about grapefruit and the sweet tooth, you know, in context of the grapefruit blueberry
hybrid. When you when you start crossing back to a hybrid, you don't actually ever get towards
100% like the parent because the parent is already a hybrid. It's already segregating every generation.
And so, yeah, you might get to a point where all of the genetics came from that one plant,
but they're just the population is still segregating for all the traits that are in that
plant. Like you don't actually get close to a true breeding nature. Right. And so in the real
plant breeding world, you don't use back crossing in the way that we use it or that people have
traditionally used it that have professed cubing. You don't you don't do it that way. What you do
is you use a line that is already true breeding. And then the reason that you would back cross to
a line is you cross it. You take that true breeding line or true to type line where all
the plants look the same and they come up the same and the same smell. And you might want to add,
call it auto flowering to that trait. And so you cross it to an auto flowering plant. You grow up
the offspring and you back cross it to the you're what we call the recurrent parent or, you know,
in this case, call it grapefruit or princess or whatever the plant that they were chasing and see
99. You only want that one trait, the auto trait from your pollen donor. You want to take the rest
of that plant's genome and throw it away. Right. You want to get rid of it. And so that is something
that you can do. And that's the way they do it in the real plant breeding world. It's like it's
called trait introgression. And I wrote about it in in Jorge Cervantes, the marijuana horticulture
book. I think it's the medical Bible is what they call it. But I wrote the breeding chapter in there
and I kind of explain that breeding program on how to do that. And so trait introgression through
back crossing is something that you want to do with an already true breeding population. Right.
If you took like an OG Kush, which is a little bit of a hybrid plant anyway on its own,
and you kept back crossing to it, you're not going to get a true breeding plant from it.
Because, again, that plant's a hybrid and those those traits are going to keep segregating over
time until you are able to actually find the true homozygous parents and cross them together.
Right. So this idea that you can cross back to a plant three times and all of a sudden all the
offspring are going to look like the mother plant is wrong. Right. If the plant is a hybrid plant,
then it has heterozygosity or a lot of genetic diversity in its own genome. Yeah. All the plants
that come from that plant might have the collection of traits from the genome,
but they're not all going to look the same and they're not going to breed true.
Yeah. What a great explanation. I think the one question above maybe what you'd already
answered that I was kind of wondering was that given that there are so many different genes
and alleles and chromosomes within plants, is it fair to say in your mind that by doing
additional back crosses, you could potentially lock in additional traits that were maybe in the
original mother, in the princess, for example, which because maybe in the first back cross,
you locked down like 70 percent of the traits you were looking for. And I get what you're saying
where like you could find one with like 99. But if I'm understanding this correct, you'd have to
run more seeds to find that one. Whereas would you agree that if you did more back crosses,
you could theoretically lock down more of the traits so that they're going to express more
consistently? Or have I misunderstood that? No, you can't. Because again, the condition
that the parent has is it already like so your recurrent parent, let's call it let's just use
C99 and we'll use princess as the recurrent parent. So princess herself was a hybrid plant.
OK. And so if you were to self if you were to cross princess to itself, forget the
out cross to a new type to back cross for a second, let's just self princess. If you self princess,
she comes out looking like an F2 more or less. Right. Because again, she's a hybrid for almost
all the traits that are in the in the plant in her genome. She's got heterozygosity across her
chromosomes. Right. I mean, let me simplify this maybe for your listeners a little bit like
in every let's let's everybody think in terms of their own themselves and their family.
You have half of the chrome in your genetic complement. Heavenly. You've got half of your
chromosomes from your mom and half from your dad. You've got 22 from mom. You've got 22
in an X from mom and you got 22 and a Y from dad. OK, so in your mind, let's make moms blue
and dads red. OK. Well, if you cross those two types together, like if you were able to somehow
breed with only yourself. There's going to be three possibilities for every chromosome.
You can either have two red ones, you can have two blue ones or you can have.
One red and one blue. OK. Now let's add in the the parent that we're going to
introgress and we'll do a back cross population. So now we're putting in pollen from.
Let's assume in the best case scenario, a completely 100 percent true breeding plant
and let's label all the chromosomes in our mind as black. So when you cross the black
to the to the possibilities of either red and blue or.
Yeah, of red and blue, you get two possibilities. You can have black and blue or black and red.
Well, when you back cross either of those types to the red and blue again, now we've just got
a mess of three different types all segregating together. Right. And to make it uniform and true
breeding, you have to have two of one type like you want to have blue and blue or red and blue.
Red and red. Right. Yeah, that's sorry. That's maybe that's a terrible way of explaining it,
but the point is, is that. We all have chromosomes from our mom and our dad.
Right. And so somehow we were able to back cross to ourselves. It's still a 50 50 shot,
whether you get the chromosome from mom or the chromosome from dad. Right. And it doesn't matter
how many times you back cross to yourself. If you've got one of each type of chromosome,
you're never going to get there. The only way that you can get there is if the plant that you're
back crossing to is either red, red or blue, blue. And then if it if it is over time, you'll eventually
get to all blue or all red. Right. But as long as that initial plant that you're using as your
recurrent parent has what we call heterozygosity or as a hybrid plant, it has different chromosomes
that every every plant has. Your cannabis plant has 10 chromosomes, nine
what we call autosomes and one pair of sex chromosomes.
If those plants have different chromosomes, it doesn't matter how many times you back cross it,
you're never going to get any closer to your goal. Right. Yeah. So yeah. So so cubing
with the idea that, yeah, after three generations, the offspring look exactly like mom. That's just
not true. Yeah. After three generations, the vast majority of the population has genetics only from
mom. But that doesn't mean that those plants are going to breed true in any way.
Yeah. Great. Thank you so much for clearing that up. That does make a lot of sense. And I
I suggest the listeners, if you if you got lost at any point, feel free to go back and listen to
it a few more times, but hopefully you will be able to get there. I just wanted to mention,
we're obviously so lucky to have you on the show. And I wanted to chat about some of your personal
breedings that you'd done before we jump into maybe some of the sort of intellectual property
and patent work you've been involved in, which is very, very interesting to a lot of our listeners.
But I first just wanted to give you a quick kudos. My buddy, Green and Gold Farms, when I was at his
house on the weekend, I told him I was going to be interviewing you and he pulled out a jar of
some of your sour diesel cross to sweet skunk that he grew probably about five years ago,
I think he said. But he's really good at curing and storing things. And so, that's been the
inspiration for a lot of these questions when I was writing them. I was puffing away on that one
from you. And I tell you what, it's a phenomenal smoke. It's almost like piffy in a way, like very
up, like more uplifting than you would have expected either of the parents to kind of be.
Yeah, that's great. Well, probably kudos to him as well. I mean, all we can do is put the
genes together. It's the grower that brings it out. There's other plants like sweet skunk.
Like, for example, there's one over here called, it's a seedsman. It's a plant that came out of
the seedsman haze, which seedsman were just seeds that they were buying in bulk from David.
And if you grow the end, so they, I don't know whether it was, they were this, this seed came
from ones that they had bought directly from David or they had bought from David and repopulated
them. And then this seed came from those, but I'll tell you, this plant came to me as a clone
and I had them in the grow room and they would continually get mixed up one for the other.
And from veg, clone, flower, bud, you had to have a really trained eye to be able to tell the two
of them apart. Same with the grapefruit and the soul shine. They both have like their, their set
of traits are so similar that you have to know the plant intimately and be like, oh, this one has a
slightly wider leaf and a different curl to the, you know, the, the serration and the leaf. That
one is this one and this one is the other one. But otherwise you can't tell. I mean, my friends used
to grow the grapefruit and the soul shine in greenhouses and they would mix the bud and you,
nobody ever knew that the bud was mixed. Right. Yeah. Okay. There you go. So, so there's, so
that's what I, when I talk about a flavor class, that's an example of that, right. Where, you know,
we're not going to push, push this in. So I'll use the kind of more crass analogy. It's like,
you know, it's kind of like saying, well, all, all Asian kids look the same, right?
Yeah. It's not true. There's a variation in them. You might find two kids that almost look identical.
It's just, you're not familiar. So you can't see the difference.
Exactly. Yeah. But within any family there's groups, right? So the, you know, and that's one
of the things that we, we learned again, when we did these large populations grows with all the
chemical analysis that you can identify these unique types and that it's not every plant is not,
while it might be a unique individual, it's not necessarily a unique chemistry, right? Like the
buzz, you couldn't tell apart from between them. So yeah, there you go. Sweet, sweet skunk in the,
in the seeds, mentaise are pure or the same. And, you know, again, we can talk about that later with
Napro, but again, we learned that these terpene profiles, their characteristics, right? It's a
trait that gets inherited. And so while the plant might not be identical to the parent, oftentimes
the terpene profile is right. So you can end up with plants that smell exactly like the mom or the
dad, right? And so when, when Steve found this sweet skunk plant or his friend that found it,
found it, whatever the story is and who cares. Yeah. He found a plant that was neat, but he just
found a plant that was a subtype of this terpene profile, right? It's not really a unique plant.
The sweet skunk kind of fits the description of what you're talking about. I mean, it really is
a kind of piffy equatorial plant that has that really what we would, you know, it's classically
use. I'm going to use the word I hate using sativa, but it's, it's, it's got that profile.
And it's got, like you said, the Fox tails and the, the kind of staggered calyxes or the staggered
bracts on the flower structure. It's not a big beefy plant, which is kind of odd because the
mother was right. Like sour diesel is not huge, but it does have quite dense, modern looking flowers,
right. Highly resinous, very, very fuely. And in, in, in a lot of individuals from that family,
they kind of got stomped on by the, the sweet skunk side, which was really, was not expected.
But you know, it might've added a little more intensity to the high.
So I like that hybrid. There's some really great plants in that, in that family.
Yeah. I look, I'm certainly keen to try some others based on this experience. We had a viewer
ask a question of, are you releasing seeds that they would be able to purchase? And if so, like,
where can someone pick up some of your work?
So breeders retail is really the main bank that's over in the UK because I'm working in Canada right
now. Mainly the work that I'm doing in the regulated market can only be sold through the
regulated market in Canada. One of the things about the legal aspects in Canada is that we've
created this legal system, but in order to respect international drug law of which we're still
beholden to the EU, we don't export recreational products. We can only export medical or scientific
products. So a lot of the work that I'm actually doing right now, won't actually be able to leave
the Canadian system until we can start exporting it. All of the old work is still available.
I actually pulled everything off the market a couple of years ago when there was this
big pubco frenzy. And we're just reopening breeders retail, which is a site that will be up
soon. It's an old friend in the UK that's going to do it. And all the stock was produced over there
in Europe many years ago anyway. So it can be sold internationally from there.
There probably will be a way at some point in time for some other work to be done in Europe
legally and then those seeds can be sold onto the international market through that, but it's not a
current thing. Right now we're kind of trying to get this new iteration of the business within the
Canadian market to be able to supply clones and improve genetics to all the new licensed growers
that are coming online. And we've got many now in Canada. We've got a lot of people that are
coming online. And we've got many now in Canada. It started with just a few, but we have well over
a couple of hundred licensed growers and some new small craft growers that they're calling
micro licenses that are allowed to grow, I think it's 250 square meters, which is good because
it's enough for a family to, a family run business for people to make enough money to make a living
and probably make a good living. And it also allows them to focus on a smaller footprint.
So we have a higher quality product than what was coming out of these very large grows
that are producing hundreds of thousands of square feet worth of flowers. And when you start
producing cannabis on that scale, it's actually quite difficult to maintain the level of quality
that people have come to expect from the high quality cannabis that you can find on, you know,
any given market around the world, really. And so, yeah, so our new project is really bringing in
the genetics. We've got the ability to legally import genetics from other countries. So we've
been bringing in a lot of work that was done in Europe under license over there, bringing it into
Canada, and we're going to be re-screening large populations of all the old goodies
and bringing them to life and making them available in the new system.
That's really exciting. I wanted to specifically ask, I want to talk about some of your older
strains in just a second, but before we do, I've noticed that some of the more newer ones,
and by new, you know, relative term, you were working with sweet skunk and obviously
you had involvement with sweet skunk in the past and Steve, so that might be the simple
answer to the question that it was just like proximity, but were there any specific characteristics
about the sweet skunk that you really liked, which kind of made you want to work with it a little more?
Yeah, well, one of the reasons is it reverses easily. It makes a lot of pollen. So,
when you're doing a seed crop that's going to be sold, you want it to produce as many seeds as
possible. So, that was one of the drivers behind it as an initial feminized release. It's also a
great plant. It's a really hazy, piffy type, as you were saying earlier, and it's enjoyable.
It leaves this beautiful, I want to say, like sweet, perfumey, incensey
nose in the air, and it's kind of bizarre. It's one of those things that I've had with other
other types as well. Typically, if you're lighting the joint, you don't smell it, but if you light
the joint, you smoke a little bit, and then you pass it to somebody, and you leave the room
for a few minutes, and then come back in, you're immediately hit by this very sweet, incensey,
kind of unique, exotic smell. And it's hard to describe again, because we don't have a common
set of knowledge or common set of words to describe it, but it's really quite intriguing.
And so, from that perspective, yeah, I just wanted to see how she came together and interplayed
with some of the other plants that I had in the collection. And it's a part of a breeding program.
Those are not finished breeding programs by any means, but I kind of like to release small batches
out of those so that other people have the same genetics that I'm working with, and they can
create parallel lines or back cross them. I mean, that would be a great candidate, for example,
to back cross to sour diesel or to sweet skunk, right? You can kind of start different breeding
programs with it. And that was really one of the reasons that I did that with the blueberry lines,
as well. You know, blueberry is a great population. It's a really interesting plant with the colors,
and some of the shapes, and things, but it also has some weaknesses. And so,
when you're using a population like that, sometimes you want to, we were talking about
back crossing earlier, sometimes you might want to take one of those traits from the hybrid plant,
and use that to intergrass or incorporate into the blueberry line, right? And so, a lot of these
things are part of projects that are ongoing that I kind of just share along the way,
so that they don't get lost if something happens to me, they end up in other people's hands. I
think that's part of responsible plant breeding, is to share things with people, you know?
Which is kind of funny, given the conversation that we're going to have in the future about
intellectual property and cannabis development. But,
yeah, those are fantastic plants, and I really like those populations. They're a lot of fun.
Yeah, I mean, the proof's in the pudding, right? And you just touched on my next question perfectly
for me, where I was going to talk about how you had some notable experience working with some of
the earlier versions of blueberry, and notably in your fighting Buddha cross, you used like an F2
blueberry. And I think the part which struck my curiosity the most was that this was back in the
generations where people often regarded blueberry as like more blueberry back then, like you often
hear comments about the blueberry muffin or the blueberry syrup terpenes that the earlier
generations had, which are often said to not quite be present anymore. Was that your experience,
that there was those sort of expressions? And what's your thoughts on blueberry now?
Okay, so one little correction. I think the blueberry that we actually used was an F4. Those
were seeds from DJ. But maybe it hasn't publicly been known, but I don't think it's terrible to
say that those seeds, they came to Canada from someone, arrived them here, whatever, with DJ or
without him, I'm not sure. But when I saw them, they all came and they were in a container, or
they were in a one piece of corrugated plastic, and there was all these different ones. And I
my understanding was that those were seeds that had come back from Dutch Passion after DJ's
experience with them. And these seeds were returned to him and they were the pure seeds
that he had originally brought over from which Dutch Passion started their programs. And so
they came back. And when they came back, I think that they'd been a little bit mixed up to a
certain degree. But from DJ's notes and information that we had, and he was there at the time as well,
I believe they were actually an F4 plant that we that we are the plant that we selected was
from the F4 generation. And so that work that was done in Canada was done at a friend's grow.
And it wasn't a huge grow, but it was, you know, like 12 or 15 lights or something like that,
enough to grow a bunch of really small plants and screen them out. And we think grew like,
or the grower grew, I kind of went over and help with the selections and babysat them a little bit.
But it wasn't my grow, to be clear. And the grower there, you know, grew all these plants. And then
our friend Red from Legends and DJ would come up and we would go through the plants and look for
different candidates. And so I was part of the group that got to do all the selections on those
plants. So we looked at, you know, like a few hundred of each type, the flow, what was supposed
to be the blue moonshine, the blueberry, and they all got renamed, you know, F number 13 or flow
number 13 became F13. There was a plant called, oh no, it was B25. It was in the blueberry line.
And that plant became the mother of grape crush. And it actually was a plant like you're talking
about, like she was in the blueberry muffin side of the cross. But there's also a lot of stuff on
the other side, which is more of like, I don't mean spicy in like a hot exotic way, just like kind of
a dry, kind of a roasty flavor and with a lot of chocolate influence to it, like a lot of chocolaty
notes to it. And that is really, really prevalent in both the flow and the blueberry lines. And I
think at this point in time, well, this was an F4. So it was earlier than the most generations
that have been on the market, but even they were a bit blue or a bit more chocolaty than the
blueberry flavor. I had previously grown quite small populations because, you know, getting DJ
seeds in Canada was pretty expensive. I couldn't afford to grow 500 of them. But I think we grew,
you know, 150 of them or something like that. And I found a couple of plants that were quite
in that blueberry syrup, sweet character, sweet side of the cross.
DJ's plants are, they've been, like I said, they've been bred for multiple generations,
usually using one plant as the parent of each generation. And so they, in my opinion, they
suffer a little bit from inbreeding depression, which is corrected when you hybridize them to
another plant. But it's something that's present in the line if you're trying to grow a pure. And
there's also this characteristic that I call the crinkle or the crinkle of the seed. And
crinkle or the leaf that some people call it the twisted leaf. But it's a it's a variegation. It's
not really a form of variegation, but it's a genetic anomaly that the plant has where the
leaf kind of grows like really weird shaped. It doesn't look like cannabis. I mean, it looks like
cannabis, but they're all kind of gnarled and twisted rather than having these long, beautiful,
straight lamina like the you know, the fingers of the of the typical cannibal cannabis leaf that
everyone knows. So from a breeding perspective, you can grow a lot of those and throw them away.
DJ liked to think that he had an idea that maybe those plants were the more desirable ones.
And so I think that he's selected for that trait a little bit in past generations. And that's why,
again, we see it reoccurring in future generations. Like again, like begets like. I mean, if you select
those plants in past generations, there's a higher probability that those plants are going to be seen
in the in the future generations. And so I try actually personally, I tried to stick away from
those plants because I saw them as a negative characteristic in the population. I mean, from
a grower's point of view, I actually worked in a seed shop, a head shop when I was in university.
And I remember a guy coming in, he had spent two hundred and fifty bucks on ten of the DJ
blueberry and he came back in with the plant. And, you know, this was back in the day when it was like
if you brought a plant into a public store, you were pretty much crazy. And so this dude walks
to the store with these plants and they're all twisted. They've got this really ugly variegated
leaf and they just didn't grow very fast and they were suffering from inbreeding depression.
And he was demanding his money back because, you know, he had paid so much money that he shouldn't
be going in. It's like, dude, that's what the seeds do. I mean, you know, we're not making
the seeds here. You kind of get what you get. But I think we gave him another pack and sent
him on his way. Yeah. As you do. Right. As you do. Yeah, that's right. So but but so I really like
DJ's population. It's it's for the most part, you know, when he was doing all that work in Oregon,
it's that he never crossed it. Like the one thing that he did that was so cool is that he never just
crossed it to to everything else. I mean, there's kind of this weird thing in the in the cannabis
community where, you know, the way that people breed weed is they breed cannabis was the last at
least 20 years. It's like you take you'd grow out last year's Cannabis Cup winner and you'd find a
new plant and then somebody would win the Cannabis Cup the next year and you'd get seeds from that
and you'd cross that to your old plant. And then the next year, somebody has another plant that
wins the Cannabis Cup and then you just go and cross it again to the next plant. Right.
And nobody really took the time to start stabilizing or trying to to
to stabilize and make anything uniform. It was always about just crossing it to the next best
thing. And DJ didn't do that. Right. Like he made his initial crosses and then he didn't go outside
for germplasm. He only worked within the families that he had that he had created.
And so to me, Flo and Blueberry and, you know, F13 and Grape Crush and all these ones,
to me, I look at those as like they're really all one family, but they're like cousins.
Right. Or they're or they're what we call half siblings or half brothers. Right.
They share a mother or they share a father.
And so to me, it's really all one family rather than a bunch of different types. And there are
different phenotypes and genotypes within the family, like, you know, the Blue Moonshine. Yeah,
it's stocky and it's got its shorter stature. It's got wide leaves and frosty buds. And then
the grape, the blueberry, sorry, is a little bit taller and the F13 has its own thing. And they've
all got kind of their own thing. Right. They're all like a little bit different
flower structure, scent, all that kind of stuff. But they all they also do have
all these characteristics that are quite shared amongst the DJ family, like the really purple
leaf stems and the really purple striped leaves or sorry, stems, the main stalks of the underside
of the leaves have that kind of purple color. So, yeah, so that the fact that he had all that stuff
and bred it in line and kind of kept it isolated from the rest of the drug pool,
it really makes it interesting for actually using as a hybridization tool to cross back to other
parts of the drug pool. Right. And that's why I think that we've seen such an incredible
spread of those genes. And we see it on all sorts of lines from like Bubbleberry to Blue Dream. And
that's like over 15, 20 years. Right. There's not many breeders that have had that kind of influence.
So, yeah, you got to love DJ. He's also just a great guy. He's a really, really nice guy.
So, yeah. Yeah, I wholeheartedly agree. He's always been very, very lovely to me. So,
Big Ups DJ. And I guess there's a follow on question to that. What's your favorite DJ short
cross or cultivar that you've come across? And I guess there's a little follow up. Do you currently
follow his more recent work? Because he's actually digging into some of his really old stock trying
to pull some cool, unique stuff out. I thought maybe that might be interesting to you.
We kind of lost touch. I mean, when we were working together and doing all that stuff,
he was living in Canada. And he was actually trying to move here during the
or he went through a period of trying to move here during the Bush years.
And it didn't work out in the end. And he eventually moved back down to
wherever he is in Oregon and California. But when he was in Vancouver, I had just moved to Vancouver,
when he was in Vancouver, I had just moved to Vancouver, you know, very like right before then.
And he coincidentally lived like three blocks from my house. Right. So, we used to go over to
DJ's house. He and the lady he was with at the time, Carla, she was just a super lovely lady as
well. And we'd have these epic parties. They took over an apartment in that area of town that another
friend of ours used to have. And it was like the place must have been like a 1970s cocaine palace.
Like it was all this big, big shag carpet and mirrors all over the place. And they were on
the top floor. And there was an elevator that you'd get in and it would go up to the top floor.
Nobody else could get there. They'd have to buzz you up. And the elevator would open and there'd
be this big mirror bar like right in front of you. So, it was kind of like a great place to have
these parties. A really nice like balcony overlooking downtown Vancouver. So, during that
process, that was when I really got to explore DJ's stuff. Because like I said, we were growing all
these seed lines for selection of what became, you know, True Blueberry, F13, Grape Crush and so on.
And so, I got to see the plants that he liked. I got to see the flowers that he liked.
And I spent probably, he was actually at the time we were doing the grow,
he was actually still down in the States. So, I spent a fair amount of time in the garden kind
of just looking over it and learning about his lines and watering plants and stuff like that.
And that was really, I really got to see a large, because I've honestly have never grown large
populations of DJ stuff aside from that. Like I said, we did some smaller grows, but nothing
with on any kind of scale, delving into the entire genetic diversity, right? So,
the things that I didn't like about those plants were again, the curl. I thought that was a really
trait that it was not, it wasn't a great thing for growers, right? It was kind of a pain in the
butt to deal with if you were a grower. The plants with the curl, they were very sensitive to
nutrients and you couldn't push them very much. They didn't yield a ton. They kind of grew a
little bit slowly. And so, when we were doing the hybrids, I kind of shied away from those plants
and I really went more towards plants that were better growers. So, from that perspective,
from the better grower plants, my favorite plant from that whole family was B133,
which became the old time moonshine. And old time moonshine was a great plant. It didn't have the
curl. It grew really well. It had all the rest of the stuff that you'd expect from a DJ line,
like the purple underside of the leaves and the purple stems. And it had a really nice flower,
like a good commercial dense flower structure and scent. It had that blueberry kind of flavor scent.
Unfortunately, we went to make the seeds from those crosses. They all shared the same parental
plant. So, really, we selected the winners, cloned them up, and then they went in a room,
kind of in a multi-grid section with many copies of the same male plant that DJ had selected.
And all the plants set an incredible amount of seed, except for the old time moonshine.
And the growers really choked because they thought they were getting paid based on the seed.
And this one section of the room that was like 15% of the room or whatever, it barely set seed.
Like the one plant, it may, one plant would make maybe, I don't know, 50 seeds at the most.
Whereas a plant that size would normally produce well over a thousand seeds.
Right, so it was almost insomnia. There was something about,
there's something called self-incompatibility in plant breeding. And that just means when you
breed plants that are outcrossers too closely together, they don't make seeds. And for whatever
reason, whether it was self-incompatibility or it was just something to do with this plant,
this plant was almost sterile. Not quite, but almost. Right, and so in a bud, you might have
one seed rather than 30. And a lot of buds that had no seeds. So, from a seed making point of
view, it kind of sucked because you had this great plant that it wanted to make seeds from,
but for whatever reason genetically, it just didn't make seeds. So those things became really
rare on the market. And that was why the old-time moonshine kind of disappeared more quickly than any
of the other ones. They just didn't make enough seed. So I've got a bunch of those in the library.
I also took that plant and I reversed it and had it produce male pollen and it produced copious
quantities of pollen. And so that was one of the ones that I used when I did my work with DJ. We
used the same males that he was using and I took a few of my favorite of his female plants and I
reversed those as well and threw them in the pollen mix probably, I don't know, I want to say up to
30%, but that's probably being generous. It was probably closer to like 10 to 15% of the plants
came from the female pollen and the rest of it came from the males. And that's borne out if you
look at the sex ratios in the offspring that they are pretty close to regular seeds. You grow 100,
you're going to have only slightly more females than males. So I really like that one. I like
the F13 for the nose. She's a bit of a quirky grower. Again, she's got that curl. The grape
crush was really interesting plant. It had this kind of neat trait where it had kind of a rounded
top cola and all the leaf, the subtending leaflets, the little leaves that stick out of the
bud, rather than being triangles, they were rounded at the tips and they had a nice little purple
stripe that kind of ripped, that kind of went around the edge of that subtending leaflet as well.
So, you know, they were pretty plants, like they were pretty, they were pretty nice looking plants.
Some of my favorites were the cross, the mental floss cross with that B133 plant. They just,
they really came out quite well. And that's, yeah, those are my favorites. I didn't love the B,
the true blueberry. I mean, it was neat and for the most part, it was a little bit too leaning
towards the chocolatey side for me, not the blueberry, you know. And having said that, I've
met a grower in the last year and a half here in Canada and he bought those seeds from, you know,
the group that made them back in 2005, I guess it was. And I met him a year and a half ago,
maybe two years ago, and he showed me his blueberry. And it's everything that you'd want
in a blueberry plant. I mean, it's completely blueberry muffin smelling. It grows really well.
It came from that kind of inbred mom. So, you know, it might just be that those blueberry muffin
phenotypes that you're talking about are still in the line. It's just, they're a little more
rare, right? You'll have to grow a bunch of them to make a bunch of them to find it. This guy
actually only grew a 10 pack and he found this really nice plant. So, you know, you can hit it.
It's just, but again, like with any plant breeding thing, it's numbers. So if you're growing three
seeds, you're going to have a hard time finding it. If you're growing 10, 20, you'll probably have
a better shot. Yeah, sure. So, you got that one in a million. That's awesome to hear. I wanted to
ask you about how you had done a grapefruit cross to blueberry. And this is a cross which has been
done in many forms. It's almost a bit of a redox of sweet tooth, but also, you know, BCGA did their
own version of it. I guess my question is, do you feel like there were components of maybe sweet
tooth or the BCGA cross that you thought could be improved? And the reason why I ask is because
in a lot of your work, there's like progeny of sweet tooth being like sweet skunk and other
things. So obviously you like the line, I guess, but did you feel like there were parts of it that
could be improved or did you do that cross for other reasons? No, I did the cross for other
reasons. And to be perfectly frank, those were done really out of a goodwill gesture to Steve
and Spice Life when he left Switzerland. He was in a pretty rough shape. He had been busted by the
cops and things weren't really going his way. He had moved back to Canada and was trying to get
into the wine business. And we had contracted this room to be produced for those crosses. And I said,
you know what, they had made a very small batch of the sweet tooth 1.1, which is the same cross.
It's I label it grapefruit blueberry because I don't want the drama. But it's, you know,
they were produced for Steve, right? They were supposed to be sold on the Spice Life seed catalog.
And through life circumstances that they stopped being sold to Steve. He kind of just, I don't know,
whatever. He stopped selling seeds for a while. Let's just put it that way. And so I put them under
my catalog and just called them what they were. So that's the deal behind the grapefruit blueberry.
They were never intended for my catalog. Yeah. Okay. And did you ever get a chance to try the
BCGA version? And if so, did you have any thoughts on that one? Well, it's more or less the same,
right? I mean, the Vic High gave me the grapefruit clone, right? The guy from the BCGA,
you know, rest his soul, gave me the parent. He brought it to me one day. I met him in Montreal
for a meeting. He had gone down to meet his seed supplier down there. And I was not far down the
road, a couple of hour drive. So I wanted to go meet him because he was a pretty smart guy. And
you know, he was a, you know, he was cantankerous, like, like we all can be at times.
But yeah, when I showed up, he was like, I brought you a gift. And he tossed me a Tupperware
container. And it had that clone and it had the AE 77 California orange clone, which I don't know
if you know that one, but that was a big thing back on those old boards. Everybody wanted it.
The funny thing that nobody realized about it was when Vic gave it to me, he said, okay, here's,
here's the grapefruit, you know, cause you want that for flavor. And this is the California orange.
This plant is a five on 10 on every trait. Right. So it's like, it's a five on potency,
it's a five on flavor. It had a unique flavor, right? It had that orangey turpiness.
And that's where really a lot of the orange stuff came from. We're descendants from that one.
But you know, Subcool used it. I used it. A whole bunch of people used it
for different things. Vic used it for the orange crush.
But the real reason that he gave it to me, he said, this one's a five on 10 on everything.
And now we have a scale that we can use to compare things. We can compare notes from across
the country. Cause I was living on the East, the more Eastern end of Canada and he was on the West
coast. But it was his way of kind of calibrating the scale. Do you know what I mean? Like it was,
he was, he was saying this is a five on 10. So now you got something that's a five on 10
on everything. And so when we talk about stuff, you know, if this is a five, then you can now
assign whatever values to any other plant. Right. And that was kind of a nice thing to do because
it was, it was just a very genuine gift. You know, at that point in time, Steve was over in
Switzerland and when he came back, I returned the grapefruit to him, right. Along with the sweet
skunk as well. So. Yeah. Okay. So you know, I'm not sure if I'm going to be able to do that.
That's actually quite full circle there, isn't it? What goes around, comes around, right. It's
kind of one of those things with plants. And I think it's really poor form. If you find a plant
or select a plant or a plant comes to you and then you lose it, but you've given it to somebody else,
it's kind of lame if they won't give it back to you. In fact, it's completely lame. I mean,
but people do that kind of stuff with cannabis because they think that they have something
that's unique and it gives them a commercial advantage. But the truth is when it comes to
plants, especially in a prohibition market, the only way to keep it is to give it away.
Right. Because if you get a bad bug or, you know, a bad police visitor or someone,
you know, you can lose things. Right. And stuff happens. Plants just die in the grow room. Like
things go wrong. Right. The watering systems fail or your backup plant or plant gets like
pythium or something like stuff dies. Right. And really the only way for it to really survive is
if you pass it around. And if you pass it around and it survives in everybody's garden,
it's probably a good plant. Right. If you pass it around and nobody keeps it,
that's probably not a good plant. Yeah. Right. It's kind of a good way to get like external
validation on plants. Definitely. Definitely. And look, this is a perfect segue because I had
a question I wanted to ask and I was wondering how I was going to slot it in. But in relation
to you mentioned the Kali Orange, the AE77, that's an interesting one because I remember one time I
was at Bodhi's house and he was telling me, you know, it's such an old cut, it was dotted. And
it was the first time I heard that term dotted. And then more recently we've had the news come
out that like the virus responsible for that has been categorized as the Hoplite and Hemp Virus.
I'm sure you've probably heard about this. My question is, A, what are your thoughts on that
virus? And B, do you think we might ever see a virus emerge which actually has a beneficial effect
kind of in the way that Pinot Noir came out of Pinot Gris sort of thing? Or do you think that
that's too hard to predict? So, Pinot Gris and Blanc came from Pinot Noir. Pinot Noir was the
original archetype. Yeah. And the other ones were somatic mutations of those. I don't know that that
was a virus induced thing. You know, plants, when cells divide, you gotta remember it's like,
it's like your, the terrible analogy is like if you're photocopying DNA, right? So, the DNA copies
itself and it's got a whole set of genes that are simply required, that are simply, their whole
purpose is to make sure that when the DNA is copied, it's copied robustly and reliably and accurately.
But the truth is, is that like every set of biological machines, they make mistakes. And
mutations do happen over time. So, there's something called a sport. And a sport is a,
excuse me, it's a shoot on a plant, like a new branch that comes out, but it's different. Like,
you might have, we can use the Pinot Gris or Pinot Blanc analogy. The original grape was purple,
or Pinot Noir. It's a dark skinned grape. And the farther south you grow, it really produces a lot of
pigments, right? Especially like down in California, they call Pinot Noirs from down there,
they call them fruit bombs because they're so dark and intense. If you hold them up to the light,
you can barely see through the wine glass. Whereas if you take that same clone, Pinot Noir,
and you grow it, say in Canada or in France, which is at a higher latitude, that they're
what we call claret, or you can actually see through the, it's not as opaque, put it that way,
it's more translucent. And so, Pinot, when somebody noticed, hey, there's a branch on this
Pinot Noir plant, but the grapes are more gray colored. And someone else in another part of the
world found one that they were white colored. And what happened was the gene that was responsible
for the pigment color accumulated a mutation. And that mutation, so what they did is they cut off
the branch and they rooted it and they created it into a whole plant. And then they took a whole
bunch of cuttings as a mother plant and they started planting out sections of this new grape.
And you can actually get, so that branch would have been called, it was a sport. It was a sport
of the Pinot Noir plant. But you can take a cutting of a sport and if it's different phenotypically
from the plant that it came from, as you can tell in this case, we're talking about the skin pigment,
you can actually take that plant and go to the plant breeders rights people and say, hey,
I found a new variation of Pinot Noir and I want to get, you know, this arose under cultivation
in my vineyard. I want to claim intellectual property rights for this. And you can actually get
the commercial rights for a new variety by cloning a sport from an old plant.
Right, because it's changed. It's not the same plant anymore. Right, when we describe Pinot Noir,
part of the thing of having a cultivar or a variety registered is you have to do a full
description of the plant. And when you get protection on that plant, it means that you
get the protection on that whole set of characteristics taken together. Well,
one of the major characteristics, like the fruit color changes, it's a different plant.
So you can actually register it as a new plant. Right. And so Pinot Gris and Pinot Blanc are both
versions of, you know, they're mutant versions of the Pinot Noir grape variety.
Yeah. Do you have any thoughts on the Hoplite virus?
Yeah, it sucks. It's like the COVID of the plant world, right? It's decimating whole
greenhouse productions in California. It's getting passed around in cuttings.
You know, I know people down there that are good friends of mine that have totally changed their
production systems. People are getting way into tissue culture now again for growing that stuff.
Again, you got to remember, like, let's think of it again in terms of the wine grapes. I mean,
Pinot Gris is like, or Pinot Noir, I'm sorry, is hundreds of years old. That clone is hundreds of
years old. Right. Well, cannabis is an annual, right? It's supposed to grow. It grows and makes
seed every year. You can't leave it in the ground and it'll grow back in the spring. Like,
you got to get new plants and plug them into the ground. So the natural life cycle of that plant
is a year. Right. So when we start having plants that have been around for many, many, many more
years, the longer a plant is alive in a production system, the more likely it is to be,
to interact with other forms of biota. Like, you know, like for example,
aphids, for example, or thrips. Right. And a lot of these bugs, I don't know if you know about lime
disease, but lime disease essentially is a bacteria that's carried in the mouth of a tick.
And if you get bitten by the tick, the bacteria lives in the saliva of that plant. And so the
bacteria can actually infect you. And that's what causes the disease. Right. So the virus is much
like that with cannabis. It's, it might be, you know, transmitted in the mouths of thrips or
aphids that are biting the plant. And when they bite the plant, then that virus transfers over.
So, you know, these crops that are typically grown by clone, a lot of the times the propagation ends
up making it into tissue culture or propagation in vitro, where they grow little plants on petri
dishes rather than on mother plants. And there's challenges to that whole technique. That's a whole
show that we could do on its own. But, you know, maybe for the people that we're talking about,
maybe for the people that want to grow these plants from clone, that may become the standard
in production systems where, you know, you're not mothering plants, you're not taking cuttings from
other plants. Right. Because again, it's like when you cut a branch off a plant, you're wounding the
plant. Like that's a, it's an open spot where it can get infected by bacteria and viruses. Right.
And so when you're you're taking that and then you take that same razor blade and you run around
your entire greenhouse cutting shoot after shoot, after shoot, after shoot, you're spreading the
virus. Right. Everybody understands this in a COVID world. Right. Viruses spread. That's what
they do. They need to live in another organism to be able to to to replicate themselves. And that's
all that they want to do. Right. Is replicate themselves. And that's how they that's how they
they you know, that's how they they live. Right. And how they how the species lives.
So, yeah, like horticultural practices, man, are super important. Keeping bugs away. Super
important. You don't want to be having bugs. You get bugs and they're potentially bringing in
viruses on their, you know, in their saliva or on their feet or whatever, however they
they they transport it. So, yeah, hot virus, man, terrible stuff. They found some tissue culture
ways to to remove it through tissue culture processes like I think they're probably using
like a heat treatment and maristam culture. But that takes time and they charge you big bucks.
You know, they're asking like twenty to fifty thousand dollars a plant to if you want to give
them your own cutting, they'll clean it up for you and return it to you clean. But, you know,
then there's the possibility that they keep your cutting. So you might you know, you might not want
to be handing out your genetics to a competitor or an illegal market. It's and the long term
solution is plants that are bred to be stable seed lines so that you can grow. You know, when you when
we grow corn, we plant thousands of acres of corn and the plants all come up looking identical.
Why? Because they've been bred by plant breeders that know what they're doing.
Right. And cannabis, we're using again, using tools like genomics. Right. And that's why when
you plant corn, they all come up like clones. We can get there with cannabis, but it's going to
take a lot of breeding work done by people that really understand plant breeding. You don't just
cross your your OG to next year's cup winner. That's not going to get you to a stable seed line.
Yeah. So, I mean, brilliant segue into the next question I wanted to ask, which relates to how
you were mentioning that, you know, some cultivars have been around for, you know, 20 plus years. And
I guess the longer something's been around, the more chance there is for it to accumulate these,
you know, what I like to refer to as plant STDs. But the question I wanted to ask you was there's
a lot of discussion around, for example, the chem dog. It's very focal topic of our show.
And a lot of the people who are familiar with it comment that it has lost vigor compared to when
it was first around. And the debate exists around, is that a sort of genetic drift? Is that just a
molecular biology whereby there's some sort of vigor, but not necessarily a change in the genome?
What's your thoughts on these sort of more grandfathered plants, which are older,
are not as vigorous as they used to be? What do you suspect might be going on under the hood?
Well, it could be all of those things, except for genetic drift. That's not what genetic drift
means. Genetic drift means the change in the frequency of alleles in a population over
generations. So that's specifically the meaning of genetic drift. The cannabis community uses that
word totally wrong. Everybody kind of uses that word wrong. It's funny that people have learned
that that's what that word means. It's likely not genetic. Also, I've got some friends that have
quite serious tissue culture companies and PhDs in plant, whatever, I don't even know what it is,
like plant pathology, I guess. But they work, they do tissue culture and they have companies that
multiply large amounts of cannabis clones for propagation. It's becoming a more relied upon
part of the industry in the legal cannabis world in Canada. And it probably will be in the States
as well over time. It will be in any market over time, to be truthful about it. But one of the
things that they learned doing this tissue culture, and they were also trying to find a way to validate
the genetic identity of a given plant. So just like how you can identify a criminal by the DNA
that they've left at a crime scene, you can do the same thing for a plant or any person or any
organism. They all have unique genetic fingerprints. And so in the process of establishing
these genetic fingerprints, they noticed that some of the plants had different DNA markers.
They're not different, but additional ones. And we're able to tease it all apart and figure out
that what happened was there was bacteria that actually had colonized the plant on the inside,
and they were living in the cells and in between the cells of the plant.
And so, you know, I mean, think about how that could affect phenotype, right? You've got a whole
other organism that's living within your system. And again, the likelihood that, like you said,
these are grandfather plants that have been around for a long time. And the likelihood is that they've
been exposed to some kind of either bacteria or viral vector that is compromising either their
growth phenotype. And I think that that is more likely than saying that a mutation happened.
That said, mutations like we were talking about the sports, you know, just a minute ago,
mutations do happen, right? In plants. It's really low probability that they'll happen
twice at the same part of the chromosome, but it can happen. Right? And so, yeah, it's also
possible that there was a genetic change in a gene that led to some kind of genetic weakness
or inability to plant to grow as fast as it was, you know, just one of these general housekeeping
genes that kind of keep the plant healthy. Maybe it got mutated in a way that it's not
quite as functional. So, yeah, all of those things are possible. Are they inevitable? Are they
inevitable that they're going to happen to any given plant? Like not, probably not, you know,
and you can do things, like I said, good cultural practices to minimize the chance of it happening.
If you're really serious about it, then you've got a nursery where it's a one way thing, you know,
things only come out of the nursery, nothing goes back in. That way you're not adding bugs or any
kind of disease vectors, right? You clean your hands, you sterilize your gloves, you use new
tools every time you cut the plant, or you get serious and you start propagating them in tissue
culture, right? And maybe that is the way, but I think honestly that the way of the future is that
the tissue culture will have its heyday and then finally when the plant, real plant breeders get a
chance to run free in these big fields with large breeding opportunities and we're using genomic
techniques that we're going to be able to make these plants quite uniform and quite chemically
uniform and then you'll be able to grow them from seed as if they were clones, right? And they're
not going to be clones, but every plant will look more or less the same to the point where you can
either use it all for a true to type extract or, you know, eventually we'll have the flower
morphology nailed as well and you'll be able to grow them from seed and they'll look like clones
and then you won't have to deal with any of the problems of keeping mothers, right? You'll just
buy your seed and plant it and harvest and the next year you'll buy more seed like they do with corn.
And there we have it guys, part two of three done. Two-thirds of the way there, one-third left.
Make sure you get back in to join us for that last part, that informational hitter with Chimera.
Big shout out as always to CTN, our number one seed bank in the game.
They got all the best beans. Go hit them up, buy some lucky dog seeds. That's my pick.
Likewise, go hit up Coppert Biological Systems.
Your number one stop for beneficial predatory mites, bugs, microbial solutions.
Or kick the bad guys away, get the good guys in.
All the best beneficial bugs, beneficial mites, beneficial predators, all the best microbial
solutions and feeds to keep that positive army in surplus. Get on top of your problem before it
becomes an issue. Coppert Biological Systems, go check them out guys. They'll help you
have the best harvest you've had to date.
As always, huge shout out to the Patreon gang. We appreciate you guys so very, very much. Thank
you for all your support. You guys are truly the lifeblood of the show. If you're interested
in supporting the show, please check out www.patreon.com forward slash the podcast.
Exclusive episodes, early access and priority on asking questions. It's all there and more.
I'll see you for the next one, friends.
We'll see you.
Transcribed by https://otter.ai
