Hey there gang, this is your boy Heavy Daze, giving you a big thank you for coming and
checking out this episode.
I just wanted to let you all know that we have a Patreon over at www.patreon.com forward
slash the podcast.
If you enjoy the show and would like to continue to help make it happen, head on over and get
access to a whole range of goodies including early access to episodes, bonus Patreon exclusive
episodes and extra goodies like shirts, stickers, giveaways and a whole lot more.
Thank you so much to everyone who helps support the show.
You are truly the lifeblood of it and you help us to keep the wheels turning so that
we can continue to bring you the content you enjoy.
Now let's get into the episode.
Hello and welcome to the next episode of the podcast, a cannabis podcast for biting enthusiasts.
This episode as always was brought to you by 420 Australia, your premier store for lifestyle
and apparel as well as organic gardening solutions, your one-stop shop for organic gardening needs.
This episode, we're joined by none other than Duke Diamond VA to chat all things breeding
and what we can expect from him in the future.
So, let's get into it.
All righty, so a big thank you and welcome to our second part to a Duke Diamond VA.
Thanks for coming back.
Thanks for having me, buddy.
So first question this time, what are you currently smoking on at the moment?
It was a genius skunk, you know, and then popped out and it was like Captain Crunch,
Crunch Berries and it's real good.
Kind of surprised me.
Is this a cross we can maybe expect in the future?
I don't know.
I'll have to show it to Mr. Soul there, see if he likes it.
I think he would.
Like I kind of discounted it because like I kind of made it already knowing like, well,
it's going to just turn out like genius because like everything kind of, you know, leans that
way.
So, I was like, you know, see what happens and the whole time it was growing.
I was like, yeah, it looks like genius and kind of smells like it and same pretty much
everything.
I had a little more resin, a little more structure.
So I kind of discounted it until I was like popping the jars and Crunch Berry smell came
out and I was like, whoa.
So I tried some and then kind of hooked on it.
So it might be something I have to make.
Yeah, that's interesting because I remember I think I mentioned before that I had found
a really genius, dominant genius haze which is perfect because that was exactly what I
was looking for.
I love genius.
It brings to mind the question for me, what's the ideal partner for genius?
If she is so dominant, would you need to match that with something equally dominant or no?
Is the ideal partner like something kind of more quote submissive and just kind of allowing
her to shine?
What's your theories on that?
No, I guess it'd be like whatever your end goal would be.
If you're trying to make like, you know, more like a replica of the mom or if you're trying
to make something, you know, totally different, maybe like weaving certain attributes and
changing others, you know.
So yeah, it kind of depends what you would, your end goal would be.
If I was going to like back cross it and try to get that phenotype kind of isolated, I'd
probably like when we did the green Avenger, I would probably like use like a male from
that or something and back cross it at least probably two, maybe three times till I felt
like it was pretty good.
Then I would like probably fill the old breed at F3, F4, something like that.
And I feel like you would get a pretty good representation of that, you know, that one
pheno and try to improve it along the way as well.
Because like any time I've ever tried to like really inbreed something, I was trying to,
you know, fix certain things, you know, while maintaining the good attributes.
It's kind of tricky sometimes.
Yeah, OK. And I mean, that kind of makes sense to me in a way, because the green Avenger,
I think you even mentioned this, it's probably the most replica of Genius in seed form of
all the Brothers Grimm offerings.
But at the same time, at least from what I could see, seems to have that really, I'm not
going to say a lot more, but a little bit more aesthetic bud look that kind of the Space
Queen and the, you know, the derivatives of that had.
Would you try to retain that per se?
Or do you think that the Genius has good aesthetics as it is?
I mean, it looks good as is, but, you know, it's kind of a weird, weird plant, too,
because it does like the biomass thing.
So like later, you know, like mid 40s and then it starts getting interested in like
resin production and like on a good run with it.
I mean, it looks pretty, pretty darn good, but the branches on it are kind of floppy.
You know, it's not like the most, you know, structurally strong plant, especially for
something that grows such big bugs on it.
You know, the yield on it's like really nice, but you got to keep up with all the
branches. So green Avenger really strengthened everything up and it also reinforced a lot
of the desirable traits that like ran through the Apollo lines.
Also, like, you know, going back with it, it's not like like a back cross per se, but
like a generational back cross to taking those desirable Apollo genes and then going
back, you know, to the, you know, to the grandma.
So it seemed like, you know, it fixed all the weak branching and giving it that extra
layer of resin was really nice.
And the only thing that I would say like that I would like to see like stronger in it or
not really stronger, but I guess more consistent in the progeny would be the the
the effect because Genius has a really, really, really nice speedy effect to it.
And like some of those green Avengers would just put you, put you like ridiculously
stoned, you know.
My favorite one was like real speedy for about like 40 minutes and then you would just
crash. Like I mean, crash hard, which, you know, like the Genius wouldn't do.
So like I think like you can get a certain way and then like if you wanted to like
replicate that chemotype, you'd really have to hunker down on that, you know, to get it
just so. But I think like a couple of back crosses from, say, like a green Avenger back
to that would would, you know, isolate that a little bit better.
But it's just, you know, each step you'd have to make sure to not not let any of the
weak branching back into it, you know.
Would you consider in with all that being said, would you consider just say doing S1s
of it to be a bit of a waste of time in regards to trying to put it in seed form?
Because like maybe you could put it in seed form in the most basic of senses, but you
would still have all the issues which you just, you know, listed you would try to improve
on. Or would you still consider doing just a straight S1?
Well, like if you did like an S1 and then, you know, found that particular female that
matched up to it very well.
And if it could also go through like stress testing and everything and not like freak
out, maybe reversing that one back to the mom.
You know, you might be able to find something in the progeny that would have like a
stronger structure. And if it's on that X chromosome going back like that should, you
know, should improve it.
But you never really know till you do it.
So you might actually, you might be working on doing that here in the future.
But and then like the other, I guess like the opposite way of thinking about another
way of thinking of it is like you might have a certain female that you can get just
about everything out of it.
Look, smell, taste, structure, flowering time, calyx ratio, colors, etc.
But like it never has that good potency that the original mom had.
And I've noticed that like certain ones, like you can only get it to pass, like I
think by reversing it out to something else and then, you know, trying to recover it,
recover it from there.
It just seems like certain things that won't breed out, you know.
So you might actually have to like do the back crossing the filial route on one end
and then also like self it or not self it, but reverse it and out cross it to maybe
something else closely related in the line to like go back to it, you know, to really,
you know, get every single point made, you know, from your structure, vigors and
rezone stuff and resistances and yada, yada, yada, you know.
So it might take like using kind of like three different tools to get to your end
goal. Definitely some meaningful breeding in those ideas.
So I guess if we're going to drag things back to one of the main projects everyone's
interested from you, the skunk project, how's it all going?
You know, like you want to give us a bit of an update on it all?
Oh yeah. Yeah, it's going real good.
It's like at this point, like we can hit a lot of those phenos, but it's not like every
single one. And like some of them tend to be a little more fuely and you get the burnt
rubber smell. And then like, you know, you can lean to a more just kind of a burnt
rubber, rotten meat.
And then sometimes you get, you know, like a good blend of everything where it's coming
out pretty, pretty damn skunky.
So it's more or less like getting it to the point to where, you know, I could say,
all right, guys, here's a bunch of seeds.
And when you pop them all, it's all skunk.
You know, it's just you got to pick which one you like the best, I guess, you know, for
like maybe flower time or, you know, normal, normal pheno hunt.
So, yeah.
Sounds almost similar to like just a Cindy 99 pheno hunt, you know, like all the same, you
just pick the one you like.
Yeah, pretty much.
Pretty much. But I want to refine that like a little bit, a little bit further than that.
You know, I just I don't know.
I just can't. I couldn't have it out there.
If like everything isn't, you know, firing on all cylinders and, you know, real good.
So I figure anything takes that much time, you know, might as well make it super, super
rad and put the extra time into it and, you know, make sure that everybody be happy with
it. Because if I got to put my name on it, I don't want any bunk, you know, going out
there. So, I mean, I guess just to clarify for the Die Hard fans, are we talking about a
skunk project here or a roadkill skunk project?
Yeah, yeah.
We're like, because if you know, to me personally, like I feel like that's the same
thing, you know, like there really shouldn't be any different ration, you know, like if
you got a skunk, it should smell like a skunk, you know, like as simple as that, because,
you know, the things that are dead on the road that got ran over, I mean, you're
smelling their their gland, you know, that that gland burst and that skunk sprays out
there. So, yeah.
So like I always kind of felt, you know, that that, you know, it was kind of messed up.
Somebody had the real sweet skunk, you know, and started calling it that.
So, yeah.
So like, yeah, what I'm working on, like if you if you did have a differentiation of the two, I
guess, roadkill skunk, whatever the one people would consider stinkier, I guess.
I think that's what the people are after.
Yeah. And so kind of with that being said, I have seen a few photos going around of a few of
our friends with a plant called roadkill skunk number four.
What's this? Is this just maybe a particular pheno that's, you know, hitting all the right
spots for you?
No, no, it's so when I when I really got to cranking down on everything like, you know, I
had like a bunch of older stock that I had to get pollinated and pollinated, germinated.
And there were a few things that, you know, used to give us that funk back in the day, you
know, growing outdoors.
But, you know, I figured like I'd pop them and check them out.
And I kind of just, you know, was doing a pollination, had a client and one of them in
there. And it was like more of the sativa route.
And it's also is in there, get them made, grow them out.
And like, you know, you got you got some some little skunky notes to it, you know, like it's
pretty good. You get like the cheesy, cheesy, skunky, citrusy diesel a little bit with it.
And some of them would be more like I don't know how to explain it other than a sour apple
green tea or something, you know.
But nonetheless, like, you know, it was kind of just like for shits and grins.
So what I did, there were like 12 things that got hit early on to kind of get the project
rolling. And that was one of them.
It was like wasn't going to go that route, but just kind of did it just because, you know,
and hooked up a few friends with it and they grew them out.
And, you know, everybody liked it a lot.
They were like, yeah, it's skunky as hell.
But I was like, I know that like, I mean, yeah, it's skunky, but like it gets a lot better
than that, you know, it was just kind of like some shits and giggles stuff.
OK, so if we just quickly jump back to what you mentioned earlier, as well as I've seen
photos of this one as well, the Skelly cross to the skunk.
And I think you also said there's the chem dog in there as well.
And what's what can we expect from that?
Would that be like an individual release, the chemsis skunk Skelly or just more of an
R&D thing?
Well, that's kind of kind of more of an R&D thing.
You know, you know, I always hook up, hook up friends and, you know, cool people just
to just to be cool like that.
But like what's more to be seen out of that is more like an isolation of the of the mom.
Not much is really going to change off of that.
And put it.
You kind of you kind of bring in a lot of family genes together, if you will, and I
think the recombination that stuff, it worked out really well.
It was like, you know, it was like spitting out replicas of the mother plants.
You know, they were like a little bit of.
A little bit of variance, you know, which, you know, I expect, you know, to see like,
you know, what what what are the weirdos going to come out like and like one of the
ones with the sister, it smells like like yellow starburst candy.
Like if you could have that smell with like a patchouli type incense, you know, so like
I was like real off the wall, but like all the rest of them, you know, kind of
garlicky and skunky and funky like that sister was.
The one thing I noticed, like when doing the light leak stress testing, they resisted
all that, you know, very well.
There was one that kind of tapped out a little bit toward the end, but it wasn't the
last, you know, that last week.
And like, I mean, it's pretty, pretty decent lately.
I was giving them to so they do a lot better than what I'd even thought they would do.
But I did notice like just like the mom when they were at that that that prime time
harvest window that they were going to try to poke at least one or two nanners out, you
know, somewhere in the top of the canopy.
And they resisted the light leak.
And you might could say that maybe that was like their point of tapping out.
But the mom kind of does that, too.
You know, it wants to push that little one out like at that peak peak harvest time, it
seems. So I kind of didn't pay that as much mind.
You know, I was kind of looking at more of what was what was retained.
And it was nice to see that, you know, they didn't they didn't really, you know, freak
out. But out of the test group, there were a few of them that didn't even have the
late nanner. You know, there was 100 percent hermaphrodite free, which, you know,
really surprised me.
And then out of those, one of them actually also happened to be the best one, you
know. So that told me, hey, you know, you're on the right track.
You don't have to sacrifice in any of the other stuff, you know, like like that late
nanner trait, you know, that's wanting to push out there in the peak time.
OK, the best thing I didn't do that.
It also resisted, you know, a lot of the stress, too, and turned out to be the most
potent and the most representative of the mom as well.
So I was like, huh, cool.
So maybe, you know, in a couple of generations, we can fix that and kind of have more
like a pure, pure chem seed.
That's the goal, at least.
And how many generations do you think it would take to get such a thing?
Only one way to find out, buddy.
But I mean, just just based off of what I saw in the F1, I mean.
You know, if I want to be like a real shortcut asshole, I'd just be X at one time and I
bet you I'd be there.
But I don't know, I think if if we're going to have it more like a seed form of the
of the mother, I think at least, you know, three or four back crosses and maybe a
filial breeding after that, maybe.
Or I don't know.
It's it's really hard to tell until you really get into it and start working on me
and growing them. And then you kind of kind of see what direction you're going to have
to go. But shit, there's an F1.
I was I was real happy with it, though.
So, I mean, to draw you back to a point you made before, you said, you know, it's all
kind of drawing on a lot of similar genetics in this cross.
Just to remind everyone, we're talking about Skelly, Original Skunk as well as the
ChemSys.
Something I notice is people frequently reference Skelly as like a skunky strain.
And I always inquire about that.
And there's almost like this pause for a moment.
And they're like, oh, no, I just meant it tasted skunky.
And it's almost like, I don't know, you know, not to sound weird.
It sounds like, you know, like some people out there maybe think there's skunk in it, I
guess. Well, that's like kind of the impression I get.
Do you think anything about that?
Well, it's really stinky.
I wouldn't call it skunky, but it's nasty, you know.
And the main components of it being as what it is, it's like a old seed bank hash
plant, you know, like a novel made hash plant.
And I want to say it was like NL1 crossed to like a male of NL5 and NL2 or something
like that. So like I know that it's like it's primarily it's like a Northern Lights
combination focusing more on the shorter phenos, the more endocannabinoid phenos.
So, you know, it definitely is stinky as a motherfucker.
But it's like to me, it was like more more fuely, spicy, ashy, you know.
But like, I mean, if you had like a bud in your pocket and that here's the other thing
too, is like to me, a lot of weed can smell skunky.
But like something I've noticed is like a weed in a jar as you're smelling it, like
all concentrated like that.
When you when you take like a bud out and you let it breathe, you know, and it's able
to permeate and especially if it gets hot, you know, if you're just walking around with
a bud in your pocket, like in a bag, you know, a lot of weed can smell really skunky,
you know. But I forgot where I was going with that, man.
Well, I mean, ultimately, right.
I think maybe one of the other implications we get is something a lot of guests have
referenced in that the roadkill skunk itself or even more so just those extremely
acrid skunky smells may actually be something which is more of like an Afghani
artifact as opposed to like a Sam the skunk man type thing.
Oh, yeah, absolutely.
Yeah, I'm always on that same line of thought.
That a lot of the skunkier stuff from back in the day were like Afghani hybrids and
like skunk Afghan hybrids as well as like northern light skunk hybrids.
And those tended to be, you know, everything that range like from garlic to fecal, you
know, and everything in between coffee beans, skunk, burnt rubber, that whole
side of the spectrum, you know.
Interesting. So another post I've seen, which I think might be in relation to all
of this is you've referenced in a few posts something about the masterpiece.
You know, what is the masterpiece?
Oh, it's like all my little all my little projects I've been working on for so long
where I finally have them all done, all completed and just be done like
and then I feel good about it, you know.
So because like a lot of projects, you know, there's a lot of years on some stuff, too,
and some stuff I don't really get to talk about because, you know, I just kind of want
to keep it DL.
But it is be real nice to have it all done.
You know, people can enjoy it.
And like the thing is, like I made everything kind of for me.
So my snobby weed standard.
So I kind of figure if I really like it, you know, the people would probably like it,
too. So, yeah, it was kind of me then to the road.
I'm making a few things that I was pretty proud of.
It'll be all all finito.
And so can people expect to be able to maybe grab a few of these finito
projects at the Emerald Cup?
Well, some of them like it's it's just some stuff that's
been like steps into making making those things.
But yeah, like I always have some some neat, you know, neat things with me.
And there were things that I made like intermediary steps or things
that I made just to like kind of study, like what a male's doing across a broad
spectrum and after running on and grow on them and test them, smoking them, stressing
them and everything like they were really super awesome, you know.
But it's like it was never intended to be the project.
It was just more of a study of like how the males, you know, kind of going along with
another female and, you know, stuff was really awesome.
So like I'll have some of those things and like I'll hold on to them like a
little while because, you know, I'm still, you know, researching them and looking at
them and, you know, making sure that, you know, I know what I need to know.
And I don't particularly want to just say, oh, OK, here you go, everybody.
You know, when it's like part of a program that I'm working as well.
So a lot of it's stuff like that, like so many steps have been made.
You know, I consider them what's left of the what I made to do all the testing with.
You know, I can let some of those out, but they're real limited, limited quantities.
So, yeah, I mean, it's interesting that you're going to do it that way because I
think it's almost one of the best ways because something I noticed was a while
ago, someone posted a photo of growing out Cindy 88 and it was like everyone in the
comments was like, wow, you got to go out like one of the steps in like, you know,
the overall process.
And like, obviously, you know, there's a lot of kind of excitement as to, you know,
there'd be more variation.
That'd be cool to see, you know, all that type of stuff.
So I think in a way it's almost like the most rarest of the limited edition.
Yeah, absolutely.
Like that headband with the Super City, the City Club Skunk One on it.
I mean, it's really phenomenal, you know, it's really, really awesome.
But like I said, with that one, I was more or less like looking at what the male does
in a related cross, you know, like being able to see like Kim 91 with the same male
sister D with the same male and things that were outside of that family to, you
know, like all types of things across the board and really figure out, you know,
what else is happening.
But like what that one with headband, I mean, it throws like huge, big old fat
colors and real stinky lime candy, kush, like a little skunkiness to it as well,
you know, but real killer.
But, you know, like I got a handful of those and a bunch of little jewels.
So I have them with me at Emerald and like when they're gone, they're gone.
Like I'm not, you know, going to be making more of them or anything.
So that's interesting you mentioned that as well, because I was going to ask a
question about the dead bands.
Mostly I was going to say, do you see it as a potential source for, you know, like
future work, maybe like a new male?
But I actually realized a better question is, have you ever been doing a similar
thing, you know, where you're testing out the male and then you do maybe not
necessarily a dead band, but you trial out one of the crosses and it just catches you
off guard and you're like, shit, I've got to work this out.
Yeah.
Oh yeah.
That happens quite frequently because like in certain cases you'll do something
and be like, wow, that didn't work out at all.
It's complete shit.
There's the opposite end of that spectrum of like, holy mother.
Like that is like far, far exceeded what I'd expected.
And then you realize like, well, Hey, you know, if I could work that a little
bit better, that could actually like change the whole, the whole duration of
the process up and you might, yeah, you might end up wanting to work one line a
little bit longer and more, you know, to go back out to, to something else and it
improve it, make it that much better.
So you will, you will run into that, you know, like both of them, you know,
stuff where you're like, ah, it sucked.
And then stuff that's like, wow, that, that could actually work
in improving something else.
Cause like if you're, you know, really studying those males and how the gene
pairs are like transferring with each other, um, you know, you can, you can
see like a method to the madness and that's typically how like the improvements
go, you know?
So, yeah, yep.
You would definitely, definitely want to do that.
Okay.
So, I mean, if you were going to do a cubing project, for example, would you
want to use a male that was very similar to the female in question or something
radically different in order to have easier differentiation, I guess?
Yes.
Like, cause after it's all said and done, you're going to have 6% of some
genes after, after four back crosses.
Right.
So I guess it's whatever the, the, the 6% that you would want left over as well
as like how something that was opposite, how it bred into that first F1 generation.
And, and, you know, I've, and, you know, there's two lines of thought with it,
but I, you know, I can say like, if you do go the opposite way, so it's easier
to tell out traits in the males, you know, for further back crossing, um,
using something opposite, you know, can make that easier, but as the process
continues, you know, you're, you're up in the frequency of those genes from
the mother that you're back crossing to, or the dad that you're using in a back
crossing, so, um, you, you know, it really comes down to like growing out that,
that F1 generation very, very, very thoroughly, and it can make it tricky.
If you're using something that's, you know, maybe looks the same,
but acts completely different.
But if I was going to go like the similarity route, me personally, I've
always been a fan of like jumping back into the same gene pool, maybe not the
exact same clones and the exact same thing, but, but it is the same gene pool.
You know, it might not be that clone and that exact male or what have you, but if
you're already like jumping back into that gene pool during your, you know,
your, your first grow out of this F1 that you're going to try to select the male
from, after you've looked at enough of those females, you can see how everything's
kind of put together.
And then that'll, you know, can lead you on your, on your journey to find in your
male that you're going to back cross.
Um, and then that's where the improvements can come in as well.
You know?
So say like a green Avenger, if that was our, you know, if we were going to do that
genius project, right.
You know, we'd want to go with that green Avenger and like, you know, we're already
kind of there because when we grew out the F1, you know, version of that, of
course, it's like very, very similar.
Um, the backside of it is like, you have so many of those genes that are already
back into that pool that, you know, you, you might really water it down.
Like sometimes, you know, not everything responds the same.
So like you can inbreed something weak, you know what I mean?
Um, there's a lot to be said for, for hybrid vigor too.
So, I mean, there's, there's a lot of different, different routes
you could go with that, man.
Um, there's also the line of thought of, um, using two different males to do
the first F1 that aren't related.
Um, if you can have them both in that same gene pool and back cross two separate
lines, um, and at the end of their cubing, combine them, um, that, that, uh, like
that little 6% difference on, on both sides, you know, um, can reintroduce
like a bit of the hybrid vigor, you know?
So, uh, that's interesting.
I got so many questions.
Um, first one, do you think that doing a few back crosses, let's say, you know,
more extreme example would be Cindy where, you know, we've got four.
Do you think that you've really lost hybrid vigor at that point?
Or do you think it takes a lot longer than that to lose it?
Um, it depends, but if you think about it like this, like say, like, you know,
you're talking about the princess clone.
If you knew it came out of some, some Jack hair, right?
So you got that far.
Um, if you figure that NL5 and skunk are part of that Jack hair, you use NL5 skunk
to start your cubing process.
Um, so you take NL5 skunk and pollinate princess with it.
You know, that you're kind of, you're back into the gene pool.
Um, but yet you're, you're still quite different because it's not Jack
that you're starting with, right?
You know, you're using like a two thirds of the combination.
Plus you got an unknown male on there too, perhaps, or you can just say
an unknown pollen donor in there.
And, um, you, um, doing it like that.
I don't think like you'll run it down as hard.
Um, but say like if the, say like, uh, the bud that the seed came out of that
you had that clone and some other type of pollen donor, um, if you started
cubing from there, you might actually kind of be more, more pure before.
Like you would hit say like that point of like where you're, you're
starting to water down again.
Um, so, and, and different things act differently too.
Like we have a skunk at F10, you know, it doesn't lose vigor, but I've had things
you know, if you brought them from F3 to F4, it hit like a big, a big drop off,
you know, so different things are going to kind of respond differently too.
And so if we just jump back to a point you made earlier in regards to say, you
know, you do your cubing project with two lines and combine them at the end.
Do you think a lot of the characteristics that people would consider unique to a
cubing process, like, I guess most notably, um, people will say that the more
inbred a line is, the more dominant it will be when you cross it to things, you
know?
So if you cross like, you know, a BX4 to just like an F1, you generally get, you
know, more dominance from the BX4.
And so with that in mind, when you said, you know, you combine those two lines
together, technically it'd be an F1, right?
Cause they've got slightly different genetics, even though they're very similar.
Um, would you consider it to still be like, have all the properties of like a
cube at that point or more have like more F1 than the average cube, so to speak, or
like, you know what I mean?
Well, what you would have, you would have an extremely consistent F1, you know, like
when you did hit that F1 generation, you, you would have a lot of, a lot of good
attributes, you know, it wouldn't be like a polyhybrid F1, you know?
Um, it would already kind of be kind of be locked up, but still, you know,
technically, uh, it's still F1 hybrid just because, you know, from both sides, you
had 6% and 6% that weren't, you know, um, that weren't that clone.
So you, you still have that difference.
And then when you combine, you make the F1, um, you know, you're, you, you, you've
gotten it, you've gotten it all back, back together.
And, um, I think from there, like if you, you know, if that's where you were looking
to, to breed from, from there, like, you know, by F3, like that should be
consistent as hell, you know, like you should really be throwing like the very
consistently the same phenotype by F3.
If you, you know, if you cube two separate line, you know, to the same, to the same
mother, then combine, make the F1 and continue to F3.
By that point, you should be really, really, really tight, very tight tolerances at
that point.
Yeah.
Wow.
I guess that's what we could only hope all F1s will become in the future, right?
Yeah.
That wouldn't hold your breath, buddy.
So I've seen recently, not only the use of S1s, but even S2s as breeding mothers for
a few different breeders out there.
How do you feel about this?
And is it something you would ever consider to do yourself?
It might be, might be what you have to do, you know, man, it's like, you know,
reversing and filial breeding and back crossing.
I mean, all that, you know, they're just like different tools to get to the goal
that you're looking to get to and whatever, whatever tool you need to use, you
know, by all means, go for it.
So like in the case of the, the client that can only, you know, really breed out
that, that real stellar potency through, you know, a reversal, you know, that might
be what you have to do, you know, and then, you know, you might have to go the
other route, you know, with males and back crossing and out crossing and taking the
F3 to breed the rest of it, you know, very consistent.
And you might have to take that F3 that you've bred and go to the one that you
reversed to say like S2, you know, to make sure that you're hitting that if, if you
can get it to breed that way, that is to, to get that potency as well.
Okay.
Well, the devil's in the details with this one.
So I'll give you a real example.
Maybe not an S1 or an S2, but would you, no, not would you, but let's just say you
have to, you have to breed with a feminized plank.
It's probably going to be like a pretty well known one.
Which one would you pick out of all the Femmes, good clones that have come from a
Femme seed that you're aware of?
Which one would you pick, so to speak?
Uh, what?
Uh, no, no, I just didn't.
Um, so you just asking me like if I could pick like a, like a reversed, uh, plant,
like which one would it be?
Like, yeah.
Yeah.
Or like there's a bunch, there's a bunch of clones that have come from like Femme
seeds, right?
And like Femme dogs or something, right?
Um, yeah.
Or like any of, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Power diesel or something, right?
Yeah.
Um, so yeah.
What do you reckon?
Which one would you pick?
Um, I don't know.
For, and you said for stability.
Yeah.
Well, I mean, I guess maybe I figured what you pick would have be based on like
something like stability, but I mean, you could pick it for whatever reason you
want.
Uh, man.
Um, hmm.
You know, like, uh, like from like some of the little side projects and work and
like headbands pretty damn gnarly, like doesn't really have any, like what I would
call like bad tendencies to it.
It's well behaved, yields good.
It's very potent, you know?
So headbands always a good one.
Jumping onto the next one, I guess after you finished the kind of skunk project, is
there anything on the horizon that you're kind of eyeing off already as maybe next
project?
Um, no, not really.
Cause like by the time it's all said and done, like, you know, I'm all like I work
on multiple things at the same time.
Um, so like when that's coming to fruition, you know, there's a bunch of other stuff
coming to fruition to, um, that one eight seven with the screaming Eagle.
That was, you know, um, that was one of them.
Um, so essentially trying to make my own little, uh, G 13 hash plan of sorts, you
know, so I had to make all the, all the steps to get to there.
So that was a little bit of a, a little bit of an endeavor.
Is that the, uh, 88 BX or something different?
No, that's, um, so I took a Kandahar Afghani and I pollinated the 88, grew out a
bunch, select a male, um, real, real nice, you know, uh, very 88 dominant.
And then I hit the airborne G 13 with it.
Um, so that made the streaming Eagle, um, like the, the phenotypes of it.
Um, you know, fairly consistent.
Um, here and there you'd see that Afghani pop up, like it made like a thicker bud,
but the smell flavor potency was like pretty true across the board, which I
but there was this one in particular that, and I didn't keep a client of it.
And like, I told myself like, no keeping clients of this run because
it's going to make you complacent.
And then you're not going to grow anymore because like, you're
just going to have this client.
So anyways, man, I don't take the client and like, I'm kicking myself in the ass
for it, but anyways, it had a lot more, um, of the 88 dominance.
Cause like that airborne G 13, like it's a strong breeder, you know?
And like, it really shines through later in the, uh, in the off spring.
So, um, that one in particular had that little bit more 88 influence and, um,
God, man, it was great.
It was like, uh, like taste the rainbow style, you know, like, uh, like every
type of fruit candy, like smell all wrapped in the, like one, it was
really, really exceptional in it.
Uh, the, the flavor of it too, man, it really coated your mouth, you know,
stayed lingering for a long, long time.
And I was like, man, this is really nice and, uh, really nice, relaxing,
chill effect to it as well.
You know, very potent.
So, um, anyways, you know, I was, I was pretty happy with that.
So I had to continue to keep growing and keep growing them until, you know,
find like the girl that I'm really, truly happy with and, you know, get that part
done at the same time.
Um, I wanted to add a little more 88 influence into it.
So knowing that the Cinderella 99 male that I had picked out, um, it didn't
really take too much away from the moms.
And if anything, it donated a little few good things to it.
Um, made it a little faster flowering, um, made the, the bud size pretty,
you know, a lot bigger than what it was.
Um, but it retained the purple color that purpley grapey smell, um, water, a
lot of really good things.
So, um, very potent as well.
So I wanted to take the, uh, I was calling it one eight seven because of the 88 C 99.
You get it.
So I want it, uh, male and hitting the best screaming eagle female.
And that should, that should combine everything just right for me.
It should be real good.
And then I had stuff going on with the orange project, um, with that orange,
uh, it was like Calio Eric 77s, Calio clone to the TUC club skunk one.
And then, um, doing a few projects with that, you know, to have the orange thing.
And then, um, had some other stuff going on with, um, Oh, the, um,
smuckers, so I'm making some, uh, strawberry stuff as well.
It's a lot of, a lot of little odds and ends plus the skunks plus the chems and
Kimmy skunks and this and that, you know, and everything.
Yeah.
And I mean, I just kind of figured just hold back and get it all, you know,
it worked just right and perfect.
And when I'm real happy with it, then it'll be done.
Um, then there was some other things that I had thrown into the mix that, uh, I
had reversed the Kim dog onto a bunch of stuff too, and been hunting through that
here lately.
So that's, uh, that's pretty cool too.
Which cam Kim dog.
Uh, the only, yeah.
91.
Yeah.
So the next question I guess then is what do you think about, uh, the idea of like
standout phenotypes being associated with, uh, trifoliation or, you know, whirling
phylotaxis?
Sol mentioned that with the queen of Sol and I've seen the idea also mentioned by a
few other people.
And I was just always under the impression that, you know, the whole trifoliate slash
whirling phylotaxy was actually like not related to like a phenotype per se, but more
just something which would have like, you know, like a probability of affecting each
and every plant.
Where do you sit on that one?
Um, I've seen it go both ways.
Like, um, the, the phylotaxis, like I've seen that have like some adverse effects,
you know?
Um, you'll see it in certain plants like pop up here and there, but not like
consistently like where you could like apply like the golden mean to it or any
shit like that.
But, um, on trifolates, um, I've always kind of viewed it as like, um, given the
rarity of it, you know, it's not something you see every single day.
Um, that it was kind of like the plant's way of trying to evolve, you know?
So, you know, I've seen it in certain cases to where it didn't work out too good,
but that's not to say because it was a trifoliate, you know, and could have just
been like some shit genes in the pool, you know, and then just came out shitty
because trifoliate or not, it was just destined to be shitty.
Um, but I've also seen it work out very exceptional.
And once again, I, you know, I couldn't say for sure, but it, it's also turned out,
um, to where that did become like a, a distinguishing trait that you wanted to
look for in the males, you know?
So, um, you know, it actually make your, make your hunt a lot easier if, if that
is like what you're kind of looking for too.
So if you have noticed the correlation, like definitely the trifoliate females,
you know, or the ones that really, really, really kicked it up like a hundred,
hundred notches, um, ideally you'd want to look for that, that trifoliate male.
And you could actually, you know, if you knew that for a fact is what you were
born for, you could sprout a pretty huge population and, um, not take up much space.
But, you know, I have seen trifoliates like turn into trifoliates later on too.
So, but a lot of the times, you know, from the, from the get go, they're, you
know, going to be expressing themselves.
Yeah.
Okay.
So a question I've got, which, I mean, you could apply to that previous question
really perfectly if you wanted is how many generations do you think it would
take to be able to breed one very specific trait into a strain, you know,
while obviously trying to not fuck up too much of the other things going on.
So, you know, yeah, like if I said, I've got a strain and it's perfect in every
way, and I just want to get one new trait in there, you know, how many generations
approximately do you think you'd be looking at?
Like if I said to you, you know, can you give me an ETA?
So you might, you know what I mean?
Like, what would you tell me is what I'd be looking at?
Hmm.
Depends like, depends if it breeds true or not, you know, if it pops up as a
recessive, then, and also like the, are you looking like for like a, like a
clone or are you looking for a seed line?
That's like consistently spitting that trade out.
Yeah.
I guess like a seed line.
All right.
Well, I mean, I've seen it done in one.
I've seen it done in one step, like, and it just works, you know, but
that doesn't happen a lot.
So it would depend on what trade, if it breeds true for that trade or not.
And the frequency that you see of that trait and, you know, each generation
and monitor the percentage, the increase of like the, the more desirable trait
frequency that you're seeing until you're, you know, you're happy with it.
So, um, so like if it's like with color, right.
So like they had to be purple.
Um, you know, you might notice could be like more like 30%, you know,
showed color in that one generation.
Um, you took that for one generation, right.
And you back crossed to the mom.
And then you also, uh, say you went F2 selected a purple and went to F3.
Um, you might grow out the F3 generation and say, well, how, um, you know, I'm
only like 50, 50, you know, even after all that, I'm at 50, 50, um, in the one
back cross, you might've noticed that you opted to like 75%, you know, purple.
You know?
So, you know, uh, in that case and say, well, you know, if the only thing
that's truly important to you is that purple color, I would say,
you know, continue to back cross.
You know?
Um, or, you know, it might not work that way at all.
You might just say like, yeah, you know, one in 10, you know, maybe purple
and then the rest aren't, and, you know, it's really hard to get that.
It's telling you, you know, it's not, not really breeding true for that trait.
And, um, it'll take, you know, very large populations and probably a good,
good amount of time before you could really, you know, breed that true.
So the differences in all of this is like, could be a year, be 10 years, man.
You know, anything in between, it just kind of a lot of variables, you know?
Yeah.
Okay.
So I got a bit of a devil's advocate one for you.
And I think me and Jean kind of even referenced this, the underlying
principle in this question.
Let's say you were doing a project and you know, you obviously, you know, you've
referenced already your high levels of standards.
Let's say you could only get one in 10 seeds to give what you wanted, but it was
exactly what you wanted, but no matter what you did, you could never get it to be
more than that.
Would you want to release that or not give it out, so to speak, given it's kind of not
really up to par with your standards?
Um, well it's, if, if we're talking like overall standards, like it was like some
straight shit, like it's going in the trash can.
Now, if, if you say like, if I was going to breed something and I want it to be
very, um, I don't know, uh, high yielding and skunky, um, and like I said, you
know, out of every pack, you're going to get that one that, that does do that.
And like you have tried to further breed it and it just does not, it just does not
work, but you do get one in 10, let's say we'll, we'll do that.
And then the rest are like, you know, maybe subtle variances of it or, um, maybe
different.
Um, if you just couldn't do it and people wanted it that bad and you were up front
about it, you know, and to say, look, you know, this is the one that you want.
It pops up one in 10, like, you know, you just tell them, you know, right off the
bat, you know, this is going to be your hunt, but you should have one out of, you
know, if you sprout all these seeds, you'll, you know, you'll have it.
Um, in that case, I guess it would be cool.
You know, as long as it meets all the other criteria and that you're, you're
being upfront about it.
Um, but like, I mean, if it's some straight garbage and it's taking a lot of
seeds to find that one, like you probably wouldn't want to, wouldn't want to let
that one get stowed in the trash.
Yeah.
Interesting to me, it, it spurs this idea to mind whereby it's, it's kind of like
for me, it's an odd thing the way a lot of strains are advertised in the sense that
most strains you're going to get a large variety of phenotypes.
And so it, it sits a bit weird with me the way four phenotypes all have the same
name.
And so I don't know, I almost think that it's kind of is like the way in which you
are describing things already, you know, like for example, if you buy a packet of
blue dream, even if it's really well-made, there's maybe only one particular
phenotype that's like representative of blue dream and the rest are kind of what
we're mentioning now, like variations, maybe even a bit bunk, you know what I
mean?
So, I kind of feel like that almost happens.
Yeah, it happens a lot, man.
And like, um, if they were, you know, if they told, like, if I was like a seed
buyer and I bought them and, you know, they were like, yeah, you know, this is
what you get.
And if I grow 10 of them out and don't see it, and then if I grow 20 out and don't
see it and it's all a bunch of bunk, like I'm going to be pissed.
But if the guy told me like typical results are this, this, this, and this, but
one in 50, et cetera, may end up like this.
It was like that, uh, cherry AK 47, you know, and those guys like even put it to
the test.
Like how many, how many seeds does it take to get that cherry, cherry Fina and
serious seed dudes, they grew out a thousand and they found one.
So they were like, yeah, cherry Fina is about one in a thousand.
So, you know, if everybody had smoked cherry AK and was like, wow, that's shit.
Then they went back, you know, to buy, you know, packs AK 47, um, you know, and
didn't see it.
They'd be like bummed out.
But the thing is like they didn't advertise it as such, you know what I mean?
Yeah.
Interesting.
I never knew that was the backstory behind that one.
Yeah, man.
Yeah.
That was a real, really rare gem.
And, you know, they ended up doing it over there just to see, you know, what it,
what it would take to, to find that one.
And yeah, it was out of a thousand.
So one strain that we don't mention maybe as much as we should on the show coming
from serious seeds, Kali mist.
It's interesting one because a lot of people are polarized by the fact some
Afghani genetics were introduced into it.
I think around the two thousands and for a lot of people that just ruined it.
Where do you sit on all of that?
And you know, how do you view the original Kali mist at least?
I was never really into it, man.
I don't ever, you know, maybe I just didn't get the right, um, right expression
or quality grow of it, you know what I mean?
But like in my experiences through the days, like it just never really
appealed to me too much.
Okay, cool.
Might do a bit of a random question.
What is the best barbecue dish?
You know, brisket, button, pork shoulder.
Um, I'm pretty, I'm pretty keen on brisket, man.
Like I do like that, but I don't know.
You can't really go wrong as long as it's cooked right.
That's good.
Um, but yeah, brisket is pretty good, man.
I'm looking forward to the Emerald cup, getting some, some good brisket from
barbecue B.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
That'd be killer, man.
I'm gonna tear it up too.
All right.
I mean, you could starve the whole time.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So, I mean, while we're on the topic of the Emerald cup, the inside scoop is that
you and Skunk VA will have a booth together.
Is this true?
Yeah.
Yeah.
He's going to be pressing Razum.
He's going to be hooking it up out there.
So.
Can we expect maybe a bit of a collab project in the future?
You never know, man.
You never know.
I know he's not, he's not have a lot of, like Kim dog, Kim crush, silver Kim and
all that, and he'll be out there and, uh, pressing Razum like on the spot.
So it should be good, man.
That's, that's like an experience.
Like come get some fresh Razum from Skunk VA himself.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That's like, that's pretty, that's pretty darn good.
Yeah.
Get some chem 91, Roslyn, and that's like your stoner story to top everyone else.
Yeah.
That's pretty good.
Uh, I couldn't think of a better way to get it and I will be too.
So, yeah, let me get a little bit of that, man.
Alrighty.
So, um, we were chatting about it a little while ago, Cindy 99.
It's got crazy needs for calcium.
I've had a few people message me about this.
What's your tips for staying on top of essentially a plant that's got crazy
calcium demands?
Um, what the, like when, when you already know that in advance, um, like the way
that I mix my soil up, like I got some pretty good, pretty good sources of
calcium that are in there that, you know, break down, you know, nice and slow and
steady.
Um, so it just, you know, it just revolves to me, you know, trying to facilitate
that, um, especially during bloom.
So I know before I even go into bloom, like I'm feeding at a heavy dose, um,
prior to that, you know, or most people would, you know, wouldn't, wouldn't
really slam it that early on.
Um, I do, um, that way you're kinda, kinda always like a week ahead of everything,
but the beauty in it is like when you do take it away, like she really fades out
really quick and really nice, you know?
So that's kinda like the, the good point of it.
Yeah.
Okay.
So you use it to like, yeah.
Time you fade.
Well, yeah, yeah, exactly.
If you're in, um, if you're in hydroponics, you know, you just, you know,
up and up your calcium and shit.
Um, you know, I'd say like the week prior to bloom, you know, like where normally,
you know, you wait to be in bloom or, you know, you would go ahead and give it,
give it that, that little boost prior to.
Okay.
And so just as a bit of a change of questions here, resinous males, you know,
this is something that's come up before I got a bit of a specific question about
I've noticed when I look at like really closely at seedlings, when they're really
young, I swear, I find like little, almost like trichomes on a lot of the small ones
when they're really young.
Do you think that's like a commonality thing?
Or is that the same as like, if I grew some of those males out, they would be males
with trichomes on them.
Um, I've kind of seen it hit and miss, you know, cause like the little ones, you
seem like a good majority of them do it.
It's just like, to what degree?
And then like, you know, um, they tend to keep that, that type of characteristic,
you know, through, through the growth.
Um, with the, with the males, I mean, I've, I've never been so lucky as to see like
the, the one fellow from Alaska.
He, uh, he constantly finds them like, I mean, full on resin rails down the leaf,
down the petiole stems, like pretty, pretty nuts.
So like, I can't imagine it would be a very bad thing.
So, um, but that that's telling me it's something, I guess, coming off the, coming
off the X chromosome, wants to breed for resin, resin production.
So that would tell me it's a, it's a good thing.
So would you be so willing as to say that you would go for resinous males?
If I had one, yeah, absolutely.
Absolutely.
Alrighty.
Kind of somewhat related.
How detrimental is it to revege a plant?
Some people, I don't think it happens so much anymore, but some people do struggle
to tell the sex of the plant.
So they'll kind of change the light cycle up and revege it.
You know, do you think this is damaging?
And I guess maybe at the more extreme end of the spectrum, if you've forgotten to
take a clone and you know, you're like reveging like a fully flowered harvested
plant, do you think that's detrimental?
Like is, is the resulting plant going to be similar or maybe a bit worse?
Um, I think like both ways, like totally doable thing, but they take time.
So in the case of, we just had like the lower third of a plant, you know, and we
left like a couple of buds on it, right.
And we're just going to revege it.
Um, it takes a long time before you really get any growth out of it anyway.
And then that growth is going to be kind of wacky for a little while.
So I just think it takes, it takes a little longer for it to really get back
into the swing of things before like you can start taking clones and blooming them
again.
Um, cause I think like if you take another clone too early and throw it in bloom,
it'll act a little bit wacky on you.
So I think it's just more important just to give it that, that time, you know, to
fully, fully revege and start throwing out, you know, more than single leaves
and little mutated stuff, you know, throw out like some proper fans and become
more of a plant again and then taking clients from there.
But like I've, I've reveged stuff before in the past and I have one that we did
five times.
We were just doing it just to see, you know, like what, you know, what happened,
like if it got better or got worse or what whatnot.
And, um, you know, it stayed the same every single time.
A bit unexpected in my opinion.
Yeah.
Okay.
So, I mean, while we're on the topic of unexpected, are you kind of of the mindset
that some of the more memorable strains throughout history or just maybe even ones
you've made are ones that kind of produced really unexpected results?
Like I guess, you know, if you've got one parent that's chocolate and one that's
strawberry, you know, you kind of expect it to be like chocolate, strawberry or
whatever.
And the offspring instead is like rotten cheese.
I find that the predictable strains tend not to be ones that go down in history.
Would you agree with that or what do you think?
Yeah, it seems like that's the case a lot of times, but it's like the weird ones,
you know, that's, that's the reason why they're so memorable because they're
really unique.
So, um, I did a Kim dog D and Hindu Kush and that it, and then theory should
produce like a lot of like really nasty, funky smells.
And, um, they did, but there was one that popped up, no strawberry, man.
Not the most strawberry, strawberry I'd ever seen in weed.
And that was the one we called the Smuckers man.
But you know, totally just blew my mind, you know?
And then that turned into its own little, and little project, you know, for
strawberry stuff and like found out it like it, something that weird, you
wouldn't think like, all right, now if I take this and, you know, breed it to
something else, like, well, it will it retain any of the strawberry fruitiness
or am I going to go back to like rank and NASC?
And, um, we hit it with C99 and it stayed nice and strawberry and, and good.
So that was like a big, big plus lets me know that it can be worked.
So I started working on that too.
You must be a mind reader.
So my next question was, I've seen a photo of Smuckers C99 cross to Bubbleberry.
What's, what's the deal with Bubbleberry and what's the deal with this cross?
Can we expect to see more of it?
Yeah, just, uh, messing around with it at the, at the moment.
Just seeing, uh, seeing what all it, what all it holds.
That was, yeah, it was like old, old Bubbleberry clone.
So it, uh, it's got more of that.
I don't know how to explain it really like a pungent, very pungent, skunky,
fruity, it's kind of like that, uh, like that four way it's kind of funky.
Okay.
And do you plan to do any future work with the Bubbleberry?
Cause that's, that's an interesting one that I don't think too many people are
familiar with, but the ones who are and the ones I've spoken to extremely fond of.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
It's a really killer, killer plant.
Um, a lot like I reversed the 91 onto it as well.
So I'm going to start digging through, through those here really soon too.
So if we jump back to a comment Bodie made in his interview, he said that he
thinks the, uh, the hash plant Neville used in the creation of Skelly was the
PNW hash plant.
I'm pretty sure you could get that one if you want it.
You know, have you ever grown it out and do you think that there's any possible
relationship between the two?
Um, sorta.
Um, I think so.
I know the, when he may, I'll tell you what, I'm gonna grab this catalog real
quick.
That way I'm not guessing.
Hold on.
All right.
So now it was always my understanding.
Like he used that hash plant to make a hash plant, but he also had one that was
just a Northern lights.
Um, hybrid.
So I know that, uh, they're very similar, you know, very, very similar.
Yeah.
So, I mean, I guess it maybe goes without saying that I think Bodie kind of
referenced it as well.
Skelly is like a big step up in potency than what the PNW one is, right?
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
Big time.
All right.
So here we have, uh, out of the 1989 seed bank catalog.
All right.
So hash plant pure says after years of inbreeding and testing, we have
decided to offer our famous hash plant as a pure variety, the pure hash plant
differs from the hash plant Northern lights.
Number one F one hybrid.
And that is it is an inbred strain possessing the wonderful indica taste
and hive, the original cutting.
Okay.
So that tells me like, he's, he's talking about, you know, that, that
original, you know, Pacific Northwest cutting, um, the yield and vigor will
be less than the hybrid under most conditions.
And that's like what we were talking about earlier.
You really, you start inbreeding something, you lose a little bit of that hybrid
vigor, um, but the quality will be better.
Uh, this one, this is the one to get.
If you're a true indica connoisseur or serious breeder, you can expect a very
fast indoor finish, copious resin and a flat top bud structure.
Now, when I look at the picture, that looks like, you know, Skelly all day long.
So now if you look at the, um, the, um, hash plant Northern lights, number one
hybrid, it looks like, you know, you just took that, that Pacific Northwest
cutting and hit it with a, you know, one.
Man, if you could just order some of this shit still, it'd be awesome.
Right.
The G 13 hash plant, but like, uh, unless he was making films, you know,
like he couldn't have done that.
And he said he still has some of the stock.
Heck yeah.
So Northern lights, five across to the NL two, then he was selling the NL two and
enough three.
And let's see where it's got the garlic blood.
And he's got a lot of, a lot of shit.
Just basically every building blocks train ever.
Yeah.
Pretty, pretty much.
But, um, so yeah, I would, I would say that, um, his hash plant pure was probably
like said that, that Pacific Northwest cutting cross to one of the, one of the
NL crosses that he did.
Um, I'm thinking like the, the one with NL one or two, probably, uh, back crossed
or inbred somehow with that Pacific Northwest cutting again.
And then, yeah, that's where it is.
Interesting.
And so I guess the notable thing I find about Scally and, uh, some other plants
is that the aesthetics isn't really the, the be all end all with these plants.
Yeah.
I guess it's a little different for you because you're quite familiar with this,
but overall, where do aesthetics sit kind of in your little hierarchy of attributes?
Do you value it or just given you're familiar with strains where it's totally
not correlated in general, do you not correlate it?
Um, hell man, like I see, I like, I can see, you know, like beauty and all of it
because like I know what it is, you know?
Like, um, certain things like you said, that Scally, it's not the most aesthetic
thing in the world, but, uh, the smell, the taste and the quality of the stone
and everything, um, makes it makes up way, way up for it, you know?
Um, and there's other things say like purple punch, you know, purple, real frosty
and kind of worthless, you know, like in the, in the stone department, you know,
but it looked real pretty.
So, like I'm more of a smell, taste, quality type, you know, more so than like
the looks alone, you know what I mean?
Yeah, for sure.
And so I guess kind of with this in mind, how can breeders better cater to the
commercial market?
Because I think me and Gene kind of, we kind of struck on this idea a little bit
and he said something along the lines of like, there's two major types of growers
and Cowleys, the one who pump out units and the ones who hold onto the rare heirloom
strains and basically sacrifice the crop to do so.
So I guess with that in mind, how can we try to cater, you know, to the guys
pumping out units so that it's not just blue dream and it's not just, you know,
certain strains that maybe aren't the best, like, you know, purple punch, as you
just mentioned.
Yeah, you really have to, you have to start breeding for yield in mind too.
And that's whether you can breed yield into something without sacrificing a lot
of the other things.
Or if there is some type of sacrifice and you can reach some form of a compromise
with it, like if it's yielding that much, you know, if it is like commercial,
commercial units, as they put it, it's normally not very good.
You know what I mean?
So if you can make that better, strike a happy medium or go better, I think you
could do that.
If I was going to do it, I'd probably be looking more to cater a lot more to the
greenhouse and outdoor dudes.
They tend to, you know, they grow a lot.
And since like the price of a pack in California for their outdoor goes so low,
you know, they're looking to get it extracted, you know?
So once they extract it, you know, the price went back up, you know, because the
oil that was produced from something that was greenhouse or outdoor, you know,
it's worth just as much as anything else, long as the quality is good, right?
So if you could offer good outdoor and greenhouse producers that offer the yield
and very high level of terpenes and be a good quality product with a lot of the
pest and mildew and mold resistances bred into it, I think like that's where you
would have it.
And then if you're marketing, say, toward like commercial indoor facilities, you
would be looking for very short flower times as well as, you know, the yield and
trying to keep the happy medium.
But I think like if you can, you can shorten your flower times enough, you know,
you can get a whole extra run in per year, you know, versus the next guy if you're
like really on it, you know?
So I think like that would bring a lot of value to, you know, a commercial facility.
And especially like if you can give them that ridiculously high yielding and also
like pretty damn potent and stinky weed, you know, that would help them out, you
know?
Okay.
And so one question I personally wanted to ask was the Genius Haze, the Apollo
Haze, fantastic line.
At first I was wondering, are you going to work it forward?
But then I was like, no, more importantly, are we ever going to see the Grail Haze
released in straight form?
You know, I really love all the crosses it's been used in.
What were the females of that like?
They're really, really gnarly.
And like the thing is, is like a body of mine is the guy who made those.
So, you know, unless that was something like he wanted to do, you know, he can do
it. But, you know, nobody's heard from him in a while.
I mean, I kind of was kind of like half worried about him.
I don't know what happened to him.
But yeah, he was the one that made the actual Grail Haze.
So I was just selecting a boy out of the bunch.
And so what were the girls like?
Were they just kind of like a bigger yielding Cindy's?
Sort of, yeah.
More or less like a long, like more like spear type buds and still really quick flowering
time. A lot of candied type type smells, you know, it's pretty nice.
So here's an interesting one I've mentioned before, and I'd love to know your opinion on
it. I've noticed that, you know, often plants can basically be telling you that they're
happy. But then if you were to give them, say, a tea, I externally more nutrients than
they would have otherwise had access to, you know, they might have a bit of a bloom of
growth. And so it kind of signifies to me, like, although they might not have been
showing deficiencies, like they likewise could have used more than what they had access
to. Do you think that that's kind of the case or have I kind of misanalyzed something?
How do you see that whole situation?
Yeah, I mean, you're totally right.
And I've seen it like the opposite, too.
Like it's not showing, it's not showing a toxicity, but you're like stunning the yield,
you know, like it's not like Herman out or like burning or darkening up a whole lot.
But that extra bit of food caused it to yield less.
And, you know, I've also seen it where it yields more.
So and then you got to find out why, you know, sometimes it has nothing to do with like
any NPK values.
A lot of times it has to do with a lot of, you know, like sulfur and magnesium and
calcium, you know.
Sometimes it has to do more with a certain timing of a tea, like you said.
And also, you know, like a fulvic and veg or a humic and bloom type, you know,
supplement to help it take it up, you know.
And then some plants don't react well.
Some plants freak out and harm, you know, like it's really an individual basis, like
their eating habits and all.
It's like they're generally the same.
It's kind of like people, I guess, breakfast, lunch, dinner.
But what do they eat for breakfast?
What do they eat for lunch and what do they eat for dinner?
You know, you might have a vegan versus a meat eater, vegetarian in the middle.
Some people don't eat breakfast, you know.
I mean, you got to kind of work with them and tune them over time.
So sometimes you get lucky and you knock it out the park the first time and then
you'll try something different, like feeding it that little more.
And notice your yield went down or maybe it went up.
But that's what it's all about is repeating that same grow over, you know, over and
over until you've really, really tweaked it.
And that just takes time and trial and error.
So how do you feel about some of the organic additives that fall outside of kind
of the norm of products?
So like, you know, obviously fulvic acid, pretty common one.
What about some of the more, I guess, kind of exotic things we see nowadays, like
insect frass or like chitin based products or things like mammoth pea?
Where do you sit on those ones?
Have you dabbled with them and would you recommend them?
Yeah, we use insect frass.
That's really nice stuff.
Yeah, chitins, you know, it's a big help keeping the immune system rolling and
everything to that in correlation with like aloe water and everything.
The mammoth pea I tried out.
It kind of like it did what it was supposed to, but it seems like it's like
got an enzyme in it or something too.
There's like certain things that made it want to fox tail out.
So I kind of figured I was like, ah, it's probably like, you know, it's like an
enzyme and, you know, some type of fungal microbe.
So.
So do you tend to like dabble with all the new and latest things or are you more
kind of like just sticking to like the known and trusted things per se?
You know, I tried to be that guy and try some things out and it didn't work out
good, you know, I mean, it was all right, but the old tried and true system was
better.
So I kind of went back to that and, you know, every now and again I'll hear when,
but it's normally like through a friend or something like you said, but, you know,
they tried something out and it really, really, you know, helped.
And there's only like a handful of people I know that I'm really going to listen to,
you know, what they have to say.
So, um, so yeah, every now and again, you know, try something different.
And so what is kind of your tried and true staple?
Like what's, what's the one kind of amendment or the one thing in your soil mix
that you just think does some serious good work?
It's all of it, you know, all of it kind of working together, but the soil mix with
the dragon fly, coconut for a coconut water for an enzyme, rotate that with like
malted barley for an enzyme.
And so the dragon fly and the microbes, you know, like the lush roots and then
supplementing like, you know, some like juices and some sugars toward the end,
uh, it seems to work the best.
Nice.
Nice.
And so question I've been asking a few people and I guess you kind of brought it
up once or twice already.
Strains that throw nanas in like the last week or so.
I know that there are a lot that do it and they're like, they don't have pollen,
they're infertile.
So that's really kind of like a no brainer.
Obviously it's not that, you know, it doesn't affect anything per se, except for
maybe aesthetics.
But the ones that do produce pollen, it's in the last week.
Do you find that to be like a negative trait or do you just think, oh, you know, I
guess it's only really a problem if you had like a plant several weeks behind in
flower, you know, like, do you think it's, it's pretty acceptable?
Cause I mean, there's a lot of strains that do it.
Yeah.
I mean, like I, I grow some things that, that do it, you know, and like they're,
they're that good.
So, you know, I cater to it.
But, um, if me and you was running like a big commercial facility and like, you
know, we have like tables or like a quarter of the building or a room, what have
you comes down, um, when we're breaking plants down, I mean, the pollen could go
over to the part that's say week two, week three flower and get pollinated.
And then, you know, people end up with the seeds and their weed and, you know,
they don't, they don't want that.
So, uh, um, you know, it would be a problem with that.
But if me and you're just like, you know, running our little grow rooms, doing our
thing and you know, no big, no big deal.
But, um, yeah, like it just depends what you're, what you're doing.
It could be a big problem, but man, you're just running our grows at our house or
where we're running like a monocrop or something and it all comes down at the
same time, you know, that could be fine.
But, um, ideally, yeah, you wouldn't have it, but that's just the way it works.
Some of them are, some of them are that good and they like it, you know, you
just gotta do your best.
Yeah.
Yeah, I dig.
So switch it up for a moment.
When can the general public expect to be able to experience local H for
themselves?
Uh, like smoking some weed of it?
Yeah.
Maybe growing it themselves.
Oh, uh, hmm.
What, like giving a client out, you mean?
I mean, like if that's what you want to do.
Nah, hell no.
Um, I don't know.
It plays like a nice little role on like a lot of the little breeding projects and
stuff.
So, uh, I don't know, man.
I couldn't tell you.
Well, there's your answer folks.
Yeah.
Um, so question I get asked from a lot of people, cause I think they probably think
I ask people to question, even though I don't include it in the interview, which
is not true.
I include basically everything in the interview.
Um, basically I always get asked the question, how do you guys source all the
old school gems that you work with?
You know, is it like a, a crazy seed hunt expedition or like, you know, how do you
go about coming across some of these old SSC gems, so to speak?
Well, a lot of that, um, it's like family airline type shit, if you want to call it
that.
Um, you know, something like passed down to me.
Um, you know, and then you got some old cats store the seeds up in the freezer and
they're kept, you know, a long time that way.
And sometimes people get there, get their stuff like that.
Or if you travel around a lot and meet and greet people, I guess, you know, like
I've been to like shows before where dudes come out the woodwork and they're like,
Hey, yeah, you know, I was growing a bunch of Williams wonder on the hill for like
forever.
And I heard you, you know, you're into that.
And I made a batch of seeds every few years from the original.
So here you go.
So sometimes it can happen like that, or somebody is just keeping a client around
or whatnot.
But a lot of it's just like what we've, what we've had in our life leading up to
this point.
It's not like we just started doing it, you know, a year or two ago.
Yeah.
I've been doing it a long, long time.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Ain't no fresh meat.
Nah.
Definitely not the first rodeo.
So how can growers be properly rewarded for finding killer phenos?
If you have a certain space and you choose to use that space to entirely pheno hunt
and you sacrifice a large part of what would have been, I guess, like a good crop,
how can we as like a community, like compensate people, I guess, not like in the
literal sense, but I feel like essentially if over the years, and this kind of goes
back to that point, mean gene made about people either pumping out units or
retaining the heirlooms.
It's like, if you do the math over the years, these people are foregoing a
substantial amount of money to do essentially like, you know, obviously they
enjoy the weed and enjoy keeping it around, but it's, it is a bit of a community
slash, uh, you know, like a, a selfless aspect to it.
You know, how, how do we properly like thank and, or, you know what I mean?
Like compensate people who do this.
Um, I mean, it's, it's kind of, it's kind of crazy on like a lot of levels,
but I would say like the number one thing would be like people that do put in
the time to either like do the big pheno hunts and like actually have like that
very superior weed.
Um, or if it's like, you know, they're growing an old heirloom strain, um,
some of these things, you know, they don't particularly yield like blue dream
does, but they sure do smoke a whole lot better.
And like the mindset with a lot of the stores and the dispensary world, like,
especially like in Colorado is like, they really want to lowball the hell out of
you and they want to make out like, it's kind of all the same, a pound is a pound
is a pound and, um, you know, they don't want to pay, pay the grower.
What it, what it actually is worth.
And then they go and mark it up like 260% or something, you know, it's kind of
ridiculous, but I think like if you support good, um, good farmers, good farms,
um, you know, don't, don't be the one to complain about, I guess, like the price,
you know, within reason, you know, if you're like a, um, like a distributor or
a store owner or something, you know, like that, that would help immensely,
you know, but, um, you know, if people would reward quality with, you know,
sticking to that or, you know, I don't know, just like with anything else, I
suppose, like a good restaurant or what have you, you know, you'd recommend it to
your friends, you know?
Yeah.
So the idea that jumps to my mind when you say that is, I know of some people who
grow some incredibly boutique weed and it's, it's more expensive than the
average stuff and people, you know, there are some people who get really angry at
that.
And like, in my mind, it's kind of a bit like, well, you know, like if you want to
drive a really expensive car, like that's kind of your choice, you know what I mean?
Like, it's not like a car that costs a hundred thousand dollars is literally five
times as good as a car that costs $20,000.
You know, like the, the scaling isn't linear.
It's, you know, it's probably only like 50% better or something like that, you
know?
Yeah.
But, but nevertheless, there are people who want that type of thing.
So in my mind, it's like, if you want to pay for a premium product, like cool, you
know, as long as no one's forcing you to, but then the naysayers will say, yeah, but
this is different because this is medicine.
And, and I kind of think like, I don't really see how that works though.
Are you with that same mindset or like, how do you see that?
Well, I mean, if it's, if it's through somebody's medicine, um, I think it
should, all of it should be like of the utmost quality, you know?
And if it's for like a truly sick individual, then they should be helped
along with that, but I ain't talking about like, you know, I mean like us as
like humanity on, on earth, like we're all sick, right.
So some degree or another, whether, you know, you back aches or, you know, you're
tired or, you know, you're too jittery or you, you know what I mean?
Everybody, everybody's got something wrong with them, you know?
So like, if you say like medicine in that regard, yeah, whatever, but like truly,
truly ill, sick people that like rely on it, need it, they should be helped out.
You know?
Um, and yeah, if it is for like genuinely, you know, for medicine,
medicine, like, um, it should be the utmost quality and like the, the best
it could possibly be, you know, that's my, my standpoint on it.
Recreationally.
I mean, fuck.
I mean, if I was, if I had a weed store or, you know, a grow that supplied
stores of both, you know, like, you know, maybe it's just me, but like, I'd want
it to be like the best possible.
I want people to say like, Hey, wow.
Yeah.
That's awesome.
Cause I feel like you're giving me money, you know, I'm going to give you quality.
I'm not going to give you dog shit.
And to like, I want to stand out against my competition.
He does sling dog shit, you know?
So, um, either way, like me personally, I'm going to go for the quality and the
best, you know, each time I don't like to sacrifice that type of stuff.
Yeah.
It's interesting.
I think, I guess, I think kind of the underlying argument that some of the people
making the, you know, the Australian scene at least is like, if you're producing
really high quality and maybe you want to be compensated for that, it's like, no,
you're like obliged to instead sell for like, you know, far less to someone who's
really sick, even though you may not like know someone who's sick and like, you
know what I mean?
Like, yeah.
So that's what I think is interesting.
Because I also just think, at least in my personal experience, I haven't met a ton
of like white collar growers and I have a feeling you need those guys as well.
And so, yeah, my, my kind of thinking is that a lot of white collar guys just
probably do it for themselves and don't talk to anyone.
You need those people to come to the table.
And so if there's pressure that you have to be doing a certain thing with your crop,
like it's not going to be incentivizing people to come to the table, so to speak.
Yeah.
Yeah, exactly.
You said, you know, there's like varying degrees of like sick, you know?
Um, so like, I take care of like, they're reliant on it, like without it, they're,
they're most likely would die.
You know, they need it.
So like, and you know, very, very ill, but then like, you know, I got a couple of
buddies that like, I mean, they could be like, yeah, my, you know, my back hurts a
little bit or whatever.
You know, they, they're fine monetarily or whatever.
And that's one thing, but it's yet another thing, you know, one it's kids too.
They're really sick, very, very sick.
And three, like family doesn't have any money because you know, all of it goes to
doctor bills if they do got any, you know?
So like, but down, like I don't charge a penny, you know, I just give it to them.
Like, here it is, it's on the house.
But like if my body that like, if his back was, you know, whatever, I don't, I
don't really, I don't give a fuck what it was for.
They're going to pay me and they're going to pay me good for it.
Cause yeah.
Yeah.
That's, that's kind of what I'm thinking.
Yeah.
Another kind of similar thing to what we were referencing with, you know, like
compensating people for finding the clones is that often you'll hear stories of
people being like, Oh yeah, this, this clone was worth $5,000, $10,000.
And you know, and the underlying tone is that's outrageous.
And it's like, but at the same time, the person who found that maybe had to do
such a big pheno hunt that they forego like more than that amount of money in,
you know what I mean?
Potential crop.
And so I guess what I'm thinking is, do you see a bit of a cognitive dissonance
there in the way I do where it's like, well, to get these things, you need to
sacrifice and you're not willing to make that sacrifice.
So you kind of do have to compensate in a way, you know what I mean?
Or do you think like, nah, you shouldn't really charge for clones or something
along those lines?
Well, I mean, people are going to pay and people are going to do and do what they
want to do.
So like, as long as there are people out there willing to pay it, people are going
to be out there selling it, you know, like, um, there, there's a lot of things
out there that go for astronaut, um, astronomical amounts of money that
aren't really, there's no like real hard work into it or anything.
It's just based off of rarity.
You know, there's a lot of paintings out there that are worth millions of
dollars that frankly, I mean, to me, this looks like shit.
This looks like somebody just fucking threw up goddamn color on a canvas, you
know, but to somebody that's priceless, you know?
So you got that end of it.
Um, then you have the other end of it, I guess, like if it was like, uh, say
like for breeding or what have you, you know, like if it was that rare of a
genetic or something or whatnot, I could see like value in that.
Um, or if like you were making, um, making a seed line, right?
Like we have to do the same thing.
I have to grow out a whole lot, you know, stuff.
And you know, a lot of it doesn't turn out that great, you know, like
I mean, it's all right.
Most people would be stoked, but I'm not.
So to me, it was like, you know, it was this filling up space where it
could have been used for something else.
So like you take losses there, but when you do have like your good
seed lines and you sell it, I mean, that's why we charge money for it.
Because, you know, we had to put money in space and time into it, you know?
Um, and then there's guys that sell like individual clones, you know, flats of
clones, I guess, to make their money back.
And then there's other people like we used to do back in the day.
We'd make shit that the other guy doesn't have.
And we know he don't got it.
Cause he couldn't make it, you know, something very unique.
But in that case, we would hoard the hell out of the clone.
And, um, we'd be the one growing the weed and selling the weed and nobody
else had that weed because we had that weed, you know, so we were
getting reimbursed in that way.
So it seems like no matter what, you know, somebody is going to get
reimbursed for it no matter what, but to what degree, you know, cause
like there's people that sell like thousand dollar packs of randomly
chucked together seeds and fancy boxes.
Like people, people do that shit, you know, but it was like real rare.
And maybe it's like the dankest shit on earth.
Like, I don't know, but there were people there like waiting to pay it, you know?
Just because, you know, beauty is in the eye of the beholder, I guess, you know?
Yeah.
Okay.
And so if we jump over to some more growing style questions, we've seen a
rise in popularity of defoliation lately.
What's your kind of thoughts on this whole thing?
Are you into it or do you feel it's maybe counterproductive?
Ah, it depends.
Like it was back to the feeding thing and how every plant's kind of different,
you know, some plants are into it.
Some of them aren't, some of them are into it, but only at certain
points during the cycle, you know what I mean?
So I've never gone so extreme as like what I've, what I've seen.
But I mean, I like on headband, you know, I defoliated, you know, fairly,
fairly heavy in the beginning and sometimes even like cut them back.
Just so that way they'll, they'll stack a little bit harder, you know?
Certain things that want to stretch a lot like that and get viny on you.
They tend to respond a little bit better to that.
You could take like that skelly hash plant, it's a leaf monster, you know?
You can pull off so much leaf off of that thing, but I found it, it likes it
like done at a couple of different points, you know?
So like pre, pre flower and then a little bit, a little bit later.
But it grows too much leaf, so you have to pull it off.
And, but it still wants some, you know, I don't like it.
Like if you just strip them all off, it doesn't like that at all.
So it just depends, you know?
And so you mentioned earlier, you like to rotate your enzymes in your feedings,
be it the aloe, the cocoa or the malt.
How do you kind of rotate your feedings, you know?
Because question I get asked a lot by people is, should you try to like stagger
each thing, you know, like as you referenced, like malt one time, something
else the next, something else the following or a bit of everything in one.
Do you think there's a difference between the two?
What's your breakdown on the situation?
I've messed around with a few different ways from like using nothing but the one
thing, each grow and then going to where I was like staggering it and then where I
was going like half strength with both, you know, to kind of combine them.
And then I'm going with using one in the first part of the cycle and then another
one during the latter part of the cycle.
And it does, it does seem to, it does seem to kind of have their, their benefits on
the timing, but I don't know if it's just me or not.
So, I would just say like, you know, play around with all those things and see what
works best for you.
Okay.
And I had actually read some things saying that some of the specific cytokines in
coconut water may not be all that, how should we say, advantageous in flour versus
say veg.
Have you ever noticed anything like that or do you find coconut water and flour is
still good?
Yeah, it's pretty damn good.
And I think like a lot of the simple sugars and carbohydrates that are in it help with
the terpene production a little bit.
So, like I'd be more inclined to use like, make sure that I was using like the coconut
water like later, you know, like mid bloom and stuff.
That's just my opinion on it.
And so, in some of your posts, we've started to see more and more reference,
including other people as well, the VA Afghani.
You know, what can you tell us about this one?
Oh, it's just a really old Afghani, like Afghani one cut.
I think like we've, like I know I've talked to a couple of people that were going to
VCU College, like downtown Richmond, like the very early 80s that were smoking that
same bug and the same crew of dudes that were kind of running around and growing it.
So, it's just really old.
It's really piney, like eucalyptus pine, sagey, sandalwoody, you know, very, very
funky, but it's really, really potent, you know, and very heavy and dense, dense
weed too.
So, it was always a good grower.
The potency on it was like real top notch, man.
It's real nice.
Do you plan to breed with it at all?
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, man.
Been doing it, just haven't really been talking about it yet.
Trying to make everything like a big surprise for everybody, man.
I've probably already said too much.
When can we expect a grand unveiling?
I don't even know, man.
I reckon whenever it's done.
Okay.
Shouldn't be too long.
So, in recent interviews, we've brought up the topic of the Brothers of Eternal Love
and how, you know, their stock is kind of similar to the SSC regarded, you know,
extremely highly.
If you had to choose between the two, you know, I know that they're not exactly
apples to apples, so to speak, because, you know, like Bowell didn't make packs of
seeds.
But if you had to metaphorically choose between a pack of Bowell and a pack of SSSC
and it could be either of either, you know, what would you pick?
It depends on what it is, you know, but I'd like to think I'd go with the
Brotherhood stuff, you know, a little bit more.
Because a lot of like European stuff revolved around American stuff, you know,
they got took back over there.
So I'd like to think like the Bowell and the Sacred Seeds, you know, Mendojo and
those cats, like I'd like to think like there's a little more stout, you know, a
little more, a little more hardcore.
But like SSSC, man, like they won't, they didn't produce no slouch shit either.
So that's a tough one.
But like certain things, you know, I would definitely be, you know, looking at the
Seed Club stuff.
But yeah, like if you had a Gundam, maybe pick one, I'd go with Brotherhood shit.
Nice, OK.
And so are there any clones out there currently that you would love to work with?
Like, you know, you know they're about, but you just haven't got for one reason or
another?
William's Wonder, man.
Really good, William's Wonder would be nice.
And that's probably, probably about it.
I've seen a few posts of that popping up.
Do you think it's all legit or maybe there's a few people who think they have it, but
they don't have it?
I don't know.
I haven't seen any or smelled or smoked any in a long time.
So, yeah, shit, man, ain't no telling.
I would imagine like, you know, that stuff's pretty damn good.
So I would imagine like people kept some clones rolling, you know, I'd find it hard to
believe that it, you know, is extinct, extinct.
Yeah, OK. And so if you had to pick just one clone that you felt had the most potential
to breed with, what would it be?
And I guess by that, I mean, it pairs well with just like such a variety of different
males, you know, you just consistently produces good results.
What's your one clone?
As far as like a male to cross to or female?
Yeah, like a female.
Yeah, it just works well in all the hybrids.
I don't know, man, like, I mean, there's there's certain ones it's like you can take it
to the bank and count on it, you know, like producing a certain result.
And then there's other ones that like you could get like such a varied result or you
could end up with 10 different other things to work on.
So I was looking for like the old faithful or if I was looking for something to give me a
multitude of variety, you know.
Yeah.
I don't know, that's a really hard question, man.
Yeah. Well, how about another one that just came to mind?
Out of all the females you work with, what's your go to female for when you want to
cross a male to, you know, like we referenced it earlier, you know, like you're going to
cross a new male to something in a project, but you've always got that one standby where
you know how it reads, you know what's predictable.
So you can use it as like a calibration reference almost.
What female is that for you?
I can like local H is real good about that.
You know, there's a couple of them that are really good because like I know like if it
can dominate over something from a particular cross, then, you know, that I'm
I'm doing pretty, pretty damn good.
Like that's my goal is to, you know, have a male that's a little more dominant, you
know. So but that local is pretty good.
You know, it can tell me a whole lot about what something's doing with structure,
especially, especially if I'm running down a particular
set of genes, you know, it can tell me a whole lot.
Yeah. OK. So a little personal question, I wanted to sneak in there.
Do you think it's detrimental at all to have a male in your flowering
room from flower day one such that essentially, you know, the first pistols
that are emerging on the females are going to be pollinated fairly shortly after that
and or as soon as they emerge?
Like, do you think that's detrimental at all?
Just because the common thing, which, you know, I even say to people when they ask me
is, you know, ideally you want to pollinate the females around week three, week four.
So, you know, probably introduce the male into the room around about that time, which
is obviously counter to what I just mentioned earlier.
What how do you feel about it all?
Of course, you know, different females are going to have different flowering times.
They all have their own.
Peak time, I would say, like to get overall saturation right now
with your male, it's going to be the same thing.
I have some males that are very fast that are actually faster than the females.
So he's already dumping pollen by the time that they're just getting like tiny
popcorn buds, you know, that and me personally, that would be that would be too early.
You know, I mean, if you're making beans for yourself, like just fucking around,
whatever, but like if you were doing a production type thing, you know, that
wouldn't be good. You know, you'd want them a little further along.
So you'd really have to know when did your when does your male start to actually drop
drop pollen, you know, and then you can kind of gauge that versus like the peak
time on the females that are going to go in and then when to bring in certain ones.
There was like a certain city of a male in the past, you would have to put it in
almost a week ahead of all the females, you know.
And then there's another one that I can't put in the room till day 14 of bloom for
the females, you know.
So there's some that go in on the same day, you know, so you got to really have it
timed out on how your boy is to know when you're going to hit your peak saturation.
OK, interesting, and what do you think is the peak saturation from most plants in the
sense that I've heard pretty wildly varying figures in terms of like the number of
seeds you can get off a plant.
Obviously, it's got a lot to do with the size of the plant.
But I mean, often people will talk about a plant in a certain size pot and that helps
to give a little bit of frame to the whole metric.
But some people say you get 15000 off a plant, where others will say for the same
size plant, you'll only get 1.5000.
What is it?
Well, one, it's not just how many there are.
It's the quality of the ones that are there.
If you're too late going in, you could end up with 30,000.
But, you know, 20,000 are good, you know.
If you're too early, you know, you might end up with 10,000 really, really perfect
ones and not the first dud.
So there is like a balance, you know.
But I think like if you hit the plant at the right time, I mean, you can get a lot of
them and have them all be good at the same time, you know, if you're giving them the
right nutrition and trying to facilitate seed production type food, you know.
You can have some really nice seeds and a whole lot of them, 15, 20,000 is not that
you know, it's not that unfathomable to have on a plant.
Yeah, okay.
And what would be your advice for helping to supplement the seeded plants, nutrient
demands after it has been pollinated?
Because it seems as though the nutrient requirements for a seeded plant is probably
about on par for a flowering plant, at least from what I've seen.
But at the same time, you know, it seems as though you can certainly keep a seeded
plant very happy.
And I think that's maybe a little bit of a misconception.
People think that seeded plant will just look shit or maybe like they use it to give
credence to the fact that their plant looks shit.
Nah, like they should look pretty good, you know, like when I make seeds, like a lot of
the stuff, it looks just very similar to the room, like when it's unseeded, you know,
like very, very fat and swole calyxes because there's actually seeds in it instead of
them just swelling.
Lots of resin, lots of stink, you know, everything's right on point with that.
I've always been under the thought of like, I mean, you're reproducing, you know, and
you know, new life is being created.
Not only is it being created, but it's being created at like, you know, 15 or 20
thousand fold that you would want to facilitate the building, the DNA building blocks as
much as possible.
So I think like the amino acids and heavy emphasis, not so much on the NPK side, but a
lot of other smaller things that go unnoticed tend to tend to help facilitate the seed
making as well.
Boron is a real big one.
And yeah, you know, like I said, you know, keeping a good steady diet or that type of
stuff, you know, pretty moderate NPK seems to do the best.
Yeah, OK, awesome.
And so what would be your advice to people who feel like they've got a pretty solid
grasp on organics, but are really looking to take it to the next level, whether it be,
you know, in general, maybe they're looking to get a bit more out of their crop, you
know, like what's kind of your advice maybe in terms of resources to look up, products
to look into, things like that, you know, like what's some of the more advanced stuff
that you feel can help people take their game to the next level?
I really feel like the most simple approach is always the best in that a lot of it
really falls into your environment.
And like you were saying earlier, really tuning your plant, knowing exactly how much it
wants to eat or not eat.
So, you know, like you're saying, like you got a plant that doesn't show any deficiencies
at all, but, you know, had you fed it that little more, it would have doubled in size,
what have you.
Vice versa with the one that's not burning, but, you know, it's being overfed.
So it doesn't want to blow out.
So I think a lot of it has to do with like one's tuning to a plant and then also their
environment, you know, making sure the environment's real nice temperature, humidity
wise.
Light intensity is also a big one.
A lot of people overkill their plants.
So, you know, if you can get like a little cheap light meter, play around with that a
little bit, that tends to help.
And as far as like nutrition wise, like I'm pretty sold on the dragonfly stuff, man.
You know, so I used to like make my own little teas from scratch, you know, raw
amendments.
But like the dragonfly is taking it up, you know, quite a substantial notch.
So I'm real big on that.
Adding grow stones and everything to the soil when you're not breaking the root ball
up and tilling it all up, you know, I don't want to say like I'm doing no till, but I
mean, essentially.
Yeah, you know how I grew.
Yeah.
I just remembered how you were like, ain't no no till going on here.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, exactly.
That was a really good accent too.
That's funny as shit.
Well, as it turns out, we're down to like our last few questions.
So, first one I've been asking everyone over the past few months, it's kind of like
died off a bit, but I think it's still a bit of a pertinent question.
Should you ask for permission?
So let's give the most extreme example.
You know, obviously, given you've got a good relationship with Mass G, this would
never actually happen.
But let's just say you went to recreate a batch of grim dog and for whatever reason,
he contacts you and says, I'm really not comfortable with you doing that.
Would that be enough for you to not do it?
Or, you know, like, do you feel like you need to respect someone's intentions to the
point where like it could literally stop you from making something like that?
Or you know what I mean?
Where do you sit on that issue?
Well, me personally, like, you know, I have a respect for people and, you know, I was
raised pretty good.
So like me personally, I'd be like, yeah, without a doubt, you got it.
At 86 at that moment, you know.
Um, I know a lot of people don't, you know, cause like they don't, their
circumstances are different than mine.
You know, if the guy, the guy who, you know, pop the seed that found the client is
also the same dude that gave me the client.
The whole reason I got it, then, you know, I'm going to respect that, you know, but a
lot of these guys, you know, they, they scored their client off of a forum from a
guy's guys, cousins, uncles from Maui and Oregon's finest fucking underground
brotherhood, crazy shit.
You know, he doesn't know him.
He's never met him, you know, probably just doesn't give a fuck, you know?
So, you know, that guy, you know, it's different than me.
So, and so with me, you know, I always got a, you know, a lot of respect for, for
people, you know,
Good game plan.
Alrighty.
So next little question, I think you'll be able to help me resolve is after discussing
it with a few people, the consensus seems to be that the Joshie D OG is the ghost OG,
but it's not the TK, but people seem to be suggesting that it's probably an S one of
the TK.
How does that all sound to you in terms of like correctness, so to speak?
Should have found that man.
Like I always thought that they were all the same, but yeah.
Okay.
I mean, yeah, maybe, maybe they are.
Cause like I've never been able to like, so like if it's, let's say like Josh D comes
up and he's like, Hey buddy, here's this, this OG Kush, you know, I want you to get
to grow it.
I'm like, okay.
And if he told me like, yeah, this, like, you know, we had a buddy that held onto the
clone and called him ghost and you know, blah, blah, blah.
They run through the story and it's tells me like, yeah, it's the same clone.
It's just a different name.
It would be like skunk VA chem dog.
Right.
It's really, it's chem dog.
Right.
But you know, there's something else attached to it, but you know, you could say
it's like, yeah, it's the same client.
Now, if he gave that to me and then say like cornbreads, like, Hey buddy, here's my
TK con grow it.
Now, if I can grow them side by side, then maybe I could, I could answer that
better, but I've never had that.
That happened.
So, and like, it's weird too.
Cause like, you know, people's like gross style and stuff.
Like, you know, you can smoke something and it tastes completely different than
the other guy.
They're growing like the same shit, but you know, they have a little bit different
way of doing it, you know, sometimes things express a little bit differently.
So that's always real, real hard.
Yeah, totally.
I think it's actually quite dramatic.
The differences from person to person where it's at the point where even if you run
in all the same strains as say your mate, like you're going to kind of have your own
weed in a way, like, you know, like it's, you got your own little fingerprint of
growing almost.
Yeah, man.
Yeah, exactly.
Alrighty.
So, one question I wanted to ask you was, do you have like a cut of Northern Lights
or like something akin to that, that you use or you just never interested?
Like it's never really come up when we've been chatting.
Yeah, I do.
But you know, like Northern Lights, it's like one of them things.
Um, like if somebody like offers it to me, right?
Like I'm always real leery of it.
It's like sour diesel or something, you know, it's like, ah, you know, I don't
know, man, you know?
Yeah.
But yeah.
Yeah.
And like, that's that's another little another little project that's going on at
the same time.
You said all all in due time, buddy.
All in due time.
Sneaky.
Very sneaky.
Alrighty.
Lucky last question.
Oh, sorry, go on.
I was done.
All right.
So, yeah, lucky last question for today at least is would you and should other people
use Cindy99 as a male more so than a female in any breeding projects they're looking to
do?
And the reason why I think of that is because all the females are consistently
phenomenal.
And, you know, the males are basically just male versions of the females.
And so, there's really like no guesswork in it, you know?
It seems like, um, it seems like, yeah, like you're just going to have a killer male
no matter what.
So, with that in mind, would you not want to use it as a male in the cross because taking
the guesswork out of finding a good male?
Um, nah, I mean, it's a pretty good place to start.
And like, um, anything that's been inbred, you know, heavily that still produces like
really killer female offspring, um, and like, you know, fairly consistent, you know,
that's that's going to help you a lot.
So, like skunk one, you know, that was like bred to like F4, you know, that was, that
was a great one to use, you know, that's why it was like a pretty good backman.
Some of the Northern Lights that were worked same way.
Um, it gave you a pretty predictable outcome in that F1 generation, you know, and then
the rest of it was kind of working up to you, you know, either filly breed it or bat
cross it or whatever you were going to do.
Yeah.
I mean, my experience with the one that I had selected was, um, it wasn't taking
anything away from the, from the mother and the offspring, you know, it was just
kind of adding, adding some good, some good notes to it, you know, so that, that
was nice.
It wasn't like overly dominating, which to me is like kind of important.
Like if you're making like F1, because you know, the mother's like, it's got so
many good qualities that you really want to retain, you could go that route and just
kind of enhance it a little bit.
You know, it's going to change some, of course, but you retain a lot of those high
notes from the mom.
So, um, that was a, you know, pretty good thing.
Okay.
I thought of a, actually a sneaky last question for you.
Hopefully, hopefully this one will make you laugh.
We got, we got the newest Hyde strain on the scene in my opinion, and it's somewhat
related to you, so you're going to have to have an opinion on it.
GMO.
Oh yeah.
It's the Chem D and the cooks.
Yep.
Is it, how do you feel?
You, do you feel like betrayed in a way?
No, no.
Um, I had, so like my buddy, he, uh, he stays up in Oregon.
He's, uh, got it held onto my Chem D cut for me for like freaking ever.
He, uh, he made a form cut cookies, uh, and pollinated it with the Chem D, like
a hot minute back and, um, they, they're, they're nowhere, like, they're not the
same type of, um, offspring.
Cause that GMO is like kinda, kinda garlicky funky, you know?
Um, his like turned out like, it was really good.
It was like one of the times where like it was a cookie hybrid and I was like,
Oh, that was actually pretty, pretty damn good, man.
And, um, I actually liked it.
And like I see collective and skunk, you know, they did the, the chem scout, you
know, that one was pretty good too.
So like they go, they go pretty, pretty good together, man.
That's it.
That's it.
So when can we expect the, uh, the GMO cube project to be done?
That's somebody else to do right there.
Alrighty.
Well, um, any comments, shout outs, anything you wanted to make?
Oh, just thanks for, uh, thanks for having me on again.
And, um, yeah, I mean, if I get to doing shout outs, this is too many people, man.
Anybody I know, yeah, it's locked it all into everybody.
And, uh, you know, a little patience down South and, um, dragonfly earth medicine.
And yeah.
And, uh, come by, see me at, uh, Emerald cup.
I think it's a booth 92 and it's going to be, so you have to come say hey to me and
it's going to be a, and get some miles and get seeds or just come by and shoot the
shit, whatever's clever.
Come on through.
There we have a gang part two done.
Hope you enjoyed it.
Like I did.
Big, big thank you to 420 Australia OGS and our Patreon sponsors.
Stay tuned for more content soon and be sure to check out Duke and scum spoof.
The Emerald cup.
I'll see you there.
