Hello and welcome to the next episode of The Podcast, the cannabis podcast for budding
enthusiasts.
As always, you're joined by your host, Heavy Days here from the Upside Down Library, and
we would like to give a big shout out to our sponsors who help make the show happen.
Number one in the industry, not just for genetics, but also for their incredible customer service.
If you're not happy at the end of the grow, hit them up.
They'll fix you up.
They only stock breeders they know and vouch for, and they got all the biggest, latest
drops, hottest breeders, everything you could want.
Go check them out.
See it's here now.
Likewise, in order to assess your genetics and find the best phenotype, you need to have
a happy and healthy garden.
And in order to do that, we recommend you check out our friends at Coppert Biological
Systems.
These guys have all the best predators and feeds in the game to keep your garden pest
and pathogen free, ready to give you the best crop to date.
Check out the Spidex Vital or the Afi Par M, both designed for cannabis environments
to help your plants thrive and be pest and pathogen free.
Coppert Biological Systems.
Shout out, guys.
Likewise, shout out to our friends at Pro-Mix.
You know them, you love them.
They've produced great media over the years, but now they've got an incredible mycorrhizal
product for you, Pro-Mix Connect, with the highest guarantee on viable spore count in
the game.
It is the best option.
Check out Pro-Mix Connect for increased resin, increased terpene, increased yield, increased
everything.
I don't need to tell you about mycorrhizal, guys.
You know it.
Get the best on the market.
You won't regret it.
Pro-Mix Connect.
Thank you very much.
Finally, huge shout out to our friends at Charlie's Cannabis.
Family owned, veteran operated, craft flower.
Everything single source production.
Nothing sourced from outside.
Everything they sell from the pre-rolls to the flowers, absolute top quality.
Trust me, guys.
You really want to support a good brand, good people behind it.
Charlie's Cannabis.
Get all over it, guys.
Top quality.
Fire.
And last but not least, a huge shout out to the Patreon supporters.
You guys are the lifeblood of the show.
You help make episodes happen.
Please go check it out at patreon.com forward slash the podcast.
Unheard episodes, exclusive content.
Check it out.
On this episode, we're joined by the crowd favorite, the skunk warrior himself, the head
honcho of Dominion Seed Co., Duke Diamond VA.
Here to chat genetics, plans for the future, what he's been up to.
So much more.
Let's get into it.
Alrighty, my friends, we are back for another one.
And on this one, a huge welcome to the true skunk commander, the man behind Dominion Seed
Co., Keeper of the Fire, a very special man to me indeed.
Duke Diamond, welcome back on the show, my friend.
Thank you, buddy.
Good to be here.
As always, good to have you on.
How are you doing today?
Oh, man.
Doing spiffy.
How are you?
Yeah, not bad.
Not bad.
I had like probably the first dab I've had in probably years last night.
And I feel like I have a bong over so hard right now.
That will happen.
Yeah, it's not going away.
Yeah, like it was good in the moment.
I was like, oh, yeah, I'm pretty high again.
But yeah, wow.
Because it's like I went in sometimes when you talk to people who don't smoke weed often,
they say that they like, oh, the next day, do you feel real foggy?
And it's like, I feel that right now.
Oh, yeah.
Tolerance is getting down, but yeah, save a lot of money that way.
Right.
And how about yourself?
Have you been able to partake in anything or you still need to abstain for a bit?
Yeah, definitely got to abstain for the time being.
Probably this time next year, I'll be good to go.
But I'm going to say that tolerance will be good and new.
It'll be like the first time again.
That's awesome.
Dude, I'm jealous.
I took a two-week break about a year ago.
Even two weeks.
I can only imagine a year is going to be so good.
Oh, man, I remember what happened the last time I got off the paper and I went and blazed
and shit before I even played the second poke out.
Man, I was like, I should probably left that at one.
Holy shit.
I was fucking blasted.
When that happened last time, what was the first thing you smoked?
Was it something where you were like, oh, man, I'm just so itching for this?
Well, I had an outdoor and by the time I was shop and ready, that was about the time when
I was off the paper and it was fucking some outdoor Jack the Ripper.
There you go.
Shout out.
So cool.
Yeah, man.
He right when I got out, he was like, yep, want some beans?
I was like, yep.
So he sent them on the way and 48 hours later, they were ready to rock and roll, man.
Beautiful stuff.
Beautiful stuff.
And if we sort of fast forward now, is there anything that sort of front runner in your
mind where you're like, once I'm able to, that's going to be the one I'm hitting first?
Yeah, I've been thinking through it through my mind.
And I think it's going to be some eagle.
I'm screaming eagle.
I was saying, I should be some free bird, but I think I'm going to go with the eagle.
Yeah, I still so fondly remember that eagle from years ago.
I don't know if they're all like this, but the one I tried from you, it was like, had
that sort of citrus vibe to it.
Beautiful stuff.
Yeah, it was like that rainbow candy, lemony, citrusy type shit going on.
Yeah, that was definitely a dominant one amongst all the Finos, you know.
Out of curiosity, I had thought about this years ago and I was looking at the genetics
and I was like, oh man, where did this flavor come from?
Because in my mind, I was like, I can't see the clear parent where it's like, oh, it's
from this.
What was it in your mind?
That purpley candy rainbow type thing was coming from that 88 and then that citrusy
side, that was definitely out of the airborne.
There you go.
That makes sense because I don't know why, but for the longest time I thought, is this
Kandahar got like something funky going on in it?
No, no.
I could distinctly taste it, especially from each one individually.
I was like, yeah, it's like the perfect little blend of harmony, symmetry thing going on.
I was like, wow, that's super cool.
Because that doesn't happen much where you get a good mix of flavor.
It's a very rare thing and it worked out really good that way.
Yeah, beautiful stuff.
Beautiful stuff.
Beautiful stuff.
I guess the first thing to maybe clear the air, although probably everyone's aware is
you recently got out of jail.
Would you be able to tell us a little bit more about that if you're willing to?
Yeah.
Yeah, I was just down.
I was in the jail for a while while I was going through the motions and fighting shit
I was waiting on them because literally everything came to a screeching halt.
Normally the process goes through a whole lot quicker because of COVID.
They were shutting the courts down and everything else.
So amongst every other thing that was fucking up, that was that.
So I stayed an unusually long time there.
I think it was just over a year just sitting there in that fucking jail.
And then once I did that, they come to you, you can sign off, whatever, guilty.
So it's like kind of an option.
Once they got you there, you're not getting out.
You can either take the next three to five years fighting it, spend shit tons of money
and have your pride and be like, yeah, see, I was right.
Or it's like the chances of winning are not good.
They have like a 99% conviction rate.
Even if you're right, they're like, no, you're wrong because we say so.
You can either do that or you can look at the time and look at the maximum that you're looking at losing.
So if you're looking like, say, 24 to 30 months or something like that, you're like, all right, two and a half years.
And I'm already about a year into it.
Let's go time and everything.
Be about another year.
Do I do that or do I spend three to five years and a shit ton of money staying here just to lose?
And that ensures that, hey, you're definitely going to get the high end either way.
So it's like you got to make that call.
You got to put up your fight.
Let them know you need business and shit.
But there comes a point where it's just you're not going to get the fair shake.
So once a sign off, get fucking guilty, get sentenced or whatever.
It's 29 months.
So I got like a year already knocked off of it with a good time and everything.
It's like going to be another year.
So then it's like, all right, now you can finally start your journey of getting to the top.
You can finally start your journey of getting done.
So they're going to throw you on Conair.
You're going to go to prison.
And there's like an intermediate step.
There's like a transit hub in Oklahoma, but they closed it down because of COVID.
So there was all maximum security state joint, but they had closed down.
Private corporation bought it out.
So they were just sticking us all there.
We were doing normally in transit, you're doing like a day to three days.
This turned into many months and that place is just fucking off the chain, man.
And so then once you get shipped out of there, you get back on Conair and then you hit your final destination, which was Florence, Colorado.
And then, you know, just wrap it up there and get out on the second.
And that was pretty awesome.
Pretty awesome.
And it was good to get to be back and get a hold of everybody.
You know, see everybody's good and everybody hitting you up, you know, it's real nice.
A lot of love out there.
It's pretty, pretty awesome thing.
Yeah, that's so fantastic to hear you're out.
I'm sure a lot of the community sort of rallied behind that.
Just to clarify, because I know a lot of people had asked, are you willing to disclose with us why you ended up going to jail?
Yeah, of course.
Yeah, I guess I was telling you earlier, it's like it's free.
It's on the Internet. You can read all about it.
All the sentencing shit and everything.
Felon in possession of a firearm.
And like some people are like, why, why, why?
It's like straight up, you know, it's a fucking crazy place.
People are shooting up fucking Walmarts and fucking whacking people in fucking grocery stores and shit like that.
I, you know, I was very adamant.
I'm not going to be that guy that's going to get fucking shot up.
I'm not going to watch a bunch of, you know, random people just get fucking mowed down.
My family's not going to get fucking hurt or friends are not going to get hurt.
If I'm there and I'm like, you know, it'll say anything.
I'd rather rather get caught with it than without it.
Unfortunately, you know, got caught with it.
But, you know, that's the price price that you pay.
Now, was it a good decision?
I don't know. Probably not.
But that's, you know, given the the the way the climate was then.
Yeah, it wasn't it wasn't it was kind of it's a gamble.
But at the same note, and shit was fucking going nuts, man.
So, you know, I made my decision.
I stand by it.
And, you know, had to go away, do my time.
And, you know, I can say, you know, I did my time.
And walk around with my with my head up and my shoulders back, you know, so.
You can't can't make that risk anymore, because then they hit you with like that repeat.
Repeat offender basically is what it is.
So and then that's too much time to look at, you know, like you can look at it like a risk and reward thing.
And yeah, that it would just be too much.
So I just have to keep it at a keep it at a knife.
And just, I guess, stay away from Walmart and, you know, most of civilization, I guess, if, you know, yeah, world's this world's going crazy, you know, just have to, you know, put the coin toss and it's like, all right, fuck it, gotta go to the grocery store, you know.
Yeah, no, look, that's that's brilliant to get clarification on that.
And I think a lot of people can understand where you're coming from with that.
And, you know, as you said, the world's going crazy.
And something I specifically wanted to ask is, you've, for better or worse, been away pretty much all through COVID.
And I wanted to ask you specifically, I remember seeing some news stories about how people in jails weren't really being protected or looked after properly in regards to COVID.
Do you have any sort of experiences or insights around that at all?
Oh, yeah.
I mean, it's flat out like, you know, your your society's unwanted.
I mean, just cut and dry, man, they don't give a fuck about you.
You can live, you can die.
They don't care.
You're in human storage.
You're just you're there.
I'm not saying that everyone owns a cold blooded piece of shit.
There are some caring people, but even even if they do, the rest of that machine isn't going to cater to that one person.
You know, this guy's drowning in his own lung fluid over here.
You might want to get him out.
Well, yeah, well, we'll look into it.
A pencil a minute or something.
So, yeah, Jesus.
They were just it was it's pretty bad.
It's cramming up people together and it's got to the point where like, especially right when it happened, they're just like looking in the units.
They don't even want to come in.
It's looking like it's a room full of zombies.
You know what I mean?
So I just let everything fly.
And like normally, like there's a big fight or some people stabbing each other.
They're going to run in and stop it.
Now, there it is.
Ran ran fucking rampant.
At first, there were times where they weren't even beating us.
They didn't even want to come near the door.
Yes, they were just scared shitless, you know, about this, you know, thought.
Yeah, I was spreading around pretty, pretty rapidly.
And you just had guys trying to look out for guys to do the best.
But there's nothing you can do.
You know, it's about the extent of it is like try to get them some water out of a toilet thing to make sure that at least they got things stay hydrated.
There's really not much else you can do is their medications or anything like that.
So you just kind of just watch them die or get really sick and slowly recover.
And that's about it's about the end of that, you know.
Wow. It really does sound as bleak as like what many of the news reports said.
Yeah, it was it was really it was really bad, man.
Really, really bad. And like, you know, there'd be a TV on and the whole time it's on.
They have a fucking death toll number.
It's going up, going up, going up.
And everybody's just sitting there thinking like, oh, fuck, you know, this is it, you know.
And here we are. We're stuck in here and there's nothing nobody can do.
So it was it wasn't looking good.
It definitely was not looking good for for everything.
And I was like, man, you know, this can't be this can't be the fucking man.
I can't go down like this.
You know, just just kind of cross your fingers and hope for the best and hope you don't catch that shit.
But you're crammed in so fucking close.
Like in this one unit, there's like 80 fucking people and there's two toilets, two fucking toilets, one for pissing and one from shit.
And there's nothing around them.
It was like kind of a sit on the floor and there's industrial ones, you know, so hit the button.
Shoot. Aerosol effect up in the air.
So that's spread and shit.
There's no soap available, you know, like give you some people who got no money or whatever they can afford to get some soap to take a shower alone.
Wash your hands. So it was filthy, filthy place.
So I was like, well, you know, it's definitely, definitely not looking good.
I didn't end up and then I'm catching it.
I was thinking like, you know, as all the years being like Emerald Cup and everything and that fucking look for you that would go around every year.
I think like I built up some type of super immunity or some shit like I didn't.
Thank God, you know, I didn't.
I didn't.
Who would have thought all those years of hitting random joints and blunts might have paid off for the cannabis community.
It might have, man.
I don't know about everybody else.
But yeah, I thought about it.
I was like, you know, I've been exposed to a lot of fucked up shit, man.
So maybe my immune system will stay rock solid and I won't get this shit.
Yeah. Well, look, very happy to hear you.
You didn't end up contracting it yourself.
Sort of funny you mentioned that because when like sort of in the early stages of when COVID came out, a research paper came out from China, which basically showed that people who smoke cigarettes are at a reduced chance of contracting the virus.
And I won't go too much into the details, but basically one of the receptors in your lungs gets down regulated from smoking cigarettes.
And that's the same receptor the virus uses to enter the cells.
And there was a lot of controversy around like, do we announce this because we're worried, you know, is everyone going to start smoking to avoid this?
Yeah, we're going to say this public health service announcement sponsored by Philip Morris.
Sponsored by Philip Morris.
Good stuff. Good stuff.
Well, I mean, look, obviously having never experienced it myself, I say this with a grain of salt, but I'm sure there's rarely an abundance of overwhelmingly positive things to occur from being in jail.
But I was wanting to ask you, did you have any sort of revelations or insights?
Is there any sort of new views on life you feel like you've sort of developed since having had this experience and now being free?
Not like the first time, because after the first time, yeah, definitely, you know, you get all that self reflection time and see things, do things and then you get out and everything smells better, tastes sweeter, you know, all that good stuff.
So I already had that and that never went away.
Out of it, you know, I've always tried to make the best of every day, no matter what I'm doing or where I'm at.
And I just took the time to come up with ideas.
And I was doing a lot of writing at nighttime when it was doors locked and it's safe and quiet and you're able to concentrate.
And I was working on writing a book and I decided just coming up with a good, good, solid game plan.
So when I hit back home, you know, I could hit the ground running and everything.
And just like on the last bit, it's the same.
Anybody that ever gets locked up, you guys, it's the same thing.
You really get to see who's with you and who ain't with you.
Right. And, you know, it's the same every time.
You know, I got to see that on the last one.
I got to see it on this one, too.
So it was good to like, you know, you see where people really stand.
People are like really, really with you.
You know, ride or die, motherfuckers.
They're going to be there.
People that are against you.
And of course, they're going to take those opportunities to hate or talk shit or whatever.
And then you're going to have people that you thought were going to be there that end up not being there.
So a lot of people say, you know, it's a bummer, you know?
And yeah, it is. It's like it's bad.
Don't get me wrong. Like, you know, it's hurtful.
Right. But at the end of the day, it's like, well, fucking imagine going through life with people that you think are like that.
Just to find out that they're not way later down the road.
And I'm always I'm actually, you know, I'm a thankful, thankful person.
Just it's good to know, you know, so that way when I do move on, like, you know, I know who's who.
And that's that's a great that's a great fucking thing.
So out of all of it, I just, you know, time management, I'm not with, you know, things to do.
And then, you know, as I'm working out, you know, the normal, normal shit.
But writing that was cool.
And just, you know, seeing like, I got some real solid motherfuckers in my corner, you know?
Yeah. So many relevant topics you just touched on.
We'll come back and touch on some of the other ones shortly.
But I did want to follow up quickly on your book.
I think you really generated a bit of a buzz because many people like myself have seen, you know,
little bits and tibids of the book come out through, you know, maybe you've posted a soil mix here.
Maybe you've posted a something else there.
When do you anticipate it might be finished?
And what sort of things can people hope to learn from this book?
Well, I hate to put a timeline on it because like, it's all written, you know, and I got to type it up.
My spelling is atrocious, man.
Like, I'm just horrible.
There's so many grammatical errors, I'm sure.
So I'm guessing, you know, like, between typing it all back up, fixing all that,
continuing to add to it because there was like some lot of things I didn't have access to, some art supplies.
So there's a lot of things I wanted to draw.
You remember my old sketches and everything I would draw up.
I want to include stuff like that, good charts and like things that I really need access to, like a printer.
And, you know, a computer to do certain charts and things like that.
Because it's like a big, it's a reference type thing.
It's a how-to plus a reference.
So I got to put all that together and then got to, you know, have somebody look at it, you know, outside eyes.
Do any editing needed after that.
Then go through to the public and stuff.
And I couldn't put a definitive timeline on it.
But what people can look out of it is like, if you were, and maybe not necessarily new to growing, but you're setting up a new spot.
You know, guiding people through literally setting up the space, just to begin with plumbing, electrical,
teaching a little bit of electrical, electrical theory, like things, safety.
You know, so it's like, if you got to delve into some electrical, you can go to that.
And if you're comfortable with it, then by all means, you can go ahead and do it.
Or if you just want to know, you got your friend doing it, that's cool too.
But literally setting up the space for success before you even get started.
Because so many people would just jump right into a space and start duct tape and super glue and Velcro and all around them.
And then they're struggling the whole time and never catch up because they didn't do the important thing first, get the space straight, the environment straight.
Yes, oil mixes, a couple of different regimens that people could choose from, depending on what's in your pocket, availability.
You can mix and match, whatever, but trying to keep it very definitive.
Like, this isn't like, you know, if you're reading this, it's like, just do this, do this, do this, do this, do it this way, do it.
Just don't deviate from it.
After you do it, then at least you got, you got a good baseline of, you know, success.
So if you do said, okay, well, I want to try this, try that.
You can do that, but at least, you know, like, hey, this did better.
This did worse. Do you at least have your baseline?
So it's good for the, like to the new, the new person wanting to, wanting to get into the organics and everything.
Plus like a lot of references and shit like that to, you know, you know, like a metric, metric conversion tables and stuff like that.
You know, it comes in handy.
I mean, we all got smartphones and shit like that, but sometimes it's good just to have it, have it in a book real quick, where you can just highlight it or go right back to it.
And then in a nutshell, that's it.
I was going to include some of the other writing I did with it, but I think it's just too much.
So we'll just keep that as one thing.
And then the other book, just keep that as a, you know, a book all the time.
When you say writings, what sort of writings are we talking like uni bomber manifesto type stuff?
Nah man, just personal, personal stories, things like that.
You know, thoughts, you know, thoughts and, you know, shit about, you know, variety, variety of different things.
The world seen through, you know, another, another set of eyes and a crazy brain I guess.
I love it.
Like the modern day Marcus Aurelius meditations.
That sounds, sounds good.
And I want to put it out there now.
So everyone knows I officially called dibs on editing the book.
Oh man, you mean my editor?
We got to do it, do it like, you know, like it's cool.
Cause like I still use, use like color and favorite and stuff like that.
So it's cool.
Cause I think you'll still do that over there too.
So it's going to work out.
Sounds good.
Sounds good.
One of the fans submitted questions we got was they sort of wanted to know, first of all, was it going to be a more general or a specific book about growing?
And you sort of answer, it's going to be more general.
It's going to be like laying out all the options and people choose their own path.
But one question that did get asked was for some of your more notable strains, particularly people were asking about the who do.
I think that's just become a really popular one.
Will you maybe provide like a specifically dialed in sort of info page or do you just want to keep it quite broad?
Yeah.
With something like a book like that, you kind of, you kind of got to keep it broad, but with, with every pack that they got, there were like specific tidbits always on the back of every pack.
Like what to do week to week.
If you need to supplement more or less or something.
So they can kind of, you know, if they just, you know, if they're just looking at like a book,
if you were to stick to like the baseline of like Tom Groen in this book, and it's not going to deviate from what I'm personally doing.
So if a person isn't deviating from that, your environments, you know, in this span of acceptable, the same as mine,
ultimately at the end, if you do everything as said, me and this other person, we should have the same result.
So anything in detail that I would write about it was already, you know, it was already on the back of that pack card.
Yeah, certainly.
I think that's one of the things people view you as notable for was giving that really sort of in-depth information around the cultivars.
Well, the final sort of fan submitted question we got around this topic was they sort of asked the question of along the lines of like, you know,
there's so many different ways you can skin a cat in relation to growing organically.
They were just sort of wondering, obviously, you've got your own style.
Do you have any thoughts on the alternative styles of growing?
Like, you know, I know that you don't do like a pure no-till thing, but you do obviously do organic amended bases.
Do you have any thoughts on the other styles or do you think it's just personal preference sort of thing?
Personal preference, and like what works for you?
You know, I have, like I said, whatever person wants to do.
All means like whatever works for you and your space on your budget, like, no two people are exactly the same.
So like, I just know I like the way, the way I do it.
And I've tried, you know, different other ways.
I just felt that for my space and my style and you know, what I was doing was working best for me.
So like, and that's, that's the thing is like, there's so many ways it's going to get.
And a lot of people get info from here and info from there and they kind of muddle it up.
And sometimes it runs them into a, into a jam.
So that's why I was like, I wanted to keep it very definitively.
And like the differences is like, like I'm talking about different, different approaches to it.
And when I say different approaches, it might just be, you know, here's, here's a regimen, but the alternative that if you don't have any money, you know, you can do this and still get to that same, same part.
And even alternatively to that, if it's a dire emergency and you know, it's going to be more with, you know, fixing problems is like, here's a source of this that you can go to that could be found at a, at a grocery store.
You know what I mean?
Things, things like that, little MacGyver shit.
Yeah.
That's going to be very helpful.
I think a lot of people will find them in those situations.
So I guess I think one of the, it's sort of an obvious question to ask, but I want to ask it in a sense is, you know, people are also curious on top of my own interest.
Do you plan in the future to return to your breeding to get Dominion back up and running, or do you plan to do things slightly different to how they were before you left when the time's right, that is?
Yeah.
Yeah, exactly.
And you know, when the time's right, yeah, full speed ahead.
Yeah.
It's just the same thing.
You know, just taking my time through it and not being in a rush and putting out, putting out good work for people.
You know, and I got a lot of other, you've already heard, you know, I got a lot of other projects like that.
You even inspired me.
I'm gonna do my own little podcast, but it's going to be different.
Yeah, it's going to be a way, way different type approach and everything.
And it's not going to be 100% Hannah based.
You know what I mean?
So I just know, you know, I met a lot of interesting, a lot of interesting people talk about different shit.
It's like we're all into all types of different stuff.
It's like that the scene or industry or whatever you're into.
It's like people just look down like tunnel vision.
Like, oh, that's all this person does.
Well, no, I had so many other things surrounding this in my life that I like to do and stuff.
And like, you know, you know me.
So, you know, I'm in all types of cool, different little hobbies and shit like that.
Interesting, fun stuff.
And I think a lot of other people are too.
It's just that while we're talking about something we're really passionate about, that's all that really gets brought up.
But once you really get the talking and knowing somebody, you might find out, hey man, we're professional bass fishermen or whatever.
You just never know.
So from biochemist, you know, I can know all.
And they'll just have to tune in and keep it suspenseful.
That's exciting.
Do you plan to just sort of some point in the future or any sort of plans specifically?
Yeah, yeah.
Here in the near future, I'm going to start working on it.
But I'm going to jam a few out before I ever start putting them out.
That way I don't miss any like lapses.
That way every week, you know, people can look forward to it being there, you know.
Maybe a follow up question to the breeding one.
A lot of people were interested.
Do you have access to, you know, some of the old genetics, some of the old seeds, some of the old clones?
Or do you envision that when you do get things back up and running, it'll be sort of a fresh start, so to speak?
A little bit of both.
So like I still have everything I had backed up.
So, you know, and I did it in a fail safe fashion too.
So it's like in a few places.
One, the other one, the other one had it, you know, because, you know, life happens, shit happens, especially when you eat regularly.
Right. So, yeah, man.
So, you know, I still have all that, all that stuff to continue any future work along lines I might have already dealt with to continue on.
I had a bunch of projects that I had to put on hold.
A lot of final steps were done and it was ready for that final, that final thing.
So, you know, we.
I don't know, man, like it's just.
I got a lot of plans and, you know, I mean, I don't I don't like to I don't like to give too much out.
I want to show my hands too early.
You know, I was looking to copy your empty ripoff or whatever.
So there's going to be some there's going to be some new things.
I don't know how to say it without giving it away.
So I just have to wait and see.
Right.
I mean, on that train of thought, I think there's probably a lot of people who in the community have been sitting on some of your packs for a while.
And I'm wondering, do you have any recommendations for people, you know, like if they're sitting on a certain thing, like, oh, man, you should really pop that one.
That was the thing, like, you know, if you ever came to a show or talk to me personally, I'm like, well, what should I get?
I would say, well, what do you need?
Like, what are you lacking in life?
What are you looking for?
And I'd go from there.
Is it a medical necessity or a certain smell of taste you're looking for?
You know, and go from there.
So I would say just, you know, did pretty I did a pretty good job on descriptions and everything.
So I just look at and see what you what you what you what you want, what you're lacking in life.
And, you know, just go from there.
I would say, like, if you just been sitting on them for a real long time, maybe get if you got one that's like real old, maybe get those get those pop in first because they're not getting any younger.
But outside of that, man, just stick with stick with what you're what you want and what you want and need right now, because obviously they bought them for some some kind of reason.
You know?
Yeah, definitely.
And look, you gave me a great segue there because specifically, obviously, all of the Dominion releases have been very successful.
But specifically, I've had a lot of people message me and tell me that they found some gold and stuff out of the vault series.
And I guess I'm wondering, do you have any future plans for sort of some vault stuff?
Or do you think it'll be more like the strict Dominion stuff going forward?
I mean, that could happen again.
But a lot of the vault stuff was like you had things that may have been intended, like, all right, you know, I want to try to do this.
I want to I want to work this line, whatever.
And then you go and you try it out.
You make you make a hybrid.
You're going to find a male out there.
You're going to go to the next step, make the next step, you grow them out.
You're like, wow, that totally did not work out at all.
However, the original hybrid that you made for that male, the females, right.
So it's like, well, they're not going to do anything else.
That project's not going to move forward anymore.
But the shit all all aside was awesome.
So, you know, let's go ahead and let some let some people people enjoy that.
So that was kind of the whole thing with that.
Yeah, definitely.
I know specifically something I wanted to ask you and I think I already know the answer.
So I'm sort of cheating myself here.
But I remember you made some hybrids with specifically you did the eugenics male to the skunk Northern Lights 5 female.
Hazy Haze.
Yeah.
Oh my God.
That female like because I found a clone in those seeds.
And in my opinion, it was one of my best clones for ages.
And sadly, I lost it when I was moving.
But I just thought, man, if there's ever another chance for me to find like a pheno like that, I would jump on it.
Do you have access to that sort of plant anymore?
Is it gone?
Yeah.
Like I given some seeds to a friend that said they had a bunch of stuff of mine.
And they do.
So when I get around to him, I got a fucking Amish buddy.
He loves that shit.
There is a long story like back when I was working on a steel mill in Pennsylvania.
He was getting the weed out of this barn shit.
So ever since then, he's been kind of stuck on it.
So when I get to those, I have to make sure that Queens male finds their way to you.
Look, you're too kind.
You're too kind.
I don't know why this jumped into my head.
But for some reason, it did when you were sort of talking about where you've been in the past.
I was wondering, I'm not sure if you've been like 100% up to date with it all.
But did you have any thoughts on the progression of the medical cannabis laws around Virginia?
Because a lot of people have been excited about that since it's happened.
And I was wondering, what's your thoughts?
I mean, it's super awesome what's going on there.
I would say like just the biggest thing I can say to them is like, you fought hard to get it there.
Don't stop fighting.
Because just look at the history of every other state.
Look at the progression of how they work.
It's basically the corporate and government game plan.
They want to take, take, take.
So just look at the mistakes of everyone before you.
And fight that plan.
Don't let them take that from you.
Hard to get there.
Don't let them take it from you through the guise of different rec laws and shit like that.
They put a law in front of you.
Don't just stop.
Oh yeah, that sounds great.
Read the whole fucking thing.
Read the fine print.
The devil's in the details.
So the second you forget history, that's when shit starts to repeat itself.
So just stay very adamant.
Stay very vigilant.
And keep it strong.
I know how my bros and sisters are out in Virginia.
They're a rowdy fucking bunch, man.
So they ain't going to let nothing go easily.
Just stay vigilant and don't let them take shit.
Some brilliant words of encouragement there.
And I guess as a follow up, do you see a time when you might head back to Virginia to do your breeding work?
Or the law is just not quite where they need to be to allow that yet?
Yeah, it would still be a little too early on.
But I saw the mode of action and how things are supposed to be implemented.
So it's going to be a couple of years down the road before it's there.
But I'll definitely be back there just hanging out and just making trips and everything.
But before I get to move back to the motherland, it's going to be a couple of years before it's proper ready.
Yeah, sure.
I mean, if we look at California under the same sort of lens and sort of analyzing the legislation they've brought in,
a lot of people have been critical of 215, including myself, I'm sure yourself, for like a long time in California.
And recently I had Ed Rosenthal on the show and he made an interesting point where he said,
Look, could the laws be better? Sure.
But at the end of the day, if you're keeping people out of jail for cannabis, that's a net win.
No matter how much it could be improved, you have to view it as a net win that we're keeping people out of jail for cannabis.
And I thought, given your recent departure from jail, would you say that this is,
as much as it might be a bit of taste in people's mouth, because there's a lot of people who don't like the way their business has been affected because of it,
would you agree with Ed Rosenthal in that sense in saying that keeping people out of jail should probably be the number one priority?
Yeah, of course, because like you're saying the words legal,
recreationally legal, like the word legal.
How in the fuck is anybody going to jail over something they call legal?
You know what I mean?
That's kind of absurd to me. So, yeah, people definitely shouldn't be getting hauled off for it.
Does that happen? Yeah, absolutely.
And maybe it's changed since they first implemented it, but like Sun Grand Neds and a few other guys that are real savvy with everything going on, these laws and everything,
they were like my go to's. And since I didn't live in the state either, I'm only going to know what's being shown to me and told to me.
And when they had met or whatever, I guess like when they went rec, some of the penalties for certain things changed and it was worse than it was beforehand.
So, I don't know if that was in the proposal or if that's actually what went through a long time ago.
I thought that, you know, I was like, man, it's kind of fucked up, man. And how is it going to be legal?
And so like somebody is going to get a fucking joint over it, like fucked up.
Yeah, I mean, you raise a brilliant point there.
It's almost a contradiction, right? The fact is legal, but people still go to jail, especially when you think about the Sackler family, the guys who put out what is like oxy and stuff.
And it's like those motherfuckers aren't going to jail and yet people with a few pounds, a few plants over that. Yeah, it's such a contradictory, isn't it?
Yeah, yeah. Big, big time, man. So, so yeah, like, yeah, definitely believe like nobody should be tossed down over, over a plant.
Like, if you want to like make the argument like, well, they're non-regulated grower and they're growing and doing all this.
Well, I don't I don't see that as a crime, like, you know, but if they want to like, you know, further it and say, well, the reason why is like, dude was making a million dollars and not paying taxes.
OK, not paying taxes on revenue. OK, cool. Right. Of course, like, dude, broke the law, whatever.
But, you know, everything before that, like, if you want to grow a fucking plant, you should be able to grow a fucking plant, you know. And that's just my opinion on it, you know.
No, I think that's that's a very insightful take for sure.
Another one that's weird is like Washington, D.C. It's not a state district of Columbia where they make the laws and everything, you know, for the White House is and all that.
So since it's not a state, it's governed by federal law. So the other argument is like, oh, you know, and I'm going through that now.
It's the reason I can't blaze on federal probation. So since we federally illegal, they say it doesn't matter what the state is, the feds are going to trump over, you know, what the state says.
So, OK, so how on the fuck is we still federally illegal when it's recreationally legal in Washington, D.C., a land governed by federal law?
Riddle me that.
Yeah, yeah. It's very contradictory, isn't it?
Very, yeah, very, very contradictory, very frustrating. Just to think about it, you know, it's like we're almost in 2022 and still having that thought.
Like, why? Like, how is this still a thing, you know?
Do you foresee a time in the near future when, you know, some of these inconsistencies get ironed out or do you think it's just going to nag along forever?
I think as long as you got a lot of a lot of the old guys that are still hanging in there that are influenced by pharma and stuff like that, lobbyists and everything, special interest groups, you're going to have a lot of foot dragging.
Even though if they know damn right that they're dead wrong, they're still going to do it because, you know, money or promises or whatever.
And it's going to take a while. Those fathers got to start getting out or dying or whatever.
You know, it's weird because like a lot of the people that are lawmakers and everything, they're like really old people, really old school ways of using old school ways of thought.
And they're kind of, you know, they're kind of fucked up.
I mean, it's like proven fact, you know, they take all this special interest money and stuff and see where it comes from.
Like, yeah, of course, you know, like pharmaceuticals is like super huge and, you know, donate all this money to this person.
They're very adamant about like, hey, you know, I don't think it should be legal.
Oh, why? Oh, well, you know, the kids because, you know, actually it shows that like, you know, this market has gone dramatically down by underage people, blah, blah, blah.
And like, there's some facts where, no, no, no, I don't think so.
Because, you know, because I say so.
So, yeah, maybe next time, boys, you know, that's if it should.
It's insane, isn't it? How many people are guided by just feelings or religious views or contextual society stuff of like, yeah, it's wild.
Yeah, it's really, really, really insane, man.
Especially they keep people like pitted against each other all the time too.
You know, division, you know, that's a good way to keep doing what you're doing.
You keep people divided from coming together.
And, you know, that's an old school trick.
They do it every day.
People still falling for that shit.
Maybe we just need to get our own cannabis lobbyists and get some equal representation.
Yeah, yeah, that would be cool.
Yeah, a lot of money for that, man.
A whole lot of money for that.
We're talking a lot.
Millions and millions and millions and millions of dollars that they're pumping all the time.
So, like, you got to be able to keep up with that.
That's the hard thing to do, man.
Yeah, it's interesting, right?
Because you sort of painted and actually quite a clear picture in my mind there where a lot of people in the community are really critical of brands that aren't striving to be the absolute best.
Absolute pinnacle.
You know, we always hear about how people say, oh, if you want to be the Bud Light of cannabis, go for it or whatever.
And you sort of just made me realize maybe we do need more of that so that there are people who can throw millions of dollars at lobbyists.
Because maybe that's what you need, like, you know, the mass production mid-tier.
Because maybe, yeah, like, you know, maybe Jungle Boys is never going to do it themselves.
Well, I think that's the thing is like people automatically associate anybody doing it big with mids.
Because, I mean, primarily, yeah, I mean, that's kind of how it is.
That's not to say that there aren't going to be some people that come up and just fucking kill it and do it the right way, you know, and do it without any outside corporate money.
There's people that self-start, but that's the bad part about being a self-starter is like, you don't have all these investors.
You don't have a lot of money.
You're like fucking running it out grassroots to make it big.
Right?
And there just hasn't been enough time for a lot of these people to shine.
They're out there slugging it out.
And they're getting there.
But that time is still going to come.
And I think, yeah, when you do get there, then it's not going to be like, you know, you said the Bud Light of weed.
I mean, yeah, you know, that's right.
But, you know, it's not to say somebody can't, you know, take what they're doing and still keep quality high and then also keep production high.
Like, there's ways to do it.
It's just a lot of the chaps that had all that big investment money that went in and just threw millions of dollars at it and blew up big.
They're not they're not craft type growers.
They're not really growers at all.
You know, they're just kind of hiring mediocre people for a mediocre pay, which is going to end up being a mediocre job.
So it's the same like skilled labor isn't cheap.
Cheap labor isn't skilled and they're paying cheap, man.
So you get kind of get what you pay for.
So I think I think we'll see a change in the near future.
And especially you start looking like states like Virginia coming online.
There's a lot of farm boys there and girls, you know, that really know how to know how to do big things.
So I got a lot of hope and I got a lot of faith in Virginia.
Hell yeah, that's exciting.
If we just sort of change the topic for a minute, I was hoping to get into some breeding stuff because probably the majority of questions that were submitted by listeners were related to that.
And I think, you know, if I sort of amalgamate many of the questions slash concerns together, I think I can sort of embody it with the question of, you know, have you changed your mind at all in regards to the direction you want to take your breeding?
Because in the past, you've always felt that there's a certain importance around certain cultivars, like notably sort of some of the chem family, the skunks, for example.
You worked extensively with some of these lines 88G13.
Do you think that you're going to continue with that direction or do you have an inkling to welcome some new blood into the haram?
Well, I don't have anything really against anything new and there are going to be some new things.
But yeah, man.
So, you know, yeah, definitely some of the new.
Back then, you know, I just had goals in mind and I start off with what you want to go and, you know, go from there.
And I had some some things I wanted to see, things I wanted to do and some goals.
And I worked hard toward those goals and then I made those goals happen.
So there's some some that aren't aren't finished, you know, that I still got.
So, you know, pick up there.
But yeah, there's a whole bunch of other things I'd like to do.
And yeah, it involves some new things, something new, something old.
Yeah, nice.
I mean, is there any specific lines of yours that you're really itching to get back into or it's going to be more open, platter and evaluate?
Well, I wanted to I wanted to finish up.
Primarily, like a couple of projects that I had, like I said, I was on that last step.
So I want to get them knocked out first and foremost.
After that point, I got a couple of mine, but I don't want to show my hands too early, man.
Yeah, no, understandable for sure.
Well, I had some questions from listeners who were hoping maybe you could give them a little bit more sort of of an explanation or just maybe some thoughts on some of the packs they got from you.
And one of the ones that caught my eye was someone was interested to know what are the differences in your mind between, say, the Skunk Band and the Dead Band, given, you know, they are fairly similar.
Yeah, very similar.
One's one's given more more of the narcotic knockdown stone and you're getting a difference in the flavonoids, you know, more of the more of the hashy, hashy, funky or rag side of things.
And also like structure and girth like half to it to that dead band was definitely had the more the more half to it.
Skunk Band had more of that headband type sour consistency to the body.
Dead Band definitely had more of a more of a knockdown, knockdown type stone too.
Yeah, beautiful stuff there.
Do you have any plans to re-release any of the lines or you just want to focus on new things going forward?
Well, there were certain things that I made and I thought I made enough.
But the problem was like every not a problem is a good problem is like people are really digging the work.
And as it was like it was catching on as I'm doing it.
So they get on to this new thing to them.
It's like it's been out for six months or a year and they're gone, you know, and I was just all about moving forward, moving forward.
So there were certain ones that were very exceptional that I was like it's worthy of the time to take it to an F3 or an F4 and put it back out there.
So there are some of those that I would definitely go that route with.
That's going to be a hopeful answer to a lot of people listening because I was going to say I did a quick little tally of the strains that got mentioned from the listeners
and the top three that people had questions about or were just in general really excited about was the Polkat backcross,
which I think might sort of fall into the category you just mentioned where you know people only really realized about it, you know, months after the release.
But the other two that made the list was the local skunk and the hoodoo.
Were those some of the lines that you know you were thinking in that last answer?
Yeah, absolutely.
Absolutely.
Those are definitely ones.
Screaming Eagle definitely would make the list for me too.
And you see like a lot of people don't know but people that do know, they know.
So yeah, that's definitely another one, you know, because only so many people had that one as well.
Yeah, nice.
I've actually got a personal question for you that I've been wanting to ask you for a while but I never got the opportunity.
But basically...
Pantene, dude.
Use Pantene.
That's what I use.
Beautiful stuff.
That's how you keep it silky smooth.
That's right.
I ended up growing out some of your ChemD cross C99 feminized.
Yeah.
I found this Pheno which to me is like bang on Chem 91.
And I just always was like, man, that's crazy.
It's like ChemD and C99 and I'm getting this plant that has like no real sativa characteristics or influence in the effect.
And not only that, it sort of tastes and looks like Chem 91 more than the ChemD.
And it got me wondering, I was like, do you think, you know, because some people try to say maybe the ChemD actually came from the Chem 91.
And I thought that's the only thing I could think of which maybe explained it a bit.
Do you have any thoughts or do you just think look, the ChemD and the Chem 91 are similar like that's it?
Well, the 91, you know, being related, you know, yeah, of course.
And that is the correct line of thought.
But let's take it back a step further.
All right.
So, all right.
When I was working with Princess, when we were doing the brother's grand thing, you smoked the bud and everything.
You've seen it.
You've seen it grow.
And there was no question in my mind that that magical, you know, bag seed or whatever was an NL hybrid.
Like that Princess reminded me a lot of Northern Lights.
So, when Sol or Sly, whomever was doing that, they chose a male to start that cubing process, right?
And it was Sheba Skunk, right?
And it's Northern Lights and Skunk.
Me personally, I felt, always felt like NL Skunk would be a good nominee for the mystery pollen donor to make Chem anyway.
It was always my gut.
And, you know, I still feel that way.
I still think that way.
All right.
So, he takes that and he hits it.
He hits that Princess.
He does his cubing process, right?
So, now you got those genes in the pool.
So, and to me, like, when I smoked Princess that first time, it was fucking kind of narcotic fucking weed, man.
I got nothing Sativa out of it.
Basically, a shorter plant.
Doesn't stretch crazy.
It definitely doesn't scream Sativa at me, like, at all.
So, with having those genes in the pool, and then that ultimately, that pollen that was used was just, I mean, you remember, man.
You've been to my shop.
You saw me growing it and doing it, right?
You had the bud, smelled the jars.
It was fucking funky, man.
Kind of, you know, like, gassy, fucking nasty, nasty smell to it, you know?
And it was like as close to that Princess.
It wasn't exactly like it by any means, you know, but, you know, it was as close to it as I'd seen in anything else.
So, having that as that pollen donor and sulfing that plant and using that reverse pollen to hit Chem D, you know, is passing everything I could out of that original female that could be passed on.
So, by getting all those genes back in that pool, that doesn't, you know, it's like no surprise to me that you would see phenos that are spot on.
You know, some more like, you know, the mother, you know, the Chem D, some being like the Cindy, and then, you know, blends of the two ones that lean slightly one way or the other, but also expressing the parents and the sisters, if you will.
So, that doesn't surprise me at all.
Yeah, no, that's a brilliant explanation.
And I think I really resonate with how you were describing Princess as more of an indica.
I think, yeah, you definitely noticed that disorientating factor of the high.
Yeah, big time.
Big time, man.
It would slump you back, dude.
Yeah, you know, it's only now that you say it that I think to myself, if no one ever told me and you put Princess and Genius, like the buds at least, next to each other, I definitely would never have thought they were related.
Yeah.
And with Genius, you know, I was like, if I had my guess, like it reminded me so much of Super Soul Page.
I mean, so much, man.
And, you know, so that led me to think like, hey, maybe, you know, maybe it was like, maybe like an NL Hayes or something like that.
That was the donor like, you know, telling what happened, you know, supposed to be a bag of, you know, Jack hair or whatever.
But, you know, that mystery donor gave us something like Princess.
And that one was so different.
So that's not to say, what if there was more donors, right?
What if it wasn't just one donor?
There's multiple pollen sources.
Yeah, I guess that's actually a possibility that's never really been discussed very much, has it?
Nah.
Like I sat there thinking many a night like, this doesn't make any fucking sense.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Especially off such a small number of seeds popped.
You just wouldn't expect to see that variation.
Right.
And this wasn't like, you know, bud that he grew.
This is purchased bud from a coffee shop in Amsterdam.
So, it's to say like, it's not, you know, a bunch of different buds homogenized in a tray from a harvest.
And some plants were near one side of the room and then the other side of the room.
And, you know, one got hit with one, one got hit with the other.
And one bud had some seed and the other bud had some seed.
But two different plants, two different pollen donors.
I think that might be a very well-knew possibility, right?
Yeah.
I mean, it makes sense to me.
You know, so I felt that like I said, that the genius was a lot like super silver haze.
And the princess, I mean, it's just totally, totally different.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Hugely, hugely.
You got me thinking now.
That's interesting.
Yeah, man.
While we're on the topic, I mean, the last episode we recorded together was a number of years ago.
And I think at the time it was still pretty fresh and raw.
So, we didn't really delve into it.
But a lot of people have been wondering for the longest time that the circumstances in which you departed Brothers Grimm.
And a lot of rumors floating around about sort of, you know, money being owed and things like that.
Would you be willing to set the record straight on why you decided to part ways with Brothers Grimm and maybe some of the circumstances?
Yeah.
Yeah, for sure.
So, the guy wasn't who I thought he was.
And that shit happens.
You know, if you talk to somebody on the internet or whatever, that's one thing.
But being around somebody, seeing them in their everyday life, and working with them and seeing how they interact with people.
Just, I guess, to be as nice as I can about it.
Like I didn't jive at all with the guy.
And just some really, really, really bad practices.
Ethics.
How he treated people.
And it just turned into like mess after mess after mess.
Problem after problem after problem.
And we're just talking, just dealing with people here.
And it just got to that point where it's just so frustrating.
So frustrating.
And then when it came to the work and everything else, there would be just things that would really, really, really, really piss me off.
So I got to the point where it was like, just please just handle talking to vendors and stuff like that.
But please don't just start cussing at them and flipping out on them.
It feels like somebody owes you something.
Quit being cocky.
Put the egotistical stuff.
Be a little more humble, man.
I'll handle this.
Don't worry.
You got the right guy.
But you got to tighten up.
And if you're going to go out, you do these shows, you handle the banking and the shipping and all.
That's cool.
It's cool by me.
Because that's what you like to do.
You like attention.
You like these shows and everything.
Do you.
Stick to that.
But just when you're doing these shows, please stop offending people.
Because every time you're at a show, my DM box fills up like this fucking prick.
You will not believe what he said or what he did.
I could go on with story after story after story of people at shows like where I would go.
And it would just straight up come up to me.
It's like, yeah, I had this big fat lot of money.
I wanted all this for me.
I cannot rightly buy this from you knowing that any of that money is going to go to that guy.
And I'd have to like, I understand.
Just a very rude guy.
I don't know.
I'll put it.
And it just got to the point where like, even like him just doing shows was just it was just a bad, just a bad deal, man.
And I was like, this is just something I can't.
I can't continue being associated with.
I can't really be around this dude.
This is so frustrating.
And that's the thing is like around me, like to me personally.
Right.
He wasn't he wasn't like that.
You know, it's just the other people.
But it just a very, very frustrating, very frustrating thing.
So so I decided I was like, look, man, at one point he's like, look, I want to want to bring on this guy.
He wants to buy part of the company.
He wants to be doing this, that, this and that.
And we need to do this.
We need to do that.
And I was like, OK.
All right.
So you just you just came from a show where I got a whole box full of messages saying like you're blowing them off and read to them and you couldn't be bothered because you're flirting with some girl in the booth next to you.
And furthermore, you couldn't be bothered to drop the seeds off at the hotel.
So you parked it in some restaurant and busted your glass and got all that stolen.
And now you're coming back with some guy I don't even know or never met saying he's he's buying his way into the company and this is what we're doing.
This is how we're going to do it.
So I was like, wow.
OK.
All right.
It seems like it's been quite a bit over this over this weekend.
I was already at my edge anyway.
So I'm like, I'll tell you what.
How about this?
You buy whatever you want and you, Rick, you're you're you can buy the rest of it.
Like, I'm I'm good.
So what you're going to do, you're cool with this.
You got bankers and lawyers and all that shit.
You have them draft up a good contract.
Figure out whatever his percent was going to be.
Use that as a multiplier for 50 percent.
You know, give me that.
Right.
So he's like, all right, cool.
So about two days later, he comes out, he's got a contract or whatever.
I'm looking at it and I'm like, all right.
Yeah, that's that's cool.
I don't know the word, you know.
So and as you know, it's pretty cut and dry.
So sign off on it.
Boom.
Payment one happens upon execution and and ask for everything at once.
It's a good chunk of money, man.
So, you know, we'll we'll split this down into quarters, you know, over over a year.
So I'm like, it makes it easy for you to continue doing what you're doing.
Do whatever type of marketing, whatever, man.
Do y'all.
Y'all got this.
You said you got this.
Cool.
So time for payment to comes around.
He's like, I don't know.
Like, sales are down this and I'm like, look, dude, the last post we had on this
and the last post we had on media, you posted one post after all these months and it was middle of the evening on day two at a show.
How in the fuck do you think that's that's promotion, right?
And I go down like this list of like 13 or so things like this is what you're doing wrong.
Do this instead.
Do this instead.
Do this instead.
All right, I'll do that.
I was like, but look, you know, all jokes aside, like you need to pay me my money like flat out.
So it takes some time, like some weeks or whatever, but but he does.
Okay, we're cool.
Then on the next one, he's just flat out.
I can't make money.
I don't feel that I owe you anything and I'm just I'm not I'm not going to pay you.
I was like, yeah, that's that's not going to happen.
And so, you know, you can't go and buy a fucking NASCAR race car, right?
And you're buying that to compete, but you don't know how to race a race car.
You can't tell people that you suck as a fucking race car driver and you're not winning and that and be like, oh, I'm not paying you for it because I can't win.
No, man.
Like you got it.
You got to pay like whatever failures are happening.
That's on you right now.
You're not doing any new work.
You're not promoting it.
Anytime you do talk to people, they're they're incredibly offended and you're not going good for a lot of other reasons, which none of which have anything to do with me.
So he's just like, yeah, yeah, not not going to do that.
So I was like, OK, so now I'm like, well, I need to need to figure some figure some things out.
So basically, that's where that's where it ended off was right there and just trying to figure it out.
You know, I'm not big on courts and going going that route.
But if you get an alternative route, you're going to find yourself in court anyway for something altogether different.
So, you know, so I don't know.
Maybe try to talk to the dude again now that I'm now that I'm home and then I have to figure it out from there because I really don't like going through any type of court court system and stuff like that.
And I've just always been like, you know, you should just be a man of your word and honor your agreements and do it like that.
But then at the same time, I'm looking, I'm like, wow, you're buying an awful lot of lavish shit for a guy that doesn't make any money.
So, all right.
So I didn't have much sympathy in that regard.
So I said, hopefully I'll talk to him again.
Maybe shit's changed or maybe he has a different outlook on things.
I don't know. We'll just have to have to see.
That provides a lot of clarity to the situation.
And like he's still selling shit that I made like back then.
Like somebody showed me the other day, like one eight seven for sale and you just renamed it murder by numbers.
And it's just like old seed stock that I was supposed to get paid for that never did.
You know, somebody showed me is like, yeah, I had a Polk at F2s and I was like, wow.
And he was like, yeah, name the strain and I'll give you a pack.
And somebody like popped on his hair.
I gave the name for you.
How about Duke's work?
I was like, oh, golden.
That's a member.
So dude, so dude operate.
Like I said, from outside looking in, like, and I'm not like a drama guy.
I don't want to air out a bunch of shit like on Instagram or something like that.
And I was like, I can handle these things.
So by that same token, those people don't don't know who and what's going on.
Because a lot of those people, they mess with him.
They're all newer people.
You know, I don't know who the fuck I am, which is this is fine.
But they have no idea of what the past has been and shit like that.
And nobody's a mind reader.
So it's like one of the things like the air that out all over the place or do you just just work through it and call it a day?
Because I don't want to put a bunch of negative negative shit on there.
And especially if it's something I just need to hash out with a person individually.
I'm going to do that, too.
That's just the way I was brought up.
So, yeah, but I guess, like I said, I'm glad you asked that because after all these years and everything, I figured, fuck it.
I might as well let people know what's up with the dude.
Yeah, totally.
Well, I mean, maybe maybe the silver lining of this is that we did have a lot of people ask, will we ever see Cap G again?
I think it was one of the most hottest strains when it hit the scene that year.
It was only 40.
It was only 40, 40 packs of it.
And you remember at the show, man, like it was gone.
You know, a lot of it was even like spoken for, like right off the bat.
So with that going on, it was weird because later it was like, you know, I saw like, you know, it seemed like 200, 200 packs of it in circulation.
Like, that's a coincidence.
So it's very peculiar.
So but the thing was with that, it was it was just the beginning step, you know, moving forward to making that dominion.
So no, I don't I don't feel like, you know, back it all the way up.
You know, I kind of hit my goal, you know, where I wanted to be.
Yeah, certainly.
I mean, as a bit of a follow up, and it might be hard for you to pick just one, but I was curious to know, what do you think is the most under-recognized Dominion strain in terms of quality where like, you know, maybe the sales don't reflect it, but it's truly a killer?
Man, there were quite a few.
The Granny Skunk was one, the Virginia Beach Afghani.
That one was fucking killer, but nobody knew what Virginia Beach Afghani was.
It's like people only know what they want based off of kind of what they like.
And that wasn't like some big circulated thing.
Like people in Virginia would eat it up because everybody knows what the fuck that is.
But everybody else, they just keep it moving.
Like, oh, well, Kim Dog, yeah, I like that.
I've heard that one before.
So they'll go that way.
That was probably the most the most slept on one.
Yeah, no, that's a great answer.
I remember having smelled that and it was almost equally as impressive as the Cap G, but I think many people smell that Cap G and were just sold.
Yeah, man, that was like nasty, garlicky, rubber, skunky funk to it, man.
That was some good shit, man.
And, you know, that was something that was lacking around.
Everybody was going like super fruity shit and, you know, going just for like straight Kim, you know, at the time at least.
And it was, you know, something different, you know, and something that hadn't been, hadn't been, you know,
in plenty, I guess, you know, for a long time.
So it's cool to be like, yeah, you know, that those those types of things would still, you know, strike a strike a thing with people's nose and be like, yeah, that's that's something I like that, you know.
So along with all the all the work coming after that and, you know, projects I did along with it, it was cool to see like, yeah, you know, it's not just me or a group of friends that are digging it.
Like a lot of people are digging it.
And after I've come back, I've had so many people who are like they bought all that stuff up, but they didn't pop it.
And I guess I was gone.
A lot of people were popping back and the inbox filled up like most amazing shit ever.
It's fucking skunky fucking gas.
I got going on with this forever.
Thank you so much.
He's going out or, you know, just a lot of good success stories.
Happy people.
Like, yeah, bottom just because.
And, you know, it's been kind of sitting on them just now, years later, you know, getting into it.
So it was kind of cool.
Go to see all that good feedback.
You know, I was getting some from people, you know, immediately jumping into the work.
But there was so much more than just people were sitting on it and now coming back and then showing me pictures that, you know, from last year or whatever year before.
Or here recently, it was kind of killer, you know, people who do that.
The new expansion plan is like Sangria's, all that shit.
And it's fucking like, man, please keep going.
Keep going.
What you're doing.
I'm down whenever you're ready.
Yeah, 100 percent.
And you just named a few strands I wanted to ask you about.
But before we get there, I just want to quickly loop back because you mentioned the V.A.
Afghani.
We actually had a few people ask about that.
And the sort of common thread was, do you have any information on the backstory around it at all?
See, like, that's always been like a mystery, mystery plant, you know.
I'm going to do a live on it at some point with a few different people from that.
I don't know if they can talk freely on it.
But man, there's so many, there's so many stories.
You know, as with any anything, anything, Lord, man, got a whole lot of shit.
I always felt it's a whole lot simpler than, you know, a Vietnam that I can't say.
And they were a little person like there's been some crazy, crazy stories I heard.
But I think at the end of the day, it's just some old seed bank, Afghani stock.
And God found a really, really killer one.
And it's the best of time.
It's like anything else that's real good.
If it's been around that long, the reason why, you know, people aren't going to risk, you know, getting hemmed up and going to prison over some, over some swag.
Yeah, certainly.
I mean, but it stood the test of time, which I think is sort of a testament to its quality.
Yeah.
Strong shit, man.
Definitely.
I definitely remember the first time I tried it with you and it was everything you said, you know, very sort of paranoia inducing for an Afghani, which was cool.
Yeah, man.
And then we just, ah, I just want a shot.
You just want to sit down.
We had someone who hails from VA as well ask the question.
Did you ever try the Skyler skunk from Nelson, Virginia back in the day?
Absolutely.
Absolutely.
And that's the thing.
Like I mentioned it on a couple of shows.
I mentioned it once, like before I even went away and I kind of in a slip.
You're like, what's that?
I was like, nothing.
Don't worry.
There's nothing to see here.
So, yes, yes, yes, I have.
And I had a buddy that used to live out that way.
And, you know, he knew the old dude with it.
You know, they got, they got the client of it and all that shit.
And fucking killer dude.
But more on that later.
Okay.
I mean, is it like a standard skunk, but better or is it very, is it sort of different to a normal skunk?
It's definitely more on the Indica side of things.
Aside from the strong smells and all that shit.
Very, very, very strong narcotics.
Doesn't grow huge, stretchy type plant.
So it's definitely, definitely more in that blend of lean in a little more on the Indica side of stuff.
And just absolutely fucking stanky, man.
The stinker.
It's got that lingering effect too on the mouth.
Like a kind of coffee bean, hashy, slight skunk flavor.
To it and it kind of lingers almost like that sour diesel effect a little bit.
So it was definitely, definitely killer.
Grows great outside too.
That's awesome to hear.
I mean, if we loop back to your answer before you mentioned the Purple Dahlia among other things.
And we had a few questions about it.
I guess people must be sitting on packs and they're sort of curious, you know, what sort of things can they expect out of it?
And what's your thoughts on the Purple Dahlia overall?
Really good.
It's just like, I think like what put people off is, you know, I put a warning on the pack.
If something's like subject to harm due to something, I'm going to put that on there.
So that way, you know, somebody can avoid it.
So you got a lot of people, oh, it's a harm.
Like, well, yeah, a lot of shit will.
If you, you know, if you do something fucked up and this one has a little bugaboo about this.
So just don't do that.
And you should, you should be cool.
And out of that honesty, I'll be like, no, no.
So like, oh, yeah, you know, this other shit, like, you know, it's everybody tell you that's going to hurt them out.
They're not going to tell you.
So they get you, get your money or whatever.
But it's, it's, it's whatever, man.
But out of the out of the phenotypes, they were just these, these blends, man.
And it's not like something that's like, oh, you got a bunch of packs.
Whereas is multiple and every pack out of the females that were incredibly, incredibly dark purple and black screaming eagle style frost on it.
That just tasted like fucking great candies, man.
It tastes awesome.
And the effect on it, fucking design, man.
I really, really like that one.
That was another, like, another ever, ever looked on or maybe looked at and just, you know, just.
Just started to the side instead because, you know, I had worries or whatever.
Yeah.
I mean, it's interesting because I remember when I smelled the jar of it at the cup a few years back, I think that was one of the ones I was most impressed by.
I'm having trouble remembering if it was that or the sangria punch, but I think it was the purple dahlia.
Yeah, the purple dahlia was definitely very extremely dark purple and had like that eagle type bump, but purple.
If that made any sense at all.
Purple grapey also had that that citrusy, incense type type point blended in with it.
The sangria, very, very frosty stuff.
But I mean, yeah, it's not spot on.
It is angry upon spot on.
I smell it was like, oh, shit.
That's angry.
A bunch of like, yep, that's why we get the name.
Yeah.
Okay.
There you go.
Well, I mean, if we move on, sadly, since you sort of been away on hiatus, there's sort of been a bit of a change in the cannabis landscape.
And specifically, we've sadly had to bid farewell to two friends of both the industry, but yourself as well, you know, notably Monty, Subcool and also Bog.
Yeah.
And Josie Wales too.
Yeah.
Josie Wales, that also happened.
And I guess my sort of question is, how does it feel to come back and to see that the cannabis landscape has changed a little bit?
Or do you feel like it actually hasn't that much?
And it's weird because like to me, it's kind of like the grow room thing.
If you're in there every day, you don't see a whole lot of change.
But if you go in once a week or something like that, you see a lot of it.
So for me, I'm like totally, totally away from it and coming back.
I mean, it seems about the same, like honestly, but that's just as far as like maybe Instagram goes out into a show or anything like that.
Now, from what I've seen going on, yeah, I mean, the shows are definitely going downhill, I guess.
But I already saw that coming many, many years ago.
That last one that was at your ad or whatever.
You remember when they called me?
Yeah, you're not on that panel anymore.
You know that you're like, yeah, they want me to interview somebody else.
I'm like, oh, man, you know, I saw it, you know, even coming before that point.
But then once that that show out, I was like, as bad.
So I see it a few years.
You know, now I have kind of curiously, you know, others and they're showing their videos and shit.
So, yeah, this is, you know, other than that, I mean, yeah, it's basically the same as far as like people passing by.
You know, I had a project at that show because me and Bob, we ended up we shared a booth space or whatever.
And I thought it was like real fucked up.
It was like people were lined up.
They even know who he was.
I'm like, no, like, you know, you see this man.
You need to get stuff around.
This is like I grew a shit.
Like if I literally had space and time, I would continue growing a shit.
Like you really you really need to get this guy.
So I ended up like kind of bending, bending for him as well.
And so we're all just really, really good, dude, too.
So I was like, look, man, like neither.
We need to do something together, you know.
So we came up with a good, solid, solid plan to like two things that would really drive together.
That would be knock your socks off.
So I got cool.
We'll get to it, you know.
And, you know, as time goes by, it's like, all right, well, it's about that time.
But I should all went south for me and I went away.
I died and I'm like, oh, fuck, you know, you got to change my life.
I don't get a chance to say goodbye.
And that's like probably one of the worst things about when friends or people, you know, or care about or think, how they die.
You don't you don't get that chance to say goodbye or anything else that you wanted to say.
So and the same thing goes for, you know, Josie, you know, money and everything.
It's like, you know, you wish you maybe you'd said more with the time you had.
So just for everybody, you know, just remember, you know, it's like it can happen at any time.
So, you know, tomorrow is not promised.
Right. So, yeah, definitely, definitely.
The cool thing is his son, his son's keeping things kind of going.
And I'm going to get with him and, you know, still going to make that make that happen.
Yeah, yeah.
That would be awesome to still see something happen because you have Bog Jr.
and Pat are still still around and need to be taken care of.
Yeah, man. Yeah, exactly.
And it can be a good honor, honor to honor to the guy, you know.
Yeah, certainly.
Well, I probably should have asked this a bit earlier, but I was curious to know, do you have any advice for people who maybe not in your exact circumstance, but just sort of, you know, trying to get through this?
Get everything back together, dust themselves off, get back on the horse, so to speak.
Have you got any advice in that respect?
Yeah, absolutely, man.
Don't be hard headed and or I mean, do be hard headed, I should say.
Refuse to stop, refuse to lose, refuse to give up.
And as your mistakes come across, as long as you're learning from them, you're becoming stronger, you're becoming better.
Don't don't give up.
Just whatever is faulting you along your way.
You just got to sit back and look at it outside, look at it and really analyze things and then go from there.
So that way, when you when you do succeed, it'd be the best thing ever.
And you'd really refine yourself, you know, and you've grown as a as a human being as well.
So just anything you want to start or do, you know, just go all out.
Just go all out and really, you know, just go all out and don't focus on money and fame and things like that.
Those are the worst thing that you're getting into something for the wrong reasons.
If that's the goal, I've seen people do that as well.
And it doesn't it doesn't work out well.
If that's your thing, like go to Hollywood, maybe try to be an actor or something like that.
But just whatever it is that you're going after, if it's something you're passionate about, something you really love, you know, really, really delve into that man.
And follow that love, follow that passion and do it for those reasons.
And a lot of other things are going to are going to follow behind.
And, you know, follow your six P's.
Come up with a plan, plan your work, work your plan, follow your six P's.
The proper planning prevents just poor performance.
If you stick to that, and like I said, be very, very adamant about not giving up moving forward, you're going to succeed.
Simple as that.
Some brilliant advice there.
I know that in your absence, there had been some rumours surrounding Dominion Seed Co.
And I think specifically some of the things that I saw posted was that there was supposedly some seeds that didn't end up with the vendors they were meant to.
And others say they were sort of stolen.
It's a bit unclear.
And then other people had been involved.
I know that your wife had been dragged into it at one point.
And I think Skunk VA had been sort of dragged into it.
Would you just be able to clarify a little bit around what happened?
Because I think the toughest part about what happened to you was that you didn't have the opportunity to discuss any of it yourself.
You know, it's all sort of secondhand knowledge.
So if you could maybe clarify some of those things and just help set the record straight, that would be phenomenal.
Oh, for sure.
For sure.
Man, there's nothing worse than when you can't even speak up for yourself.
So essentially what had happened was I had all this planned out in case shit went south.
I didn't get a bond or whatever.
And everything was laid out.
These are supposed to go to the spender, the spender.
Money's to be done like this.
Everybody's still making everything.
The projects were already ready to go.
Seeds were ready.
Everything should have been nice and smooth.
And then I'm losing contact with people, not being able to get a hold of people.
And literally none of this plan is happening whatsoever.
So that led to me thinking, huh, what's going on here?
Because if there's a problem, I can fix it.
I can figure shit out even from my position.
But like I said, not everybody, but some people were ghosted out.
So I had, just call it an employee apprentice or what have you, that did seed counting, packing, making the vials and everything.
Did a great job on all that.
Also, you know, helping along with watering later on, like in that last half year before all this is going on.
Doing some watering, doing some gardening.
I'm relocating down south, so definitely needed the help with that.
And just kind of be the best teacher that I can be, you know, and treating them like an apprentice.
So they're supposed to be handling shit.
They go fucking ghost on me and everything is not being handled in the way that it's handled.
And then like all these rumors are starting to come about.
People are telling me that I'm in contact with.
And I'm like, well, that is a load of horseshit.
So like one of the biggest ones that fucking got me was I didn't do any of the growing or any of the breeding.
And I was like, hold the fuck up.
Oh, hell no.
Hell no. Like that one was just the most fucking ridiculous shit I had heard.
And especially like in a community where people have like you personally, like you've literally been there in person, like watching it, watching this go down.
And they're even claiming they did all the work for Grimm and everything else.
And like I said, like, I mean, you can speak up if you want, you know, I mean, you like literally personally.
Yeah. Every day for two weeks, I saw you doing the work.
Yeah. And did you see anybody else doing anything?
No, it's just me and you there.
Yes. Correct. And like people could even like go to Seoul and ask them and like, that dude don't like me for shit.
And even he'll tell you, you know, like, yeah, dude was doing this fucking doing this thing.
Like you got Robbie from Nerds Genetic.
He was my neighbor there, like where I was doing my thing for a long time.
I hang out over there every single day.
Right. I had a lot of other people that just like to come by and hang out while I'm working.
I mean, there's a shit ton of work, but, you know, if you can hang out and I can talk while I work and people just thought it was cool and fun.
You know, they got to see me do the process.
James Bean's been there witnessing it.
Like Protein Jane was right around the way she would come by and just hang out, you know, you know, just learn stuff.
A few other people there, they're on IG and everything.
Like I said, they would just, you know, come and hang out, shoot the shit.
Triple Sticky Lungs on IG.
An old friend of mine who's by there all the time.
The big bang.
He was always over there, you know, just so many fucking people that are just like, that is a load of shit, you know, but a rumor is a rumor and a rumor doesn't die until it's killed.
So another thing is like, yeah, they're claiming to be a step to read.
I'm like, all right.
Well, like, is anybody actually asking them any questions about reading?
Because I bet you that you don't.
They're not going to have the answer to it, you know, because they weren't.
They weren't once doing the work.
So I was like, yeah.
So obviously, like, this is this is not not good.
And like, this is the source of, you know, what's going on.
And like some people won't even throw his name out there.
But even though I probably should, but I'm not like buys into a lot of us.
I think another one like any time because like I needed to talk to him recently and he's like bought into the shit.
He was like, yeah, you lied about going to go into prison back in the day.
I was like, what?
I was a lie about anyway, but whatever.
So luckily, I got like some paperwork nearby.
It's got like my original date and everything else.
Snap a picture.
I'm like, all right.
Yeah, that's this 2007 explains a lot.
And once again, I have old friends that used to literally talk to me over the phone at this facility.
They helped me out through money on my books back in the day.
And they all they all knew it was.
So and the worst thing is, is a person that's like spreading this lie saw me like right when I got out of prison and like was even around like with me going to the probation office to take my piss.
Like they know all this.
So like they're just obviously just trying to come up with so much bullshit just to accomplish their end goal.
So that was, I guess, at the time, you know, sell the remaining stock.
And then they said they're going to start up a new company.
And like, by all means, like, you know, do your thing, like do your thing, like start your company like good for you.
Right. But all the wine and all that extra shit, like you didn't need to do that.
And then another one who was like, oh, yeah, you're on.
No, I've only seen that shit one time in my life and I wasn't doing I even got a fight with the guy like two days later on a job interview.
I'm sorry, because he's a fucking piece of shit.
I don't fucking do that.
Anybody that really knows me, I don't do drugs.
And there's even been cases of people that did do drugs.
And I straight up, I tell them, like, I can't I can't hang around you.
Like, that's just, you know, that's not good.
So and, you know, what I say to that, anybody that knows me could tell you.
But anybody wants to say some shit like that, go down in your fucking pocket, pay for a fucking hair follicle test for me, you know, put you put your money where you fucking cock holes there is and fucking get that test.
You can go back, I think, like seven years.
So I've been gone to that gives you a good five fucking years.
So if I was on any type of drug, it'd be on there and I'm gonna come up hot as fuck.
But that's it.
So, you know, I can squash out when I'm fucking there.
And like I said, having this paperwork and shit like that to be like, no, that's where you fucked up.
Oh, you weren't here. You couldn't have done that.
Boom. Here's a check stub. Boom.
You know, like I got like literally like this disproved every single fucking thing.
And like I said, some of it is so fucking absurd that people in the know which are out there, like they obviously know like bullshit because they were fucking there, you know.
So. Very, very, you know, very disheartening, you know, to see all that, you know, especially after somebody that you really looked out for, you know, so much.
And obviously, you know, they felt some kind of way.
We're going to do what they were going to do and they did it.
And that's all in the past.
It's whatever. Like, you know, you don't fucking ruin me.
You know, I'm going to keep doing me.
I'm going to keep moving forward. But, you know, they're not going to be around for it, which is bad.
Bad for them. That's the worst part is like good friends that you're really trying to take care of.
And then ultimately, when I was like, yeah, no fucking cash, cash the fuck out and then spread a bunch of lies.
So I have somebody to help me cash out.
And the worst part is like a good friend that actually like believes this shit, you know, and was very adamant about, oh, no, you're lying.
You're lying. No, you should just stop lying.
Get your life back together.
Like, no, like literally I can literally prove all this right here.
And just what I have at my at my hands length right now, like a piece of paperwork with fucking dates on it.
Here, when I get to the house, I got my whole fucking PSR.
You can read the whole fucking thing, like everything in detail, like discredits the fuck out of it.
But why in the fuck are you going to believe some wild ass crazy shit like that?
I'm somebody you don't even really know.
Right.
Over your friend is some years.
Right. And that's what is more mind blowing, you know, and hurtful, I guess, than anything.
But yeah, like, you know, I can definitely, definitely squash out, you know, any any of that shit.
So it's just like I said, you know, like you were saying, it's just you.
You're one of the people that's actually been there, you know, seeing this.
So it comes off as just pretty, pretty absurd anyway.
Yeah.
Look, you hit all the questions I was going to follow up with before I even had a chance.
So thank you for painting, you know, a clearer picture.
And I think that you've always got to take stories you hear with a grain of salt when you don't have the ability to hear all perspectives.
And I think that must have been a really frustrating aspect for you not being able to reply throughout this whole process.
Yeah. And like, that's what they count on.
Well, I was saying that's what people like that count on.
It's like you always hear the saying is like people are going to kick you when you're down.
And furthermore, like being down is like you're muffled, you're silenced, like you're physically actually restrained, like you can't do a thing.
And then when people see things and then they come out with it and like, hey, something's fucked up.
You know, then you got people bickering and fighting amongst each other, which is, you know, fucked up.
And then because one side's on pick one or the other and it gets fucked up.
And then unfortunately, you know, you get other people drawn into the middle and then they get really pissed and frustrated with the whole thing.
And it's just it's just a whole cancerous thing and it grows and grows.
And if you're not able to like really get out there and stop it, it just gets worse until, you know, time and we'll iron everything out without you even having to step forward.
And obviously, like I've looked back and everything and, you know, like a lot of good people out there knew the shit was going on their screenshot and they're recording and doing all this stuff.
So, like, you know, I was well informed, like right when I got back and put it all together.
But, you know, it irons itself out, really, especially when you got stuff.
It's just so absurd. It just comes off weird.
And it's like obviously it's like, yeah, obviously, obviously a lie.
So, you know, but now being able to actually deal with it and talk with it, it wasn't really that widespread or that big of a deal for real.
But still, just the fact that somebody that close was trying some shit like that's what bothered me.
But like if anybody did hear anything like, yes, I mean, most everybody anyway is like, yeah, that's a load of shit.
So that's that's cool, too. Good to know.
You know, you got people in your corner that know that you're a solid dude and that you're doing what you're saying.
I mean, it's just, you know, the good thing if you live a good, good life and you do that, you don't really have nothing to worry about.
When people do talk outside of their net and now they're back and they would have kind of ironed that out and be like, yeah, you know, straight up.
You got got a good point, man. And here it is. Here it is. Here it is.
And then by the end of it, man, like, yeah, I kind of see what you're saying.
So I just wanted to, you know, get it, get it very apparent to them, you know, just so they know.
And then, you know, that that should that should kill that right where it fucking lies.
Yeah. Look, hopefully that can help set the record straight for anyone who maybe had heard some of the incorrect rumors circulating around.
But I think, you know, on the other end of the spectrum, there was what I thought at least was some good things that sort of came out regarding like community banding together in that there was at least what I know of two breeders who were very keen to try to help you out financially.
And good old Odie of Heroes of the Farms, as well as Soul Fire Genetics, both came to the table and wanted to offer some strains to help raise some funds for you.
Was this something you had any idea was happening or was it sort of a pleasant surprise when you found out?
Just I won't even say pleasant surprise, like just static.
Just blown away by all the people that came to that for me.
And like I had friends telling me, they're like, you're getting hit up from people all over the world.
These people are just like, you know, whatever, whatever they can do, whatever help that you need, because and then they all have a story.
There's this one time this dude took two hours to, you know, on a DM to teach me a new a new approach.
And then I gave him an address and I sent him, you know, a whole lot, the whole fucking menu just on the house.
Or somebody that was down and out and I donated to their fundraiser or wildfire fundraisers or just, you know, not I don't I don't do things like that because I'm thinking like, oh, well, and, you know, I do it just to do it.
You know what I mean? And I guess I had done so much of it, you know, it didn't really cross my mind.
It's just the right thing to do. And then when they're, you know, I'm hearing back from them, like, wow, yeah, I guess I was getting I was getting out there.
And and all these people just came out the woodwork and the back for me.
And I can't I can't thank them enough. You know, the only thing I can say is, you know, thank you.
Thank you all from the bottom of my heart.
Y'all helped me make it through, like, seemingly like the impossible.
And the only thing I can say is, you know, I promise to do it.
Do some more good in this world and do a good job.
And I won't I won't need those services anymore.
I will not be going back to the old man ever again.
So, you know, thank you. Thank you all for everything that you've done.
From kind words to donations to just anything and everything.
Just truly, you know, thank you. I love you all.
Yeah. What a what a brilliant sentiment there.
I guess it makes me curious to know.
Is there any chance we may see any collaborations in the future now that you've you know, you got I mean, you already knew before people liked you.
But now you really know that for sure. You know, is there any chance you want to maybe do collabs?
Are you more just thinking, you know, I got to get myself going first?
Nah, man, I'm gonna put others before yourself, especially on stuff like that.
So, yeah, I'm working. I've been working basically the day after I got out.
I've already been on it like stink on shit, man.
So, yeah, I definitely look forward to a whole lot of that.
Well, you know what? I was a little bit of a selfish segue on my part because, you know, the hoodoo has been such a such a popular strain, really cool collab between you and Skunk VA.
Are there any sort of breeders who since getting out you're interested in or more importantly, since you know, you've gotten back out.
Are there any I was thinking about are there any strains that have caught your eyes in like, oh, that wasn't really a thing when I went away.
And I was thinking about it and I was like, I don't know if anything major has hit the scene since you left.
It hasn't. The only things that I've seen that really, really, you know, like caught my eye or attention that I'm like, oh, yeah, I'm gonna need to get on that.
It's all work from, you know, like my buddies.
I don't want to say his real name. It's probably no big deal now, but Bob Hemphill for sure.
He's been doing some great shit and it's like my type of style.
So I'm like, yeah, I need to meet some of that.
And my buddy, a.k.a.
And my buddy, a.k.a.
Bean Brain, for sure.
He's been doing some really cool shit and all his crew of dudes.
A lot of work, but like Williams Wonder and F5 of that and some NL work and stuff like that.
And I'm all about that, you know, so that's that's that's gotten me got me actually pretty, pretty excited.
Probably more excited than I should be, but pretty stoked for both those dudes anyway.
Love them guys.
But yeah, they got my interest peak, you know, a lot of stuff.
Some of the stuff Scott B.A. come out with was pretty, pretty rad looking too.
So, but yeah, not really a lot.
Really a lot changed.
A lot of dessert stuff and kind of the same things that were hitting when I was away.
You know, they're still doing their thing.
Yeah, that was sort of the vibe I got.
But you know what?
Brilliant.
You mentioned both those two breeders because I was going to ask you questions.
I was going to say, you know, have you seen Bob Hemphill's Puck Backcross?
It's looking pretty cool.
Hell yeah, I've seen that fucking Puck Lebanese dude, you know?
Oh my god, yeah.
Hell yeah, that plant is a special plant for sure.
I was curious to know, though, this is actually a fan submitted question and they've got a good memory.
They basically said that they remembered some time ago, you'd mentioned that you'd lost your Durban Tie High Flyer.
And they were wondering, the cut you had, was that different to the one that AK Beanbrains and Skunk VA use?
Or is it the same one and you just like hadn't got it back off them?
I'm not sure about AK Beanbrains one.
I would think so, but I'm not 100% sure.
But I gave the High Flyer to Skunk VA, so I know that's the right one.
And I got another buddy that's got it backed up for me.
My buddy, Savage Gardens up in Portland, even did a little hybrid using it called the Tie Ice T.
It's like super, super popular up there right now.
That struck my eye too.
Some fucking gnarly shit.
Yeah, he's got some cool Beewiz hybrids he's made.
I still follow his stuff ever since meeting him at Emerald Cup that year.
He does nice stuff.
I guess what I'm interested in asking is, do you have any reservations about the authenticity of the Durban Tie High Flyer?
Because I remember when I spoke to Bodhi, he actually said to me that he wasn't speaking for certain or anything.
But he said that over the years, there had been people who had come out of the woodworks with Durban Tie High Flyer clones.
And often he was skeptical of the authenticity and he said that he suspected it was maybe a Durban Tie leaning hybrid of the Durban Tie C99.
Because that was a more recent release, more accessible.
Have you ever thought maybe that's the case?
And again, this isn't anyone speaking about the specific clone in question.
It's just a general sort of question.
Yeah.
So I would say, well, as far as that exact thing, before I made that DTC-99, the re-release using just a regular Durban, we had that cutting far beyond that point.
So it wouldn't be for that unless it was the older DTC-99 from what, 2001, I think.
When they did something like that, I highly doubt it because that would be a rare gem on its own.
And it would probably be called and named as such.
So I kind of doubt that.
Also, when Saul was smoking it, when I had gotten it, he was like, yeah, that's it.
That's what he remembered.
As well.
And I was like, yeah, it's pretty spot on to me.
And just kind of the way it grows.
And kind of a little different influences from just a straight Durban.
But the thing is, at the end of the day, and I mean, this could be safe for him or anybody that gets fines from somewhere.
Like, do you really know?
Right?
Do you really know what went on in Holland?
Do you really know that their tie was authentic?
Do you really know this?
That's a great thing to say because there's a lot of uncertainty in what is, what isn't.
And I won't say it, but there's been a lot of breeders to go on and get something and breed the fuck out of it.
And then years later, after I've been told year after year, be like, yeah, well, that wasn't really this.
I guess it turns out it was this.
Right?
So you got to be weary for sure.
And you always try to stick to authentic sources and everything.
But sometimes people's authentic sources turn out to be all fucked up.
And it comes out later.
And I've seen, I won't put their name out there, but I've seen it happen to you guys, man.
So, you know, we just got to do our best and, you know, just take, take with what we got.
And, you know, if everything points to, yeah, this is legit and cool, then, you know, you can, you can move forward.
That's why I just try to deal with, you know, straight up people and people I really know.
And, you know, it makes sense, you know, especially if they got a, you know, this is hot right now.
This is where I got it.
You know, that's definitely a good thing because there's so many people out there that have this or that.
So many, so many red flags.
Like, you know, you're talking about that dude earlier.
Like, yeah, fucking old cornbread mafia, roadkill skunk clone right here.
One week old, I'm going to change the game.
You're looking at this picture and it says fucking plant that has got a leaf on it.
It was literally just a seedling and he's talking like this 30 year old plan.
He's taking pictures of them.
It was like, you can literally see the God of weeds on the, on the picture.
You fucking get me.
So, you know, you got a lot of, a lot of bullshit people out there.
You know, it's definitely, it's definitely a tricky, tricky situation a lot of times.
But yeah, so as, as best as I can say, yeah.
Yeah, it's, it's a legit one.
No, I feel you for sure.
And I'm definitely going to go back in post-production and like audio effect his name out.
Which one, which one was it?
Oh, we'll, we'll take off.
Oh, oh, oh.
Oh, oh.
Oh, I fucked that motherfucker.
You know, so it's, it's sort of interesting that you mentioned many of those things that, you know, talking about when you get clones, you know, do you really know what they are?
Things like that sort of vibe.
And I guess it segues well into the next question, which was that although it was around before you went away, I think it's really come to the climax in the past 12 months.
But the, the hop latent viroid is what I've been calling recently.
It's, it's the COVID of the cannabis world.
You know, it's, it's really, really spreading around.
Do you have any concerns around your plants having it?
And would you ever look into any sort of like tissue culturing to try to get rid of it if so?
Yeah, I would definitely want to test everything.
First and foremost, and I really would like to just tissue culture the whole, the whole collection.
One, for backup purposes.
Two, if anything's gone astray since I've been gone, it would be nice to start clean, straight from scratch.
Plus, you know, the added vigor and all that stuff that goes on as well.
That would be, I feel like a good, good way to start.
You know what I mean?
Yeah, of course.
And I mean, I guess it's probably too early for you to really give definitive answers, but are you going to be much more apprehensive and skeptical taking in clones moving forward?
Oh, absolutely.
I was always sketchy as shit, but I was a real sketchy kid anyhow, you know?
So, yeah, man, that's the number one thing where people thought up is they just take in whatever.
They don't quarantine.
And stuff like that.
Hey, I guess now that COVID's been going on, everybody's doing quarantines on themselves, you know?
It's like the same with those plants.
You know, keep them out of the population and keep them locked down.
You know, keep a tight eye on them.
Don't just, you know, just throw it up into the mix and ruin your shit, you know?
Yeah, definitely.
I mean, I know you've spoken about it on the past.
So, if you feel like there isn't anything really more to add, I certainly understand.
But we had a lot of people ask about if you have any new tips or tricks for sort of your IPM or is it still largely sort of what you used to do?
Yeah, it's generally the same as, you know, kind of what it always was anyway.
And just going right back to what you just said.
So, you know, don't take in strange shit.
Don't let this dirty ass people up in your grave.
Don't let anybody in your grave.
Just the basic keep it simple process, you know, just be clean.
Don't let the animals running around the yard that come to the house.
Don't let the animals that are in the house.
Don't let the animals that are in the house.
Don't let the animals that are in the house.
Process, you know, just be clean.
Don't let the animals running around the yard that come in.
So many things that just kind of make your life harder.
Keep your IPM, broad mites, rusted mites, spider mites, pythium, a lot of other, the more common things that people are dealing with.
So, it starts with good clean practices and it's not taking anything that you don't know about, especially without proper cleaning.
So, just keep it basic and follow these basic principles and you'll find that you don't have to, you don't really have to deal with a whole lot other than concentrating on this growing, you know.
Yeah, yeah. I think that's really it.
You got to resist the urge to bring in the new silver gelato runs and keep the around safe.
So, a question that was both submitted by fans and me personally, I was interested to hear about.
Unfortunately, you ended up going away sort of not too long after one of the releases from Dominion.
And so, I guess people didn't really find out as much about the figure four crosses as maybe they were hoping.
And so, I was wondering, could you give us any sort of description slash details of the figure four and what you were hoping to bring to the table with that mail?
Oh, absolutely.
Yeah, it was a shame because I didn't really get to speak on it.
Everything was tested and ready and packed up and went out, but it was literally right at the same time.
I'm like, fuck, I got to deal with this right quick.
And, you know, they lied about that bond.
Of course, they did.
So, I didn't get that chance to come back out and talk more in depth about it.
But you, you actually, if I'm not mistaken, got to witness at least one of the steps that was in making the mail.
So, you remember the ass man, airborne Skelly Stone?
Yep.
So, that was the boy that ended up getting the vote and then hitting the triangle.
And the whole process of selecting the final mail out of that hype was to hit OG type plants, STEM type plants, fix structure, and still not take too much away from what was there originally and build on it.
Did you get to see any Savage headbands?
I don't know if I saw them, but I saw the ass man and the pollination from it.
Yeah, big beefy, big beefy motherfuckers.
So, I really, like the main things I wanted to really get into outside of like, you know, of course, the funk man, the terpenes and the potency and all that good stuff.
I wanted to take away from a lot of that, that internodal spacing, and I wanted to make the branching a lot stronger too.
So, that was, that was the main, the main goal with that.
And just, and just live them up, man.
Just reinvigorate them and get some shit that was coming out extra, extra, extra stank, but also extra, extra strong, higher yielding and everything too.
Yeah, that's, that's a brilliant answer.
And we had another listener who was wondering, you know, they say, look, I see Dukes work with a variety of different OG kushes over the years.
And I was just wondering, what do you prefer personally?
And what do you think?
TK all day, yo.
I knew it.
I knew it.
I was like writing that question and they'd been like, does he like headband, ghost, triangle?
And I was like, it's just triangle.
Yeah, TK.
And then as far as like, cause like I never considered like headband being an OG, you know, but you know, if he dead, then yeah, headband and TK, of course.
Yeah, nice.
And out of a personal curiosity, I remember a while back you, you toyed around with the blissful wizard just as a, like a freebie slash a little, you know, mock around sort of project.
Is that the cutting of cookies that you think is the one you would most breed with if you were going to, or it's not necessarily your favorite cut of cookies?
It's really killer weed.
I ain't going to lie, that is some killer weed.
Unfortunately, it's edges slower than blood and like yield wise.
But like I said, cookies has never really been my thing.
And like when I did that, I just, you know, Savage, you know, he was the one that wanted me to do it.
I was just making some memes for him.
And he's like, yeah, dude, so it's cool or whatever.
And, you know, we made some for him.
He's like, yeah, just give it to you.
You know, just to be a cool guy.
So yeah, it was just a, just a thing, man.
Yeah, nice.
We had a customer who had grown out the Funky Town freebie and they were like, I love it.
I just would love to know what are the genetics?
Never.
I thought you might do that.
Yeah, man.
If you go into the genetics, then people start trying to get it.
And it's just better to sleep and leaving that part out and just stay, just enjoy it.
You know, there's something that could have been sold for a high dollar.
And that was the whole point, just give it away.
And just let people enjoy it.
Yeah.
Okay.
Can I take one stab at one of the parents?
Go for it.
I don't know why.
I have no idea why.
But for some reason, I just always remembered you did that urban slice, like slice and urban slice.
And for some reason, I just, my heart's telling me maybe that's in it somewhere.
No, no, neither.
Either one of the parents there.
And all the, see, all the urban slices were like, I had the tequila Finos, tequila, like, I smelled straight up like tequila, man.
I even made rosen, smelled like you had a bottle of tequila open.
And then the other ones were just like, some fucking really insane.
Yeah.
Beautiful, beautiful stuff.
I know it's like just most of them were better versions of tangy.
I think I only tried one or two slice Finos, but they were, they were great.
Beautiful stuff.
Exactly.
Exactly.
And, you know, that was a real good one.
That was one of the projects that got left on hold, you know, that I have to pick up when I get out.
I was like, let me put some Dominion type orange out into the world.
So, yeah.
Hey, before it leaves my mind, you know, you mentioned Arseman a while ago.
Will we ever see that pop up in another form or it would just be through the figure four?
Through the figure four, but we did something super cool and I did it.
I did it for Bean Brains because he hooked me up with that MTF, you know, just to grow out and shit.
And I decided it'd be a cool thing.
It's like, fuck it.
It asked me and we got really, really, really good on that.
And so I hit it and I just sent him a huge, huge bag of seed.
And I was like, hey, what do you want me to do with them?
I was like, do whatever, man.
Grow them, breed them, you know.
Sell them, breed them, whatever you want.
This is just my way of saying thank you for, you know, passing something really special and old to me to grow and enjoy.
And he did that.
So I guess, I guess probably by the time this comes out, it'll probably have already happened.
He, being the good dude that he is, is like bagging them up, sending them to James Bean.
And we're going to put them out there, you know, to hook you up.
I was like, man, you're too much, man.
That's awesome stuff.
Yeah, the MTF, Cross With The Ass Man, fucking Christmas tree, fucking bugs, some like orange citrusy crazy shit going on.
And just put your dick in the dirt type potency on the heavy narcotic end.
That's awesome.
Yeah, you know, as you...
It was called Thunderhole.
As you started saying that, I was like, oh, I forgot to mention AK Beanbrains earlier because he had mentioned to me that he was going to do that.
And I was like, oh, he donated some strands as well.
Yeah.
That's cool.
That's really cool to hear.
I dig that a lot.
Now you got me thinking, I think there was someone else.
Anyway, who knows?
Probably not important.
But yeah, kudos to AK Beanbrains, a really lovely guy who's always been very lovely and helpful.
I mean, now let's go back to what we were talking about just a moment ago.
And we were sort of in the realms of Skunk and, you know, The Slice has got that Skunk in it, stuff like that.
A lot of people are wondering, do you still have, you know, original Skunk seeds available to you or are you working with the hybrids now?
I still have seeds from the last time I did a filial on them.
I've done so much work, you know, hybridizing them and working them in different ways, seeing what's happening, what's not happening.
I wouldn't go back to the starting point unless it's a whole another project that I found myself into.
And I don't really have much of that on my mind at the moment, you know.
So I would use something I've hybridized to go forward in a project if I was going to go in that direction, you know.
Now, like with The Slice, for instance, you know, it was like, Kali-O, it was just a weird Skunk number one phenotype.
So that's what my curiosity fell with.
I was like, if I hit it with more Skunk one, what would happen?
And it was pretty fucking awesome.
Yeah, I agree.
And you've sort of got me interested now.
What are your thoughts on the reincarnated version of Super Sativa Seed Club that's popped its head out?
I don't know if you've paid much attention to it or even got a particular opinion on it, but I'd be curious to know.
Yeah, it happened right after, or I mean, excuse me, right before I went in.
And it had happened a couple times prior to that.
And then people found out it was just like a fake or a scam.
So I heard it and then I was gone.
So I never got to really look back into it.
And it's kind of just kind of like you just reminded me about that.
So I have to look at it like it's legit, right?
Yeah, well, look, I mean, I don't know.
It's hard to say, but I guess if I sort of wanted to give you the dot points and have you reflect on those, I would say number one, there's no strain they're currently selling now.
That was one of the former ones.
What they're selling now are new strains.
And there's only one or two that I can see that of older lineage.
So I guess with those dot points in mind, I'm sort of a little bit skeptical.
And likewise, it hasn't made any waves since releasing those strains.
I would, I could see where that would happen.
Like the thing that I saw before I went out, which kind of was just like, why I just kind of didn't really think about it much, was like when I saw it and somebody linked me to it, they had like a cookie hush.
Like you said, there was nothing at all from Mac.
And I was like, eh?
All right.
So, um, so, yeah, I mean, that'd be my thoughts, you know, a little odd.
I mean, fuck, you got, like I said, back to AK Beanbrains, bro.
Like, God, he's been talking about me.
But, uh, I mean, he's going back to home and some other other folks that he hangs around.
Like, even they got old stock that they're working with and bring it back.
Like, how are you the main company?
You know, so that would, you know, because like, that's what people would ideally want.
I mean, not to say they wouldn't want anything new, but, you know, you would like to think you'd see some of the old or at least some of the old hybridized, some of the new or, you know, some all new creation, something.
You know, but, yeah, I don't know, man.
I think I'm probably good on that.
Yeah.
I was surprised when I saw the cookie hybrids and stuff, but I was like, oh, well.
But, you know, the other thing I was thinking about is all of the notable SSC, sorry, SSSC strains were ones that were pretty confident.
Like, they weren't breeding in Amsterdam.
Like, you know, like the skunk comes from Virginia and Williams Wonder from Oregon.
And so it's like they weren't the breeders anyway.
Right.
And that was the thing is like they were like a distribution company and like even like in a sole work for him for a while as like one of the distributors, you know, like he would mail, you know, mail the packs out and everything.
But all the company was like it was like a collection of breeders from all over the place that all put their put their works under under that line, like a record label or something.
And that's what made them really awesome.
That was what I felt was like, because you got such diversity and so many different people, styles, tastes that made that awesome.
You know, so, yeah, like that was a cool thing.
So, yeah, it's like it's so it's not surprising, you know, a lot of those guys probably like, no, I think I'm good.
I'm just holding on to my shit or they're just not giving a fuck anymore.
It's just not what they do.
And that was a long time ago.
Yeah, certainly.
I mean, sort of in that same vein, I'm not sure if you've seen, but Todd McCormick is selling what looks to realistically be like real deal Northern Lights and including the predecessors because he's been able to strike up a relationship with the guy who seems quite legitimately verified as.
Yeah, well, I know Greg.
Yeah.
And so I guess I'm interested to know, does that sort of pique your curiosity at all, given it does seem to be some reasonable proof that it could be legit or not so much?
Absolutely.
Yeah.
Especially when it's like a guy, I don't know him personally or anything, but he's a stand up dude, has a good reputation of being a stand up dude and stand up people deal with the guy like that.
His reputation precedes him.
So there's that.
And I know Greg, you know, like that's legit.
Right.
So that tells me like, you know, for me, like that's a go for sure.
I would get it.
I would grow it.
Absolutely.
Yeah.
No, it's like, I guess I was just curious, like particularly because he's also selling like skunk and I was like, oh, I wonder if that caught your eye either.
I haven't got really.
It's been so busy answering all the names.
I'm still answering ones from always two weeks ago.
But yeah, just catching up with people and working on like a new project.
Other little things.
It's been taken up a lot of time plus doing the whole song and dance of here.
So, yeah, man, I'll definitely, definitely have to take a look at it all, man.
Yeah.
Look, I, you know, I sort of feel bad as I hear you say that because I understand where you're coming from.
You probably probably still figuring out what way is up and down.
One of the more lighthearted questions we got was, how much did you miss barbecue?
A lot.
I got so much like just all food, food, just human food in general.
Oh, yeah.
It was greatly, greatly missed for sure.
And, you know, we've got a lot of people.
Barbecue.
So we had another person who was wondering, they sort of were hoping to get some clarification
on what exactly skunk you were using.
And I think that maybe what they're referring to is like maybe sometimes it said basic skunk,
sometimes it said skunk and are they the same thing?
Because I think if you look online, something says basic skunk is like NL5 skunk or something.
But yeah, just hoping to get some clarification around like what was it that you were toying
with exactly?
Yeah. So like if it was skunk one, it was noted as skunk one.
And it's just old ZVC pub stock that got filial inbred over the course of years, just maintaining
it or whatever.
And then the basic side, yeah, is like an NL skunk, NL skunk, like a Shiva skunk.
Shiva skunk is a nice one.
So that was a hybrid of totally different.
Okay, yeah, no, that makes a lot of sense.
Yeah, more endocrine influence, you know, and more a little bit heavier on the narcotic
side of things.
Yeah.
Look, in that same vein, we received about three questions from people who were just
curious about specifically one of the parents in the local H, the Cuttlefish Hash Plant.
They were just wondering if you could give us any information on it.
There's even I myself looked around, very little info about it online.
Oh, yeah, it wasn't.
And like when we had this back in the days before the big legal weed world and all that
really blown up and it was kind of a tight, tight little cut being held back then.
Um, really, really, really strong shit.
Uh, spunky nose on it.
Um, nice fat, fat fucking buds.
Strong branch.
Like, you know, it was hard and hard to beat.
Um, and unfortunately, like, all right, that's not my, not my possession anymore.
You know, so that, you know, the closest thing I have any relations is the one thing that
I don't, I don't know anybody that's got any more than one dude that hooked it up.
You know, he's, he's dead now.
So, um, I really couldn't tell you.
I'd be surprised to ever, ever see it again, but who knows?
It's cool.
So nice.
Hold on to it out there.
Yeah, maybe.
But I mean, like the local H, it feels like that embodies some of the characteristics I'd
have to imagine, right?
Oh yeah, absolutely.
It came out a lot, a lot on the smell and the effect, you know, um, and then having
that, that sour diesel on the mix too, it just, you know, really, really brought all
these good points together.
Like you, you smoke local and it's pure, you know what I mean?
So, uh, you can kind of know what I'm, what I'm talking about.
Um, funky ass for you.
Oh yeah.
And even the local hybrids I've tried are all killer, like consistently.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It was definitely a, definitely just a good breeder too.
And just non-finicky plant grows great.
Got about everything that you want in it, you know, it's like a no brainer to, uh, you
know, toy around with a little bit and say, you know, let's see what happens, you know,
and then the hybrid, I did it.
Crystal winner.
That's awesome.
That's awesome.
So someone had a question about the shine apple and it's interesting because I'd sort
of noticed some of these things they raised myself, but they say what percentage
approximately of the shine apple phenos have like that leaf mutation where it's like
just, you know, one or a couple of leaves.
And specifically the reason why they were asking is because this person likes, you know,
those sort of mutant plants.
And we're just wondering what's their chances, how many packs would they need to buy to be
sort of reasonably certain they might come across one?
I found a freak in every pack, man.
Uh, that was definitely a freaky one.
Oh, really?
It was, it was that sort of a high.
Oh yeah.
Oh, for sure.
Like it, like even in my testing phase, like when they were bad, I was like, oh shit, what
we got going on here?
I was like, it's going to be really good or really bad.
So let's, uh, let's see what goes, goes down here, you know?
And, uh, yeah, man, came out, came out killer.
But yeah, definitely you see a lot of freaks in the mix.
And how do you approach that commercially as a breeder where you're like, look, this
killer seed line, but there's some people who just might not like, they might just think,
oh, it's a run.
I've got to call it.
And like, and you know what I mean?
They're sort of preemptively doing things without realizing.
Do you have to consider that or it's just irrelevant to you?
Mm.
I mean, what, you know, whatever people who are going to do, uh, you know, ultimately,
ultimately they're going to do, uh, if they see freaks or rods or anything and they decide
to call it, it's like, that's generally always been a bad move.
Like most of the best plants I've ever grown were a little bit slower.
Um, a little bit freakish, you know, and it's just, I always figured like, you know,
ones that were a little slower, it's like they were taking their energy.
It's going to go somewhere.
Got that energy in the plant that's going to be producing something.
Obviously it's not biomass and fast budgeting.
So, uh, I'm thinking, ah, it's going to be later on and flower and, uh, yeah, it's always
super off the chart for us to be instinctive or something, you know, like that energy went
somewhere just, you know, like that, like don't let the wizard early.
I guess she's frosty, but stinking as we really killer, but the slowest version thing, I
think I've ever written around and definitely a mutant.
It was a weird thing.
Yeah, definitely.
Well, I was wondering, have you ever seen any other cuttings where like when you do a
certain combination, you equally get these weird mutants?
Yeah, um, I used to always notice, uh, when I was growing a lot of bogs where I would
get a lot of petiole bugs, you know, like little weird things like that.
Um, there was certain other things I've read, like where I get like the flat, the flat
stone, you know, that's like, you know, not round, black, um, weird leaf mutations and
shit like that.
You know, I've always kind of encountered it fairly, fairly regularly, you know?
Um, and even like when you start growing out larger, larger numbers and shit, yeah.
You'll, you'll see a lot of little things.
Hmm.
Yeah, that's really interesting.
Interesting.
You'll have to make like your own duck's foot out of it.
Yeah.
Long term, long term.
While we're on the topic of cultivation, I want to quickly get this one out there.
Earlier on, you mentioned with the purple dahlia that, um, you know, you put the warning
on the pack saying, you know, this can, can harm.
And I was reading about it and you're sort of saying, you know, if you feed humic acid
with these G13 hash plant hybrids, like it can just sometimes happen.
And I guess the question is, yeah, like how long did it take you to figure that out?
That seems like it would have taken me like a lifetime to be like, it's the humic.
No, not, not long, man.
Um, so, you know, when, when testing, you know, as you know, like, you know, I would,
I would try to put things through the ringer, like go on purpose, you know?
And there were other things that I would, I would do where I'm like, not feeding at
all, you know, just plain water just to see what, like, are you still going to get the
results of the straight up water?
Um, and when, when doing that, the ones that were getting a feed with the, uh, with
the humic and everything, certain ones would pop up like, Hey, what, what are you,
what are you doing there?
You know?
And, you know, one with the, one with the plain plain water wasn't, you know, so I'm
like, all right, like it's a feeding thing.
So let me, uh, let me back off on, on a lot of things, you know, and I think that
this went just straight up.
Dragonfly got flowers.
And then I think I just made like a back one, I do some earthworm catchings and
they didn't happen.
So I'm like, all right.
So I dialed it, it's just our water, you know, anything else that, that might've
might've been hit with it.
And I was like, well, about the humic.
So then I reintroduced humic and, and boom, then it happened again.
So take it away.
Nothing.
And not every single, you know, you know, but certain ones that it happened like
that, you do, it doesn't, when you don't, don't, but for me, like, Hey, you know,
you know, humic, uh, humic is doing it right here.
And I'm just guessing with the, the, the more uptake of, uh, phosphorus at that
time, it just, it didn't like that, you know, it just wasn't, wasn't digging it.
Interesting.
Yeah.
I mean, that's actually, it makes sense.
Like you're able to sort of systematically figure it out like that.
I like that a lot.
Yeah.
Cause you know, I don't feed much, you know, it was pretty, pretty simple, pretty
simple approach.
So it's not a whole, a lot of things to really diagnose, you know.
Yeah.
Yeah.
No, that, that actually simplifies it quite a bit.
Well, we've just got a few fan submitted questions before we get into the final
one.
I kind of like that.
A new thing, man, that you're doing and have that before.
We've got one from our buddy, true cannibalists and he says, what's your
favorite chem dog cutting?
And what's, if you had to give just one definitive answer, what strain do you
think was the bud that the first chem seeds came from?
Oh, good, good question.
So, and second one threw me off cause I don't know what I'm gonna say, but, um,
what was the first question?
What's your favorite chem cut?
Oh, chem cut.
That's right.
Uh, 91, 91 hands down.
Um, that was, uh, that one's nothing to me.
I think it's, uh, that's the best one.
Here, here.
So on the chem, where do I think it came from as far as like just the mom or both
parents?
If, if you, yeah, just the female, what was the actual bud that the seed came out
of?
Uh, I'm gonna put my dollar on skelly hash point.
Good answer.
Good answer.
And so, uh, the next question, uh, what's your overall all time favorite strain?
Oh, fuck that question.
You're a monster.
Um, and that's so impossible, you know, that's such an impossible, but cause it
depends on, you know, the time of day and everything else.
Um, I can't even answer that.
Man, that's just, that's hard.
One of, all right.
How about I make it a bit easier for you?
One of the final questions we normally ask is if I'm going to drop you off on an
island and you can take three strains with you for the rest of your life, they can
either be clones or you can just take a pack of the seeds.
What are you going to take?
Okay.
You're a real bastard.
Um, I'm going to say local H, screaming eagle and 91.
Nice.
You got, you got a lot of, uh, different bases.
Or maybe even who do.
Yeah.
Like, but yeah, that, that, that would, I think that would be good to go there.
That's good.
And would you take just your clones or would you take a pack of seeds of each?
If I was taking, uh, who do definitely a pack screaming eagle, take a pack of seed
just because you're on a desert island, like, you know, what else you got to do?
You just have to do it.
Right.
Um, and yeah, then if it was like 91 and local, it would just be the, yeah.
Okay.
So the next one, this is an interesting one that I've sort of been wondering a bit
myself.
Do you have any idea what's causing more and more weed to have those tiny little
premature seeds in the Calyx's?
Yeah.
So me and my boy pig farmer, um, we had this talk back in like, it was like 2016
even, and we call them like micro beans, you know?
Um, I, I, I just really went with, cause it wasn't every genetic, you know what I
mean?
There's a certain thing.
And we, we were really, you know, like it's a feeding, a feeding thing.
Are we, are we pushing too hard?
You know what I mean?
Is that what it is?
Or is it the actual thing that we are feeding?
You know?
So we got the, got the thinking about that.
And when I came to, it was like, look, you grow your clone your way on the regiment
that you're doing.
And he was on like a very strict regimen, you know, he was, he was a real producer.
Like that dude, my God, that dude pumped some fucking butt out and I'm the highest
highest quality, you know?
So, um, I take the same stuff and I'm growing it, growing it on my, on my own,
doing it totally on my way.
And when I was doing it, I wasn't, I wasn't getting up and he still was, um, same type
of lighting, right?
The same, same environmental.
So we could, we could scratch, scratch that part.
Um, but it's, it was something to do with the nutrient.
And I, I guess I feel like if it's not a very particular ingredient in a nutrient
that was in their mind, that wasn't, you know, something I was doing, or it just
came from just pushing too hard.
Because the weird thing was you wouldn't see any banana.
You didn't see any hurt, but you got these little bastards would pop up from
something somewhere, you know?
So, and like I said, they never developed from tiny little microbeans.
So that one still this day, that one would kind of elude me, but it's something,
something to do with either an ingredient that, you know, certain people have in a
regimen that they're feeding, um, or pushing hard.
So if you're, if you're that person and you know, you're not pushing hard, um, look,
look at, look at what you are feeding and then just try to start pulling things out,
you know, one at a time until you figure it.
Cause if you figure it out and you save a lot of people, a whole lot of trouble,
you know?
Yeah.
I hadn't actually thought of that, but that's, that's a pretty reasonable
explanation, isn't it?
Um, yeah, man.
Oh, another question we got, which is actually something I would love to know the
answer to is what is your preferred way to collect pollen ideally to sort of store?
So storing pollens kind of, kind of, kind of tricky.
Um, long-term, I guess, you know, like when I think storing, I'm thinking like you're
putting it away for, for later.
Date and time.
Um, the main key to it is when you're sifting it out, like you really got to sift
that shit.
There cannot be any, any plant material at all.
Um, preferably in a low humidity environment, you know, that would be a
bonus because the, your main enemy is going to be moisture the end of the day.
That's going to sterilize it.
So make sure that you got no plant material in it.
Um, because of course that plant there's moisture in it and you're fucked and then,
uh, keep it away from moisture.
And when you're putting it away, um, and I'll make sure that it's not, not going to
incur any, any moisture there either.
So very well sealed up to where you're not rapidly changing temperature.
Cause one thing I noticed with a bite, it put some weight, did everything perfect.
Brings it right out of the freezer, sets it down on the table and he's just got it,
got it in this little rubber made that thing.
He cuts out the mode of the food saver bag.
It sits there.
Hey, what happens when you get real cold coming into a warm, warm area,
get condensation and he fucking kills it all.
No, don't do that.
So, um, my little tip of the day and, uh, yeah, that's cool.
I just realized it'd be a play on words.
Tip of the day.
You tip.
So here's your Q tip of the day.
Um, collect pollen on Q tips.
Like, and this is like, you know, for the small batch, like you're just making shit
at home just to see what's up.
Not for making a fuck ton of seed, of course.
But just taking it and getting two Q tips and getting them all nice and covered in
pollen and put them in bags, seal them up and then put them away for, for a later
time that could take those out and pollinate, you know, just single buds, you
know, to get, you know, 50 seats.
You know, so you can, you can do that for the hobbyists, um, for the guys
that are making a shit tons of seed.
And y'all are big boys.
Y'all can figure it out.
Good answer.
Good answer.
I tried to do it in the past myself with flower and that, that is not a good method.
I don't like that either, man.
Um, like, I don't like to add anything to it.
You know?
Yeah.
Yeah.
I think the flower like sterilizes it and is maybe even hydroscopic in itself.
But anyway, this is one that like, it's almost redundant, but I feel like we have
to ask at this point.
Do you think that we're ever going to get like a roadkill skunk that comes out to the
community or do you think we're going to recreate it?
Or do you think it's just maybe not entirely what we remember?
No, I think, I think that a lot of times people will have some, some really skunky
weed.
And like, I hate the word or the term roadkill skunk, you know, um, from all the shit
that goes on with it from that, especially like that one guy.
Anyway.
So, um, I think a lot of people don't really hit the genetic potential on a lot of
their growing.
Um, certain plants are more forgiving and the terpenoid range, like, you know,
Durban's and cookies, Jack hairs, and a lot of things.
It just doesn't matter at all.
The smell always comes out.
There's a lot of things.
You really got to nail it, man.
And you're not going to see a whole lot of that outside of organic that are done
like really, really primo.
So I think a lot of times people get the stuff and they, they don't hit the, uh,
they don't hit the marks and they, they add it.
They just didn't quite get it.
Um, I do believe that, yeah, somebody, somebody could definitely put it out there,
you know, and work it, you know, years of work and put it into a seed form.
And, you know, have everybody ran brave, try to rip it off and, you know, act like
fucking assholes about it.
Um, but you know, that, that's going to take a special type of person wants to do
all that.
And, uh, I think it's going to be me.
So, so yeah, I mean, it's, it's there, it's there to be worked.
It's just, you know, somebody, somebody is going to have to put in the work to do
decide what they're going to do at the end of the journey.
If they're going to put it out there, just hang on to it and be happy.
It's kind of, kind of preserved, you know, but there's just so many things that could
be, you know, skunky weed, you know, it doesn't have to be like, you know, it's
not a pure skunk variety or anything like that.
There's a lot of, you know, Afghan hybrids, Ash plant hybrids and all types of stuff
that can give them the desired effect at the end of the day.
But then ultimately it's going to be up to the grower to, you know, do their thing
and, and grow it.
Cause back when we had a lot of skunky weed, you know, people grew up a little bit
differently too.
So, um, you know, I think there's a lot of input that people don't, don't use
nowadays that were being, being used back then.
People miss out on a lot of that stuff too.
Uh, it's just, it's not too sunk on it.
Yeah.
That's an interesting take.
I definitely think that the style in which we grow now versus then has something to do
with it for sure.
But that brings us onto the final quickfire questions and I'm going to have to word
this one.
I'm going to have to think a little bit about how I word it, but basically I'm
wondering if there were theoretically people in jail who did smoke weed, was there a
particular experience that people thought was quite memorable?
Um, yeah.
So I got a, I got a story about a friend and a legend friend.
He might've allegedly done that.
Right.
And instantly he's like, oh man, cause like, by the way, they pissed yesterday.
So just, you know, like it can get hit random.
If you, you feel 30, like it's a very bad thing.
So all the time he's like, Hey man, Hey, you think I'm good?
You think I'm all right.
You think I'm fine.
Oh no, dude, you're fucking, uh, you know, like they're going to know.
So, oh man, man.
I mean, this is like within an hour, I was already, oh man, like, should I just drink
a bunch of water?
What should I do?
They just total fucking paranoia.
And this goes on for weeks.
Like, I mean, you think I'm okay by now.
You know, I'm like, yeah, I'm not really fat.
I was like, I don't know, man.
I don't know, man.
That's pretty iffy, man.
Oh, you think they're going to call me?
Yeah, it did.
And I enjoyed fucking him every fucking day.
As I passed on the, on the opportunity, allegedly, if that ever happened.
And, um, and for, for that reason, because I know that that would be just probably
the worst thing to fucking do.
Like, it'd be great.
On the same token, man, it would be horrible.
You would instantly regret it on the exhale.
It would not be enjoyable at all.
You know?
For sure, man.
That's, that's an interesting one.
I hope, uh, your friend was, was all good.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
Allegedly he was, he was fine.
Yeah.
He was all good.
So the next question is what's the one cutting you miss the most?
Um, like currently in this, in this moment, like if I had one, just rock it out real quick.
Well, like just overall something you had at some point in the past that just isn't around anymore.
And you're like, man, I miss that.
That cuttlefish was a pretty big, pretty big hit.
And we were already talking about it earlier.
So, you know, yeah, that's, that's definitely, definitely that one.
And I had a, uh, I had a female, um, out of a sour IBL, um, from back in the day
that was like way better than the original, original, uh, sour.
And, um, I miss that one a lot.
That was fucking awesome.
Yeah.
Good one to pick, good one to pick.
So the next question is, is there a question that you wish you could ask one of the other breeders out there alive or dead?
Ooh.
I would probably, if I had the, if I had to pick one, I'll pick somebody who's no longer with us because if they're alive still, I've still got that chance.
You know?
Um, and there's a lot of dudes, you know, a lot of them still like this, take it with and just, you know, talk to like, I know Sean, he was always one.
I always kind of wanted to pick his, pick his brain a little bit.
He was a good one.
Uh, there's a few, but I'll have to go for another to sit down with him.
I'd have a lot of, a lot of questions too, because he got to see so many things growing on such a large scale.
Back then, um, and the, you know, asking about all types of little, little traits, you know, that, that he was picking up on and these large populations that led him to do what he did.
Cause they were, they were truly starting from very, very swaggy beginnings, man.
And to see the work that he ended up with at the, at the end, that was me or at least fucking amazing.
Those guys were really fucking doing it, man.
You know?
Yeah.
So yeah, that, that would be one, one probably.
Brilliant answer.
Brilliant answer.
I'd probably have to likewise do the same.
Second, last question.
What's the most disappointing weed experience you ever had?
So maybe it's like something that was really hyped and just fell short.
Oh man.
That's a dangerous question.
Um, there have been so many, um, yeah.
And I don't think I could pick just, just one.
I'm thinking like things that I've learned personally, but, um, I'd probably say like, you've been with me.
You've been with me at the shows before.
Yeah.
So you remember people like this, bring in, bring your random buds and everything else.
Yeah.
Um, there was a lot of fucked up blood that would come our way and I'd take them aside and tell them, like, yeah, don't feed kelp and alfalfa through the whole cycle.
You're fucking yourself up here.
And then later they'd come back and be like, wow, I made all the difference in the world.
And like, yeah, for sure.
Um, and sometimes these stuff with powdery mildew on it and everything.
Um, I guess, and I don't even want to say it was, you know, I just, I hate her, you know, cause it, it wasn't even the real.
So like back in the day, like I got turned on to like the smoke, some cookies that was like the real, the real legit cut.
I liked that.
Like that was, that was pretty good.
But it was like some of the, the all shoots or the knockoffs is like, wow, this is just, you just get kind of like a little buzz for a few minutes and it's gone, you know, tastes good, but it's just nothing.
I sussed it out to it, man.
It's just not, not doing anything.
And like, when you hear the person that this guy had talked just raving about it, you know, and I'm just like, ah, I don't know, man, that real one was, you know, kind of, kind of, I don't know what's up, you know,
but I was let down by a lot of the, by the hybrids and shit like that.
Yeah.
Look, certainly not a sentiment new to us.
We've heard that before for sure.
Yeah.
There's like a few of them that stood out, like really good, like exotic Mike had that cookies and cream that was like really good, you know there were like a few that stood out.
I was like, wow, that's actually good.
But yeah, a lot of them, man, they're just like, yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I think everyone's grown out of cookie hybrid before.
And usually you find some weird mutant in there that just totally fails and you're like, okay, okay, we're done here.
So our final question for this one, if you had to pick one genetic or strain that's just going to be erased from existence and all the prodigy from it are gone, which one you're going to do?
Oh my God.
Um, I'm gonna, I'm gonna answer this and everybody's like, oh yeah, he's insecure.
No, I'm going to take out the beast.
All right.
I'm going to take out the fucking beasters, the top 44 or whatever, you know, call it the Viking at fucking home and the beasters.
Yeah.
That needs to be striking stricken from a, from existence for sure.
I got that.
That was a, that was a bad, heavy, non-resonating shitty buds that get slung for way too much money across college campuses and heady boys.
And I like, yeah, fuck the beasters dude.
Yeah.
That one needs to be gone.
Stricken from the record.
I love it, man.
A humanitarian at heart doing something for the people is beautiful.
Yeah.
It needs to be put with Lex Luthor and that fucking plate glass thing or another dude, some Superman or put them in the glass, like cinnamon outer space.
That's what I need.
The beasters needs to go with them.
He, he, he, he.
Well, I, I think that just about brings us to the end for this one.
Were there any comments or shout outs you wanted to make?
Man.
Um, just everybody that, you know, supported before, during and after everything.
Um, thank y'all so much.
And, uh, got a lot of cool shit coming, uh, in the future and thanks for, uh, coming along on the journey.
Um, any of the fuckers out there, you know what I mean?
Uh, eat shit and fucking die straight up.
Um, luckily I ain't paying very many people, you know what I mean?
But, uh, you know, I don't want to be a negative guy.
So, um, just thanks to everybody and, uh, a lot of cool stuff coming in the future and, uh, definitely going to pay it back and pay it forward and, uh, do a good job for everybody.
And a lot of cool shit coming down the pipe, um, onwards and upwards.
And it's just, you know, how it is, man, you mentioned one person, right.
And you start going down the list.
If you fucking slip and forget that one person, they're going to be fucking that.
So I'm not going to go down that route.
Everybody knows, you know, a lot of love for me and, uh, I know I got a lot of love for them back.
So y'all know who you are and, uh, yeah, thanks for everything.
So again, you know, a huge thank you for coming back on the show.
The, the skunk commander and the man behind Dominion Seed Co.
Duke Diamond.
Thank you again.
And thank you for having me on buddy.
I like, I like your, as you would say, I'm very, very keen on you and your, uh, your podcast.
So there we have it friends.
What'd you think?
Good to hear from our buddy Duke.
I got a soft spot for him as well.
As always huge shout out to our sponsors.
Seed's here now, number one seed bank in the game.
Copper biological systems.
You know, me love them.
Check them out for all the predators.
Keep your garden happy and healthy.
Pro Mix Connect.
The best micro riser in the game.
Shout out to our buddies at Charlie's Cannabis.
Best counter in the game.
You're in Oklahoma, hit them up guys.
You will not find better quality.
Trust me.
And last but not least a huge shout out to the Patreon supporters.
You guys are the lifeblood of the show.
We could make episodes happen without you.
If you'd like to help support the show and ensure future episodes happen, please go check out the Patreon at www.patreon.com forward slash the podcast.
Exclusive unheard content, additional episodes, so much more.
Check it out.
I think that just about does it guys.
I'll catch you for the next one.
