On behalf of the group and myself, I'd like to say thank you for the audition.
Thank you and I hope we pass the audition.
That's how it goes.
So on behalf of the group and myself, I'd like to say thank you and I hope we pass the
audition.
Hello and welcome to the next episode of the podcast.
This episode was brought to you by the Brothers Grimm, 420 Australia and our newest sponsors,
Organic Gardening Solutions and The Billy Shop.
On this episode, we feature Mr. Sol of the Brothers Grimm.
This episode is fairly laid back and you'll probably hear it.
Enjoy.
All righty, so a big thank you and welcome to Mr. Sol for coming on the show.
Thank you.
Very good to be here.
So we're just in the Brothers Grimm facility right now in Colorado and if you can hear
any fans, it's just the fans keeping the plants happy behind us.
If you hear any fans, they're fans.
We hope you are as well.
So the first question I'd like to ask everyone is, let's go back to the start.
The first time you ever smoked weed, what was it like?
That's a good story actually.
I was at my uncle's, well I should say where my uncle lived with my grandparents and I
have an uncle who, my father being the oldest in the family, has a brother who's only five
years older than myself.
And so I always admired him.
You know, he's the cool uncle that being that bit older than myself, when I would visit
my grandparents' house, he would always have interesting things in the drawers and all
around in his room and I'd always go in and explore.
One day, I found what was a half ounce of Acapulco Gold in his drawer and I picked that
up and he happened to be in the room as I did it and I said, wow, what is this?
I said, is this real marijuana?
And he's like, yeah, that's Acapulco Gold.
It's some of the best in the world.
And he said, have you already smoked marijuana?
I said, my friends and I have been trying, you know, we've been out in the woods and
trying to find like if there's any wild marijuana growing, then, you know, we tried to dry it
out and smoke it and I don't know how crazy that is if everyone's had that.
But growing up in the 70s, you know, I guess we didn't have access to information like
you do today and realize our folly.
So at that moment, I was then taken away from all of that silliness and my uncle rolled
a real joint and took me out in the backyard where he had this old van that was abandoned
back there.
We sat in the front seat and smoked the joint when I went into a dream, as the Beatles said,
and everything, you know, from the moment someone spoke, you know, it was like this
spell had been cast where I'm guessing I'm going to wake up later and this didn't really
happen.
You know, I was just dreaming it all.
You know, that was I just felt an affinity to and a great liking of that experience and
sought it out, you know, in years after.
Didn't come as frequently as, you know, someone might today where they say, hey, I really
like marijuana.
I'm going to start smoking it all the time and the availability is there.
It was more of over the next year or two, I'd have a few experiences where working in
a nightclub as a busboy or a waiter or something in those circles.
There were people who were dealing pounds of marijuana.
And, you know, I was just 17 or 18 in high school.
I can remember them sort of implying what they were doing and saying, do you want some?
And they gave me like a matchbox full of this great weed.
And I remember enjoying that to myself, you know, and having a couple of joints of that,
you know.
And then from there, I started to, you know, obviously meet people and have friends in
school that were more into this culture.
And we started having the availability of marijuana much more frequently.
And it got better and better at a rapid rate.
I was in high school.
I was in 10th grade in 1975 and you would buy an ounce of weed for $40.
It was, you know, $10 per quarter basically at that time.
And then all of a sudden, you know, like five or ten years later, you know, all those prices
sort of tripled and went crazy.
And it was like three and four hundred and five hundred dollars for an ounce in the 90s.
And now things have calmed back down from there and such.
But I know I'm going tangential on you.
So yeah, that was my first experience getting high and experiencing what marijuana was.
And I've never had another drug.
I liked LSD very much, obviously.
I don't know why that's obvious.
Sorry, I take that back.
But I have commented many times that my photography is influenced by LSD and comic books.
So that could be out there.
You know, people know that.
Yeah, I definitely think it should.
So those two drugs, if you will, have always been something that I felt were very natural
and my body had an affinity to.
I never liked barbiturates and speed and these kinds of drugs.
They always felt like an artificial thing.
Whereas those other, you know, the two that I mentioned are either natural or a synthetic
version of something that is natural, like psilocybin.
And so, yeah, I guess, you know, what feels good for my body is what I go for rather than,
you know, I don't like to beat myself up with alcohol and drink all night like some
people and not that anything's wrong with that lifestyle if they like it.
But it's not for me because I was a sporty guy.
I rode bicycles most of my life and did that sort of thing.
Motocross, bicycle racing.
I appreciated being able to get on the bike the next morning and not feel like shit and
be able to actually go out there and punish the other guys.
You know, it's a big testosterone thing, you know, when you're all out on your bicycles
and racing each other to the town line or who can get to the hill at the top fastest
and such.
So, how long did it take before you transitioned from just enthusiast to home grower?
I always felt like, oh, growing it would be so difficult.
And I was a child of about 10 and I remember planting some pumpkin seeds and they didn't
come up and I felt like, oh, growing a plant's very hard, you know.
I had that mindset for some reason.
But then, so consequently never really tried.
All through high school, you know, and I didn't even understand the concept of light photo
periods and triggering the flowering response in the plant.
In fact, when I was in college at the age of about 21, I did discover that having picked
up a book, Marijuana Horticulture by Jorge Cervantes and I took that, read it, you know,
cover to cover in a day and I was just fascinated by the whole idea that, so that's how it works.
You mean you can keep them from flowering and you can make them flower just by changing
the amount of daylight that they receive?
I mean, that was just phenomenal for me.
That concept was like so simple and elegant and beautiful all at once and gave me such
power and, you know, control over what I could do.
My mind just started, my imagination started to go like, wow, that means, you know, X, Y, Z.
And I went from there and it was a pretty short time.
Within a year I had done some closet grows and outdoor grows near the college.
Had lots of questions, started finding that, you know, you could order seeds online, got
Super Sativa Seed Club going and ordered one or two of their packs of seeds.
And in those days, you know, you just send a letter back and forth if you had questions.
There was no email.
That was 84 probably to 86, somewhere in that period.
When we first started connecting and through those emails, the company's owner, a guy named
Kesh, K-E-E-S, wrote back to me saying, you know, you asked some very interesting questions.
You seem to be an intelligent guy.
You seem to understand what you're doing and we need people like yourself over in the United
States to help us.
Would you be willing to work with us?
Not knowing exactly what that meant, it was a little vague, I said, sure, let me know
what you have in mind.
You know, here's my phone number.
And he called me after he got that letter.
Told me what it was, is that they would send me bulk quantities of each of the strains
of their seeds.
My job would be to receive letters from them with the addresses and quantities of each
of the seeds that are to be sent to each of those addresses.
And I'd be their courier, you know, inside the United States.
It's domestic forwarding.
Yeah, distribute their seeds to the individuals who had purchased them from them.
They paid them and they're then paying me in envelopes of hundred dollar bills that
would come weekly as well with the orders.
And they would, you know, pay more for a larger order, you know, for the processing of the
larger and a smaller order.
You don't need to know all the details.
But anyway, that was my job for them for four years, basically, while I went through the
last year of graduate school.
Then working probably the first two years of my job out of college, then I met a woman
who insisted that I give up all the marijuana stuff.
So if we just backtrack a little bit, while you were growing out the SSC stock, what was
your favorite of all of the stock you grew out?
Because we've heard from Skunk BA, he mentioned that the Beatrix Choice was one of his favorites
that doesn't often get a mention.
I never grew it.
I would probably agree.
I, you know, I always sort of drooled over when I saw the pictures that they posted of
it in their brochures and so on.
But I never did for any, I don't know what reason, I guess there were other things I
wanted to try first and never got around to Beatrix Choice.
But that and what's that Williams Wonder also is one I never grew.
But for me, the Durban tie was the thing that I thought was like, wow, that was the most
impressive and most personally pleasing to me.
And I crossed it with Skunk No. 1 one time and then grew it outdoors.
Seedlings, not a female that I had picked out of a group that I had already flowered
indoors and chosen like I would do today.
But at that time, I just said, oh, let me put out like 30, 50 seeds in this field that
I had chosen that I felt was secure enough and safe enough and hidden enough, but still
got a lot of sunlight.
Went out there and hacked up the field and got poison ivy all over myself.
Later, I found out that I'd gotten that and I happened to be going to Amsterdam for a
week for a vacation right at that same time.
Just made it to a doctor in time before leaving.
She gave me some steroids and it cleared it up in like three days.
But anyway, back to the story, I dug all the ground up and planted all these seeds and
they came up.
I went out like, you know, two months later, called the males.
And then two months later, I had all these big, beautiful, finished, purplish buds and
very sticky, impressive females that were ready like at the end of October, you know,
relatively early for the cross.
So when I reported back to Kesh that I had made that cross, he was like, that's amazing.
Like we don't usually get that result.
We really have a hard time getting them to flower fast enough to finish outdoors in a
climate like Connecticut.
He said that you should hold on to those.
And I didn't have any more or whatever.
And then having met the woman who I eventually married, she made me give it all up.
And I had to send the seeds all back to SSSC back in Amsterdam and didn't keep a cache
of them for myself other than a couple odd packs that were discovered by my wife and
thrown out.
So I had to start all over after our divorce.
So take us to the day when you went to Sensi Smile and found those seeds.
Was that during one of those Amsterdam trips you just mentioned?
What it was then was I had been in Belgium, having gotten divorced from my first wife
and spent two years in Belgium.
I worked on contracts there as a nuclear engineer for a tractable company.
It's a civil engineering group that does all of the that type of work for the country.
That's a national establishment, whatever.
So while I was there, I had met a Belgian girl.
We started living together.
And then as my contract came to an end after two years, she proposed that if you're going
back to America because you have no work permit here and can't continue to get a job, we could
be married and you'd be able to do that.
Either stay here or go back to America.
And I said, OK.
We got married and I looked for work in Europe.
I like Europe.
I would like to have stayed.
But I did have that conflict of being a divorced dad and my children were like three and six
years old or something, perhaps even a little bit less like two and five.
And that was, you know, pulling at my heartstrings.
And so in the end, I didn't find suitable work there.
I speak French now very well.
At that time, it was a little bit rudimentary, you know.
So I think that probably in my interviews, they felt like as French isn't really strong
enough, he might not be able to, you know, keep up.
And what for whatever reason, it didn't work.
So in the end, the things that always seem to have happened in my life fall in place
well and a disappointment in one place.
It's always like one door shutting while another opens.
We had an opportunity to go to Boston and we did that.
And then before leaving, I knew that when I got there, I would want to be able to grow
my own.
Having gotten used to being able to get on a train and go up to Amsterdam or even just
over the border in Breda.
I often go there just to save myself the trip of going all the way up to Amsterdam.
But point being, I would always have available smoke and of very high quality.
I wouldn't necessarily be able to do that moving to Boston.
I had no idea what the availability of good weed would be.
And my Belgian wife was something of a little bit, you know, reclusive, introverted type.
And so it really appealed to her as well that, oh, great, you know, you won't have to go
out on the street for your weed.
And I know you'll be home all the time taking care of your plants and so on.
What a great hobby for my husband, you know, and such.
So she was a very supportive wife.
And after about two years living in Boston, I was doing the cannabis cultivation full
time and supporting myself, sending child support back to my ex-wife and everything
all from proceeds that I made in the basement of that home, you know.
And that felt great doing that.
But at the same time, it was very stressful in the sense that if it had ever blown up
at those at the time, you know, late 90s, you could do 20, 25 years for cultivation
in Boston.
And my wife would have had a field day, you know, alert the media.
You know, my husband is a complete scandal.
Look at this man, you know, raising our children and having them every other weekend in this
den of inequity, you know.
So there was that aspect of it that was stressful.
And I think I said to you once before that I was also day trading as most people were
during like 99 and just up leading up into 2000.
I turned a $5,000 starting point into about $55,000 in a year and then lost about $25,000
of it as things started to come down in March of 2000.
And then I just decided, don't let any more go and save that.
We sold the house right a little bit after 9-11, maybe three, four months later.
And having done that, we had some cash in our pockets and I had closed up everything
from what I was doing with the Brothers Grimm operation in my basement.
And we moved back to Belgium with a fair chunk of money in our pockets.
And I thought I'd sit on my hands for a little while and then maybe look for a place in Belgium
where I'd have greenhouse facilities, indoor facilities and such and restart up the company.
You may remember Gypsy Nirvana from, what was that company?
London Direct?
Seeds Direct.
Seeds Direct UK, I believe it was.
Whatever.
Anyway, a little dodgy, kind of a dodgy character.
That's his reputation and I found it to be a little bit so as well when I met him.
We spent a day hanging out, maybe the weekend.
We may have seen each other the next day, too.
Drove around a little bit, visited some people.
Shanti Baba was one of them.
What was that woman's...
The woman who does the hash in Amsterdam.
Her name...
Mila.
Yeah, and she made the machine.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
The isolator.
The isolator is her invention.
She's touted to be the inventor of that.
Anyway, met her.
Lovely time there.
Where was I?
Amsterdam.
Yeah, why was I there?
So, yeah.
So, I had come back, as I say, from Boston and I was trying to establish something.
That's why I was up there talking to folks like Mila and Gypsy Nirvana, but nothing seemed
to click.
I never felt comfortable that I'd be able to get the whole thing started again there.
And I again went to sitting on my hands mode and enjoyed Belgium and played guitar for
four hours a day and rode a bicycle two hours a day or four hours a day or whatever.
Rode with the bicycle clubs on the weekends and so on and just really had a great time.
You know, I firmed up my language skills very much so.
In that time, you know, people just assumed I spoke French and spoke French all the time.
So it was pretty cool.
Great experience for me.
And then I came back to the United States at a certain moment after two years in Belgium
because of the children.
I said, you know, the kids are crying on the phone.
You know, daddy's basically abandoned them and decided to go off and live his selfish
life in Europe, you know, satisfying his dreams.
Fuck us.
And, you know, I just felt maybe they weren't saying that, you know, obviously, but felt
that way.
And I just felt very guilty.
And I had been in this marriage more as convenience as, you know, we were in love in a certain
sense, but there was also a limitation to that where when push came to shove, we were
at a fork in our existence where she couldn't return to America because her parents were
older and failing and needed her.
My children were young and developing and needing me.
And so we had to sort of agree that I'm going back to America.
You've got to stay here.
We'll see what happens.
We stayed married on paper for the next seven years and then finally decided, well, let's
put it on paper that we're not married anymore.
We're still great friends and we'll send each other birthday cards and hello at Christmas
and email and what have you.
So that ended in an amicable way.
And then during about the next seven years in America, I worked as everything from selling
home improvements, kitchen remodeling, bathroom remodeling.
Got to be very good visiting people's homes and just doing little demos.
I love to be, since I was a little kid, I've always been the show and tell guy.
My wife will always say to people, Ricky's like the show and tell guy.
He'll want to trot out his latest whatever it is, having gathered everyone in the living
room.
And so that was how I was as a kid.
So when I went into sales, I just really enjoyed that whole razzle dazzle of getting the person
interested in having their kitchen done and getting them excited about closing the deal.
That was the way that thing worked was you had to be in and out of their home in three
hours time and either they bought then or they never would.
It was a one call close, they called it.
Got to be pretty good at that.
They made me a manager and put me in charge of sales team.
So for about four or five years, I did that.
And then I was called back to engineering.
A fellow called me up and said, I found your resume on monster.com.
You're a nuclear engineer, blah, blah, blah.
You're here in Boston and we really need a guy like you.
All right, I'll come in and interview.
Got the job.
Started working for Arriva.
It's a French company.
Finished with them after four years and moved to New York City, married a woman that I knew
from high school, having reconnected through Facebook.
And after four years of living in New York City with her, working as eventually professional
photographer as a sideline job.
I did also work as a nuclear engineer, but in sales for a company called High Torque.
And after four years with them, my job was basically phased out.
They were changing their strategy on how they did their sales and such.
And it wasn't working for me and them anymore.
But it was again, a door closing that seemed like a disappointing moment at the time.
And then a couple of months later, I'm finding myself being swept back into cannabis cultivation
and seed production and reopening Brothers Grimm and being very excited at the realization
that after all of waiting these years on the sidelines and cheering along the legalization
that was happening in various states, finally the two by four slapped me in the side of
the head and said, hey, by the way, if you were to move to one of those states, you may
well restart your business and do what you really love to do as you're living.
And so having started to scratch the surface of reaching out to my old partners and friends
and of course, Sly to this day has never resurfaced.
I don't know whatever happened to him.
Our working relationship was always pristine and we got along famously, left everything
on good terms.
But he's either lost interest in this business or been killed or is in prison or who knows,
you know what happens to people.
But anyway, the opportunity was to partner up with someone who could be that other side
of Brothers Grimm, Duke Diamond.
And you know, I was connected to him through Subcool and I took a chance on coming out
and meeting and found that he was beyond my expectations, excellent mate for me to do
this business.
And we slowly put it together from the very early beginnings of starting seeds that would
be used to find the right males to cross to the clones of genius and princess that
I had recovered from the people had been holding them.
And you can imagine, you know, wanting to have rooms full of plants and making seeds,
you know, great guns and looking at this little four by four area, you know, lit by one lamp
and like that's everything.
My pockets are empty.
I have everything right there in this little four by four area and that's got to grow and
prosper and multiply and become everything that, you know, here we are a year later and
it's a full blown, you know, seed growing operation with, we're in the black and operating,
you know, with a future and always planning to ramp things up from where we are.
It's growing at a great rate that it doesn't seem inordinately fast or slow.
Organic, just like we grow our plants.
So while you were a nuclear engineer, among other things, how did you feel about having
this secret the whole time?
Did you feel like you were the anomaly or did you think that maybe there's another nuclear
engineer who's, you know, a Mr. Soul by night?
That's a great question.
There's two answers to it really.
I think I, through that whole time, felt like, yeah, this is a secret, not only from employers,
but I also felt in dating, you know, that was always sort of a delicate, at that time,
maybe it isn't so much today, I'm now 57 years old.
So imagine when I'm 30 or, you know, 25 and yeah, I have that education.
Yeah, I'm in that profession.
And when I'm out meeting women or something, dropping that, I also happen to enjoy smoking
cannabis, you know, in my free time on weekends and evenings.
I'm almost a daily smoker.
It could chase away potentially interesting women.
And I guess I should have realized that, you know, the right girls are going to accept
me for that and the hell with the ones who don't, you know, but that was my mindset at
the time.
And then with the employer, it was also like, geez, I can't let my hair down and let them
know that this would be something that maybe I'm getting away with the fact that I'm working
for an employer who won't randomly drug test me and I know I'm safe.
There's no sense, you know, raising, you know, an alarm to myself or calling any attention
to it.
So I had to keep that quiet.
So yeah, there's that.
And to cap off that side of it, I think that I love this new expression I've come up with
where the letters are the same number of letters and everything fits in place.
You know, pot is the new gay.
We're the ones coming out of the closet now.
So I think that would make a great slogan.
And so I do that segues into your other half, the other half of your question, feel that
there are so many people, yeah, who were in the closet, didn't reveal as I didn't, that
they were cannabis aficionados in the closet, you know, and that's all coming out.
And there are statistics right now that I just read the other day that the fastest growing
cannabis consumption age group is something like, you know, the baby boomers, you know,
or just my I'm a little bit younger than baby boomer age.
So they're saying like people 50 to 60 or something like that, 50 to 75.
That's the biggest, most burgeoning group of pot smokers because they're all coming
out of the closet and saying, hey, fuck it, man.
I've always wanted, you know, I've always enjoyed this.
I have a lawyer who was a great friend of mine who lives in Chicago, who only revealed
to me like during this past year when he found out what I did and I was being open
about it, I had come out.
He reached out to me and said, oh my God, you know, I've been a pot smoker since the
60s.
I love really the good stuff.
I can see from your pictures that you're posting and that you're amazing.
I didn't know about your whole history, you know, that we've been friends, you know, on
and off over the years, but we lost touch for a really long time.
And he's like, so you're Mr. Soul.
It's amazing.
You know, so and in the end, you know, I send him some samples and he smokes them and he's
like, I can't, he's writing back to me.
I cannot believe this amazing.
You make better marijuana than I've ever smoked in my life.
You know, like, oh, you know, the whole thing, like we are not worthy.
So it's wonderful to have that sort of openness.
Now I do feel like, you know, coming, it's like a coming out, you know, and it's a great
feeling and especially being open about the company.
I'm proud of everything I've ever done with Brothers Grimm and to have not done what I
just recently did, reopen the company and pull this back to the future thing.
I would have always felt like, you have to understand, we'd go to cocktail parties or
be at friends' homes and the story would be trotted out by my wife or some friend, you
know, do you know that, you know, Rick here, he's famous in the cannabis world.
He used to be this world famous breeder.
He created the strange Cinderella 99 and, you know, oh, that's really, but, you know,
it was making me feel like a has-been.
I don't want to hear these stories and I'm not doing it anymore.
It's like, oh yeah, you know, it's like, don't trot that old story out.
Come on, you know, it's like, talk about what I do now, you know, I'm a photographic artist.
I'm having exhibitions in New York City.
I'm going to do that, you know, forget the pot thing.
But then there was this excellent segue between that last job and before I came out here to
Colorado, which was that a friend of my wife's, having heard that old story, you know, about
me and was on vacation talking to a fellow who she had met two couples, you know, on
the beach, you know, hey, let's have dinner, drinks, whatever.
Later on, they start talking about their lives.
The guy says, I work as the operations manager for Tweed.
She says, what's Tweed?
Tweed is a company in Canada that is the sole producer of all the medical marijuana that
is consumed in the entire country.
They are the one official source that the government says is, at least that's what I
believe the arrangement is.
So he hears through her little story about Mr. Soul and who I am, and she's friends with
my wife and he says, I'd love to interview the guy, you know, we would probably want
to employ him.
She says, really?
I'll find out if he's okay with you calling him.
So she did.
And I said, okay, he calls me, we have a conversation.
He says, we're going to get you tickets and fly you up here.
I flew up.
I spent a day touring the facility, talking to the master grower and all of the other,
you know, people.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
They have a master grower there.
The interview went really well.
Everybody liked each other.
And I felt like, you know, the guy wants me and he told me he wanted me for the job.
They were considering some other people, a woman included, who had come from an entirely
different background.
They were looking for an operation, you know, cultivation manager that would be the boss
of this fellow who would be the master grower.
And he told me about a month later that, okay, management made a decision to go with somebody
who is more immediately available, even if they didn't have the cannabis specific experience
due to the fact that our lawyers are saying it would take us a lot of time to immigrate
you into Canada and blah, blah, blah.
We haven't even made you an offer.
You may very well say you don't want to move to Canada.
And I said, yeah, you know, you're doing the right thing.
It's cool.
I see what's happening here.
He said, but we are really interested in another side idea, which would be to license the Brothers
Grimm name on products like if we were to produce Cinderella 99 and we could say that,
you know, it's bona fide and licensed by Brothers Grimm.
And I thought, that's brilliant.
Sure.
Let's talk about that whenever you're comfortable.
He let that sit on the back burner way too long.
And after like four months went by, I'm then in touch once a month or so.
And yeah, yeah.
Well, right now we can't.
And there are, you know, these and that.
I said, okay, look, I'm going to have to let that whole thing go.
I wrote him an email and said, look, that's not going to move forward, I feel.
And I am going to relocate to Colorado.
I'm going to reopen the company Brothers Grimm.
And I will not probably be interested in that right away.
But down the road, we could talk about it, what have you.
The seed that that put in my mind of, you know, this was a possibility.
I could return to being Mr. Soul and running Brothers Grimm again, just based on having
been interviewed by them and the little light bulb went on in my head.
And as the one door was closing with the job with Hightorque as an engineer there, I saw
that, well, I either dig deep and try to continue being a photographer in New York City and
the potential is not that great.
And photography and photographers are starting to go into a very, it's all so ubiquitous,
just like music, you know, pay for like fifteen dollar albums anymore.
You download music for next to nothing.
Same thing's happening with images and photography.
And so many people are taking so many wonderful pictures with the technology that's available
and the information that's available to become a better photographer so much faster.
And if you are learning photography now, you're able to immediately see the results of every
picture you take.
That's a huge biofeedback mechanism that was absent in the days of film when I was learning
photography in the 80s and I had to wait until I went to a drugstore and dropped off a roll
of film and got it several days later to figure out what I did wrong a week ago.
It's akin to you're a musician.
If you had been forced to learn how to play guitar by having earplugs in your ears and
recording your lessons while you played by sight and then later had to listen back to
them, but not right away.
It was only after you brought the tape down and had it processed and got it back a week
later and then you could figure out what the fuck you were doing.
That lack of immediate biofeedback would slow down the learning process and extend it by
such a great amount of time.
That's what was happening to us as burgeoning photographers in those days.
Now I've seen guys where they've had two years experience as a photographer and they're taking
professional level, amazing pictures because they paid attention and tried to educate themselves
with all of the available videos on YouTube and information from other sources that they
can just immediately learn how to create a great image and how to master the technology
of their own camera and light and everything else.
So the price of that is all going down.
Wow, I went a long way off on a tangent to explain why I didn't decide to stay in New
York and stay a photographer.
Have you ever considered like moving your passion over to cannabis photography?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I mean that's happening actually.
You know, there was an immediate need for me to be able to take pictures and transmit
what we're doing visually on Instagram and other medium, you know, social media.
And so all the nice photos are coming from you and not Duke.
Well no, he's amazing.
You know, most of his pictures have been done with his cell phone until very recently.
And I just think, you know, I showed him like here, here's where the sliders are on Instagram
one day and then I never said another word to him and immediately he started doing like
really great pictures and moving the, you know, controls around.
Yeah, I would never, it's not a competition.
This is how I look at everything in life.
It's like we're all colleagues and we're all unique and we're all trying to do our own
thing.
I don't want to make comparisons.
You know who Jack Kerouac is, the writer, right?
American writer did On the Road.
In his book Dharma Bums, there's one character who says comparisons are odious.
And it's just like, yeah, that's true.
You know, like we're all doing our own thing.
Everybody's got their own scene.
It's not a competition, you know?
So again, with the photography, it did parlay right into an immediate, it became an immediate
benefit to me to be able to do that.
I looked at my Instagram feed today and thought to myself, yeah, you know, it just dawns on
me that it's good that I've been able to produce good images of what we're doing and make nice
artistic sometimes and sometimes just very, you know, this is what it is just so you can
see the reality of what it is.
So yeah, I have been able to play around with my style of photography and adapting that
to taking pictures of cannabis rather than, you know, architecture and cityscapes, which
is what I used to do.
So if we tie it all back in, I guess my question would be, if you knew that things would go
the way they have, would you have considered coming back sooner?
Oh, totally.
I remember even two years ago, Colorado had just started to have legalization and I don't
know if any other states were quite so accessible in terms of being a good enough place to live
in terms of creature comforts and where I would want to be and also have the ability
to grow with basically, you know, an impunity that I'd never experienced before and I could
feel comfortable doing it openly as we are.
So yeah, I mean, if all the conditions had been right, I would have done it earlier.
I had gotten a mindset over the years that, you know, I don't think the numbers work and
so on.
But as I started to explore it and legalization had been running for some time, then I did
see that, oh, okay, other people are showing me how this would work as a seed company and
it could be profitable, whereas I had never really considered the seed money being enough
to live on as it wasn't back in the day when I was doing this in my basement in Boston.
Most of the money I made was through a contact I had in southern Massachusetts who would
take pounds of high-grade weed from me and I was breeding for, you know, growing good
sensimia to send to this guy and make my rent every month and pay the bills, whereas
the seed money was an occasional pop that came from Canada that was like, oh, that's
nice to have that extra few thousand dollars or whatever it happened to be.
It might have been as much as 15 at a time or so.
But I didn't think that there was a way to make a living.
But as I say, you know, it was shown to me, no, no, it works.
So yeah, here we are and like I say, we're able to pay the bills every month and do what
we love.
So pretty happy with the way things are going.
So when we think back to the initial incarnation, a lot of growers and breeders alike think
of it as this golden era, you know, you had the original Brothers Grimm, people like Tom
Hill and Vic High releasing strains.
Did you ever realize that you're a part of an age that would be looked back on with,
you know, this kind of reminiscence and envy or did it just feel like same old, same old
at the time?
This is again, you know, with the experience of my age and so on, I've come across things
where I can answer that pretty simply because everybody who's ever gone through this can
can relate to.
There's a quote by I can't remember exactly who to attribute it to, but he said, one never
knows when one is making history.
So it's like, while you're making history, you're just doing it.
You're not thinking you're making history.
And then you look back and you realize, oh, I made history.
So there's your answer.
I guess it's universal.
It's not yet to me, but it fits.
I feel that that's a good response for myself as well as being sort of universal response.
Awesome.
So one of the things I always noticed and also, you know, really kind of praise the
original release of Cindy was, was that when you did the original Cindy, there wasn't really
many cubing projects going on.
And I always wondered, where did you get the idea to do a cube?
It's even today, not many people think of it as a breeding project.
A lot of people are more into F1s.
How did you find out about what would be regarded as a fairly advanced breeding idea early back
in the day?
Nobody I know at that time or had ever heard of, or I don't think anybody has ever claimed
to be, have been doing a breeding project that involved cubing or was cubing anything
at that time.
I think I was the first person to actually actively take that idea and run with it.
I just felt that I read an article once in a High Times magazine that alluded to that
process and it seemed like nobody ever talked about it or no one ever really noticed it,
but it piqued my interest and I said, huh, it may sound simplistic, but each time a male
and female mate, the children get 50% of the mother and father and, and humans and mammals
and people that live on a timeline that's continuous, whereas cannabis can be brought
back in time and forward in time, if you will, by taking a clone from a female plant that's
being kept in a vegetative state.
It's as though time is being made to stand still there and then you can take cuttings
from that female and do any kind of breeding and growing with them that you like.
And then the offspring of, say, a male of that generation being bred back to the original
female, if you think about it, it's already got 50% of that, of his mother's genes.
So if we take a boy from the first generation, he's already half pea princess, let's say
from the cubing process I did to make Cinderella 99, and she's contributing again, half of
her pea to the mix that becomes the children of that cross.
So having half of her already, he can contribute only 25%.
So there he's contributed 25%.
She always contributes 50%.
So each time you're getting 25% plus the 50%, that next generation is going to have 75%.
So then half of 75% is like 37.5.
So you get a P88 generation.
And then if you do the P88 generation, you're adding 44 and 50.
So now you're at 94% pea, if you will.
Sounds simplistic.
There's probably some flaws to the whole process, right?
However, if you're careful about the male selection each time, it's almost like you're
doing a little bit of guidance, like F2 to F3 to F4 and such.
When you're guiding those generations, you're also choosing which plants to mate in each
generation.
So I had in each generation of P88, P94 and such, the males that would resemble princess
was my simplistic way of looking at, okay, the more it resembles the female, the more
this one is carrying that trait.
And each time it did seem to make improvements and bring the plant more toward the princess.
However, I did want to choose for more larger branches, bigger colas, sweeter flavors, more
pleasing high rather than the devastating knock you down kind of high from the original
princess.
You've been smoking a little bit of it lately.
Yeah, I can attest to that.
So when you started the cubing process, we know now that you use the Shiva skunk as the
original male.
Why did you choose that?
And were you considering any others?
No, I had two choices in my mind.
I could choose a very similar plant and use a brother and then more likelihood that some
family genes are already in the male side and you wouldn't have to back cross as far.
But then it would leave me a little more confused as to how to choose where I'm getting away
from the male side, the original male side, and getting more and more toward just the
princess qualities.
So I felt the other option was to go with something that was so obviously different
that every generation I'd be able to sort of cull away the skunky side of it and go
more toward the princess phenotypes and see that the females in each generation were also
producing better and better quality with the sweeter flavors, the larger colas, the
larger branches, and more structure than princess had.
So princess turns out to be a more valuable plant as a breeding female than she would
be in terms of just growing that for people, consumers, to want to buy that bud.
So some people would argue that genius is almost as valuable as a plant as princess
in terms of the strains that they've gone on to create.
Have you ever considered doing a similar cubing project with genius?
I didn't have time.
I ran out of time back in the day and now I can do so I might.
There's your answer.
I mean it's likely.
I think that having done the Green Avenger we really got sort of a plant that was so
much beefier and more compact and easier to grow and still had the flavor and the mind,
the psychoactivity of genius.
So right there with Green Avenger we sort of hit on a nice what would be a seed form
of genius but with many improvements.
But if you were to try to go and get somebody the genius in seed form thing, I kind of question
the value of it.
You know, I don't know.
I want it.
I think we've improved it.
Yeah.
But again, valuable as a breeding female.
Yeah.
So have you got any rough ideas as to what might have been the male which pollinated
the Jack Harrow which to end up creating the princess, genius and cafe girl seeds?
I would like to say from everything that I've seen now in the past year or so of observing
more plants of different varieties that are available for me to observe than I ever had
before, I've now got a much better handle on where before I said look it's whatever.
I don't know.
Like really I wouldn't like to even throw out a guess because it's just meaningless
to guess, isn't it?
So today having seen the structure of Jack Harrow, sorry, having seen the structure of
a Durban, a pure Durban and knowing that Super Sativa Seed Club and Sensi, you know, they
all worked with some Durban and it's likely they may have had some Durban pollen floating
around and just a few, you know, that like I say that bud that I broke open in Sensi
Smile which I have to return to that story by the way, was mostly bud.
I mean it really didn't have more than six seeds in it and I mean it was a reasonable
sized bag that you get from an Amsterdam coffee shop and the reason I was there just to finish
that story was before leaving and knowing that I would want to grow weed in America
when we got to Boston, we went to Amsterdam specifically to go buy a bunch of seeds and
I went in the Sensi shop right next to the, or right nearby the Hash Museum on that little
canal there and I bought a few packs of seeds, one of them being the...
The Shiva skunk.
Shiva skunk, yeah, and a couple others.
And lo and behold after having bought the seeds, you know, we want to get a cup of coffee
and go smoke the joint or something.
That's how I ended up in the Sensi Smile just to finish to recap that little missing tidbit
Did you ever, after having popped the seeds, get the urge to go back to Sensi Smile and try to...
No, that was just such a chance thing that, you know, you find a hundred dollar bill,
you know, in a parking lot, you don't go back there every day walking the parking lot looking
for dollar bills, but it was really, it was just an off thing that, hey, great, but I
did, coincidentally, I don't think I've ever told anybody this story, but when I came back
a few days after having gone on that little sojourn and bought the seeds, I thought, well,
the ones that came out of that bud, just for the hell of it, I'll try to germinate a couple
and grow and see what they look like before we leave.
We had another week or so or a month before we were going to leave.
We had a balcony and a little space there I could sit a pot out and two or three of
those seeds popped up and grew and I ended up having to call them just before leaving
and just like, you know, yeah, they seem to be healthy and they grew well.
Who knows what they could have been, you know?
Why didn't you tell me this?
I don't know.
Just to break everyone's heart.
Well, every good story has to have that low moment, you know, for us to crawl out of and
become champions at the end.
I wasn't such a low moment at all because I still did have, you know, four to six seeds
left that I brought to America and when I ended up germinating everything from the packets
as well as those freebie seeds that rolled out of my weed in the coffee shop, they turned
out to have been the stars, you know, weirdly enough.
And you know, I don't recommend to people as you know today to buy seeds that have a
lot of variety and, you know, be on pheno hunts.
You know, you're causing yourself a lot of unnecessary work.
I feel that one should just simply ask a few questions to himself like, what is it that
I would like in terms of what type of plant if I were to have to write down all the characteristics
of what I'd like might vary from person to person, wouldn't you agree?
But there is such a strain out there likely to line up with what someone's wish list would
contain.
And wouldn't it be logical to just buy a pack of those seeds and grow them and get to the
finish line?
Do you really want to buy, you know, something that is a polyhybrid with another polyhybrid
saying oh boy, those are both great things?
You know, chicken cordon bleu and asparagus is a lovely meal, but I don't want to mix
it with a hot fudge sundae at the same time.
They're both lovely things.
But putting them together doesn't necessarily make a great thing.
And many people who are neophytes to this craft or this passion or, you know, want to
grow marijuana, I think they get caught up in the lore as many beginners in any field do.
There's an old saying, a beginner never underdoes anything.
Usually you'll find that their errors come from overdoing something, over watering, over
fertilizing, over loving, you know, over handling, until they get to where they learn to let
things be, you know, and not disturb them too much and know that less is more sometimes.
So I just feel that sometimes people get caught up in the names like, you know, superstar
fucker and porn star.
I imagine, you know, it's like a fucking porn movie.
You know, the guy with the 12 inch dick is going to fuck the woman with the huge ass
or whatever.
I don't know what they think is going to come out of these crosses.
But having not at least asked yourself, what would I really like to have as an ideal plant
and does it already exist?
And can I buy a pack of seeds where I'll reliably get a dozen of them instead of maybe I'll
get that special one out of this?
I don't know, you boys.
I may be from a different generation or something.
Some of the younger folks seem to enjoy that and take some pride in I'm on a Fino hunt
of some sort, like they're on a safari in Africa, slashing away with a machete somewhere,
writing home once I'm gone.
I don't know.
Yeah, no, it's interesting.
Everyone I've ever spoken to has always said that they don't like Fino hunting per se,
like it's just kind of viewed as a necessity.
So is there any plans for any feminized projects from Brothers Grimm?
We're working on it because there's such a demand.
I've always been against it.
But again, you know, I come back into this craft years later with many advancements in
the technology as well as an understanding of soil that was unprecedented at my time,
you know, in the 90s.
And I think that knowing how to properly make feminized seeds and not doing it willy nilly,
if we can prove to ourselves it's a reliable method that we can master, that I don't produce
hermaphrodites.
That's something I've never, you know, grown anything that's a hermaphrodite, produced
any seeds that produce hermaphrodites.
I'm really proud of that.
And my fear has always been if we tried to make feminized seeds, we may be making some
percentage of hermaphrodites.
And I want to avoid that at all costs.
So if I get the chance, sorry, if I should prove to myself and over this next period
of time that we're working on that project, I am convinced that yes, we can reliably produce
feminized seeds and people will not have hermaphrodites, they'll have great feminized seed or feminine
plants.
By all means, I'd love to do that.
So we're trying, we're working on it.
Would you ever consider trying to hit a Jack Herra with a Durban and try to recreate the
original seeds you got in a certain regard?
I don't think so.
You know, that cross isn't possible with what we have in the house at the moment.
We'd have to make a feminized version of it.
But yeah, by all means, feminizing it in that direction.
We have so many combinations that you could sit back and, you know, Monday morning quarterback
about how wouldn't that be cool if you did.
There's so many combinations you have to prioritize and select the ones that, all right, these
are what we're doing as a company and moving forward.
And this is just, you know, maybe not an interesting thing.
I don't know.
You make those choices.
I'm sorry.
I don't know.
It might as well be a great idea.
I just don't know if that's on the horizon anytime soon.
No worries.
Yeah.
So if we look at the average or even the better Jack Herra cut, we notice that it's not really
as potent as say genius, sorry, as say Princess.
Do you think that Princess was kind of just a one in a million where that potency got
really jacked up?
Because I mean, if we think about Durban, it's not a strain, it's typically known for
its potency.
So it doesn't appear on paper as though it would jack the potency up of a Jack Herra
and yet it did.
Yeah.
Again, whatever it did, did.
Genetics is a lottery.
You know, it's a statistics game.
And with every strain that exists at the moment, sort of deriving from, you know, a few basic
starting points and then being morphed from there, when you combine a Jack Herra that
probably has at least three to five different lines that come into it from various origins
and then the Durban, which is just a land race, you're going to get less variation than
two polyhybrids, but you're still going to have those odd numbers that come up, those
odd lottery numbers, you know, because each plant is basically like a lottery number.
And if you have this, if you can envision a jug of marbles, you know, that we're going
to put in a hopper and spin them and, you know, you can only take out six at a time
and that's your plant.
And you have only two different colors in that hopper.
There aren't going to be a lot of variations among the plants and they're going to be pretty
predictable.
But when you have 18 different colored marbles in there and you're taking out six at a time,
you may very well have six of one color.
You may have, you know, one is each of the six a different color and another one that
has six where each of them is a different color, but not the same colors as its neighbor,
you know, so there's so many ways those lottery numbers can come out.
Princess is just one that the right combination to get those qualities existed and the next
door neighbor in the same bud, the genius seed grew into genius, which doesn't look
a lot like in many regards, princess, except in certain ways that you can see a family
resemblance maybe more in flowering than in veg.
Yeah.
So yeah, it's that lottery number business of the lack of predictability when you have
a lot of genes in play like that.
You just can't say, well, hey, who would have thought crossing Durban to the Jack Harer
would have boosted potency?
No, I bet if you looked at the averages, they didn't, but you have those outliers and she's
an outlier basically.
Yeah.
How's that?
So the Brothers Groom are now looking at working with various members of the chem dog family,
the Cuttings.
What is it about the chem dogs that are appealing to you and what type of projects would you
envision with them?
I think because they are almost so opposite from the types of strains that I've always
concentrated on and been known for, the more cerebral, fruitier flavored, you know, those
up highs and the turps and so on that are more akin to what people are smoking in dabs
today, I guess.
The chem dog line, especially 91, oh, excuse me, appeals to me in that it's a counterpoint
to the types of weed that I normally smoke and it's such a nice refreshing change.
And, you know, it's almost unbeknownst to me that my attitude, my energy level and so
on is what it is when I'm smoking my usual types of strains.
And I could actually use a little bit of a chill pill sometimes.
And the 91 chem dog will give me that like deep, earthy, connect back to earth kind of
thing instead of being out in space.
And it makes me feel a body high that's relaxing and can put me in a state of relaxation and
also has that old world like back in high school, people would sell brown Columbian
weed and the taste had that earthiness to it.
And the chem dog has that earthy flavor.
So there's a nostalgia to the flavor.
This is a counterpoint, counter reaction that sort of is a good mate to the highs that
I get from the more sativa leaning cerebral pot that I smoke most of the time.
And so do you have any projects you'd be willing to share that you might even just vaguely
envision doing with it?
Yeah, we're trying to think about ways where that heavier indica lean, you know, you just
can't get much more indica than these, you know, hash plants and 91 chem dogs and those
types of things that bring that Tommy brings to the table, Duke Diamond.
And he and I always think about like, wow, you know, what if we did this?
And you know, recently we went the other way where not the indica side, but we use the
hazy Cinderella 99 haze, super silver haze to get princess and Apollo, make that Apollo
haze and the princess haze from genius and princess.
So the next logical step is to sort of take a heavy indica side thing and go the other
way, you know, and take princess and genius and see what would happen.
I'd be excited to see, and we have seeds produced already from some of those heavy indica side.
Of course, we have had to not take the female and reverse it to get pollen.
We don't do that or haven't done yet.
So if we were to try to incorporate chem dog into, say, Cinderella 99, we'd do something
like cross the chem dog to another suitable male, have a male from that generation work
back to the Cinderella 99 and then see how those heavy indica influences can combine
with the Cinderella 99.
There are people, I'll just give you a little heads up to, we didn't do it ourselves, but
out on the West Coast, there are some folks who grew out Cinderella 99 cross to some very
heavy like OG Kush type.
And they said Cinderella 99 was so dominant that you would have thought that that indica
would be showing its stuff in that next generation, but they were mostly Cinderella 99 dominant.
So that's interesting, you know, and I'd like to see how that plays out for us as well.
So kind of just on the topic of feminized seeds, would you ever consider crossing princess
to genius seeing as a lot of people, including myself, consider these two to be kind of,
you know, the brothers from Holy Grails.
But as I mentioned to Tommy the other day, he said, oh, I don't think it would be too
different to Apollo.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
We kind of did tie them together in a nice way.
Apollo 11 in particular was the goal all along to do that sort of a combination, never having
thought about or wanting to, you know, engage in this reversing the plants.
So yeah, Apollo 11 has that princess structure with the more vertically angled branches and
denser structure at the same time looks a lot like genius and veg at the time when the
buds are fully formed.
They have a lot of the shape of the of the princess and at the same time are much frostier,
have a lot of resin, whiter looking than either genius or princess.
So I felt like it really brought the two together and the flavors and the high and everything
are, you know, it is kind of like best of both worlds there.
Yeah, well, I guess the reason why I bring that up is because as you were just mentioning
with the Cinderella dominating that OG cross your friends had made, it does feel somewhat
the same with the Apollo.
And I guess we attribute that to the true breeding nature of Sydney is going to tend
to be more dominant.
Yeah, just like when we were using the example of the land race.
Yeah, across to a polyhybrid, you know, she kind of comes from that.
So do you think you see 99 is stabilized enough that making predictable contributions each
time?
So do you think if you did do a feminized of princess and genius, it would come out
more different to Apollo seeing as there isn't that dominating nature, you know, like princess
isn't as dominating as Sydney necessarily?
Huh?
That's, yeah, it's likely that you'd be seeing more variety.
Interesting.
So you referenced earlier on that the Brothers Grimm do everything organically.
What's your thoughts behind this?
Is it just simply a preferred growth style or do you really think it's true?
I am really a pragmatic guy.
I wouldn't be doing this for any other reason than I find it to be giving me the best results
with the least effort.
And you know, there's going back to earlier conversation, we mentioned, you know, beginners
getting kind of carried away, you know, and always making mistakes on the high side of
overdoing things.
Well, there's also what I call the gee whiz factor.
And when you first come into learning about cannabis cultivation, you kind of go gee whiz,
that's cool about a lot of things that are beyond your present skills and abilities and
may not actually be the better way of doing things anyway.
But I know that setting up an automated room with all hydroponics and CO2 and lights that,
you know, are on crazy cycles that you read about somewhere.
And you know, these are the kinds of things that the early guys jump into sometimes.
And what was the question?
So they get carried away, but they get carried away.
And I did too, I guess, in the beginning and wanted to do hydroponics.
So I have dabbled in that and did it even during the time when I was doing Brothers
Grimm in Boston.
I had sort of pebble bed draining tables with rockwool cubes lying on top of them.
And then you had to stabilize the top of the plants with screening or stakes or however
you can manage to do it.
And I was stretching strings across the room and making kind of a grid to let them stand
inside of it.
So to cap off and answer the question fully, it's just a fact that I find super easy, seems
so natural.
Maybe there's no gee whiz factor to it, but I get my hands right in the soil and I mix
it up.
You can ask Tommy, he says I'm the best soil mixer he's ever seen in his life.
Every grain of soil is like evenly mixed and evenly moist in that pot.
And I'm touching that with my bare hands and getting that soil ready.
And when I transplant something into that pot, it just takes off like a jet plane or
something.
And I love that every time.
I never tire of seeing.
I think transplanting is one of my favorite things to do.
I love taking them from the smaller pot and putting them in that big final pot and watching
how there's a room behind you right there where I was remarking to myself only 15 minutes
ago how this room just really, really just jump right up out of the soil in a very short
time.
And it's, they're just growing like mad.
So I love that process and working with the soil, moving a few pots around, mixing soil
doesn't bother me in the least.
I enjoy it and I feel like we get great yields and great productivity.
It doesn't slow us down at all.
Yes, there's some bother to going around hand feeding soil plants with a wand of whatever
food we're giving them that day, which is all dragonfly earth medicine mixed into water
and pH balanced and such.
Coconut water and all that stuff.
Yeah, we have mixed our own soil and we're also feeding with those types of products.
And to me, it just seems really simple.
You know, you can do a lot of by feel.
I'm a kind of a by feel person.
So touching back on something you mentioned at the very start of the interview, you said
you had the Akpuku Gold and recently some tests were done on some samples they found
and they found that it still was fairly high in THC.
Do you think that...
I can attest to that.
So do you think that modern cannabis has improved the levels of THC or more so just refined
characteristics about the high?
Because I think a lot of people, and I used to be guilty of this, think that all the Akpuku
Gold, for example, was maybe not very good.
And it's through hybridizing cannabis that we've got it to the THC point it is now.
Do you feel that that's maybe not necessarily the truth?
I think in those days, in the 60s and 70s, those fields were grown not by people who
were really consciously cultivating them the way we are now and that there were standout
plants and you got certain batches, you know, in those days from your local dealer and he
had gotten a pound that happened to be better than usual or something.
And so you got some outstanding ones and you probably got some mediocre ones.
That's it's just the variation, I think, in that.
But certainly there had to have been very high THC content and very potent plants coming
from that region during that time.
And people having stood on that shoulder and bred from there could absolutely improve it.
And I feel that maybe the advantages one has today are that you have this variety available
to you very easily.
And there's been a lot of experimentation and people have created information and written
and spoken on all these subjects so that today with the instant information of the Internet,
you're well informed about what the different types of marijuana might do and which ones
you might like and how to get them and which ones taste the way you want them to taste.
So many more refined menu, I guess you could say, you know, you can build your own what
you like to smoke based on the information that's out there and a little bit of sampling.
But in those days, it was like whatever was around that week or, you know, happened to
be circulating through your neighborhood or your school.
That's what you got.
And it's kind of hard to compare the apples to oranges.
You just look back on it and there's a nostalgia, too, that every human being, I think, suffers
from. You today have a lot of resistance to, you know, you're building up resistance.
People have high tolerances to marijuana that we didn't have in those days.
That a lot of times, periods of time would pass that there was nothing around.
And then when you did finally get some, well, you know, knock you on your ass and you'd
be talking about how great that weed was.
And is it really psychological or was it really pharmaceutical?
You know, in origin, you know, the feelings and sensations that you had.
I remember having not smoked marijuana after marrying that woman who I told you made me
give it all up. And I had gotten a project as an engineer working on a project in Scotland
and it was 1991.
And as part of my job, I was required to just make a quick trip out of the UK and fly back
in with my paperwork in order, because when they first called me and it was an emergency
and I had to get there and they put me in as a tourist, you know.
So I took the opportunity to go to Amsterdam, you know, and turn around at Schiphol and go
back to wherever Edinburgh.
And while there, of course, I went in a coffee shop and the first thing I ordered was skunk
number one, because at that time, 1991, that was something that was like a highly touted
strain that everyone should try.
And I had been growing it at home and, you know, going in a coffee shop in Amsterdam
and actually trying it there was something I really wanted to do.
But my point is that having not smoked for so long and my tolerance being so low and
having been living this really straight life with my wife, you know, was like a huge
freakout that almost was akin to that first time I got high with my uncle in his backyard
and came back in the house and felt like I was in a dream, you know, and then my
grandmother came home and made a soup and we were sitting at the table and I couldn't
stop giggling. And my uncle is like kicking me under the table.
Stop giggling. Your grandmother's going to think something's wrong.
And so when I went into that coffee shop after having not gotten high for so long, I remember
that skunk number one just made me feel like, oh, my God, I'm seeing all these incredible
visual things around here.
Like if I had a camera right now, that would be such a cool shot.
You know, the the floor and the way it goes into the jukebox over there that way.
And so I so I mean, there is some subjectivity and some you have to pay attention to two
things. The subjectivity of the set and setting of the people who are smoking the
marijuana and judging how great it is, where are they coming from before they get there?
You know, and then in that same vein, what was their tolerance?
You know, what are they used to smoking all the time?
That can totally change a review.
You know, I would do.
Yeah. I mean, if I hadn't smoked marijuana for a month, been out hiking in the mountains,
drinking from streams and living off the land and having this pure life or whatever, and
came back to, you know, here and everybody say, oh, welcome back.
You know, hey, let's all smoke something.
That first joint would be strappy.
So, yeah, man, stuff that I didn't think was that strong before would probably knock me on
my ass. So take those things into consideration.
And also, you know, kind of reminds me that the Cannabis Cup competitions and such are
oftentimes very subjective and I don't put a lot of stock in.
Okay, that strain won this time.
Who knows? There may have been three or four other ones that I would have preferred better, you know?
Yeah. So.
So if we kind of keep on that topic of tolerance, there's a bit of a kind of a
trend in the breeding community to quote unquote, breed for concentrates, you know, breeding
for terpenes that will translate to concentrates, all of this type of general ideas.
Is Brothers Grimm getting aboard that hype train or no?
I would like to say that we have something already that maybe it isn't even recognized or
appreciated or people aren't aware of it, that Cinderella 99 itself, it just completely
dumps huge amounts of resin off of the buds.
And if I understand well how that whole process works with extracts, the more
the resin, you know, that comes off the bud, the more what do they call yield
of concentrate that that particular strain would be rated at, say, you know, I think that
if someone did a good grow of Cinderella 99 and then were to process it and
do extraction, they may find that it's hitting numbers for yield that are unprecedented.
You know, I just don't think anybody's tried yet.
You know, we released the seeds in April.
Enough time's passed that somebody should have done, but maybe nobody has or anybody hasn't
stuck their head up out of the rabbit hole and told anybody about it, you know?
Yeah. But I would feel I would like to say, you know, if there are people who want to buy
seeds and grow a plant that will give you a high yield of high quality, you couldn't go
wrong buying the Cinderella 99 and just saying, you know, this will give an amazing
terpene profile. It's going to give an amazing yield of resin and it's going to have a
psychoactivity that, you know, is world famous for, you know, really being
enjoyable and the kind of thing that like the ladies, for some reason, I have many time
women come up to Cinderella 99 is my favorite strain.
I just love that. This tastes so good.
It makes me feel so good.
And so on. A little bit of an aphrodisiac.
I, yeah, exactly.
And it's funny you say that because I was just about to segue into Foria is this spray for,
you know, it's a sexual lubricant, actually, with cannabis infused in it.
And one of my girlfriends told me that she read somewhere that Cinderella 99 is used in that
formula because of the aphrodisiac qualities that they found in testing other strains and it.
Yeah. So I did not see that with my own eyes, but I'd like to believe it's true.
Yeah, I remember I was talking to Duke the other day in regards to the hash making stuff.
And he said that Cindy is like the never ending God stopper.
It just just keeps giving you more resin the more you handle it.
It's crazy. So you guys are looking to re-release.
The killer queen slash you have.
Yeah. Out now.
Yeah. So it's out there. Go get it.
Can we expect any other little special reduxes from some of these old school populist strains to make it out there?
Let me think about something we were probably kicking around recently.
Let's see. There was something that crossed my mind.
I forget what it was like a sugar blossoms or something where, yeah, using a white widow
and C99 white widow type of a thing would probably be the recreation of what we called sugar blossoms back then.
We also have talked a little bit about there was a plant we called the green giant back in the day,
and we're sort of working toward a similar thing.
We probably won't call it green giant, but it's an improvement on that idea that now,
having stood on the shoulders of previous work, I can see that we can do even better.
And we'll do some, you know, big yielding outdoor strain that can still mature in time for the Northeasterners here in the United States and such.
Where in Australia do you have sort of a dividing line of where people can start to be getting too far south,
where it's too cold in the winters or something, or does that not happen in Australia at all?
I know people in New Zealand and they still are able to do outdoor crops.
So I don't think there is a too far south, so to speak.
Around there's, you know, like I struggle, I kind of cringe to say it, but there's an area in Australia called the Emerald Triangle,
you know, akin to the one here.
And that's kind of what I consider to be the sweet spot of Australia to be growing it outdoors.
And they get like three, four crops in an outdoor season, because it goes for quite a long time.
I guess. So is the daylight sort of not varying so much from 12-12?
Yeah, yeah. Very close. Very close.
So I think we get about 14 hours max.
Sorry, 14 hours max.
11 and a half minimum.
So, yeah, we get basically from speaking to my friend who does a lot of outdoors, he says so their first outdoor crops are just starting to flower right now and they'll be harvested a little bit after Christmas.
And he said those crops don't turn out the best because it's still really hot.
It's summer, you know, it's like 100 degrees.
But resin production is destroyed by the heat.
Yeah, real murky, no density.
And then he said, but the last two you get in, which are as you're just getting towards July, they're really frosty, nice colors because you're getting towards winter.
And yeah, I look forward to those outdoor crops.
Our autumn is also similar.
So obviously you have a bit of an intertwined past with the SSSC being the US distributor.
When you decided to do the Durban Thai Cine 99, did they kind of give you a nod of approval as a thank you for the help earlier or were you not really in contact with them at that point?
Lost contact for some time.
At that point, I hadn't spoken to them for something like eight years and they were upset with me for giving up working for them.
You know, and it was sort of abrupt because of having met that woman and getting married and so on.
I was a young man and easily swayed by, you know, the female influence.
Yeah, you know, there was some urgency of, I don't know, sort of primal pressure to breed or something at that moment, you know, myself.
So I took five years and made a couple of kids and came back to making plants again now.
Now you've made thousands.
Yeah.
So when you did that, were they still releasing the original Durban Thai High Flyer or did you have to track down a packet of it?
Oh, no.
Yeah, that was actually a friend out in the Pacific Northwest who I traded a cutting of Princess to who gave me the Durban Thai.
And he was meant to keep that under wraps and not spread it around.
And I believe he has done.
And I think it may have circulated to another fellow.
But so from that friend who I traded the Princess clone to and he gave me Durban Thai as seed.
And I grew out those seeds.
And having done many years before, I knew what to look for and found a really nice, early maturing little group there and got the male that was similar to that and bred that to.
Oh, I'm sorry. I used the female and used the male C99 on that.
That's right. So and so I got the Durban Thai C99.
I found a nice, early maturing female and went with the C99 male.
So do you have any beliefs on the effects of using males and females and the differences in the cross?
So what I mean by that is I from memory, I'm quoting this DJ Short said that he always found he wanted to have the most sativa of the two parents being the female.
I think he said he got the best results from that.
Have you found something like that where, you know, like maybe you prefer to use Cindy as a male more than a female or, you know, anything along those lines?
Well, here's the thing.
That's funny you ask that question.
And after all this time, it was that question that I asked to Super Sativa Seed Club that piqued their interest in me and made them think, look, this guy actually is thinking and has a good understanding of what's going on with breeding and so on.
Because I asked them the question, when you make a cross like, you know, Afghani skunk, skunk Afghani, you know, does it matter the offspring, whether the male was the Afghani or the female was the Afghani or vice versa, the male skunk or the female skunk?
And so he said, because of that question, I really want to talk to you.
Can I get your phone number?
And in my experience, he never did answer, you know, to my satisfaction in anything.
But in my experience now, after all these years, I've found that what you want to do is that the offspring are presumably female that you're interested in.
If we can just like assume that, let's say you want to grow seeds that will give you a great female.
In general, you want the mother to be the type that's most like the offspring you're looking for.
And the male will be less of an influence because of the following reason.
Daughters are going to look more like their mothers in general and their feminine qualities will come from the mother more likely.
And the male contributes a Y chromosome X chromosome and the female contributes an X chromosome.
So each of them is contributing something to make up that female daughter.
And when a son is created, it has the Y chromosome from the male and therefore, you know, has his influence.
And being his sons, you tend to see sons looking like their dads and such in human beings and mammals and so on.
And also, when you are trying to breed a female, you're looking for the female traits to show you what the daughters will have.
And it's obvious, right?
I mean, because of the female, the mother's a female, the daughter's a female.
The traits, those female traits that you want the daughters to have are going to be expressed in the female, hopefully.
And if you're hoping to get some of the female traits from the male side, it's going to be a subtler influence.
But, you know, what will end up happening?
You have. Are you all right?
Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah.
So where was I?
If you cross them.
Right. Also, how does one pick in the phenotype of a male and judge what female traits he'll be able to contribute when he has no feminine traits to exhibit?
Now, one of the examples I use is imagine you wanted to breed humans.
You know, you want you wanted to have large breasted women.
OK. And it'd be obvious that, yeah, you would want to start with take a woman who's large breasted.
She'll probably have large breasted daughters.
Now, if you make that link to potency and marijuana and you say, all right, well, we're going to want a female that has high potency.
Right. You know, and potency comes from high resin production and the female parts of the marijuana plant.
So it's very obvious to be able to pick a female that has the drug quality that you want.
But in the male, he doesn't have any female parts to judge that from.
So.
What do you do?
Guys in the old days would do the following.
They would try to smoke the male's leaves and flowers and try to find out which males had the highest potency and figure that would be the one that will give the female more potency.
And bring that into the cross.
Well, if you think about it, that's analogous to in our little example of trying to breed for large breasted women, finding men with large breasts to breed with your large breasted woman.
That doesn't make sense, does it?
Yeah.
Because you're looking for a feminine trait in a male.
Yeah. That's not necessarily going to happen that the man whose breasts are the largest are going to be a trait that he transmits to his daughters.
He might more likely have large breasted sons.
So that's the fucked up thing about doing it that way.
So what I found was that I would grow out a generation of plants and I'd have the females and males growing through their vegetative states together.
And I'd group the ones that were similar in their structure, you know, given all of the neutral gender traits, stuff that's not specific to a male or a female.
Thickness of the stalk, density of the internodes, thinness or longness of the leaves and such.
And group them together.
And whichever ones turned out to be females and males from each group, I'd say, OK, the males from that group that had all of those vegetative properties that were similar to the females in that group, be it tall, short, whatever.
I have found that they are the ones that will then transmit the type of female characteristics from the sisters to the next generation.
And if you do a little bit of reverse engineering and sort of time traveling, you can go back to our experiment with humans and say, OK, how do we know a man who has already proven himself to create daughters who have large breasts?
That would be one way of finding a man who is a good match for your large breasted woman.
Right. Because the proof's in the pudding.
It's not in his breasts that he exhibits on himself.
The real test of a breeding stud of a guy who can make daughters who have large breasts is a guy who makes daughters with large breasts.
You've proven it. He's done it a few times.
Right. So you know how you find guys like that?
Find large breasted women and get their dad.
So you go back to the father of that large breasted woman.
That guy already has been shown to make a large breasted daughter.
He's a good probability.
So you can do that.
If anyone is ever smart enough to hold the male back and see what happens in future generations, say, oh, fuck, you know, that male would have been very, really valuable.
But we called him because, you know, we already pollinated something with it once.
Sometimes people do that, but we tend to hold on to our males for a while and prove them out before we would ever.
So with this in mind, does that almost does that school of thought almost lean itself to make you want to use Cindy more as the male?
Because if you read there are strains you could look at, for example, and straight away say, oh, well, Cindy was the dad.
Like, I mean, Space Queen's a great one.
Well, you're talking feminized now.
And when you feminize and reverse a female clone, I mean, it's almost a certainty that this will now was the pollen that was Space Queen feminized.
No, I'm not talking about.
I'm just saying in general, not using Space Queen as the example.
But if you take a clone, female clone and colloidal silver spray, the thing to reverse it and make pollen, the characteristics that are going to be carried in that pollen is much, much more likely to carry all of the feminine characteristics of the plant that it came from than a male who came from that generation and may have an entirely different lottery ticket.
As we were using that analogy earlier and wouldn't give so reliably all of the characteristics that that female clone would have done in its pollen.
That would be my assumption going into this.
And that's what, you know, scientifically makes sense to me.
But again, proof's in the pudding.
Yeah.
In the next year or so, as we go through the process of learning how that works for us, I will like to think that that will ring true eventually.
But that's my gut feeling.
Yeah.
So do you have any plans or want to do any kind of CBD project of your own?
It's so ubiquitous at the moment that people ask for the CBD and ask if we're doing anything.
And I mean, I've always just felt, you know, I'm an old school guy.
I'm a stick in the mud or whatever.
I'm in this for the THC.
I'm all about, you know, smoking marijuana for the pleasurable recreational value of it.
I know that it helps people, you know, on the medical side.
And my partner's Duke's much more into that side of it.
And good, you know, there should be one part of this company that wants to devote energy to that.
But and I will certainly go along with anything we come up with that he wants to do.
But it's not a big concern for me or a priority for me for some reason.
I don't know.
I guess I need more experience with it.
I did have one nice experience where I had come from New York to Colorado and
had a dodgy knee for a while.
And it had been sort of like a tendonitis that wasn't just from recently.
I mean, I'd been suffering for a while and somebody gave me some CBD pills.
I think there were 30 milligrams of CBD oil and took one or two of them, went away, never came back.
I've never still to this day had that tendonitis ever come back.
So I feel like the stuff is pretty miraculous in the way that it can work.
And I'd love to have people also experience, you know, a really good result like that, like I did.
Yeah.
And so I'd love to get my hands on some more.
There's one fellow who I did get that from that I'd kind of like to see again.
And I'll put the word out to him soon that come see me with more of those CBD pills.
My wife is asking about them now.
Yeah, for sure.
So do you feel that the true medical, well, when I say true, it's obviously subjective.
Do you feel that, you know, the largest amount of conditions are treated by not simply CBD,
but a mixture of maybe THC and CBD?
Yeah, I've always maintained that it's the cannabinoid profile itself and the ratios
of the different cannabinoids that go into any one plant that give it all of its myriad
qualities of different high flavors and so on.
And the high you're getting is influenced by that, you know, almost like a chord being
played on an instrument that it's, you know, first, third, fifth, you know, maybe it's
got a minor seventh thrown into it and these kinds of things.
And they're all subtle things.
It's always amazed me in music how with 12 notes, you know, that everything can just
be created that is created from that.
And it's the same thing with the marijuana.
Yeah.
So if you could give some advice to some of the breeders starting out, what would be some
of the things you try to emphasize as, you know, the more important things to be keeping
in mind?
I'd say, you know, there's a tendency to want to try a lot of different things and
bring a lot of elements.
And there's the old adage, you know, too many cooks spoil the soup or, you know, adding
too many ingredients is, you know, keep it simple.
The KISS method of, you know, know what you're working with and realize that you don't
really necessarily need to have any wild swings in variation of what you're breeding to
start moving your phenotypes toward the phenotype that you really want.
You know, I've gotten such a good lot of variation from such similar plants that, you
know, imagine, you know, they're only sisters, they're actually sisters of each other,
genius and princess, and the different things that have been created out of them can show
you how from very little variation in the gene pool you're starting from, you can achieve
what you want and you don't have to overshoot by introducing more elements than necessary
or too great of a difference in where you are to what you're crossing it to.
So keeping it simple, always be sure of what you're actually, what you really have, you
know, never take something from somebody and trust that they say it's what it is and, you
know, I believe them, you know, really do your diligence and make sure that it is what
the person says it is.
I can't tell you how many times I've turned down people offering me cuttings and seeds
and anything else and I just say, dude, you know, thank you for your generosity, it's
very nice of you to offer to send me free stuff and, you know, I just don't philosophically
fit into the kind of breeder who tries a bunch of odd shit, you know, I have a very definite
idea of where I'm going with something, I know I already have the tools in my toolkit
here, I don't need to reach outside too much, when I do it's for a really specific reason,
it's something that I think like, okay, that really makes sense and I really know that
this is what it's supposed to be and I'll take it from there.
And I would advocate that people be a little bit more choosy, I guess, you know, and ask
yourself when you do buy seeds and, you know, to have a starting point, what am I really
looking for, what characteristics do I desire in the plants that I want to grow, is there
anything that already exists that does all that and, you know, matches up to my wish list,
why don't I try buying some of those seeds and if they aren't exactly what I want, isn't that
a great place to start your breeding project with something that was, geez, you know, touted to be
what I really want and it wasn't quite what I wanted but if I were to breed it a couple of
generations, do some back crossing maybe, I might have something here but, you know, choose a good
starting point, you know, I don't know. Does that make sense? Yeah, so with that same kind of thought
in mind, how do you feel about breeders using your work and more specifically, I'll give you a few
examples, how do you feel about a breeder using one of your strains in an F1, how do you feel about
a breeder selling, say, not Cindy because you'll understand why but maybe say the Apollo
in just say the pure F4 form and how do you feel about someone selling a cross that maybe
they've made with an F1 Cindy but then taken to the F4 as opposed to just a pure Apollo taken to the F4?
I feel that it's always a compliment whenever anybody uses Brothers Grimm seed stock and
creates something from it. If they've taken Apollo 13 to F4 and it's done intelligently, I mean,
it's another thing that I think that newbies don't understand is that they think maybe a bigger
number means better, you know, like a four-star general is, you know, has a higher rank than a
three-star general and a F4 is better than an F3. Well, that may be only if the steps along the way
from F1 to F2 to F2 to F3 and so on were done intelligently and correctly then, yeah, you are
improving in each generation but just don't go by the number as long as people understand what that
all means and I know that, you know, the general public probably doesn't to a large degree understand
the terminology and what they're really buying and so on so you won't be able to reach everybody
but you're asking for advice to people who are in the know and would know better and so on and
my advice is, yeah, I know I had a good point going there, don't let me lose it. What was the
question again? Oh, how I feel about them using my stuff. So it's a compliment that they do that.
The people who are the buyers are probably not savvy enough to really, in any great numbers,
differentiate, you know, what's going on there but I believe that it'll all sort of settle to a common
denominator where everyone, no matter who you are, whether you're buying soap or electronics or
whatever it is, you don't buy the knockoff, you buy the real thing. If you know it exists and it's
available and there's no real price difference to consider, you go with the name brand, you know,
and the originator of Cinderella 99 is Brothers Grimm. So if someone were doing a knockoff Cinderella
99, two things come to mind about that, you know, for the present I think of it as, well, the guy
who's doing that is probably at this point gonna want to just either sell out all of his stock or
realize that it's sort of worthless because only somebody who's not in the know and doesn't realize
that they could get the real thing would even want to buy that. So should probably have a fire sale
and just get rid of as much of it as he can as freebies for buying, you know, here's a promotional
pack of our knockoff C99 that is free with anything we sell, you know, and get rid of it
because it's like stock that has suddenly dropped to zero value that you're holding on to, you might
as well get rid of it, right? So there's the present, that's the present situation, but the
past that led up to the present, if you think about it, none of these guys ever played with
Cinderella 99, made crosses with it and Apollos and the names weren't bandied about for this last
dozen years and I come back into the business, where would I be? I'd be sitting here or trying
to remind everybody who the hell I was, what my strains were, you know, so they actually
kept the buzz alive and I'm complimented by the fact that they were so, you know, driven to continue
in our absence the work, if you will. I've only tried a couple of people's knockoffs and, you know,
obviously something went awry somewhere, they got something from somebody who claimed that it was C99,
it wasn't or something, because the plants that I've seen that were grown from the seeds that
I've been given by the knockoff companies just don't come out looking like Cinderella 99 or
anything, you know, it's not really even close. So, yeah, and that happens, it's like the story that
is told at one end of the classroom gets to the other end of the classroom and it's totally
different from where it started and you can imagine in the 14 years that it took to go from
shutting down in 2002 and coming back up in 2016 now, that story has gone all around and upside
down and who knows what's what anymore. So, push the reset button and you can obtain the original
strains from the original breeder and, you know, easy now too, you know, we're internationally
distributed worldwide and it's easy to get, no more complaining. So, there seems to be a current fad
in the breeding community for people wanting to take things to, like, say the F2 or the F3 as
opposed to, say, doing a BX2 or a BX3. How do you think these two techniques compare to each other?
They've obviously got these different reasons why you should do them but I'm of the opinion that
maybe some people just do it because it seems like they've put in a lot of work or something
like that, like, how do you feel? You know, I'd say that exceptional people are in the minority
by definition, right? I mean, the average person is probably going to make a lot of mistakes and do a
lot of guesswork and say, well, maybe this will, you know, they don't have a rhyme or reason for what
they're doing, so that's a major fault right there but then when people are intelligent about their
choices and they say, okay, what am I doing here? And they ask all these questions that I always
advocate you ask yourself, like, you know, what is it that I really want in my ideal plant? Where am I
going with this? What's the end goal? And traditionally you had this crossing of
one land race to another and so you'd have your P1 generation, these two land race strains, and
then you create a hybrid from that, an F1 generation. Now, in that F1 generation, you're
going to see a certain ratio that everybody's familiar with, 1-3-1, and you then decide
if you were crossing these two to start with, neither one of them P1 generation parents was
the ideal plant, right? But must have had some characteristics that you felt were important
and the other one did too, and that's why you're bringing them together. Otherwise, you would have
just stayed with either one of those plants and said, hey, I'm happy with these. What's the point
of trying to improve on something that I feel is already perfect? Why don't we invent the wheel?
Yeah, so you're constantly asking yourself, where are we going? Why am I doing this? What is it that I,
what are my goals? And if backcrossing comes into play, it's because one of those two parents
is heavily, is carrying heavily many of the characteristics that you are trying to go for
in the goal, and the other one was contributing for some minor reason, okay? But if they're sort of
equally contributing, there's not much reason to backcross. But then you start looking at that
larger group that came from the F1 generation that has the variations in it, that isn't the,
oh, these are just clones of the mom, this is just the clones of dad, that part, that
proportion of your progeny that falls into that category, and you concentrate on the ones that
varied and are some mix of the two, because isn't that what you're going for, right? You're looking
to mix them and blend them in some way, but it doesn't always work like a blender. But in the
F1 generation, that larger population is generally like a blender, so there is a great tendency for
them to be an equal balance of the two, and if that's what you're going for, you've already
arrived. You've got the pack of seeds that you just keep crossing that mother and father ad
infinitum, and why go any further? Is there a reason to create an F2 or a three or four? No.
Know where the end goal is and stop there. So what's, presumably from that F1 generation,
the person who looks to make an F2 generation is saying, I see a phenotype in here that I want to
isolate and then further refine in the next generation such that more of the progeny are
of that type, yeah? Yeah. So you have to intelligently choose the F1s that you're going to
use to make your F2 generation, maybe do it with several of the brothers and sisters so you have a
few different groups to try to see, ah, now I'm starting to see a rhyme or a reason here, which
ones actually do what I want to do. Then you intelligently choose from them how to make your
F3 generation if that isn't where you really want it to go yet. And then you're looking for stability.
Are we starting to get now all the females are alike, you know, and they all have the great
qualities that I want, you know, and those are the reasons to accept the challenge of going one more
generation and trying to find the right mothers and fathers to give you that seed that you can
throw in the ground and reliably say, I know what I'm going to get here every time, if that's your goal.
Okay. But yeah, I mean, that's how an intelligent breeder goes about working toward
creating a strain or getting a plant. And I think that listening to, going back, if you rewind
through this and you see how starting from A and B, mother and father, blending them together and
having a goal and asking yourself in each generation, am I getting there and what am I doing
right or wrong and adjusting for that. That's how each generation gets better. And if you don't get
a better generation, you better go back and fix something because there's no point moving on
when you have an F3 generation that just is dismal compared to F2. You better go back in the F2
generation, either cross different brothers and sisters to get a better result or realize that
F2 is where you need to stop with this. And you may actually have created a seed strain that
that generation, when sold to the customer, is producing an amazing plant. However, if he tries
to dress his females and males, he's going to get shit and need to buy back seeds. People in many
other communities, not the cannabis community as much or maybe not as vocally, have used that
strategy for all of history, basically. Sellers of seeds of all different types of flowers and so on
and vegetables and prized tomatoes or what have you, they want you to not be able to just make more
of their seeds that they sold you. They want you to come back for repeat business
and that sort of thing. So that may have been a part of somebody's goal in a breeding program,
right? So that might have been like, wow, this is great. Look at the result we're getting. The
F2 generation is like, this is an amazing plant. But when you cross the brothers and sisters, the
F3 generation just falls apart. Perfect. Let's keep making F2s and selling those seeds. And you're good.
Yeah, it's almost some Monsanto level stuff. Yeah, it's smacks of Monsanto. But I'm just
talking about every possibility of what could be possible, whether it sounds morally just or
nefarious or what. So, I mean, if we were to think about the epigenetics of seeds,
you mentioned earlier that the soil we have now is much better than the soil we had before. How
do you find the seeds of Cinderella, for example, are coming out now versus before? Do you see
they're about the same germination ratio? Or do you think that as our input ingredients have
improved, so has the seed output quality? No, I don't think so. I mean, because of a better
nutritional program that they're on now, you think, is that what your question is?
Yeah, we've got a better understanding of how soil works and we build it more complete nowadays.
I don't know. It's difficult to say. We had great germination rate back in the 90s with what I was
doing then. And I think when a seed is formed, it's formed. It's going to be healthy. It may be
larger if it had more energy devoted to it while it was growing. Many times we see that. Like when
you just pollinate a few of the sort of pre-flowers on a veg plant and they end up growing a seed,
it's oftentimes a big one, isn't it? Yeah. So when the plant has a lot of energy to be able to
devote to it, the seed gets larger. So I would say if I start to notice like the seeds now that I'm
making are bigger and darker and healthier than the ones I remember from back in the day, then I
would say, yeah, that's right. I don't think it's to a degree that's noticeable though. I haven't
said to myself, wow, it's not like the old days. These are really much bigger and darker. I think
I had healthy seeds then. So would you consider doing a limited release kind of similar to how
the original Apollo 13 was done? And if you did, would you do it in a similar way? Because there is
a small trend in the breeding community for people to do very limited release batches and consequently
the cost per pack is sometimes astronomical, sometimes quite justifiable.
How would you feel about doing it if you were to do it? Well, I think just doing something in a
limited quantity so that you would have fewer of them to sell and drive demand and price up. And
that's not how I like to do things. If it were released in a small quantity, it's just because
we only had this small quantity. We don't intend to do anything more with this.
Was that the case? It was a side project and I would tend to charge a low price for it or give
it away as a freebie when people bought our other strains. And I guess that was the case with the
Apollo 13? Kind of. Back in that time, I was giving them to Richard at Hedvon Stairway and he was sort
of making those marketing decisions as to should I sell these and how many of them he had and he
decided to sell them. But it was only the one batch and I didn't have more so he sold out of
whatever 500 seeds and maybe 50 packs and that was that. And so we recreated it this year but
I didn't want to again do it forever but we made a lot more than the first time so that there's
plenty available for everyone so they can really see what that was. But Apollo 11 was really the
goal and we'll make that as a reliably appearing on our menu all the time kind of strain. But
Apollo 13 for the moment, I think we made quite a good lot of it and when it's gone,
we won't immediately replace it. Yes, still semi-unique. So people sometimes talk about
returning to our land race roots and we've already mentioned that Brothers Groom is working with the
Durban. Would you ever consider crossing it to another land race or heirloom so to speak and
really trying to work out those raw genetics in a somewhat unseen way before?
See that's always on the table. I mean when you feel like, hey I've been thinking about
a project and it doesn't necessarily have to come from what we already have on our palette.
I could be out on a trip somewhere and make a point of going to some place where I think
I'm going to go out and do like a land race seed expedition and come back with some cool stuff.
And who knows in our future, I'm an adventurous type of person. I'd like to probably
do that one of these times. So yeah, what would be wrong with that? I would only
hesitate to do that if it was just like to slap two things together. We don't do that.
We always have some purpose, like a forethought of why are we crossing these two? What's the goal?
And maybe at some point I go somewhere and I find something unique and interesting that I think
like, oh this would be a great project to cross this with whatever else and then I'd do it. But
it'd have to be thought out a little bit. So just from the way your brain works,
I get the feel that you were always intended to be a breeder. Was it the discovery of those seeds
that really planted the seed in your mind to do the breeding? Was it like these seeds are so
amazing I've got to breed them? Or were you always kind of prooffully thinking about the idea due to
your dealings with SSSC? I think it was more a sense of preservation of the genetics for myself
and not losing them. I kind of wanted to say like, what if ever I shut down and I want to be able to
start up, I'd like to have seeds that could replace the clones I've been growing or whatever.
That was one emotion I had. And I just feel like growing the plants is one part of it,
but seeing that progression of when you're crossing them and breeding them is fascinating.
And to try to get handles on that and learn how to control it, like anything, I became an engineer,
I think, because I was always curious about how does that work? I don't want to walk through the
world and not know why it takes five seconds for the ball to fall from the 100 foot bridge or
whatever. I'd like to be able to work that out. So when I see all this coming together,
like building blocks, it gives me great joy and satisfaction to feel like I have some control over
that. Remember when I first got sparked, my interest to be a grower in the first place was
learning that you mean the photo period and the 12 hours or the 18, I can stall time or force
them into flowering. Learning that was so inspiring that really launched me, my motivation from that point.
So were there ever any strains you smoked while you were in between the first and the
current incarnation of Brothers Grimm, where you were smoking them and you just kind of thought,
wow, if I ever come back, I want to work with that. Or maybe now more so thinking back,
you thought of a certain strain you had during the hiatus and thought, yeah, we need to work with that.
Yeah, I always come back to the Durban tie and say that was something that I would
love to try to get ourselves back into. And we're working on that and I think we
will have a good one very soon. And then like I say, there's a sense that during the time I had
those seeds and the access to everything, I never tried as much of it as I would have liked to have
done and learned what I was missing, Batrix and William's Wonder, those kinds of things that
I wonder what they were like. If I went over the menu and I looked at item by item,
which ones I grew and which ones I have some experience with, there would definitely be some
where I'd go. I wish I had during that time had thought to myself to grow a little of this and
see what that was like. But remember earlier when we almost started the thing out, there was that
question about, do you realize you're making history when you're making history? You don't.
And at the time, you're not really thinking like, well, one day this won't be here. I won't have it
to try that other can over there of seeds. And I just always thought, yeah, I'm messing around with
this one and that one and that one. I'll get around to those ones someday. And then that someday never
came and the rug was kind of pulled out from under me and I got married to a woman who wanted me to
give up marijuana. So yeah. So let's talk about lab percentages and more specifically, if you guys
started getting numbers that were like you trusted them and they said like legitimately 15 percent,
but you were really happy with the high and you swear it was killer.
Would you be happy to tell people those numbers? Like, are you of the belief that the numbers are
really kind of not a true picture of what you're getting or do you think that they are important in
the current climate? I think the reliability of the labs is in question. I know that there's a
motivation whenever you're in a business like that. And one of the biggest examples I could
give you a standard in pores and Moody's when they were evaluating stocks during the whole
housing bubble, they were competing with each other for their customers business.
And so consequently, they had to rate the stocks higher than they would have normally done if they
didn't know that their competitor would have rated them high just to get the customers business.
There's certainly that going on right now. There are labs who are just bumping numbers more and
more just to say, geez, you know, where'd you get your test? You know, the guys talk to one another
and then everybody goes scrambling for that lab because they give the big numbers. Come on. I mean,
I don't know. I don't believe the numbers. It's there's there's no I don't think there's enough
standardization and enough reliability to those numbers that anybody can really say much about it.
Yeah. Maybe there are people who can do, but I don't think that those people are the ones that
most people are listening to or working with. But if some group of scientists.
Say that, OK, we've done all of the necessary testing and such to prove that this is true,
then it's believable, you know, but I don't think that everybody's using the right equipment or
interpreting it properly. But if, like I say, you know, the right equipment and the right people
who know how to use it are saying that we've calibrated all of this. This is the true number.
We'll stand on this, you know, for all time going forward. You'll never find that we did this wrong.
We got it right. Yeah, right. You know, but I don't see in the forms that people hand out,
you know, like, oh, here's the piece of paper that said, you know, the results.
Come on, a child could have created a software program that would kick those numbers out and
make it just the same as that piece of paper. Right. Doesn't prove anything. Yeah. So I would
like to see a lot more, you know, proof of is that number believable? Is that something that's
a standard that everybody's using and everything else? I don't I don't think we're there for that.
Yeah. So and then there's the greed and the motivation to have a higher number than the
next lab. So what do you think is the future of growing if we were to kind of break it down into
components of, say, lighting technology, growing mediums and nutrients, genetics?
What do you think will be the next big leap we make? It's probably pretty easy to say that the
most recent leap has been in the lighting with the advent of the double ended bulbs.
Have you seen any kind of new prototype technology which has caught your eye?
Nope. The lighting is the main thing, really, you know, because everything else is basically
HVAC and soil and what do we have? Drying racks.
I don't know. I zone out. I miss some things. I don't know. What are we talking about?
Yeah. The technology of in the soil for sure. Yeah. I think so technology, so to speak,
has improved a lot. Then again, so is lighting. Yeah. Now there's so many there's a lot of little
subtle things and, you know, I tend to just sort of make broad sweeps with my brush sometimes.
Not always to great effect. But anyway.
Okay. Today. What? Yeah. Stopping. Yeah. No, I was just going to say,
we see a lot of news about the new skunk lines coming out. Do you guys have any plans to
re-release any other old staples? And do you want to give us any more info on when we can expect to
see these skunk varieties more available? When you say old staples, not necessarily our old staples.
Yeah. Not necessarily yours. Just things that are going back to. Yeah. Well, it's all about
back to the future a little bit with us, I guess. You know, we'd like to go back to the roots and
bring people the old original strains, reliable, consistent plants, you know, that our seeds aren't
all over the place and they are what we claim them to be and the descriptions are accurate and such.
But going back to any particular crosses, it's not necessarily always in mind as to
which ones they might be. But I guess I go by feel in life quite a bit. And those things aren't
something where I can say, like, oh, over the next two years, there's a plan to do this, that and the
other thing. But three to six months out, we usually know what we're doing. And it's kind of
like we'll get some information. The projects suggest themselves to us, you know, as we go along.
Yeah. So when you go back to when you were first doing the initial back cross project to even now,
who were some of the breeders who you looked up to? Do you still look up 20 breeders or is it more
so now just a scientific process? I don't necessarily know if I even knew who they were. I mean, Neville
was a name that was bandied about back then as a breeder who, you know, was in the news and in
the magazine, High Times and such. And so I did know of him. And then, you know, there's
DJ Short and Breeder Steve and Dick Kai and, you know, the mates that I knew off of the Internet
that we were all kind of colleagues at the time doing similar things. And like I say,
no competition, really. It's just everybody doing their own thing and kind of being friendly about
it. And that was my little community. But I didn't ever know any of the big, you know, like a name
like Neville, somebody who's not on the same continent as me and I didn't cross paths with.
And the communication and information was not as good then, clearly. So.
Well, if you found out that Keish was actually Neville.
Probably.
And he, you know, and he wanted to work with you on something, is that something you want to do or
you think it's just different?
Of course. I mean, I'm a friendly person. I've always been open minded and I'll talk to anybody
about anything. And I have respect for him. So why would I turn down a conversation?
You know, I'm trying to make this DTC 99 happen.
Yeah. Well, if he's got the other half and yeah, there was something.
He said he does have seeds.
Yeah. Yeah, I'm sure. So.
He's waiting. He probably knows what he's going to do with them.
So how do you feel about the Colorado cannabis scene? And, you know, and specifically,
do you think Colorado has it the best or do you think maybe some other states have
figured it out a little better than them?
I don't have a lot of experience in the other states. And in Colorado, the cannabis scene is
almost, you know, re-dab scene, you know, like it's not a cannabis scene so much as a dab scene
and a glass scene and a pecking order of folks who are sort of trying to find their place here.
And, you know, there's a lot of very heady, no pun intended, you know, a very heady atmosphere
for them to at a young age come and have an exposure to so much freedom and an ability to be
in a community like this where they may have had a dream of what it was going to be like before
they got here and found that the reality wasn't quite what they thought it was going to be.
And many turn around and have to go back where they came from. So you see all of that sort of
thing. And then, you know, you also have at the other end of the spectrum, folks who have made
a business of inviting all of these folks who do very well in the business out to big parties and
they have after parties and, you know, it's rubbing elbows with, you know, all of the muck of
glass blowing artists and who knows what else, you know. So that's what I've experienced and
I don't have another state to compare it to, but it's a vastly different terrain than growing up,
you know, consuming cannabis as a teenager and a young adult throughout the other parts of my life.
The dabbing and glass alone is a game changer. It's just like this,
oh my, you know, isn't that a whole different way of doing that, enjoying this cannabis,
which, you know, I'm a little bit neutral on. I like it sometimes, but I don't make it,
you know, my main thing at all. Yeah. So we're at the end of it and we just got some
little short answer questions to blast through quickly. Yes and no. Yeah. I'll give you two
questions and you can answer with yes. I'm sorry. You don't have to give me yes or no questions.
So true and false. What's your favorite strain right now? I am pretty partial to the Genius
Haze. That's a really nice up new strain that we have and Apollo 11. I mean, you know, I have to
pick a favorite, right? So, you know, we're playing around the Princess Haze too. We haven't
released it yet because we don't have large enough quantities. So, yeah, you know, that's tough.
Sophie's choice, you know. And what's one of your favorite strains from the past that's now lost?
Oh, lost, huh? Well, it wasn't anything known to anybody else, but I grew, you know, across from
when I was working with SSSC that I just thought was, and Kesh thought as well, when I shared it
with them, I told them what I had done and I'd taken that Durban Thai and crossed it to a skunk
number one and got these early maturing purple budded outdoor plants that were absolutely killer
in both flavor and aroma and great potency. I sold some to a guy, thanks, I sold some to a guy
who worked in a restaurant and I only had the bit that I sold him and he came back to me,
asked me for more. I said, I don't have the same one, I have something else.
Even though the second one was a very good weed, he came back to me complaining later, like, you
know, that first one was killer, you know, the second one, what the fuck was that, you know?
I'm like, I'm sorry, dude, you know, it's perfectly respectable weed. It's just that first one was
like this mind-blowing shit that I grew outdoors and I lost the seeds from that, so I guess that
would have been one of the biggest, I wish I had those seeds today, that was quite amazing.
If you could go to one place geographically and one place in time to get seeds, where would you go?
Wow, what a great question, huh? Man, back in time.
I guess, you know, it would be thrilling, I guess, is to go back and be in Vietnam during the war
and Thailand or Cambodia or one of those places and have some adventure that
I don't get killed, right? But I have a bunch of really exciting moments where, you know,
the whole, you know, Raiders of the Lost Tomb for a weekend or something, where I get laid three times
and, you know, find a whole pile of cash and come back with sacks of original seeds from these
amazing plants. I'll take that, thank you. So what's the worst strain in your opinion or,
you know, maybe a more politically sensitive way would be, what's the strain that you just
didn't agree with personally the most? Didn't agree with me when I spoke something and it just
didn't agree with me. Let me see about that, you know, I don't want to try and slag anybody's weed
or anything, honestly, but I can't even say, you know, it would be embarrassing to someone and it's
just stuff that's been sent to me and I grew it out and said, hmm, all right, at least then it
kind of lets me know what that person thinks is good, you know, but and then it kind of confirms
why when I send people samples of my buds they rave and like, oh my god, and I'm like, really,
you think it's that good? Seriously, you know, so but yeah, I wouldn't single out any one strain or
any one person who has sent me something that didn't work out, but, you know, those, that would
be the basket I would turn to, to answer that question and say, this is something that was a
disappointment. Okay, so last... Did you want a disappointment or something that just turned me
off altogether and I hate it? I don't want to smoke that pot, you know, I know you want that exciting,
thrilling, theatrical answer there, the dramatic answer.
I kind of do have a common denominator feeling about smoking marijuana that, you know,
it's all getting high on marijuana. There are a lot of subtle differences between the strains and
all this type of thing, but there's a common denominator there where it's like, did you get
high on pot? Yep, I'm high on pot, you know, and they all do that to you to some degree and with
some flavors of one thing or another, either psychoactivity or actual taste bud palates,
but it's all pot, you know, maybe I can simplify sometimes a little too much,
but it's all pot, you know, you smoke some hash, it's different than smoking flowers,
you smoke some dab, it's different than the other thing, but there's, you still know you have a
marijuana high, don't you, you know? Yeah. So, final question. You can't be too disappointed.
I guess that's my point. So, yeah, the final question. Are you going to do any more photo
exhibitions and when? Probably not in any time soon if the bug strikes me and I start to work
a little bit more at it, but I've been lazy in photography ever since leaving New York and,
you know, I do a bit here and there just for my own pleasure and to keep up with the business.
Would it be cannabis orientated? I don't know, yeah, I'd like to think so. I'd like to think
that I could take stuff that I did and the style of photography that I developed for myself and
adapt it to what we do here and I've done that a few times in different ways. If I had work,
enough body of work to put together to say like, you know, here's some interesting spins on
cannabis photography, then I had maybe a dozen pieces to show or something, I might, you know,
but it's way down the list of priorities. There's so much to do all the time now.
Awesome. So, I think that just about wraps it up. I'd love to thank you,
Soph, for coming on the show and giving us some awesome stories and a wealth of knowledge.
Is there any comments or shout outs you wanted to make before we wrap it up?
Shout out to the Growstones folks and the Dragonfly folks, Greenhouse Hydro Supply
down in Longmont on Main Street. They've been so good to us.
You know, High Times, I guess I have to give a shout out to Danny Danko. He's been hanging in
there with me and communicating with me recently. We're going to get some articles written about us
in High Times and some of my photography will appear in the magazine as well. So, watch for that.
Sweet.
Yeah, thanks again.
Yeah, it was a great pleasure.
So, there you have it. A huge thank you again to Mr. Sol,
Brothers Grimm, Organic Gardening Solutions, 420 Australia, The Billy Shop. See you.
Bye.
