Hello and welcome to the next episode of the podcast, the cannabis podcast for budding
enthusiasts.
As always, this episode was brought to us by 420 Australia, Organic Gardening Solutions
and Bodhi Seeds.
This one's going to be a big one, folks.
We're going to do a two-parter.
So without further wait.
Alrighty, so a big welcome and thank you to possibly the most prolific breeder in the
industry, being held in more high regard than probably any other breeder I know.
You know, love to welcome Bodhi.
Thanks for coming on the show.
Oh, thank you.
It's beautiful to be here.
I'm really happy to have a nice conversation with you.
Awesome.
So the first question I like to start off every interview with is, what was your first
experience with cannabis?
How did you get introduced to it?
Huh, I mean, that's a good question.
You know, when I was a teenager, people were smoking and I think that was like the mid,
late 80s and there was a lot of good strains around, but I never really connected with
cannabis.
I was really into like ancestral and shamanic herbalism.
And so I kind of thought cannabis was just kind of ho-hum and petty and that's what everybody
else did.
And I, you know, I was really into getting the of the jungle catalogs and the church
of tree of life and ordering all these strange and unique plants and try those.
And I was, you know, I really enjoyed mushrooms was a big one and cactus.
And I really never got the full download from cannabis early on.
I smoked it once or twice and didn't really do anything.
And I really didn't find that deep connection until on one of my journeys with one of my
friends and we were in Belize in the, I think it was right around the 90s.
And it was kind of, it was a little bit rough and tumble.
I think we're the only white people there.
And you were just, you know, we were, I think I was 20 and we were just, we just cruised
around and bumble around, you know, and out of care in the world.
No clue that it's pretty dangerous.
It was like the height of the crack era.
And that's when I went through my friend's like, let's get some, you know, let's get
some pot before we go to the, you know, the Mayan ruins.
And I'm like, okay.
And so we bumbled around until we found this Rasta guy and he led us through all these
places. And I'm sure it was so sketchy.
And eventually we got this little foil wrapped ganja and we, you know, we paid the guy, we
scurried off and we kept it with us.
And my friend, actually, when we finally made it to, I believe it was Tikal, he's like,
hey, you want to try this?
This pot? And I'm like, you know what?
Yeah, let's do this.
And that's when I got it.
Like I have, it was when I finally realized that cannabis is like nature's Wi-Fi.
It's like it is the plant that allows us to connect with all of creation on a really
subtle, deep, human and plant based level.
It's just, I really understood that this is like the link that keeps us bound to our
garden planet. It's like it's almost like our plant ally supreme.
It's almost like, I don't even want to explain it.
I just, I got it.
And, you know, cannabis was good and I would smoke it here and there.
And then I really, really got the download from it when I was in the Himalayas and the
cultures with the babas and the hash and the rubbing.
And when I smoked in the Himalayas, like I was hooked and I knew that this was my, one
of my fascinates. And it also kind of links back to when I was doing a lot of ayahuasca
and I had these visions in the plant.
Ayahuasca was like, you know, you're meant to work with plants, but it's not ayahuasca.
It's another plant. And I mean, these are all stories within stories that can all be
linked up. But it's just through a series of deep reverence for nature and plants and
people. It awakened in me this connection with cannabis.
And I don't know, I guess that's the first time would be maybe at those temples.
So, do you think for people who maybe have more of that mainstream connection to cannabis
and maybe haven't found their spiritual connection with it, do you think that maybe trying
to participate in such an activity would be a good way to try to reestablish that link
within yourself? Yeah, I'm also think it's for people that have kind of lost that link or
can't find that link. And I think any working with cannabis in any way, it could be totally
mundane. It could be spiritual. It could be just commercial. I mean, I always like the
thing now. It's like, is all the guys, all the bros now that grow cannabis and basically
they're caring for this female plant and they're creating this relationship. It's like almost
nourishing their feminine. It's getting them in the garden. And whenever he says, oh, it's
a gateway drug. And I'm like, yeah, it's a gateway drug to gardening. You know, maybe
the fridge and a few other things. But I think any way you interact with it. And I
always wonder, you know, maybe back in the twenties, if it wasn't demonized and it wasn't
scheduled and it wasn't run out, what the world would be like today if we had cannabis
for like the last, whatever it was, 180 years, it would be a totally different world. I think,
you know, I think there would be a lot more compassion. There would be a lot more art.
There would be a lot more connection to nature and each other. I think it's just this, it's
this amazing force that's kind of coming back to reclaim who we really are as stewards
of this amazing place.
Okay. And so, I mean, you mentioned mushrooms and on your Instagram, I've seen things like
tobacco and poppies. Where do these other kinds of ethno botanical plants sit in regards
to cannabis for you? You know, do they all kind of sit on the same shelf or do you use
them for different purposes?
I think, you know, they're all tapping into like a similar place, but on a different kind
of wavelength. And, you know, I don't really, I grow poppies once in a while more for the
beauty. I'm not a, it's not really my thing. And tobacco, I enjoy to send my prayers up
to the creation matrix, maybe once or twice a month. And mostly I grow it for the beauty
and it really is a protector plant. So I love to plant it all around the house, all around
the gardens. And I think it has a really deep connection. And in India, a lot of times,
I know a lot of people like to smoke cannabis and tobacco together. And I see where, you
know, maybe it tweaks out the flavor and dah, dah, dah, dah, dah, but there is a beautiful
kind of connection. Whereas tobacco is a very male plant and cannabis is a very female.
So you put those together and you have like a potent kind of combination. And a lot of
the Babas and Sadhus in India and the Himalayas, they mix those two along with other herbs.
That's a really interesting analogy around the, you know, the kind of unification of
the male and the female plant. Do you find that mixing tobacco and cannabis is kind of
overall a better few or it's just better for a certain purpose?
I think if that's your, you know, I think whatever works for people, whatever gets them
to the place they need to be to find those realizations is great and beautiful for them.
Personally, for me, I don't usually mix them unless I'm in a place, you know, if I'm in
the Himalayas, a lot of time everybody's mixing. So I just go with it and I'm usually addicted
to nicotine by the end of the trek. But, you know, there are plants. There's also a lot
of other plants that people mix in. There's like a Calamus, it's called Vacha and it cools
the smoke. There's a Himalayan shamanic recipe where they use a mugwort and night-blooming
jasmine flowers with the hash. Like there's a lot of alchemical blending of herbs that
can really push the cannabis experience into a more focused kind of beam. If that makes
sense. I'm trying not to be too esoteric, but there's a lot of herbs that can help.
They say like bridal, kind of like you would put a saddle on a horse. It allows you to
ride it better. It allows you to go someplace longer without fatigue. I mean, I think it's
a unique thing and I don't think people have so got into it. There's a lot of artisanal
hash making and a lot of really neat things, but you don't see too many blending philosophies
except maybe in pans where people are putting in fake terpenes and such. But it's all alchemical,
I mean really alchemical in its nature. But I kind of just like it straight up as buds
in my pipe. Okay. And so are there any kind of additives that are commonly available that
you might recommend people could give a try if they're interested?
I'm trying to remember what it is. What is the name of that one? There's one herb that's
really unique. I think it's actually an Australian herb and you get as a powder. I think it's
kind of a cactus and not a plant. What's that stuff? It's kind of like a succulent.
What's it called? Oh, Kanna. You can take Kanna powder and put it on cannabis and it
will erase the feelings of paranoia and people that get edgy on cannabis and they just can't
handle it. It'll really take the edge off. In India, they use Vacha, which is Calamus,
and that bridles the plant and cools it for smoking and it also keeps it from getting
too out there. It kind of keeps it kind of focused. And what else? There's a lot of shamanic
recipes. I know the one in ... I tried to make my own version of the night-blooming
jasmine mugwort and hash, but I couldn't get it really right. So I think that's going to
be in the future. I'll try that one again. But there's a lot of Native American herbs
that are really good that'll help out, Mobelia and Moline, lots of things to cool the smoke
and nourish the lungs. I think it's a whole realm that people really need to explore because
there's so much to it. Yeah, without doubt. And so do you find that
you're able to treat a lot of the things that are bothering you with this more kind of natural
approach or do you still use some kind of Western medicine, so to speak?
I use like a Western allopathic medicine as an emergency medicine. I don't think it really
treats the problem and not the root cause of things. And so I really enjoy a lot of
the ancestral herbalism and traditional Chinese medicine, Ayurveda, any kind of thing that's
working with meridians, energy plants, minerals, things that are really taking the body as
a whole and also taking into consideration things like mental state, even environment,
geography. I think everything plays into healing, but I think cannabis is our primary healing
plant. It's kind of like the dog version of a plant. It's like the thing that is right
there for us on every level from medical, recreational, spiritual. It covers all the
bases. Okay. So with that being said, the first strain
you ever bred, was that trying to create something medical, something that's going to help you
to better tap into these kind of streams of consciousness, if you want to give it that
term, or was it more of a happy accident, so to speak?
I think the first time it kind of really was a happy accident. I think I got some seeds
from Mark Emery. We went up and got some seeds one time a long time ago up in Canada. And
I don't remember which one it was, but it hermaphrodited. I think it was a feminized
one. And I got seeds and I was like, oh, this is amazing. So this is so easy. I could do
this. And I kind of played around and grew those out and said, wow, this is really unique.
Because before that I was really into DJing and making music and blending things on that
level in aromatherapy. So I was like, wow, I can take different, totally unique and different
plants and bring them together to make some in this kind of union or love to make brand
new things. And I thought that was the most ultimate beautiful thing. And then that kind
of started my seed addiction and it just went from there.
Who were the first breeders you were buying when you developed your seed addiction? And
I mean, the reason I ask that is because I'm sure a lot of people listening who buy your
seeds would probably themselves consider that they have a seed addiction. So it's always
interesting to know, you know, who was the breeders breeder?
I don't know. You know what? I used to kind of pore over those old catalogs, you know,
and I always looked and I would like go over them and like find it. I get my little magic
marker and circle all the ones I get. And of course, I didn't I didn't have a lot of
money so I could only get one or two. But I would kind of go.
Looking at descriptions and kind of look for ones that kind of I felt jive with me and
it was funny, it was some of the flying old flying Dutchmen like the Fuma Condio and DJ
shorts ones always intrigued me because especially the F-30 is like it's a real bell
ringer. I'm like, oh, cool, bell ringer. That sounds right up my alley. And anything kind
of weird and unique and special.
I always look for kind of like extreme possibilities.
I always look kind of for me.
I enjoy like the really fringe cannabis, like the really unique, odd, weird.
Maybe it doesn't look that great.
Maybe it doesn't grow that great, but it has a unique effects and even its own unique
kind of spirit.
Okay. So, I mean, the first question that comes to mind with that is, you mentioned you
had the seed bank catalogs.
That's interesting. I know that you've actually got quite an impressive collection
of seed bank catalogs from years gone by.
Was that like an intentional hobby or did it just kind of work out that you happen to
accumulate them?
You know, I've always been like a treasure hunter and treasure gatherer.
And so, anything that I'm passionate about, I really love.
Like, you know, I collect records too.
So, I'm always in books.
Like books were my first passion.
And then from there, I went to records.
And then when I wanted seeds, I started selling my books and records to get seeds.
So, you know, it's kind of more, you know, I also like crystals, but not so much anymore
because I kind of feel bad for the planet.
But, you know, I just love to gather and collect things that I'm passionate
about. And some of the, all those catalogs are so unique and so fun.
And I don't know, it brings me a lot of joy.
So, I can just geek out, you know.
You'd be the perfect person to ask this question to.
I've long since held the view that that photo of Neville in the hash den holding the
bricks of hash. You know, I think that's a great idea.
That's the most iconic photo in cannabis culture, so to speak.
But you've probably got a far better, having seen, you know, more magazines than I have.
Do you agree with that? Or is there another photo which kind of stands out a bit more for you?
I don't know. You know, I love all those photos.
I especially, you know, I always love the sadhus, like smoking the chillum.
Those always got me. They always looked so like regal and like divine and devout and
just the plumes of smoke. But I totally agree with that picture of Neville.
The crazy thing is, through synchronicity, I met the guy who took that picture.
Really? Was he an Afghan guy?
No, no. Actually, Neville, this is like, this is a story in itself.
Neville took along a photographer when he went on and is kind of like a sidekick, like a
Batman-Robin situation on his famous trip that went through Pakistan, India, Nepal.
And his name is Steve.
And Steve took that picture.
And that's where I kind of got that first 85 seed bank catalogue from him because he still
had a bunch left.
And he would tell me some wild stories.
And yeah, he actually took that picture and actually all the pictures in that catalogue.
Oh, wow. Just as a bit of a Australian pride question, where do you sit, Neville, in the
hierarchy of Breeders' Strat History, so to speak?
No, I... Knowing some of the deeper human stories of him, I mean, I try not to put
anybody on a pedestal.
He definitely was a primordial, like, archetype for gathering and dispensing and
creating. Like, I don't know, kind of like he was almost like a seed in and out of himself.
And he kind of bloomed in the Dutch scene and really through passion and drive, he
collected seeds from America, from all over, from Southeast Asia, Central Asia, and
really kind of jumpstarted that whole movement.
I mean, along with Sensi and some of the older guys.
I mean, you can say good about him, you can say bad.
I think he was an amazing guy.
And I would love to see him kind of come back out and really shine again.
Because, you know, I really believe in respecting and nourishing our elders and the
people that come before us, because there's a lot of knowledge and there's a lot of
information and there's a lot of...
There's just a lot of, I don't know, good mojo in that.
And so I think Neville's a pretty cool guy.
And I mean, maybe as a bit of a two-parter, I've heard some rumors that he is
considering maybe doing more things within the scene.
If he were to come back, would he be the type of person who you'd want to work with?
And then as a follow up, which breeders would you want to work with in a
collaborative sense? Are there any who you really kind of dig what they're doing and
you think together you could do some cool stuff?
Maybe, you know, I kind of thought about this.
I kind of work here and there with friends or do stuff.
For commercially, I don't really work with...
I never really thought of it.
The only thing I thought of was kind of like I had a secret seed company that I was
starting called Synergy and it was going to be working with
all the breeders that I kind of respected as one offs and all the money would go to
charity. So each...
So it's kind of like how, you know, the collabs with Glass.
They come up with these one collabs of Glass and it's like two famous Glass artists
and they make this thing and that's it.
And it's this beautiful piece.
So I thought if we could, if I could like find some of the breeders that I really
respect and we can share pollen or share plants and create maybe like two
strains each and each person gets to choose the charity, I thought that would be a
really unique way to to work with people and make it for a good cause.
And then for people I'd want to work with, you know, I don't know because I don't
want to like say people and then not say enough people and leave people out.
But anyone that has a niche and is passionate about their work and really,
you know, is so...
I don't know. There's so many, so many people and so many people I respect.
And it's like I almost don't want to start naming off names because I don't want to
leave anybody out.
But I would say anyone that's passionate, has their skill set down, has the way that
they work down and has a niche, like has an avenue that they like to explore.
I would be more than honored.
It's just I can barely keep up with things here on my own since it's just me and my
wife. I don't have time to even brush my hair or brush my teeth, tie my shoes.
I swear every day just zips by and I get to come out at the Emerald Cup.
But I don't know.
I mean, maybe later in the interview I'll come up with some names in different
contexts, but I don't really name off names because I don't want to leave anybody
out. I don't want to hurt any feelings.
But there's a lot of amazing breeders and there's a lot of passionate breeders with
good hearts. And those are the people I'd like to work with.
Yeah, fantastic.
And so a question we've got from a lot of people was, are you able to kind of explain
the differences between your seed companies?
A lot of people are aware there's a few of them now.
Something I personally was interested in is what is the distinction?
Do you look at a project and you think, oh, this is a supernatural selections project
or is there kind of rules and then that dictates what each project falls into or is it a
bit more loose than that?
Kind of. It's almost like an artist that has a couple of bands and they're free to do
whatever they want within the context of these bands.
They don't get tied.
You know, like you're going to want to do this in this band.
You're going to do that. So I would say so Bodie Seeds is kind of the original and
that's kind of like I can do.
It's all about doing whatever I want.
I can I can mash up hybrids.
I can do elite crosses.
I can weave things in this.
It's kind of like just really freedom.
But it's also the one that pays the bills and it's the one where I kind of have to
cater to the flavor of the weeks and kind of add my own twist to some of the modern
elite hybrids or make unique cool things.
And it's just kind of like it's just the basic creative model.
And then Neureka is kind of that's more of the preservation angle.
And that would be like working with heirloom and landrace and sometimes mostly those
maybe vintage, but not so much, but mostly just heirloom, landrace, preservation and
that kind of anything I collect when I travel, anything I get from other people with good
graces. I also all that money that is generated from Neureka goes to scholarships
and to funds to keep on going and keep on collecting.
So it's kind of just a preservation seed company.
And, you know, there's a couple of releases each year and what I think is kind of fun
or fun to work out and what I think people would enjoy working with or just having their
bank or their collection.
That's kind of that.
And then Supernatural Selections is new and that's kind of like that's really what I'm
really excited about because it's it's going back to the roots of things.
It's all is no modern hybrids.
I mean, it's using no modern lines.
So it's all landrace, vintage or heirloom.
And so I get in there all F1 hybrids using these old things.
So I get to go back and I can create so many unique things because I'm not stuck in
that kind of the stagnant, hyperbold gene pool that we have right now where everything's
kind of mashed up, kind of like Baskin Robbins 31 flavors style, which is awesome.
There's so much unique stuff to pop out of that.
But this really gives me a chance to kind of blaze my own trail and go back to the
countries that I've always loved and the places.
And, you know, because all these seed lines, especially the vintage and the landrace,
they all have their own special spirit and soul and effect and flavors.
And by combining these, it's like it's pretty amazing.
I can take a Congolese and like a Kashmiri.
Like, so you're taking these beautiful Himalayan plants and you're merging them with
these, you know, deep, humid, tropical jungle strains and you're getting these extreme
possibilities. And from there, you can really go all over the place.
And I think it's I don't know, just for me, it feels like instead of kind of like
DJing, it feels like producing music arts.
I don't know. And then I hope I'm not rambling too much.
And then the final one was just synergy.
And synergy is just me wanting to have fun connecting with people in a way to also
give back to the community. But I'm so busy, it's really hard to kind of get that
started. And I have a few people I've been talking to and I think it'll happen
eventually. It's just just so, so busy doing my own stuff.
I kind of wish, you know, it's almost I kind of want to scale down and be able to
enjoy life a little more. I feel like I'm just never ending grinding away.
But it's I mean, that's my service.
So I feel good about it.
And it's my way that I can kind of nourish the community is by creating and by doing
that. So it feels good.
Do you ever consider kind of expanding the team, Bodhi, so to speak, such that maybe
you did have more freedom to, you know, for example, go pursue land, raise seeds or
things like that? Or is part of it being a small kind of mom and pop business part of
the central theme of it all?
I mean, I don't think I'm like a control freak, but I really like to make sure that my
hands are in every single process.
And I think that's how we keep I don't know if that's how we keep the prices down.
I mean, that doesn't make sense. But it allows me to stay connected to whatever I
produce. And, you know, I would love at some point maybe when the laws are more
solidified and things change, it would be nice if someone could take care of my mom
room and keep it a lot healthier than I can or so I can travel and I can do it.
And there's a lot of a lot of my friends are getting into breeding and they're doing
amazing jobs. I would love to kind of branch out.
But yeah, at this point, I'm just I'm kind of so in my flow that I almost don't want
to kind of move out in any way.
So it's more to see what the future is going to bring if it brings us this brave new
world of cannabis. I would love to kind of free it up.
I would even love to do like an Anthony Bourdain travel cannabis show, kind of like
Strain Hunters, but Cheech and Chong meets kind of Austin Powers style.
OK, so that's actually one of the questions I had was, would you ever consider
documenting your land race adventures?
Because I mean, the viewership is there and, you know, I'm sure everyone would argue
that you could do a better job than what Strain Hunters did in almost every respect.
You know, the funny thing is, if on Breed Bay and I think I see Meg, and if you dig,
there are I used to when I had more time, I used to do these big, elaborate kind of
travel logs with all the pictures and I write about all the things.
So they're out there if you search for them.
I think there's like five or six, mostly on Breed Bay, but there are some other ones.
And I would love to do that.
And there's so many countries that I kind of flail and I haven't done yet, but I just
don't have time to like at the end of the day, I'm kind of burnt.
I don't want to just want to listen to music or smoke and just meditate or think or, you
know, it's writing is hard and I love it.
But yeah, I would love to.
I would love to go out and do that.
I mean, I don't think I would be as daring as going into the Congo and places like that.
But I would definitely like to go to places like, you know, I would go to the Ewok
village if I could, if I had a spaceship.
I know they're smoking something ordinary.
I would love to go to the places where people are, you know, kind of the same places I've
been, like mountain people, people that have that deep connection with nature and to the
heart and do more shows of kind of, I don't know.
There's this one guy that the show called Going Tribal.
I think that's what it's called.
But it is the most unique show because he was an anthropologist and they would send
him to all these really cool tribes out in the middle of nowhere and they would just
show him connecting with them and like laughing and caring and sharing food.
And that's kind of what I like to do.
But yeah, throw in the cannabis too.
That would be amazing.
So before you get too down the rabbit hole of landrace hunting, because I've got a
whole bunch of questions on that, I just wanted to bring it back to a kind of an idea
you mentioned earlier in that in regards to supernatural selections, do you feel that
doing these kind of raw F1 landrace hybrids is going to potentially lead to
the next skunk or the next Northern Lights?
And that could potentially be what kind of injects that invigorated energy into the
community? Or do you think maybe it won't pan out like that because that was more a
consequence of the time, you know, the lack of genetics?
And that was maybe why those strains got so big.
Yeah, I wonder. I don't know.
Those kind of particular strains were really strains that were braided over seasons.
You know, each year they would add in a new since it was pretty kind of clone grow out
grow out the plants they found in the bag seed from Mexico, Thailand, Colombia.
Pick your favorites.
Keep the seeds next year braided into the next favorite one.
And these are where these elaborate kind of breeding programs through time.
And I think those produce some of those really amazing ones like skunks and haze.
But my goal with Supernatural Selections is to really allow people to.
I don't know, to see the extreme possibilities that cannabis has to offer, to really see
where we can take it, where we can go and how things combine.
And then the beautiful part about it is you can F2 that thing and it opens up an
amazing treasure chest of those two lines.
And if those lines are vintage lines, they're like little time machines.
And it takes you back to those simpler times when that plant and even its geography, all
the information held in that.
And it's like I always say that.
I don't know, I know I'm drawing things, but.
I think it's just my way of getting to my kind of graduating, getting to the next level
of being even more creative with the plant.
Yeah, it's kind of like a gift to myself of saying, OK, you've got to a certain point
where you have a basic understanding of cannabis and plants and breeding or any stuff
like that. And now this is something that you can embark on now that's even more of a
challenge, but offers so much more treasure.
OK, so that brings up this kind of idea, which is quite prevalent at the moment, the
idea of, how should I say, the concept of getting permission to breed with other
people's genetics or just in general breeding with other people's genetics.
A lot of people are having kind of the debate, is buying someone's seeds
enough for you to then breed with them?
Or do you think it's kind of good practice to first ask the breeder if it's all right to
do so first? Where do you sit on this issue?
Well, you know, I understand it coming from all different angles.
I'm pretty open. I feel really honoured when people breed with my stuff and I don't have an
issue. I understand people, you know, I don't put a lot of time and work into some of their
line working and stuff.
And they want to keep it proprietary.
But what I think really the basis of it is, is communication.
I think if you're going to breed with someone else's work, what an amazing
time to be able to connect with that person, like send them an email and go, hey, I really
enjoy this. I really want to breed with it, you know, and make that
connection. Maybe it's a friendship.
Maybe, you know, I think with just the basic respect and communication, it
opens up like a whole new world.
And I think it can really heal the whole cannabis breeding community because there's so much
bickering and fighting and weird, everybody doing kooky stuff that I think if people just
communicate it and even if someone says no, you don't have.
I mean, it's really up to you.
I mean, you can still make the cross.
Maybe it'll be kind of taboo.
But I think most people are human and you ask them and you explain what you want to do.
I think it should be fine.
I mean, I don't think it's cool to F2 people's work and then sell it unless
you ask them or if it's a deadline.
Maybe it's no longer being produced or the breeders no longer around.
That's fine. But really, I think it's an opportunity for communication that we don't really
have, you know.
So it's interesting that you mentioned the idea and I feel it's true.
There's a sentiment within the community right now that the level of camaraderie and friendship
is kind of declining compared to in previous generations.
Do you kind of agree with that?
And more so, how do you think we deal with that if that is the case?
You know, I definitely see that as kind of, you know, and it's also too, it's kind of the
influx. There's a lot of people that are being attracted to this because it is so,
it's such a magnificent thing.
And, you know, now it's kind of hard to weigh in on.
For me, I think a lot of problems now is with social media.
I think before in the early times, there was a lot less people.
So there was a lot more communication.
There's a lot more camaraderie.
It wasn't as commercial. People weren't producing seeds.
There wasn't so many elite clones.
The forums were about information and people connecting.
And they went over time, you know, like Instagram is an amazing thing.
It's very visual. It's visceral.
It's good for ADD people.
But it doesn't really foster community because it's just basically for promotion.
It seems you post up a picture, people get to write a couple of things and then it's on to the
next thing. It's not like a thread in a forum.
Where people over the years are adding to it.
And, you know what I mean?
It's so quick and so glossy and in your face and neon that you don't, there's not a way to
really make that enduring in a way.
And I think it causes a lot of problems because people can be very short, very quick, very
disrespectful.
Very. I think it just, it really doesn't bring out.
I mean, sure, there are people that do amazing things on it, but it doesn't seem to be the
best angle for fostering a community.
Do you think that the best way for maybe a newly emerging breeder or someone with maybe not
quite as big of a reputation as they deserve, do you think the best way for them to get
known is to not kind of partake in that marketing game, so to speak, that you mentioned,
but kind of let their work speak for itself?
Or do you feel that maybe we're in an age where you almost can't be off Instagram, you
know, like you need that marketing aspect, otherwise you're never going to take off?
Yeah, I mean, for new breeders, I think Instagram is pretty crucial in a way because it's
kind of like the roster.
It's like you sign up like, hey, this is me, this is what I'm doing.
But it's a tough one.
I think for new breeders, you know what I say?
Make a good cross and give away a bazillion seeds.
Just give away seeds and make friends and communicate and let your seeds talk for you.
Word of mouth is the ultimate thing.
That's why I never advertise, I never promote myself because I believe that I'm promoting
myself through my work.
And if people like the work, they're going to tell their friends, they're going to do
more.
I think just if you're into it, do it for the plant's sake, do it for your community.
Make an awesome hybrid, give out all the seeds and see where that takes you.
Yeah, that sounds like some great advice.
So, if we go back to kind of the breeding side of things, when you're thinking about doing a
new project, maybe a line or just a certain cross, do you approach it in a very
conceptualized manner?
Like, do you think I want to pair this male with this female?
And I think that'll work out quite well.
Or is it more so just a general process where you're thinking, oh, let's see what happens,
you know, like this could be interesting.
Yeah, well, for me, I kind of have a lot of different approaches.
Sometimes I'll breed like emotionally where I just kind of feel like this plant and this
plant need to be together.
Like they just kind of feel like they have similarities and dissimilarities that would
work perfect together.
And I just kind of want to, you know, it's almost like you're the matchmaker or it's like
the dating game or something.
And, you know, especially when you know your plants and you've been around them and you
have a nice mom room, you can kind of, there's the plants have their own interactions.
You can kind of say like, hey, this plant kind of seems like it kind of likes this plant,
you know, and bring them together.
Or, you know, it's always fun to put twists on some of the new elite hybrids or add some
special things to the chem line.
I mean, you know, additive and subtractive, you know, goals are great.
If you have a goal like you want to make some plant that has a specific terpene signature,
you can really, you know, you can point all your goal orientedly to that.
It's all kind of like for me, I try and kind of just keep myself open to extreme
possibilities and just kind of feel out what's going on.
And for breeding, if I'm, you know, for my commercial breeding where I'm kind of
generating enough money to keep my family and us fed is I usually develop males, you
know, special males and then I will pollinate basically my whole harem and then slowly test
those over time and see where those go.
And continually each year, you know, finding more unique males and kind of seeing how they
do. And I'll use like a target female that I know how she expresses.
So when I took a new male, it's usually to her first so that I can see kind of what she
does with this new male.
And then, you know, for me, I guess for basically for Bodhi seeds, it's all about
developing special males and then using them on kind of my own special plants and then
the flavors of the week.
So, I mean, that's kind of the gist.
I mean, there's different breeding styles.
We can get into that of tricks and stuff.
But really, it's just kind of following your bliss, being passionate about it.
And, you know.
Okay. And so if you decide you wanted to take a certain strain to the next generation or
you wanted to, you know, look for a special male to work with, how many seeds do you
ideally like to pop to kind of get a good representation of the strain to, you know, be
able to see what's locked within it?
Well, for my seeds, I'll usually just pop one pack.
And if I don't find something in a pack, then I call it a bummer thing.
I think you should be able to find an excellent plant in every pack.
That's what most of you should be aiming for.
All you should be having is get multiple packs or search.
And, you know, these days it's not hard to make a good hybrid.
Our gene pool has been so refined over time.
You know, it's not like going back to the 70s and 80s where you're bringing these land
races together. It's like we have a highly refined gene pool and it's almost impossible
to make a bad cross with some of the stuff we have today unless, you know, except, you
know, maybe hermaphroditic tendencies and stuff that kind of have been slowly creeping
in. It's not rocket science.
And if you're passionate, it's pretty easy just to put things together and get good
things out. But if you have a vision, you're really going to want to do some goal
oriented breeding where you're really kind of focusing on an outcome and doing everything
you can to fulfill that.
Okay. And so do you find that's the case with most of your projects?
Like, I think the analogy that jumps to mind is I think Subcool said that in his mind
when he's breeding to create a certain flavor, it's kind of like cooking, you know,
you're kind of thinking what two flavors would add together to make that strain.
Is that kind of similar to how you think when you're thinking about those crosses?
Yeah, I mean, if I'm breeding specifically for terpenes in flavor, usually that'll be
my primary thing is all is I'll find two plants in the field, you know, that I know
have either complementary or similar smells that I think could either bolster them or
increase it. And, you know, for aroma based breeding, it's probably one of the besides
color based breeding. It's probably the easiest breeding.
You know, you can basically take your males, flower them super long until they put out
visible resin and you can smell the resin and then you basically can choose which one
is the one that smells closest to what you want with the best structure.
And if you can't wait, you can use Ephalon.
What is that stuff called? There's a name for it.
But basically it turns your males to females.
Yeah. You can and you can smell it a lot quicker.
But I don't really think that's a great way because then you can't find resinous males.
And I'm really into resinous males.
I know some people aren't, but I think resinous males for me is really what I kind of aim
for. What I'm looking for, aroma based breeding.
Okay. What do you think is the most well known Bodhi strain, so to speak?
What strain embodies Bodhi seeds the best in your opinion?
I don't know. You know, the two ones that people always say my flagships are Goji-Oji
and Sunshine Daydream. Kind of using those two males that I use a lot.
They're now kind of retired. Those, I guess, would be my current legacy in a way.
I was going to mention those two, but I thought if I suggested them, it might bait you into
picking them.
It's a different one.
So, the Tranquil Elephantizer is a line that's always been of interest to me.
I mean, I've personally played around breeding with it myself.
But the aspect which I find most interesting about it is how many times it's been, you
know, remixed and reworked.
What was it about that cross which made you go back to it so many times?
It was just kind of like a fun and fascinating thing to kind of play with.
And, you know, I'm really into music.
I'm really into like Dub and the remix and taking
things and, you know, moving them back and forth.
And I love flipping parents.
And it just seemed it was a unique line and it had some really fun things.
And so each time I would kind of tinker with the parent lines, I'd be like, OK, so I'm
moving it forward a generation or backwards or using male-female reversals.
Let's see what this does.
You know, this is like another kind of facet of the Tranquil Elephantizer.
So for me, it was just having fun and kind of exploring, bouncing back and forth.
And, you know, and even, I don't know, I mean, it was mostly just for the
experience of just exploring that way of working with the plants.
You did it with the mother's milk as well.
Did you find the results were as good or, you know, as a result of that, is it something
you would consider doing again in the future or is it more of a case by case basis?
Well, I can't make those anymore.
I mean, I can line breed them, but I retired both of those males.
So, I mean, in the future, I love, you know, I might I'm thinking about kind of doing fun
things with the goji now that it, you know, that it's gone, maybe line breeding it or
taking my favorite phenos and kind of playing off those or even, you know, making
remixes in a way.
But for me, I'm always trying to move forward.
I don't like to stay static.
I don't like to be stuck in lines.
I like to kind of always be exploring and moving forward and kind of following my
passion. And if I get stuck in these, like, you know, static lines, it's like in the UK,
they always get mad because they say, oh, you never restock your old lines.
You're always creating new ones. And I'm like, yeah, I don't want to just be creating the
same old lines over and over.
I'm sure they're great. And, you know, it also gives people the ability, you know, goji
is no longer sunshine daydreams.
I could go longer so people can F2 those.
They can play with them. They can do their own twist on them.
I think, you know, it's beautiful to pass the torch and allow people to bring their own
special artistry to it, too.
So, you know, I think moving forward is a really good thing.
And I think remixing and playing around and moving things back and forth and males and
females moving their positions, I think, is a really unique way to kind of really see
the deeper side of a string.
And so the ancient OG, that's another one which has a bit of a cult following.
My feeling is probably due to the Iranian genetics in it.
I've seen a quote online.
It was on a forum.
I think it might have been from your post.
And it says something along the lines of the Iranian might not be an Iranian land race,
but just something along those lines.
This brings up the idea for me of how do you know what's real, especially someone in your
position who must be offered a lot of things.
And most of the time you're probably unable to verify it for sure.
Maybe using the Iranian as an example, you know, like how do you go about trying to verify
or what's your process in that regard?
Well, I mean, these days I try and I think basic popping your own seeds, you know exactly
where it came from.
I think that's the best way to make sure something is verified.
I try and be pretty good.
I used to be even better at really make tracing the pathway of a clone, who I got it from,
who they got it from, and really making sure I know the origin stories and stuff.
And a few times I get myself into trouble, you know, like I think in the Kim-91, a long,
long time ago, there was only one Kim-91 clone and it was verified by Kimdog and this and
that.
And it came from Joe Brand's kind of camp.
And then later it came out that really wasn't the Kim-91.
It was like a divergent line or alternate line.
And, you know, the real Kim-91 was the Skunk VA.
And when I got that, I was like, okay, now I see.
So I had the Kim-91 JB and the Kim-91 Skunk VA, and they're both amazing plants.
But by, you know, talking to people and really, you know, I respect a lot of people who do a
lot of the strain research and really listening to them.
I'm like, okay, yeah, we're right.
So I had to make a disclaimer and all that.
And then with the Iranian, you know, that was a unique situation.
I got a couple of clones from a friend who had a really unique connection, offline connection.
It was an old Persian man.
And he had some really cool, old kind of like LA stuff.
Like he had the LA Pyrrhicus.
He had the LA Street Garnier, which was like a plant that was back before the OG that was
pretty popular.
What else he had?
He had that Iranian and then something else.
And so he had so many unique and rare lines I kind of bought into that.
Yeah, maybe this is the progenitor of, maybe, you know, Persian strains could be the OG
Kush.
Maybe this is real.
It does have a lot of similarities.
But, you know, I don't know if it was a mismark or something.
I almost think it could have been like maybe like one of the more primordial OGs, just
the way it was.
It was so close to an OG.
It was a little bit more wild, but it sure does make good crosses and it makes great
outdoor crosses.
So I could almost see it having the vigor and the kind of stability of a land race.
So I don't know.
That's a tricky one.
And that kind of adds to the mystique.
And I kind of like that people are really loving that line because it does so well outdoors.
And I really like that people are doing F2s and are really kind of, they're kind of taking
the ball and running.
And I may try an F2 or F3 and kind of explore too, but I'm just stoked to watch other people
do it.
It's such a cool line.
And so, you know, that's one of my anomalies.
There's only a few, but that's definitely one of them.
And all I can really say about it is it's Bruce and it's an amazing line.
I can't verify that particular one because I went no longer in contact with that person.
Yeah.
Okay.
That raises an interesting question.
What do you think are the origins of the OG?
I mean, we've heard a lot of people, I personally have heard a lot of people say that it's TK
and then possibly cross to a Levantai or possibly just S1s, you know, like, and then the OGs,
so to speak, went from there.
What's your opinion on this?
I mean, that's a good question.
There's so many different people saying that, you know, I've heard everything from it's
an old Kauai strain.
It's a, or there was, you know, Kaluakit, it's his name.
He was saying, you know, it was an old world Pakistani, Levantai.
And then there's the, whatever it is, the super not guy in Florida and, you know, all
these people tracing it back.
And I think that's all great.
Everybody's tracing it back.
But for me, I don't really even care where it came from.
I want to know what it's made of.
I want to know, go back before that.
Like, what is it?
What is its actual genetics?
Is it some old Dutch stock that somebody found or old super sativic club?
Or was it a combination of something special like a Pakistani Mexican, or maybe even a
Thai Mexican or some kind of, or, you know, a lot of more central Asian strains when people
say Kush, you know, the whole Kush moniker, it's basically that kind of spicy powdery
coffee, baby powder kind of smell that people associate with a lot of the California and
LA strains.
I've never experienced a plant from the Hindu Kush region that smells anything and looks
anything like that.
Maybe it looks like it, but never smelled like it.
But you know where those plants that smell like that come from is Iran, Iraq, all of
Central Asia has those very perfumey, spicy, with those same kind of things.
I really think that it must have been a Central Asian and then some kind of very terpene,
rich, lemony, lemon, limon, maybe a Mexican, old Mexican, maybe a Thai.
But you know, that could play into why it's very hermaphroditic in certain ways.
You know, I don't think anybody will ever know.
I would love to see that.
I remember that Adam Dunshaw, where they were doing that whole genome testing.
And I'd love to see Phyllis maybe go deeper and see kind of where, you know, through genetics,
where it might be.
It's a unique strain.
It's so amazing.
It's so beautiful.
But no one seems to know the exact origins.
Yeah.
In regards to that JB Chem 91, you answered about three of my questions.
So, I'm going to try to amalgamate what's left of them into one.
So, in regards to the JB Chem 91, what about it makes it worth breeding with?
Because you do still breed with it.
You just label it, you know, the JB Chem 91.
So, you know, like what's different?
Because in my mind, I thought, well, is it different enough such that it's worth breeding
with?
Or is it kind of just like a bit of an imitation that's not quite as good as the original?
You know, I think it's pretty cool.
It's definitely not.
So, you know, the Skunk VA is kind of almost OG-ish.
And it's kind of like a dark Afghani OG.
Like it rich and oily and spicy.
And then the Chem 91 JB is this really unique, has a really unique look.
It's got that really kind of old school kind of almost like hash-planting nodules.
But it has a very kind of like diesel-y and then kind of earthy and almost skunky.
It's a lot more kind of diesel-y, earthy, skunky than the Skunk VA, which is kind of
that more dark, deep OG thing.
So, I definitely think it has it.
It kind of has like, it reminds me of kind of like when people, when I was in high school,
people come up like with a super dank bud, you know, skunk.
It kind of reminds me of that.
It's just knobby.
And I think it's a great plant.
I mean, sometimes it's not the most stable in crosses.
But I think it has its place.
And who knows what it is.
It'd be unique to get Joe Brand to kind of talk about some of these kind of cuts that
kind of slipped out of his arsenal and what they really were.
And no one seems to really know.
And now there's all kinds of, you know, there's still a lot of Chem 91s out there.
There's like the Big Worm.
And there's a lot of different ones.
And who knows really where and what these are coming from.
And if they're just S1s or if they're hybrids or maybe they, yeah, it's the whole strain,
strain, inspector strain thing is pretty amazing when you get into it.
I mean, the Chem personally, it's got a lot of mystery surrounding it, in my opinion.
I love following the history on it.
What was that whole process like of you discovering that it wasn't the real Chem 91?
Like, how did that happen?
Did someone come to you and say, this is the real Chem 91?
And then it was just kind of obvious?
Or was it more of like a discovery thing yourself?
Or how did that go down?
It was a combination of things.
It was, you know, a few people that really communicating with a few people that I really
respect their knowledge about strains.
Like, I think one of my favorite people to ask about California and like, you know, Oregon,
West Coast strains would be like Inspector.
I think he has one of the most vast and underrated like strain mines on the planet.
He's like a strain computer.
And he was, you know, we're friends.
And he showed me some of his pictures.
And he told me about his experiences.
And even at one point, we traded and I got the cut and I grew him side by side.
And then I saw, what was it?
What was it?
What was going to be his name?
Was it Big Dog?
I mean, when he would, remember when he first came online on IC Mag?
Good Dog.
Good Dog.
He posted his pictures.
And I'm like, it looks similar, but it's not the same.
And then, you know, really growing them side by side and then seeing.
And then, I mean, the whole thing was funny as it threw me off as, you know, it did everything
in our power to verify it.
You know, someone even got a nug to ChemDog himself and he verified it as the Chem 91.
So I was like, oh, that's probably as good as I can get.
And that's why I said it.
So I kind of love eating crow, like going back on my words.
I think, you know, I think it's good to kind of come before the community and go, hey, I
messed up.
And it shows people that they can do that too.
And so I don't know.
The Chem line has so many unique, like it's almost like this planet shooting all these
like satellites of different things.
So, you know, they're all cool plants.
Yeah, for sure.
And my EP buddy wanted to know, do you still have the Chem 1 or the Chem 2 by any chance?
I've never had the two.
I have the one.
Seems like it's a little dutted with me.
I'm trying to bring it back.
But that, yeah, that's an amazing plant.
I don't think that many people have experienced it.
And it's kind of it would be like the sativa of the bunch.
It goes a couple of weeks longer.
It has a more kind of cerebral kind of high.
It's not as, you know, kind of like Chemdog is very like a it kind of muffles you.
It's like putting on one of those inflatable samurai suits when you go out to a Halloween
party.
It kind of like, you know, it takes you down and it kind of it's like a big bear hug.
And it also it's very heady.
Whereas the Chem 1, it has that same color.
It has the chem smell.
It's a little bit different, but it definitely has more of a sativa here and a really kind
of sativa here.
I like because it has that still warm hug, but it has it's it's got kind of that heady
indica thing where your mind just goes off into amazing realms.
So I think it's a plant.
It's not I don't think it's commercially viable so much and it does take a while, but
it's a really unique kind of lens on the whole chem family.
And so do you find that you prefer more indica or more sativa strains, for example, or are
you kind of up for anything?
Because I just remember I was reading an article in Skung Magazine and I believe you wrote
it and it was basically saying that the white snow lotus, my mistake, snow lotus was some
of your favorite personal smoke and it veered a bit towards the sativa side from memory.
You know, is that kind of how you find things in general or was that just the snow lotus?
You know, I always have liked sativas a lot because I like psychedelics and I like kind
of that meditative opening up space.
And I really like I think sativas have a really unique spirit to them.
Like they all kind of have their own unique personality.
Some are very pushy.
Some are, you know, some are a roller coaster ride.
Some are super creepers.
I mean, I'm sure in indica's too, but they they have these unique properties.
They have these unique properties and each one kind of opens up like kind of like a little
higher center in your mind.
So I would say that.
But, you know, now as I'm maturing and I'm getting older, I kind of I've been really
enjoying like heady indica's like.
Or I should be saying broadleafs, but really unique, maybe heirloom or land-raised broadleafs
that are deeply relaxing on the body and healing, but at the same time, like opens your mind
in almost like a dreamlike state.
So I'm really loving kind of like heady indica's.
Um, but I like extreme possibilities.
I've always looked for plants, you know, that just body, like absolutely no mind.
I was like, I got to find that.
Like, how nice would that be just to go out dancing or to like, so you don't have to trip
out if you're going to meet people are more social.
And then I also like completely mind, like absolutely no body, like some of the Indian
lines that I have are almost nobody at all.
And I even have some ones that you smoke.
I have a Vietnamese when you smoke and you don't really know if you're high or not.
Everything is just kind of slightly weird and everything's a little brighter and you
just kind of, it just feels like you're on another planet, but you don't really feel
high.
You're almost like, did I get stoned or what, what's going on?
But it puts you in a completely different state.
And I don't know if that's an interaction of multiple cannabinoids or just this way
terpenes interact or, you know, it's such a, we're still kind of in the early stages
of really figuring out why cannabis does what it does to our physiology.
Do you think that there's a market now for weed, which maybe doesn't get you just,
you know, completely stoned, so to speak, but more what you said maybe makes things
feel a bit different.
I mean, the example I often hear is people say, Oh, I breed for turps.
And to me, that is kind of saying you're doing what I said, you know, you're, you're
breeding cannabis.
That's maybe not as potent, but maybe got an overall different effect, maybe more
up someone's alley who's up for a more sedative type of thing.
Do you think that's a market worth looking into?
Or do you think maybe it's just someone trying to make up for poor potency within
their crosses?
I mean, maybe both.
I mean, I think as the emerging kind of recreational market sweeps over Canada and
America, and now we have medical in Mexico and all these places are tuning in.
I think for people that aren't smokers that have never done cannabis, I think it's kind
of nice to have training wheels to have something that's tasty and visceral and, and, and
great to the senses that is very low THC that can kind of ease you in if you want to keep
going.
You know, if your grandma, you want to smoke something or, you know, if people don't
want to get too high, they want something special.
And I know now there's branded things like sex pot.
There's that pot that's supposed to make you feel sensual and horny.
And, and, you know, there's also then the CBD style stuff where the CBD THC things,
those are kind of more, you know, those are a different feeling in themselves.
They seem to be a lot more freeing up of the body than so much the mind.
I think there's, I really think there's a market for any expression.
It's just finding that niche and going there.
And then also finding the place that you're going to be able to then that, or, you know,
it's, it's almost like you have to have a passion for that specific thing you're going
for else you're never going to prevail.
So, one of the more interesting things I remember talking to you about at the Emerald Cup was
how you said you only really smoke once a day or so, and it's more of like a meditative
slash ritual type thing as opposed to just a recreational one.
Would you mind going a little more into detail about that and kind of how you do it?
Are you combining, say, meditation with smoking or is it more just smoking and trying to undergo
it as a type of meditation?
I mean, really when I say kind of meditation, I, more it's just like me time.
I usually smoke whenever everyone's asleep here.
I have three kids and I'm hypersensitive to cannabis and all kinds of plants.
So, I don't need to, I like to take bong hits and if I take a bong hit during the day, it's
like I'm just going to be staring at plants and not be able to be working and not being
really able to interact with my family.
So, it's kind of like after I'm done with everything, I have all these plants that I
test and so I have hundreds of different strains hanging and I'll be like, okay, what are we
going to try tonight?
And I'll, you know, usually it's sativas and usually keeps me up all night.
But for me, smoking once a day allows me to not only not bludgeon my endocannabinoid
system, but keep me like sensitive enough that I can really perceive the individual
differences in plants, especially if I'm going through new lines or different phenos.
It really allows me to stay crisp and honorable to the plant.
Like everyone has their own special relationship to the plant.
I don't, I don't get to judge.
I think people that need to smoke it a hundred times a day is beautiful.
If you don't need to smoke it once a year, that's amazing.
It's really how we interact with it.
And I, you know, I hear some people get kind of like fooled on or making fun of that they
don't smoke that much or they're lightweight.
I think lightweight should be celebrated.
I think being sensitive to the plant and knowing how to be respectful to the plant
and to engage it in a way that, you know, it's a special meeting.
I think that's good.
And I think that more people should do that.
I think sometimes when you smoke way too much, you don't really get to experience the nuances.
You know, I understand for medical reasons, people do need to do that.
And even for self-medicating other things, I think it's great.
But I think to keep yourself really sensitive and clean to, if you're breathing and really
diving deep into different strains, I think it's kind of good to create a special time
that you interact with it.
And for me, it's just, it's late at night and sometimes I'll meditate.
Sometimes I'll listen to music.
Sometimes, you know, do this and that.
If I do yoga in the day or ride a mountain bike, I'll do it.
I don't, it's not like I only do it at night, but I usually try to smoke once a day and
that kind of, and that's what basically works for me.
Unless I'm trekking, then I'm going to smoke all day long as I trek, because that's what
I like to do.
That sounds awesome.
So, given, you know, your relatively small amount of consumption compared to say other
breeders, do you find it hard to personally sample all the plants you grow out?
Or, I mean, my assumption would be that you must kind of have a group of trusted friends
who are kind of act as your palate in a certain regard, or do you still manage to kind of
work your way through them all?
You know, I do my best to work through all.
I only have 365 days a year.
I do, and any friends come over, I'm always like, hey, you want to try this?
You want to try this?
And like, you know, I make bags because I literally, my whole garage is like, it's just
hundreds of strains and I don't know what to do with them.
I usually just, when they get too old, I'll just throw them over the hill.
You know, because it's just, it's a wonderland, but I'm always like, hey, try this, try this,
try this, try this.
What I need, I wish there was some dedicated like super stoners that would, I could just
give like a bag once a week and be like, hey, try this, and write all, I used to have
people a long time ago that I'd be like, hey, try all these, write down what you think about
each one, and give that kind of bag to a couple different people so I could get more kind
of insight.
But these days, you know, I'll give a bag to whoever comes over, but really it's kind
of just me.
And, you know, I get one chance each night and it usually works pretty good.
I can do, in a week, I can do phenos, pretty much seven phenos from a new line in a week
and take all my notes and kind of know where I'm going from there.
What kind of percentage of your day do you spend hacking through uncharted territories
looking for new land races?
Yeah, that's rare.
I mean, it's kind of sad.
I feel kind of like a dork.
I used to really be able to get out there more and I really, like my heart just soars,
my spirit is so happy when I'm out in the field.
That's where I feel at home.
No expectations, there's totally out of your element.
Every moment is something new.
My spirit just gobbles that up.
But now with three kids and business and all that, I'm kind of like stuck and it drives
me crazy.
I mean, now things are starting to pick up again.
I just did a collections trip with a couple friends in Guatemala about six months ago
and kind of contemplating a quick one in Oaxaca in about a month or two.
I got some good ideas for a special spot.
But daytime, it's really, you know, I do a lot of trading and I do a lot of seed popping
and I just kind of try and explore what I have.
And, you know, maybe a day is I wake up late because I go to bed late.
I usually do kid stuff, pick up kids, do this, do that.
And maybe in the afternoon I get to do some outdoor.
Then it's time more kid stuff, dinners with the kids to bed.
Then I go out and I do indoor stuff.
And then when everything's done and I'll go down to kind of live in a dome down on
the lower part of the property and I'll just pick something that from hanging from the
ceiling and take a big bong rip and usually listen to meditate, listen to music, take
notes, read.
Just kind of get in my own space and kind of like kind of realign with the force, I
guess.
And what type of music are you into mostly?
You know, I kind of I pretty much like any kind of music except maybe I'm not so into
contemporary country western like that for me and a lot of like any of the new whatever
whatever is on the radio.
I'm not so thrilled about like all the new poppy stuff, but I primarily listen to maybe
I guess people would call it bass music.
A lot of electronic music that's heavy on the low frequency.
I also like a lot of older stuff like I love Hendrix and Zeppelin, a lot of 60s punk and
I even you know some right.
But mostly I would have to say it would be classic electronic music and then newer really
psychedelic bass music.
And then I like ambient, I like world music.
You know, I like I'm pretty open but I like Vajon's a lot.
I like Kirtan.
I like even listen to podcasts.
You know, I just like listen to my own ears.
But really I think if I had to pick one thing it would be probably bass music and I know
that sounds strange, but that's me.
Nice.
So, although I was kind of you know joking a bit of tongue in cheek with the whole hacking
through uncharted territories, it kind of is a fairly accurate statement in many ways
at least compared to other breeders.
So, how does that whole process go down?
You know, I remember when you're on the Adam Dunn show you said generally you have a contact
organizing when you're going to a different country.
Would you mind filling us in a little more on the details of you know how the average
trip goes down?
Yeah, usually you know usually I'll do some research and I'll pick a place that I've always
wanted to go to that also has a history of cannabis.
And you know I'll do a lot of looking in books and I'll do a lot of research online and I'll
try and find specific places or specific strains or try and get clues.
And then hopefully I made a friend there, maybe I have a contact.
It all depends.
And then you know the real thing I try and do and sometimes it backfires when I haven't
done it for a while is synchronicity.
Go to a country, go to the places that you research, be the coolest person you can be.
You know, be who you really are, open your heart, laugh, make connections with people.
And usually I travel alone.
Recently I've been taking friends which is really fun.
But I used to just travel alone so I'd meet a lot of people and you just kind of develop
relationships and I swear synchronicities happen.
Like you know from point A to point B you just follow the clues and they'll usually
take you to where you need to be.
You know and I usually like I love to choose places where I can trek, like kind of get
up into the mountains.
And mountain people are so friendly and you just have to be really respectful.
You know I try and I never bring in my own seeds.
I always bring in like heirloom vegetable seeds.
I also bring in like antibiotics.
I love to bring in pencils, chocolate.
I like to like really give of myself and I always bring these fake teeth and crazy glasses
because I like to make people crack up and smile and make the kids laugh.
And the key to you know I think anyone that loves cannabis and anyone that loves traveling
I think it's our birthright and it's our duty to get out there and save those strains.
You know and even if you can't go and you say you're a big commercial person, you have
trimmers.
Where do trimmers go after they trim all summer?
They go to Thailand.
They go to Guatemala.
You go talk to your trimmers.
Go hey bring me back some seeds.
Or even better talk to your dad's old hippie friend.
See if he's got any.
I mean you got to follow every single avenue.
But I really think people should if they like to travel, they like cannabis, get out there
and really show the world like how cool we are and make those lasting connections.
And you know help people out and let them help you out.
And I think that's one way that we can really make this a better planet.
Yeah, really.
So you kind of touched on the topic without trying to throw anyone under the bus.
How do you feel about you know the idea of trading more hybridized seeds for land-raised
seeds to you know the farmers in these countries?
Is that just a personal choice you decide not to do or do you think as a kind of modern
society we have an obligation to not do that given these people may not fully understand
the implications of you know cross-pollination?
Yeah, I think it's a hard one.
I think it's a really ethnocentric view to bring in anything that we think is like super
awesome and try and replace it with someone that they already have, that they have a history
of it, that their ancestors grew it, that it's part of their collective consciousness,
that it's weaved through their toil and their sweat.
You know it's like these plants that have been grown in these areas except now with
you know rapid commercialization and also even with drug cartels and people bringing
in stuff to try and pump out a lot of stuff for foreign markets.
It's like these strains are special, they're magic, they're timeless.
They weave through cultures, they weave through people's lives and it holds a lot of information
and I think that it's criminal to take in especially feminized genetics into these cannabis
hot spots.
I think it's really short-sighted.
I think it's not a smart thing at all and I mean it's one thing you know I've opened
up a little bit because I've met some really cool cannabis breeders in other countries
and I've been you know considering sending stuff and I'm like you know if you're growing
way out in some mountain valley where there's not a lot of cultivation and you're just doing
your thing as a modern cannabis guy, sure you know that would be fun to trade seeds
and do this but if you're in an area that has like you know the eons old traditions
of working with certain strains in certain areas that have developed over time and are
you know that are made for those areas to bring in something else is just so wrong and
it's so sad and it really it sets up for a global homogenization.
It's you know we're just we're gonna basically we're just gonna break ourselves right into
a hole and so I definitely think we shouldn't be bringing foreign genetics into cannabis
hotspots you know but there are exceptions but that's my feeling and I think yeah I mean
to each his own though I'm not gonna pass judgment but I really think it's a bad idea.
So I read a post recently from your buddy Sonic Seeds and he said that he's working with some
land-raised Jamaican seeds he got from a buddy but his end kind of analysis of it all was that
they weren't in fact land-raised Jamaican seeds but more just kind of acclimatized watered down
super silver haze hybrids from kind of all the imported genetics of years gone by that had
polluted the pool so to speak. Have you ever found a similar thing happen with any seeds you've
brought back only to kind of find because this is the kind of follow-up question is most of the time
when you're getting the seeds it's probably you know you probably don't have a really amazing
representation of flower side by side for it do you so you probably have got to kind of wait till
you get back home and grow it out before you really know what's inside there or is that not
the case? Well it depends if you're doing if you're doing collections doing bag seed
testing and sampling or if you're actually seeing the plants and collecting seeds
directly from the plants I think then you really get to see what's going on and you can kind of
tell whether you know things are modern hybrids or have that or if you're more in the tropics if
they're like true equatorials but I mean it's kind of a unique question because the big
our trip to Guatemala was all about trying to reclaim the strain that I had long ago that was
one of the best strains I've ever smoked in my life and so in Guatemala there's a sister lake
to Lake Tahoe it's a caldera lake it's a lake that was a volcano that's been filled with water and it
has its own microclimates it's called Lake Atiklon and it's this amazing beautiful lake but the
classic thing is ever since the 80s I don't know if you know how many dead shows I've ever been to
but you know in the 80s and 90s everybody wore like Guatemalan shirts and Guatemalan shirts it
was kind of like the style and you'd sell them on straight down the street so a lot of those vendors
when tour wasn't going on they would go down to the lake and be buying up the clothes and
they'd also bring down their lot seeds like you know they're basically their dead family seeds
and they would grow them and those seeds I think hybridized and pollinated some of the local
sativa varieties and you were getting these really unique plants that were kind of like dead lot
meets sativas and then they were you know breeding over cycles over seasons and they were climatizing
and becoming heirlooms and you had these amazing amazing combos of basically ancestral sativas and
dead lot seeds and so that was kind of my goal was to kind of go down there and see really if
those were still available because I'd had sampled it before in the past and and when I got down there
I realized that you know what there's so much people bringing in so many genetics from a lot
of trimmers are going down there especially to San Pedro and setting up shop there's a lot of
growers down there in the jimmy to america and buying them from seed bags that the lake is pretty
polluted you know it's it's the gene pool is pretty polluted it's unique and it's special
they're getting to try new things people are really stoked but those deep older lines from
like the 90s and early 2000s even are seem to be gone or maybe I just didn't get a chance to look
deep enough but um you know there's still that there's a plant down there called what's it called
mangito that's kind of like their their blue dream down there like the
Guatemalan version of blue dream I guess you know it's grown all over Guatemala I think it's like a
throwback from like an earlier time and it has some really unique effects people don't seem to
really like it that much I thought it was kind of cool because it makes you absolutely stupid
it's like one of the strains where you just like stare and laugh like I think it's kind of neat
and you know we brought that back but that's being hybridized with a lot and there's some really cool
people there's a lot of cool autumn islands there's a lot of new breeding going down there
but you know that finding land races is difficult there now and then you know there's you can go to
the jungle the patin where a lot of the cannabis is cultivated but a lot of the organized cartels
are moving in there and they're pumping stuff out so it's like it's happening everywhere in Mexico
you know Jamaica is a good as a really good way to see it's like Jamaica had so much early Dutch
stuff brought in that it it basically is a lot of the island is these Dutch Jamaican hybrids and
now they've kind of turned into heirlooms and sure there's Rostas that still have the lamb's breath
and stuff but really most of the island is a unique kind of like Dutch Jamaican hybrid that's
turned into heirloom so I mean in a way that's kind of cool because you're kidding you're I still
love hybrids and I still love when things come together for the first time and kind of make
this unique love but at the same time the world's being homogenized very quickly very fastly and I
don't think it's going to slow down at all I think it's only going to going to get faster and faster
and faster until we're all basically everything is going to look and smell pretty much the same.
So on that idea of land races which one kind of interests you the most in terms of moving forward
with it we often hear people talk about very reminiscently you know Thai do you feel that
maybe Thai hogs the spotlight a bit and there's another land race that deserves a bit of a mention
that if it did come back into the mainstream conscious you know it would really rock people's
world so to speak? Yeah I mean a good time in it Thai it comes down to being people being able to
like grow it correctly and and you know really find a way to do it I think really for maybe I
think as cannabis becomes uh globally legal and we start to see these like trade deals where
we're actually going to get stuff you know shipped over from Thailand, Colombia all these places we
used to kind of get it I think then maybe because it's you know from my experience smoking like uh
land races at the point of origin and then coming home and growing them and smoking it it's like a
completely different world it's kind of like one's like a light version like because the plants
developed it's you know in a specific environment to roar uh also you know there's a lot of things
going into cultural heritage there's so much information and epigenetics that that that
weave through these plants in the places that they've been for so long that they really develop
their vital essence and you know I've smoked Oaxacan in Oaxaca that just blew my mind and I'll
bring it back here and it was kind of and it's you know it maybe after a couple seasons of
getting used to the new environment and you know keeping in a couple secessions of seeds it can
adapt and bring out some of its qualities I don't think we're really going to get rocked by these
land races until we can really start importing them from their points of origin I mean you know
there's people that really do excel at growing sativas indoors and really finding the niche I
have a couple friends that do great jobs and you know I think that there are lines that have been
acclimatized especially older lines you know back from the 80s and stuff that have been around
forever that were a tie that we kind of could climatize to our mountains you can still get
those effects but really I don't know I mean and even stuff like tie you know tie gene pool's been
pretty polluted I think the only way to really find some of these southeast Asians that are
really noteworthy is to go deep kind of like that Laotian strain I brought back that was kind of
right on the border of China and Burma and it was way up up in kind of the high high highland forest
so it was it wasn't the lowland kind of like humid tropical wasn't like almost like a Jurassic
Park style thing and it was pretty untouched and it really had its own unique essence I think
people are going to really really want to find unique and rare stuff we're going to have to
really get back up in there or dig into older stuff I think you know I heard Rob Clark I think
was Rob Clark say that you know the best land races are going to be found in your you know your
dad's friend's collection or something it's like I think old seeds are kind of these special
treasure chests that hold a lot of the magic and even though there are still hot spots that contain
amazing genetics I think it's really about recovering a lot of the stuff we have here
especially in California and all across the states where you know it's been grown it's in prohibition
I think you know talking to old people like connecting reaching out I mean and now's the
time to sprout those things I mean get them out get them going you know get that germ plasm
out and about because it's it's only getting older and I think maybe it's that's the kind of
the sacred rivage there is getting deep into the bush and then also getting deep into people's
collections so what's the oldest seeds you've ever been able to germinate ah that's a that's a good
question I mean I've tried to germinate all kinds of super old ones I can get them to pop but they
never come up you know I use seed bombs and all kinds of weird popping strategies and I have
friends that can do pretty good getting really old ones I'm trying to think what's my oldest I
don't even know I mean most likely probably 80s I have a lot of seeds from the 70s that I can't
seem to get to go I guess would be 80s or you know a lot of times some of these old old ones
are they're being refreshed every like nine years or you know they came from somebody's dad who had
them and then their uncle made more nine years later and then someone else made you know they
kind of they're being refreshed and that's one way they're getting a thing but I don't know you know
uh there was a really kind gentleman that came onto Instagram from Alaska that like buried a
bunch of seeds and he has a lot of cool old stuff from the 80s and he's getting great germination
and so I mean it it's all about storage really and it's about people that have kept that vibe
alive and they're now kind of as as the laws are lifting and people are being more comfortable
they're like people are coming out with their treasures and I think that's it's really it's a
kind of a gift to the community is that as we legalize things are kind of coming to the surface
that we never really thought we would. So do you think that if people do you know uh how should we
say it metaphorically find uh the seeds in the dad's friend's little stash case do you think
that people should you know try their best efforts if possible to try to do a bit of a tom hill in
this situation and you know do the open pollination and try to you know generate that larger stock pool
to work with without bottlenecking it such that we can then work further? Yeah I think if if
something's really special I think you should always open pollinate it you know and I and there's
there's ways to get there's kind of like fun tips and ways to kind of to have fun with it and still
open pollinate you can do like a targeted open pollination where you do a bunch of seeds and you
kind of you pull out you know the ones that are really not going to be good for the gene pool but
who's to say what that but you can kind of narrow it down I prefer like a total open pollination and
then from there I'll I'll pick my favorites a couple favorites from that open pollination and
I'll save those back to the clones and kind of work with those but every time I get like a new
seed line like I have an old timer friend that once in a while sends me some really special
cool stuff and the first thing I always do is I do an open pollination make a bunch send him back some
keep those and then I'll kind of work from those from the ones that I selected from the initial
open pollination that I really kind of connected with but yeah I think it's important to keep that
gene pool and that kind of open and contained for the future even if you can go back and you know
it's great to have that you know what if your crow room dies or there's a storm comes by or you know
the power's out it's easy to lose clones but it's it's hard to lose seeds yeah the truth
so just kind of looping back to a previous question have you found any land races that
seem to be particularly compatible with modern strains you know most likely you would have
probably found this through supernatural selections and then the flip side of that
the opposite you know have you found any modern strains you know maybe an elite clone so to speak
that seems to work quite well with land races oh that's a good one uh the funny thing is a lot of
the elite clones that work good with land races were kind of like older clones that were originally
land races kind of are ones that have been kind of inbred quite a bit because I mean the key to
to f you know to f1 hybrids is really getting inbred lines so if you're taking two inbred
lines and you're putting together they're very distinct they don't have a lot in common you bring
them together you get that true f1 hybrid vigor where you're getting this like explosion of life
force and you're getting this this really unique combination of genes and they display pretty
pretty stable and pretty similar in that first cross and they just blow everything away with
vigor and they have amazing root systems and they really shine and then from there I mean you can
f2 and stuff but I really think the best things to mix with land races are other highly inbred
elite clones or highly inbred clones have been kept for a while and I think that's where you get
the best results you know and then it's always fun to play like I think ogs are fun to cross
anything into an og because og is such a cool plant and then to cross a crazy land race it's like
then you get these really kind of weird unique accents or really freaky you get freaky buds with
an og smell but a completely different structure it's kind of fun to take your favorite things
and just kind of hit them with the magic stick and see what crazy stuff comes out you know
what's your favorite og to work with and then secondly have you ever found when you you know
did hit stuff with the magic stick so to speak I like that expression by the way um have you
ever found that just something just completely you know the most unique exotic smell you know
maybe never even encountered it before in cannabis you know have you ever had that happen to you
uh yeah definitely I think especially with with uh really unique and special and very like
especially with like the super super heavy terp plants when you put two really unique terp plants
together sometimes you get the weirdest wildest smell you would have never thought and then
sometimes they cancel each other out which is always weird like you get the two smelliest
plants and you're like oh this is going to be the ultimate and you throw them together and then
they're like somehow they cancel their smells out and then sometimes you'll get crazy stuff like you
put an og and a blueberry and you get onions out or you know it's like it it's the way the
genes combine is just so amazing and magical and it might be you know sometimes it could be
recessive genetics it could be back something that came from you know an earlier earlier generation
and yeah I think it's just it's fun that's why I always say find like a targeted female like a
female that you know and you've always used in your breeding that you can put your new pollen on
and really see what it does so you can see what that kind of brings to a cross and then I think
my favorite og to work with it was that napoli og but you know I no longer have it but out of all
the ogs I ever worked with that one would always consistently make the best hybrids I mean besides
the ancient og besides that iranian did really good too and I think that they you know if if it
was an og I think that it it would it was probably closer to that kind of grass valley tahoe kind of
uh emanation of og that was there for a while okay awesome there's kind of like a point of
contention within the communities like two schools of thought one is that we've made the land races
more potent and maybe arguably more flavorful however we have potentially um lost certain
characteristics the other the other argument is that the new the new strains while definitively
being maybe more flavorful or having certain flavors that weren't accessible in the land race
routes are not as potent do you think that the land races were more potent and we've watered it
down or that we've refined it for the better um I think both things I think humans selecting plants
to their you know each each season smoking the stuff finding their favorite things and just
going with that each year and each year is like that's the amazing thing as humans we can do as
I always think of like the gene pool is energy and then where the awareness that we bring to it so
in a way I think you know of course if you've really been deep in the bush there's a lot of
jungly cannabis and it's pretty junky like I wouldn't a lot of stuff in the Himalayas a lot
of stuff that's scaped into the wild even heirlooms escape in the wild they kind of revert back to
their their own kind of vibe and it's pretty you know it's pretty jungly it's pretty rough I mean
from a rubbing perspective it can be some of the best hash ever because it's you know these plants
are just they're horrible to look at but the resin that comes off is truly amazing but I think
it's kind of like our duty to kind of push it in the ways that we want to as artists working with
the you know the plant spirit and the cannabis realm um and then at the same time
I think we do lose certain things like I was talking to Rob Clark about this like what makes
all the old strains so different and he's like oh they were more monoturpy like Mexican had this
effect because it had just one kind of terpene signature and like one you know like limonene or
something where and it would take you this way where another one from this like Colombia it was
kind of a monoturpy had just this smell and this so people remember like these plumbing reds with a
certain smell and and so they had these they weren't so mashed up the whole global cannabis
gene pool wasn't mashed together in all these ways creating all these different genes expressing
themselves and all these new smells and combination smells it was like there was
these very distinct varietals they had distinct morphology they had distinct uh look they had
distinct smell taste and the effect too because they were very specific to their own genes and
because they were very specific to their you know single or just a few terpenes and that's why
held their very uh held their uniqueness and as we grew as a cannabis culture and community and
started blending all these things together you really started to blend together a lot of the
effects kind of almost sometimes getting neat things sometimes muddling but I thought I found
that really really unique and really kind of really expanded my mind like wow yeah I guess so
it came from a specific place in a specific environment and the environment
forced the plant to do a certain thing and release certain terpenes and it you got it in a brick in
the 70s or 80s from this place of course it's going to have this unique effect and I think that
we're kind of losing that these unique effects I think we're gaining in the smells and flavors
and aromas and even structure and yields but we're really losing on the the kind of subtle
spirit subtle effects that cannabis has to offer that we
that we no longer kind of experience in our modern gene pool.
That's really interesting because I've always wondered and I posed the question to Mr. Sottle
I said what is it on the molecular basis do you think that causes a strain to quote not have a
ceiling because people often talk about maybe tye for example or haze not having a ceiling you know
you just keep getting higher and higher the more you smoke and so my first thought is well there's
got to be some you know molecular basis for the ceiling and I guess if we kind of think about what
Rob said if it was a similar kind of thing happening with the terpenes that would almost
suggest that some terpenes are inhibitory you know if maybe mono terpenes led to a high that didn't
have a ceiling maybe multiple terpenes somehow brings in a ceiling do you think do you have
your own little kind of hypothesis to what's going on here yeah you know I've always kind of
wondered and I always like you know what is going on like even when I would get like an say like a
broad leaf indica and and it would I have one you know I'd be like okay this kushmore smells kind of
like a haze so why does it have an effect you know kind of like a down relaxing thing and this haze
it smells the same why does it have an up and I'm like what is going on you know because I you know
terpenes are usually they kind of lead the experience there you know they're either bolstering
or are canceling out or are making things go through the blood-brain barrier faster or you
know or yeah so I always wonder that too and I don't know if it's a combination of like auxiliary
cannabinoids mixed with terpenes you know for a while people thought maybe a lot of the high
elevation and a lot of jungly like equatorials they had THCV like something that would kind of
put a lead the cannabinoids into you know a more effective deeper synchronicity with your brain
I don't know I would love to it's this is like one of the things that fascinates me and I think
that people as we get more into genetics and terpenes and and auxiliary cannabinoids that
will kind of see but yeah the ceiling thing is wild like and even or even legs yeah like
what makes some strains last for so long like I have some strains that look super ugly I smoke it
and I literally can feel like I drank a coffee and I'll be up all night long but and I smoke
maybe even a different pheno and it won't do the same thing like where are these
ceilingless highs and these like long-legged highs it must be the chemistry I yeah it's it's really
amazing and I would love to know because yeah I'm it's a it's a fascinating subject
yeah and it would certainly be interesting if we could figure out the answer because
presumably we could then work towards incorporating that sealingness
ceilinglessness it's probably not the best way to phrase it uh into more strains but just what about
oh sorry go on oh yeah I was just gonna say like what about so you know everybody's really into
these pens and I know now the kind of thing is like a raw cannabinoid compound and then they're
putting these fake terpenes like trademark og combinations you know they're running them
through the grass chromatography and finding which terpenes or however they do it in each
strain and then they can kind of mimic that so why I love you know there's people that make
amazing pens and I like pens for certain things like traveling and stuff but why does it seem like
pens they just don't have the spirit there they're kind of like this muddled kind of basic
highness like I don't get a lot of different effects from a pen it seems to be all very
similar and then why if if if the high is terpene driven why why why can't I mean it's you think that
people could put in these diverse food-based terpenes and get similar effects to the strains
like there's got to be something else I don't maybe it's something metaphysical I don't even
know it's you know it kind of boggles my mind it's like why can't we recreate because there's
obviously something magic going on we haven't figured out yeah for me I mean it raises a kind
of a parallel issue where that is will we ever be able to or maybe another way of putting it is are
we wasting our time trying to artificially replicate the plant when we know that it just
doesn't seem to really compare you know like do you think that we'd ever get to the stage where
you could get you know a capsule or a pen for example that would completely mimic
say you know like ingestion of the whole plant product via combustion maybe or something like
that or do you think it's just still you know the technology is not there and we don't understand it
I don't know I mean it's the same thing kind of with you know modern herbalism there's a
the whole school of pulling out the specific phytochemical and standardizing that and then
selling that as a natural medicine versus a whole plant extract versus eating you know the herb and
it's like you know sometimes people do spagyric like an alchemical extract there's co2 there's
alcohol there's all these ways that people try and capture the essence of the plant and I think
maybe spagyric is probably the best because it's a more of a metaphysical thing but you really can't
capture the true you know it's like anything you can't capture the true nature it's even like the
live music versus recorded music and I think really the whole terpene pen thing I think that's
just more of a commercial thing it's a cost effective and I think in the future sadly what
we're going to see is massive massive massive cannabis farms where they're just basically
harvesting all the tops and making raw THC and they're adding it into these propylene glycol
with their proprietary mixture of terpenes and you get them at 7-Eleven and get everywhere I don't
think flowers are going to have a place in the future except in the people that really love and
enjoyment I think legalization we're going to see just this mass like kind of law kind of exposure
to just bolt cannabinoids and flavors I don't think I don't really see except you know maybe
five percent is going to be these really deep heads that love their concentrates and they love
their flowers that are you know we're really utilizing these these labor intensive practices
to produce this it's kind of like a labor of love versus commercialization and it's kind of sad
that raises an interesting argument in my mind I saw a I think it was in the states a farm that was
producing some horrible looking plants but their defense was well this is all just going to get
converted into extracts and so it doesn't actually really matter but it wasn't just the case that
these plants were like you know visually not very nice like it was the case that they were clearly
not very well looked after and that's why they didn't look very good do you feel that that is a
disservice or the fact that they are producing some product for someone who probably needs it and is
better off with that than nothing is is a good way to go and I guess the deeper philosophy of this
question ties into the Australian scene you know I'm of the opinion that the uh the medical system
that's being prepared to be rolled out in Australia is actually kind of a farce and so it's like should
you accept the sub quality product and in exchange for having accessibility to it or should you deny
that and you know only accept the highest quality of you know the proper sort I mean it's a conundrum
I think that people generally like need something like basically as a medical thing if they need it
for their health and it's imperative by any means necessary but it's the same thing it's like you
know if they have these scraggly cows that look all diseased and they're all caged up and like oh
it's okay we're just making hamburger you know it's like that's another thing and people need
the protein I mean I don't eat meat so it's a weird analogy it's kind of popped into my weird
stoner brain but it's like I think the I really think craft cannabis has been part of our heritage
and it's I think that we need to do everything we can to preserve that but you know it's a big world
and there's a huge wave coming and it's scary and that's why another reason why I think people
should stop bickering and start communicating it's like people should be fighting getting all
weird with each other it's like there's a huge force it's like something wicked this way comes
it's going to engulf everybody and I think now's the time to create these guilds and create these
friendships in these communities and really everybody come together because we're going to
be up against a serious wall that sees cash over anything and I think we have a little bit of a
window and it's time to kind of get with the picture but you know for medicine by many means
necessary but I think we owe it to our fellow humans to make a compassionate product that
that has our heart and soul because half the healing you know even is is what you put into
it there's a there's a vital essence there's an energy to it and you know the body works in
mysterious ways it's you know like even psychosomatic medicine and you know placebos and they work why
because we we believe in it with our hearts so it's like I don't know it's a tough one.
Yeah so how do you think the organic versus non-organic argument relates to the quality of
the product are you of the opinion that organic will always kind of be a better product at least
holistically as opposed to synthetic or do you think that it's you know kind of just down to
the skill of the grower and you've had non-organic product which was quite medicinal or you know
where do you sit on that? I mean it's it depends I guess if you're a master of your craft if you
I personally just smoke organic and I love that it has a connection to the
earth and to the you know the biological web of the earth and to energy of it into the dirt into
the fungus and there's a lot of forces at play but at the same time you know it's also a science
it's like people have you know I've seen like online like the jungle boys they they pretty
looks like they I haven't sampled it but it looks like they have it pretty wired and they
produce some pretty amazing stuff I haven't seen how it burned or how it tastes or what it does
but you know there is a science science is also another tool that people wield in very effective
and amazing ways and if you can create a quality product that people enjoy it's mostly a market
thing if people want to smoke synthetically grown cannabis that's grown well that's their
prerogative and if I mean you know it's more I think a personal preference I think that cannabis
as a plant enjoys being in the soil where it's always been but I mean I'm not going to pass any
judgment and people do amazing jobs growing you know and if they're passionate about it and if
they don't use a lot of garbage and they use pure salts they don't use any crazy chemical additives
or pesticides fungicides I think it's probably okay. And so do you find that being organic yourself
that makes the maintenance of your mother garden or just your general garden for example more easier
because this is something I'm constantly telling people is that it's really easy to look after
mother plants in organics you know do you agree with that? Yeah I mean yeah I mean if you're not
like pulling clones off of them relentlessly I think yeah I think it's super easy put it in dirt
you just feed it you can even just like I'm pretty like MacGyver like ghetto style organic
gardener like I don't have time to be brewing seed teas and doing ferments and all these amazing
things that people are just going for which I find fascinating I think I love all these people doing
these crazy things but I don't have the time I would love to be sprouting seed teas and so
I pretty much just throw it in in some good rich potting soil and top dress with organic amendments
maybe make some teas here and there use a few different things but I go for ease because I don't
have a lot of time I'm just trying to keep everything alive I have you know hundreds of
different strain mother plants that you know that I kind of it's like my crown box and do my hardest
to keep them alive but you know if a kid gets sick or I leave on an adventure and someone doesn't
water like you lose stuff and that's it's sad and definitely soil is probably I think it's the most
friendly I mean I know people have systems dialed in where they can look on their cell phone and
change things and they get there's a camera and you know I have friends are like oh I can leave
for two weeks with my hydro system and go to Hawaii and so I mean maybe there's if you're like
brainiac and you're in you're super good at it I mean it conceivably the synth route could be better
but for ease and just throwing it right in there and just giving it what it wants it's I think dirt
is the best or you know even cocoa is hard to deal with because it dries out so fast and
I think God made dirt and dirt don't hurt. I like that I mean kind of expanding on that point
your library I imagine that it must contain the biggest differential of growth between
plants in anyone's library you know you must have some plants that grow three or four times as
quickly as others you know probably sativa type ones do you find that you're constantly having to
kind of wrangle these land races compared to you know your other strains which maybe are a bit more
tamed? Yeah I mean a lot of my it's funny the strange thing is a lot of my time actually goes
to cloning I'm like every week I'm cloning because I don't want to lose something or things get too
tall anytime I cut tops off things I'm always cloning because you know something can happen
or I don't have backups or you know and you know in my mom and dad rooms I have a couple and you
know I'm pretty loose I have the males and the females and the sativas and the indicas I try and
kind of put the indicas on the front row and the sativas in the back but things do get crazy and
they go in there you know and they all need you know I have it pretty dialed where everybody gets
along and I don't feed too heavy so everything kind of stays the way it should but it's hard to
keep a library like an encyclopedic of strains you know it's super easy to lose things and
if you're not on it you can get bugs and things are always growing too fast and you have to re-pot
like it's it's hard to I mean I I wonder how those botanical gardens keep everything together I guess
they have a whole team but it's not easy to keep a library. Yeah I can relate and I'm sure mine's
nothing compared to the size of yours. Yeah so my question was on top of having a big library you
also seem to be at least from what I can see the breeder who releases the most of their personal
carts was this something you intentionally wanted to do or just something which kind of happened
through you know just kind of generosity I guess. I mean I always like to give them to friends and
stuff but you know recently it was weird because I you know I have some people saying oh you should
keep your really special ones maybe you could you know trademark them or sell them to a in the future
to a place you know to like when Starbucks has their cannabis division their special strain and
you know like but for me it's like the way things are going like I I love to see whatever he's doing
and they're everybody seems to be kind of focusing on the you know cookie chem sour gas thing there's
a lot of amazing things are coming out with that but I wanted people to kind of experience other
other plants and a lot of people glow from clones and I thought you know what's the what better way
to not only you know help get people understanding cannabis from a completely different thing is to
give out some special stuff that maybe is different from other things and that people can
riff off of or experience or like oh wow I didn't know it could do this or wow this is that or oh
here's a stevia that's has a great high but maybe it's quicker and for me I was I saw everybody
hoarding and I was like you know I think I'm just gonna do the opposite of where I'm just gonna
start giving away all the cool stuff because you know you can always make new stuff especially if
you have a good seed collection you can always create new stuff and that's the funny thing about
elites is like they're all came from seeds it's funny how everybody's traces these elites but
really you could find all these things they're everywhere and it's just if you just have the
time and you in your in the keen eye and the passion you can pretty much pull anything out
of your hat and it's I think it's fun to let to share and let people check out new things and
experience stuff so I think I'm just trying to foster like a kind of an environment of giving
and caring and exploration and kind of like sharing our buddy stray fox had a question
relating to that is radio nursery going to be your main spot to kind of release your cuts in the
future well you know it's funny it's like I've always like you know a few times I've kind of
taken my trays down and tried to give them out but I don't have time to make trays and my mom room
really isn't the cleanest place you know I'm always battling some foreign invader that's
slipping in from our organic garden so I felt kind of like a dork trying to bring in trays
because you know you know sometimes I get p.m. sometimes I'm bugs I don't want to do that so
I never found I always wanted to give it to like a local string place and no one ever you know ever
kind of everything kind of fell through and then I met the radio rich people and they have really
good hearts and I really like them and it's a male-female combo and they do a really amazing
job and I'm like rad I would love this is a great outlet so yeah um they have a bunch of my stuff
and they're they're mostly putting it out in this area I'd love to see people grab those clones and
take them other places and get them out I'd love to see them go all over the world and uh pretty
soon there'll be some supernatural selections cuts going out and then just some more stuff and
some of you know land race uh maybe some land race but you know people don't really jive with
it so much I kind of just give that to friends but a lot of the new supernatural selection stuff
is indoor friendly and it's definitely sativa indica hybrids but they're you know they have a
nominal flowering time and they still keep their unique character and they're usually friendly
inside so I just want people to really get get exposed to new things and really get passionate
about the total spectrum. Yeah so I mean with that kind of point in mind would you be able to tell us
some more stuff about the dread bread and the omg that goes into that one because I've got a friend
who's grown out some hybrids of that and we couldn't find a ton of information on it but we
could see that it was of land race origins so we got excited at that but again yeah it'd be cool
to know more about that one seeing as it is popping up a lot in the tester lines at the moment.
Oh yeah yeah and that was just kind of like a a mail and I was like I found a good mail that kind
of matched my favorite female and I was like oh let's try it on some of my outdoor stuff
and gather it up from some seeds from some of my land race outside but the dread bread is kind of
like the first release of supernatural selections and it's your basic f1 hybrid between an Afghani
and a Colombian so it's mango biche and this was like a seed that I got from a friend who's he's
in Ecuador Colombia I mean mango biche kind of is like the blue dream of South America in a way
it seems like everybody grows it everybody loves it it does well in their environment and it it
so who knows if it's really an heirloom or land race it's been around long enough that you would
it seems to be some kind of land race or land race hybrid that's turned into an heirloom and
it does really well and for most of South America so I got some seeds and grew out the mango biche
and I found one one that was really really chirp rich and really special and really easy to grow
and it was pretty quick for a mango biche so I kept that and then I have this old
Afghani line that I got seeds from a long time ago and it was just they were just it was just
called old Afghani or vintage Afghani but I popped those many years ago and I got this really beautiful
Afghani expression kind of like it almost seems like it it could be a land race or even maybe
one of the really early Dutch Afghanis because it it's so resonant and nice and it has this kind
of like floral citrus thing to it it's kind of like for a while there was these Afghanis that
came out that were kind of more on the citrus end you know it seems like through time different
varieties of Afghanis have popped up from the acrid to the like more berry smelling to like
the bready to the even to the road killy there's all these different expressions and this seemed
to be one I would kind of have to pick it like in the maybe the 80s or something where it's this
highly resonance beautiful quick very full uh resonance males uh just this perfect breeding
Afghani for like a modern kind of mindset so taking that mango biche kind of sativa
chirpy rich thing and putting it with a really nice chirpy rich uh Afghani I got this really
cool it's really cool hybrid and so I've kind of started that as saying like okay this is going
to be the first supernatural selections and the funny thing is I just got uh we're just starting
to pack up the seeds of the new run of the uh dread bread so people should be able to get those
in a couple weeks like uh and I might give away a bunch too so people can kind of really experience
and get them excited about these new kind of uh unique hybrids and get them excited about people
using them in their programs and f2ing them and finding stuff and just trying just trying like
really open up that mandala of smells and effects and things just get I don't know I just want
people to get passionate and exposed to to the full extreme possibilities that cannabis has to
offer and from there people to really find what they like and really get into their niche like
that's what I I find it hard with today's breeding kind of modality is there's a few people that are
really finding their niche and in like driving with it and those are the people that I really
like like you know I never really had a thing for autos I was like oh they make good houseplants
they're you know great for grandma and then you know there's people these days that it's fine
like Mephisto like he found his niche like I'm not an auto guy but I see what he's doing I'm like wow
you with your passion and you really going deep you're making amazing things and I think
people are you know there's some some of my friends that are doing that too you know like
Docty and Strafebox and Snow High and Coastal Seeds and Xam and all these people they're finding
their niche and whether it's be land races or some people just like even if you're in super into OGs
like take that thing and run with it or people doing selfing S1s instead of just bashing up S1
hybrids really go deep start doing S2s S3s like do some weird stuff just get into it and really
explore and find what you like and just move forward with it and I think that's that's kind
of my whole thing right now is to really it's kind of like the antidote for the tidal wave
of homogeny that's like coming and I'm hoping that if we can just light up and love minds and
hearts and palettes that we can kind of like reverse this tide of like a it's almost like
a global warming of cannabis you know it's coming and if we can turn things around we
we can really create something special. Awesome answer because I love Mephisto as well and I
actually had a question for you and it was have you ever come across any really cool land race autos?
You know that's funny because I kind of have and I've heard of some stuff too you know
there's things like Mighty Might which is supposedly an old Nepali indica I've never
seen indicas in Nepal so I find it a little hard but it's one of those ones it wasn't
you know maybe I had Runa Alice or something or maybe it was about auto but it was one of those
plants that was kind of like semi-auto and you know in Morocco a lot of their plants are kind of
auto in a way and I've and I've you know bred I've worked with some Moroccan plants that I've
collected and I'm like oh wow I could probably slip this in and I could really kind of kick
things into gear and but you know I realized it's not it's not really my thing and I'm like there's
people that are way more passionate about it and are way more knowledgeable about it and I respect
and I'm just letting them go for it I mean so yeah I don't have any plans to really do autos or
really do it but there are you know besides Ruta Alice there's some Afghanis like there's that auto
Afghani there are some plants just due to their geography and due to their selection over time
have created some of these these tendencies where they grow when they hit a certain size or they grow
when they hit a certain duration I mean it's out there and but I think that the auto spectrum has
been pretty dialed you know especially over in Spain they're so autoed out and all the auto
feminized now that they've kind of got it wired they've got these genes kind of locked in for what
they want to do and especially now in America with some of the auto people here I think it's kind of
a done deal almost you know what I mean. For sure and so just to loop back on another point you made
earlier about S1s or feminized seeds how do you feel about them you know you've never done them
yourself is that because you're not interested or you don't feel they're as good as regulars?
You know a long time ago I tried I got my STS and I did all that and it was just
I just made a mess out of everything it was horrible I couldn't get it to work and I was
kind of like it was just kind of more my whole thing on it was like I wanted to unlock the gene
pool if I could S1 or S2 you can really crack open a strain before we had like the whole genetic
testing and you know you could really kind of see what was in there you could see maybe its
parents its grandparents you could kind of you know that's the unique thing about selfing stuff
is you could you can kind of see what's in there and some you know some of my friends that do a
lot of S1 work is they'll get you know 40 plants that look exactly alike and then they'll get five
that are like completely different so it was this like kind of something that was back in its
history and it's a really unique tool but for me you know it's I know it does happen in nature but
for me I just I don't know maybe it's just I like just basic sexual breeding you know I just like
to bring males and females together and that's my jam that's my niche and that's kind of what I do
and you know for a while I was kind of down on autos I mean autos sorry uh I have one point
fems and you know I didn't really understand it as much until I met people that really just
truly had a way with it you know like inspector he does amazing autos our illuminati you know
incognito he does crazy good autos matt riot does amazing auto some people have they just have the
they have a gift and they have they know what they're doing and they push it in different
directions I'm not a big fan of the taking that like a basically your kind of flavor of the week
taking an elite cologne and feminizing it and spraying it on everything sure there's going to
be unique things in that but it's kind of I mean that's just really kind of a kind of a short-sighted
shortcut it's easy I mean it is I guess I can't really pass judgment it doesn't it is cool
but it's kind of I call that kind of like your that's kind of like the kindergarten level of
breeding because you because you you know and not in not in a derogatory sense I mean like as a kid
like you're so excited you want to have fun you want it fast you want to see what this does what
happens if you know I put this lego on this like it's great it serves its purpose but I think it's
I think some of the deep magic comes from the real work that people put into stuff so
I think selfing is you know I used to not think it was that great now people have changed my mind
people change my mind every day that's what I love about this community is people when they're
passionate and they find their niche they truly can create magic that hasn't happened before so
I give them props to everyone that does that yeah it's interesting it almost reminds me of like a
spray and pray type of approach interesting you brought up Matt you know we had Matt on the show
a little while ago I think what's most interesting about your friendship with him and what people
seem to be interested in at least is how kind of polar opposite you guys are as people you know
like how did you meet Matt and do you find in general you're drawn towards people who are
quite different to personality wise or do you find you're more kind of likely to hang with someone
who's more similar to you I don't know you know for friends it's I think more similar I've definitely
met people online and in person that you know that we're much different we probably wouldn't be
friends if we didn't have cannabis in our lives to geek out on but really you know if people are
if people are cool to me I'm cool to them I don't try and create an attitude I try and meet people
at a basic human level you know people sometimes will rug me on the wrong way or they you know
are arrogant or this and that but if someone is is really themselves they have a personality
they're even a character like I'll give them the space to be who they are and for Matt like you
know I met back in the kind of the older forum days when it was more of a small community and
he was doing something really cool he was working you know he was he was trying to create a medical
garden for patients and I think this is where he got a lot of the bad rap is he was started to ask
a lot of breeders for seeds because he wanted to do a lot of different stuff for this this
medical garden that he was part of and it you know was very altruistic and I was like sure
and a lot of people said sure and I guess it all fell through and and it didn't happen and he still
had the seeds but that's okay people give seeds altruistically and I think uh he may later on maybe
he was gonna uh there was an auction and maybe one or two of those seed packs came up and it's
like why don't you give people seeds like who cares what they do with them and I think people
got uptight and they you know and then all these rumors started and then as people come on later in
life they don't really go back and look at the actual information they just hear the rumors and
take them for point blank and I know that he rubs people the wrong way but he that's his service I
think in our community where there's many characters and there's many people that have
vital positions and his service is to call people out and not take any bs and to be a punker and
punk rocker and I you know I I think we have a place for everybody and I know people some people
hate him some people love him he's a great guy we share a lot of stuff on music and he's got a kind
heart but he doesn't take any bs and I kind of like him for that and I like him for that he he
doesn't take a lot of flack and he almost you know I he's almost like a punching bag a lot of I think
a lot of people are spared because he takes a lot of the hits and I think that he's vital in a way
to keeping everything fresh and fluid I think everybody plays a part and if everybody comes
you know if everybody's communicating from their mind and their heart I think there's room for
everybody and I like Matt I think he's a cool guy and we get along great and there's a there's a lot
of characters like that in the cannabis world that are kind of where our personalities are kind of a
lot different but we share a passion for things and I think that's in any community so yeah I
cherish those kind of characters and people in our community that are a lot different that are
kind of pushing things. Just to add to that we also love Matt and his take no shit attitude
so just on a bit of a different topic when is a project done for you you know are you someone who
sets deadlines on things do you think well if it's not working by this point I'm going to move on or
do you kind of go by feel and you think no I'm going to stick with it till it feels like it's done
you know for me I have lots of projects like I do a lot of hybrid work and then for my kind of
personal projects where I'm doing you know people don't think I really line breed that much but
I have a lot of different things I've line bred I just kind of keep them more for myself as my own
breeding tools or to make them more inbred so that I can use them with other inbred things I don't
really release so much line bred stuff because I really it's my personal work that I make kind of
for myself or for my toolbox and you know recently I kind of I got some flack online
and I realized okay so you know I hear what people are saying and and I get it and and so now I'm
kind of like oh you know I'm going to start getting I'm going to start letting out some of my line
work you know I have a I have my purple unicorn line is like at f4 and I think my dragon's blood
is it at five or six and I have you know I have some lucky charms I have a lot of my strains I've
bred out and I think you know especially as things go extinct I might start releasing some of my line
bred stuff my whole theory was that I like to people to buy f1 hybrids to get something special
and then if they want to go deeper and spot they can do f2s and they can find things that look like
just like the parents and they can really pick out what they like not what I like like I'm not trying
to tell you what's cool I'm trying to give you a maximum gene pool to work with so you can really
find what you like and that was my whole thing but now I'm finding that people kind of do want to know
what kind of I like and what I'm pushing things to so I'm going to release some of my kind of
my my more worked lines and I hope that it makes people happen I hope that they can use them in
their own programs. So with that in mind do you have a preferred type of project like do you find
that f1s bring you the most kind of happiness or do you like to line breed but you know you just
don't see it as necessarily fit for public release like what how would you rank things in terms of you
know f1s line breedings I guess Fem would be at the bottom by definition. You know I personally
like f1s it goes it there's something magic about two things meeting for the first time there's this
you know and even even nature congratulates a true f1 in hybrid vigor like in people too if you
have like you know when the French colonized Vietnam you get these combinations like look at women
women are amazing aren't they the most beautiful they're like these they're like these walking
biological flowers and if you take a and say a Vietnamese man and a French woman you know in
Vietnam they breed it creates these amazing special things and I love that and that's why I
like and even my you know my philosophical and my religious beliefs are are based in this kind of
combination of energy and awareness or basically male and female these polarities and I love
when these things come together and that's kind of what I like to give out and then
you know all these other projects like I've had a roadkill skunk project going for years and years
and years and I just piddle away at it and I you know I do so much work behind the scenes with all
these different kind of projects I do have a lot of weird projects purple projects and land race
projects and I do a lot of uh I do a lot of line breeding primarily it's just really for myself
and really for making my my toolkit a lot easier to deal with you know I'm a really big proponent
of making your own tools and making your own things to work with you know I think that's
is as we get more proficient in cannabis breeding and combining we can really do things that people
never really even imagine you can do so for me I like to keep a lot of personal projects always
open they could take years uh even short-term little fun things but a majority of my stuff
does tend to be in those just in those f1 hybrids and that's kind of what the market wants like if I
just did if I only did Norica I would be living out a cardboard box like you know I mean what
sells is the is these is the mashups like the special male and elite mashups everybody wants
the new best thing they want the chirp heavy new flavors and you know and I try and develop my
my special males as I you know I try and think of ahead a little bit and see where the market's
going and see what people are into and I kind of base my new males on that and then I release
things and you know people say I release a lot of stuff and I do because I made a hell of a lot
of seeds I've been doing this for a long time and I make big runs of seeds and I keep them in the
fridge I vacuum seal them and I test them and sometimes I made you know things I made six years
ago are just now seeing the face of they maybe they didn't get tested right or someone disappeared
or I never got around to them and so when things good things come about as when I usually release
them and it seems to work and it it it gives the illusion of this massive workflow when really it's
just this dance through time and and selection that was my cat yeah he's all yeah so if we just
jump into the idea of line breeding a little further I've had a few questions from people
regarding the sunshine daydream if it'll ever be done as a line as opposed to our crosses because
obviously there's some hybrids of it floating around at the moment will you ever consider
f2 ing it f3 ing it yeah yeah yeah you know I think I do a big searching through lines in the
summer when I can uh have them outside and then sometimes I'll bring them inside I'll do like
I'll utilize our our outdoor season by into like threes I'll plant stuff early and when it gets
mature I'll throw it in my flower room and I'll kind of do that three times so I can really move
through a lot of stuff and you know maybe next year you know each year I pick I pick a couple of
my lines and I really kind of look deep to see what's going on and this year it was a I did a
big uh dirty hippie uh seed pop which is basically you know I mean dirty hippie f2 and then I also
did a big tiger melon so those are kind of the two right now that I'm kind of going through and
seeing if I want to take it further and kind of seeing what it opens up in the f2 so yeah I think
any line that that is really special I can always revisit it and I really do and that's definitely
sunshine daydream is one that I really love and I would love to just do it just so I can get another
cut back because through time and space I've lost both of my favorite phenos so I'm kind of
I don't even have any sunshine daydream and it is a really special plant and how it works to the
body and how it eases like the neurological uh pain that people have and a lot of it seemed it
seems to be like one of my more uh medical orientated strains even more so than like the
good medicine or the barefoot doctor and some of those cbd rich ones like it is a really special
strain that's kind of why I retired that male I didn't go for it because it's like it's a strain
where it's like I don't think anything's absolutely perfect but it's one of the strains that kind of
stands on its own and it doesn't really need to be me to be messed with and I kind of only
pulled that sunshine daydream male back out again because through a mishap I lost the male that I
was going to use on a pollination and I was like well you know what I have this really old sunshine
daydream male that I use a long time for this to go for the sunshine four and stuff I'm just
going to throw it in there you know it's a great plant it should make some really fun stuff and
that's how this kind of came about and then I decided to kind of kill that male so that those
will be really special and people can kind of go through them and that also too that it makes me
want to go through more and really dig deeper into lines and I think that's really nice kind
of like going it's kind of like you know visiting an old lover in a way you know it's like there's
you cherish that and you get to come back and you know there's a familiarity you kind of know what
you're looking for but at the same time you're excited and it feels so good. And so do you still
have the Bubba Shine? I don't you know that's sad that's when I lost and I lost the Bubba Shine male
and the funny thing is the story about the Appalachia male would have never been used if I
wouldn't have lost the Bubba Shine male at the last second. Bubba Shine was going to be the big
pollinator that of all those hybrids that were the Appalachia so I just lost the female to
dudding which is a strange thing that really drives me nuts that's kind of affecting a lot
of people that no one seems to really know what it is but I have made it quite a bit of hybrids
with it and I actually have a new male I'm kind of looking into right now I'm playing around with
it's a Bubba Shine instant karma cross so that's kind of my current Bubba Shine kind of play around
with kind of thing I'm doing. Okay you mentioned your CBD projects when does CBD kind of sit for
you in the scheme of breeding you know I know that the CBD lines you have released in the past were
mostly freebies and there's some information around them that you released you know just kind
of saying oh you know I had these laying around I just wanted to get them out to people do you plan
to restock those or potentially work them further and the reason why I ask is because I had a friend
who had good medicine and he thought it was just like the best plan he'd ever had just
even in you know recreational sense sorry and he was really bummed out he lost it and I was like
damn it'd be good to get some more of those. Yeah I mean I can always get you some I still have
kind of all I think I made like I think I have like a dozen CBD maybe more maybe like 15 different
CBD hybrids you know originally it was more just exploring that medical side it was but when I
first made the good medicines it was back before everybody was in to CBD there was only really
Harlequin and then I don't even know if ACDC was in the state so much then and I was like you know
I want to explore this I want to you know I my emphasis on really for me is like I love recreational
I love medical but really my thing is I want to create spirit nourishing strains like strains
that awaken something inside you that's kind of either dormant or your that you're cultivating but
for CBD I was so interested in that was right around the time that SC labs opened in our in our
in Santa Cruz kind of where I live and I was like you know what this is cool I'm going to try this
out I you know I took in my samples I took in my early leaf samples for my males I think it's like
six years ago or five years ago found that and played around and I was really excited to see wow
like it was just another one of those things like what is going to happen and with the good medicine
you know I found a CBD rich male and I took it to the f2 and then I released those and then with that
I started pollinating a lot of stuff with the good medicine a lot of the other CBD clothes were
coming out like the Amrita and the ACDC and then even things like heroin and things special things
I made a CBD OG one that people like and then the logical conclusion for like a really I was like
okay sunshine daydreams probably like one of my favorite pain relieving strains what if I made a
CBD rich sunshine daydream and that's what kind of barefoot doctor is and that's kind of the one
I think I will push forward if I do but you know I give I think I've given away over yeah thousands
of packs of seeds for free because I don't really I think it's funny when people charge a lot of
money for the CBD rich strains like I that's our trojan horse to get get cannabis into like
basically all of America that it that have been like totally brainwashed if there's a plant that
can heal their kids that can heal their grandparents I think we get give those seeds out like you know
I think somebody should just devote a whole warehouse and just pump out a million cbc's get
those things everywhere like it's truly our trojan horse to get into the hearts and minds of people
that have no clue and so my whole thing is I don't spend as much time on the CBD work is because I
just give it all away free and I usually always try and make each pollination run a couple CBD
strains like I'll usually throw in an ACDC or harlequin into anything I'm making but for my
specific CBD projects I think the good medicine and the barefoot doctor were like the ones that
I really put in the most time into and I love it when I see people make more of those or use those
in their own project like I think the medical aspect is is amazing and it's beautiful and I
really think that's one of the ways that we're really going to see cannabis basically become the
our main plant on earth like it's always been since you know that in the dawn of time and so
which cannabis sorry which CBD strain do you like to work with the most I guess in in all regards
because I mean I've personally have had ACDC and I thought that was fantastic and then on the other
hand I've heard breeders say that Charlotte's Web for example while being a great strain doesn't
particularly work very well for breeding or at least I heard that in the sense that it's not
very true breeding like not a lot of the resulting seeds will carry those really high CBD traits or
at least I'm told that with that in mind which kind of CBD cuts do you shine more to or do you
find work better for your projects well I think I mean I think why Charlotte's Web doesn't totally
work out is because it wasn't like a finished product it I think those guys kind of heisted it
from another breeder that was working on CBD rich plants and I don't think he'd fully it was just a
one-off of one of the stuff and I think he's perfected I think it's from a man in Colorado
who that we all know and love and his name has a numeric number in it but I don't want to ruffle
any feathers so I think that's probably why you see Charlotte's Web doesn't work is I think it
wasn't a fully realized line I think it was something that is they kind of grabbed me around
with I personally like Harlequin myself because it does seem to be true breeding it's not it's
not coming from Spain and that whole z7 like that whole you know CBD crew and they tend to be kind
of territorial and about their stuff and they tend to be a little you know a little bit snooty
so I try and stay away from any kind of drama and Harlequin was brought to America by I think
it was a seed form by Wayne Wade laughter and it's an old I think it's a Dutch or Swiss or some kind
of old combination that they had there that just expressed that and it's kind of the first one we
had in California and I think even in the states and I've always kind of just connected more with
that and it you know and it's a beautiful plant and it has it's very resinous and you know ACDC
is awesome it really pumps the CBD and it's very true reading it really crushes it on that but it
it's kind of like a wily kind of almost sativa like plant you know it's a pretty kind of just a
giant bush and I mean I've made some crosses with it that it come out great and I've kind of tamed
the beast but I think if I had to choose a CBD rich cultivar it would probably be the Harlequin
although you know coastal seeds he's finding that some of their Panama red work is coming up rich
in CBD which is really amazing and you know that kind of goes back to the whole adage of people like
oh yeah Panama red that stuff will knock you out that was like the tequila bud like it you know
even back in the day Panama red was kind of known as kind of like this knock you on your ass stuff
and that makes sense that it maybe was a sativa that had some level of kind of a CBD in it
yeah okay if we just take a step back and look at just breeding in general not necessarily CBD
how do you find the location of where you breed effects things do you find that when you I mean
obviously there's going to be physical differences I've read that I believe it was the China Yuwen
strain on one of your Instagram posts said it doesn't particularly perform well indoors
so we'll put that bit aside instead let's look at the breeding aspect if you were to try to breed
that plant indoor do you think that would have you know kind of epigenetic effects on the seeds
resulting it's like so do you think that land race lines should be ideally bred outside if
possible because it's gonna you know maybe be more synergistic with their genetics or
what's your feeling on this I mean you know back like 10 years ago I would say
that they probably I mean that's a tough one it's I don't know I think that you can with if you put
your will to anything I think you can work with the plant and basically get it to perform anywhere
and I think that before during prohibition most people were growing inside so it was important to
to try and push that gene pool into more harmonious expressions inside like you wanted
to try you need definitely land races freak out like especially ones that you you know like I have
a lot of problems when I bring land races from like the Himalayas and I plant them straight out
here at sea level like they go cuckoo they don't know what's going on they're like they're used to
being up in these high elevations in this certain environment and all of a sudden now they're in the
fog line at the beach like they really tweak out so I think you can create a more harmonious
environment for them indoors if you're really catering to them but I think it's important
though to if you are going to make land race hybrids that they are stable indoors like that's
the whole that's why supernatural selection has been so hard and it's taken so long to release
all these things is because it's not easy to to mate land races and expect them to do well
inside like they do crazy stuff they do weird stuff they're they're very hermaphroditic indoors
they they you know and that's the whole thing with my roadkill skunk project I can make sure I make
plants that smell like roadkill and get you super high and and they hit all the you know
they've got all the eyes and they check all the boxes but they they don't like to be indoors like
for some reason the one I'm working on it's just it's about finding the specific outcrops so they
don't things a lot of things just don't like being in an artificial environment and they express that
so I think there is some magic in in really working a line indoors to remove the hermaphroditic
but also outdoors if you can you can create some amazing heirlooms if you say say you went to
Thailand and you were in Chiang Rai or something and you got a sack of pot and you got some seeds
and you loved it and you brought it home and you grow it outside in your garden it may tweak out
it may herm out the first time you grow it but and you find your favorites you breed those you
get the seeds you grow it again after three or four times of it experiencing a new environment
it's going to reprogram itself and it's going to adapt to the new environment and it's going to
slowly become your kind of personal heirloom so it's all about I mean it's about doing the work
really on those things it's you know it's not just taking these these hyper chirpy amazing plants that
are all been bred indoors that are you know in slapping together that's it's easy but trying
to get things that are from completely different environments and bringing them together in a new
thing is really difficult it's like that it's like that eddie murphy movie um what was it where they
he was like an african king and they dropped him off in new york something king of queens or
something like that yeah it's like the same thing you get a plant from that you drop it off here
you got to do some work on that thing you can't you know it's yeah so strange things happen and
that's the beauty that's why I really tell people it's like explore the gene pool you know collect
seeds collect as many seeds you can trade seeds like get a good seed collection find crazy
cultivators travel like really give yourself all the colors you can to create your your art you
know and also don't let anybody ever tell you that you're breeding the wrong way like that's one thing
I you know I have deep respect for all the horticultural science people and I have a background
kind of in that that are but really you know no one can tell you how to breed the proof is in the
pudding if you can create something good with your skills and the way you do it then that's all
that matters and it's like you don't need a mental square you need like you need good senses you need
an open heart open mind you need to create awareness with the plant and you can do anything
you never let anyone and all these people like oh I you know I went to horticultural science that's
beautiful you know you can learn all about a paintbrush you can learn all about paint you can
learn all about canvas but that doesn't make you a good artist so I say people just follow their
passion grab you know really get into this and really make it something that nourishes you and
your community and don't let anyone tell you what to do and also don't tell anybody what they can't
do everybody needs to get along and really and really do this I think we have a great community
and a great future ahead of us if we can just keep our eyes on the prize. So I think you already
answered it a little bit with that last answer but what would be your advice for a new breeder
and by this I mean someone who's maybe thinking about getting into breeding not someone who's just
started. I would say you know for new breeders is start growing plants grow a lot of different
plants find what you enjoy find what you like and then kind of stick to that like if there's a plant
that speaks to you or a certain strain then yeah take that work with that mix it with something
else you like build up your seed collection trade trade clones you know really get into that form
of community make friends like I think that's the best thing and you know what as a beginner give
away seeds make cool stuff give away your seeds get the hype out it's like and you know I also too
it's like for me I don't call myself a breeder I call myself kind of like an artist or I kind of
just work with the plant maybe I'm just a plant helper I really think that using your senses
and even using your sixth sense like my whole thing I think is like a heart race breeding it's
like you know there you have your five senses but you also have a sixth sense that sense of kind of
this knowing and that's basically your heart you know your heart has an electromagnetic force five
thousand times bigger than your mind it radiates out like five feet and I think that's where people
you know they get a where you can kind of feel things out and if you can tune into that that's
where you can connect with nature that's also where people get their sixth sense or they have
this funny feeling about something or they connect with something that's like the heart's electromagnetic
field interacting with other things and I think cultivating that and cultivating an awareness
of yourself and the plant just being a good person and being friendly and being humble I think that's
the best way to start out breeding and just if you have passion and you have your senses intact
then you're you're all the way there pretty much you just got to move forward stay tuned for part two
