Hello and welcome to the next episode of the podcast, the cannabis podcast for budding
enthusiasts.
You're joined by your boy Heavy Days.
Before we get into it, a huge, huge thank you to our sponsors who helped make this show
happen.
Seed's here now, number one seed bank in the business.
Get all the hottest breeders, the latest drops, the most fire strains, guarantee on satisfaction,
not just germination.
Why would you go anywhere else?
Go hit them up.
They got everything you need.
Likewise, if you want to ensure your next harvest is the best to date, you need to check
out Coppett Biological Systems.
They got everything you need to make your harvest happy and healthy.
Got my problems?
Grab the Spidex Vital.
Got aphid problems?
Grab the AfiPAR.
They got everything you need to make your crop happy, healthy, and your next harvest
a success.
Likewise, a huge, huge thank you to our newest sponsor for jumping on board.
They've been in the industry for ages.
You know them, you love them.
Pro-Mix, introduced back in 1968.
They've always provided commercial growers with cutting edge and value added growing
media products.
But now we've got a new one, Pro-Mix Connect.
A fantastic mycorrhizal inoculum.
You want a healthy and established root system with faster growth, increased crop yield,
and better quality?
Check out Pro-Mix Connect for all your mycorrhizal products and media.
Likewise, a big shout out to the Patreon gang.
You guys know you are the lifeblood of the show.
I cannot stress how much I appreciate you and how much you help to make the episodes
happen.
If you would like to help to continue to see episodes happen and get early access to content,
additional unheard interviews, bonus listening material, and so much more, go check out www.patreon.com
forward slash the podcast.
It's that easy, guys.
On this episode, we are lucky to have John of Green Boaty Genetics here to talk all things
breeding, Oregon strain history, Buddhism, and so, so much more.
I hope you guys are ready for it.
Let's get into it.
All righty.
A big warm welcome to the man behind the hazy kush, the Tenzin kush, the other boaty.
This one's just a little bit more green.
Thank you so much to John of Green Boaty Genetics for joining me today.
Thanks for having me.
I'm really excited.
I've been watching you and hearing you for a long time, so I'm really, really honored
and pleasured by getting this opportunity.
Yeah, not a problem.
Not a problem.
How are you doing today?
I'm doing really good.
We just made it down to Los Angeles, down in Orange County here.
We've been kind of on a little trip.
My teacher and a few other of the venerables from His Holiness the Dalai Lama's monastery,
Namgyal Monastery, are down here.
They're here finalizing some things for a project that my teacher's heading.
It's a library museum project of His Holiness the Dalai Lama.
That's going to be in Ithaca, New York.
We're starting a center down here also in Westminster area, Orange County area for His
Holiness the Dalai Lama.
They're going to have a small center here as well.
They're just finalizing some things with that and also with a library museum project that's
going to break ground in May.
Wow, that must be a really exciting time for you and the people around you.
I guess the question it brings to mind to me is that there are a lot of people out there
who are quite into Buddhism, quite into Eastern spirituality.
How do you feel that interplays with cannabis?
Do you feel like there's overlap there?
Well, of course.
For one, they're theorizing now that the true home of the cannabis plant is in the Tibetan
Plateau.
They're now finding source origins that that was one of the first places that it was.
In a lot of the deeper esoteric studies of Buddhism, Hinduism, Jainism, these different
things, there's been talk and utilization of cannabis in a multitude of different ways.
Also in Taoism and Chinese herbal pharmacopoeia, these kind of things.
We've been utilizing this plant medicinally and spiritually for thousands of years, humans
on all levels.
In Buddhism especially, there's certain practices and certain things that there was association
with cannabis in the form of bong, which is basically a steeped milk drink that they use
cannabis.
There were some practices that basically you drink the whole bottle of bong, you get locked
in this rock hut, you do this particular practice, you have this particular experience.
It's been utilized in Buddhism and in a multitude of other religions for thousands of years
from my understanding.
When you talk about with Jesus and the holy anointed oil, from all of our understanding
that was cannabis oil.
People say what they want and whatever, but when you start researching and start studying
what was being used, what oil was a prized medicinal oil, an anointing oil, a healing
oil back then, it all started pointing towards cannabis.
Wow!
I mean, we've had past guests talk about bong such as Irizin, who gave us a little bit of
a rundown of how that plays into the Indian culture.
But a really interesting point you just brought up is how the sort of ceremony you just described
sort of has a lot of parallels with the way people are really getting into ayahuasca these
days.
Have you ever seen that or noticed that yourself?
For sure.
Personally, I've drank an ayahuasca 30-40 times.
It was part of my preliminary studies and practices.
About 20 years ago, I actually wanted to be a shaman.
I thought I was going to be one of those guys until my first teacher kind of laughed in
my face and stated clearly how stupid that was.
So I didn't do that and instead went and utilized a plant that I'd already had a deep relationship
with and went full force into that.
But utilizing these plants, San Pedro cactus, ayahuasca, salvia, these different things
to kind of disentangle the egoic anchor to some degree, soften up the attachments from
all your self-centeredness and give you a self-observation format to a degree to where
you can start seeing how fake you are yourself or how you're not one or the other or both.
So for us, the ayahuasca, and especially when I talk about this drink, bopong, it was associated
with a practice called mahakala, which is a wrathful emanation of Buddha of compassion.
It's a protector, but it's in a wrathful form of compassion.
Which the image of this six-armed wrathful protector is holding a skull cup of a reddish
fluid they call rakti.
But we always make jokes that that's ayahuasca for years.
But that being said, when you have a full-fledged, full-blown cannabis ingestion experience,
we all—I mean, anyone that's eaten too much cannabis understands that it's about
as strong as it gets.
Ayahuasca obviously with the dimethyltryptamine and the MAO inhibitor from the Benisteriopsis
copy, basically the chacruna has the DMT alkaloid and Benisteriopsis copy, the vine, has the
MAO inhibitor.
So that induces a certain experience that's unique to those things.
But from my experience, when you get into, say, the apex of any experience, there's
a lot of similarities there.
So the apex of an ayahuasca experience versus the apex of a heavy cannabis experience through
ingestion, they're quite different.
But esoterically and emotionally, you can have a similar experience of death experience,
heavy self-observation, analytical annihilation of your—or an empowerment of.
Some people, they don't utilize the plant in the appropriate way, and it just empowers
their ego.
We've seen these kooky wannabe shamans or also—I mean, we're really familiar with
the cannabis industry, so we can just use that.
I've never seen any other industry in the world and any other continuum of business
that it can—that a plant can promote such an ego, such a I'm the best, such a I'm
better than everyone else.
What I have is better than yours.
I haven't seen that in any other thing.
So then I look at cannabis like, oh, it's maybe exacerbates the ego in a lot of ways
or annihilates and disentangles the ego in a lot of ways.
So it's a quite unique parallel that it has.
Ayahuasca, on the other hand, for me personally, it was more of a holodeck of all my karmic
experience and I was able to see the beginning point of a lot of my issues and why they were
started, why it got conditioned a certain way with cannabis.
I wasn't able to see it so clearly, but more in a undertone was there.
It happens in a way—it just happens in a different way, but a similar result can manifest
in my perspective of humbleness, subdued ego, these kind of things that happen from both.
Ayahuasca happens for me—happened a little more richly because I had it to the point
of death experiences, shamanic death kind of style things, which that's hard to do
in cannabis, at least for me.
I'll just go to sleep.
Versus Ayahuasca, you have a death experience and you pass out because you think you're
dying sometimes because you can't breathe.
You're asphyxiating through hyperventilation and panic attack kind of things.
You can pass out through that experience.
For me personally, when I've had those level of experiences because my teacher was kind
of a freak, he would take—we would get Ayahuasca from the Shipibo out of Tlalpa in the Amazon
jungle.
He would take that Ayahuasca and he would reduce it by 75%.
If you have a liter, then you'd put it down to a quarter liter and then he'd give that.
The times I've had certain doses, they've been high doses of that kind of concentrated
medicine to where you're say taking 200 milliliters but in all actuality, it's near a liter you're
drinking.
That induces a different type of experience that our crew is—it's very integral to
our crew.
If you can't have a shamanic death, you can't have these death experiences, then
your perspective of who you are, we feel it's kind of limited because you don't get to
see who you are when you have a death.
Once you do get to see who you are when you have a death and see who you're not, it opens
a lot of information for you.
It opens a lot of awareness to your own mind and how you can work with yourself.
Both of those things come from my perspective from Ayahuasca and from cannabis just in different
forms, different formats, different message, different delivery, but in the end, a similar
result.
Yeah, what a great little rundown on the comparisons and differences between the two.
So much of what you said really resonates with things I've been noticing in the community,
especially how you talk about the cannabis community or the plant kind of has this uncanny
ability to draw in people who tend to be quite focused on ego.
The thing I've noticed recently is that I feel like there's very little consideration
given to alternative perspectives within the scene, especially when you've got, say, two
people who are having a disagreement.
There's often very little room for considering the other person's point of view.
What do you think it is about cannabis that does that compared to the psychedelics?
You kind of referenced dosages and you got me thinking, is the problem that when smoking
cannabis, generally speaking, you can't get a dose big enough to really approach that
sort of ego death, which you can with, say, Ayahuasca and maybe you can approach it with
the bong.
What's your thoughts on that?
Well, I mean, I think a lot of people with these like thousand milligram edibles have
had that experience now, you know, because they'll eat the whole candy bar, you know.
And from my perspective, when something's extracted with hexane or extracted with a,
you know, hydrocarbon and then made into an edible, something happens, something different
happens from my perspective, you know.
So there's all these different avenues of extraction.
They're going to promote a different type of result versus if you're doing an organic
ethanol extraction or whether you're doing a, you know, water separation, ice hash, and
then taking that product and putting it into MCT oil and then eating that.
You know, there's all kinds of different ways.
So that's something to be considered as well, you know.
And I think that strain specific, you know, is something.
For me, most of the strains I like to smoke are going to induce a high mentation capacity,
analytical thought or hyper analytical thought or hyper critical thought.
So this kind of experience that's induced from certain strains doesn't work for some
people and maybe someone that might, you know, be more CBD or indica prone, they smoke a
high end sativa or a high end hybrid sativa and they're having a panic attack thinking
all kinds of weird thoughts, you know, like they took LSD or something.
So it depends on the person, you know.
One of the things my first teacher always told me is, you know, every person has to
know their vehicle.
What works best for them?
What foods work best for them?
You know, does drinking lots of water work for you?
Does it not?
Does eating lots of meat work for you?
Does it not?
Does eating lots of veg work for you?
Does it not?
You know, so really analyzing your body and analyzing the fuels you're putting in it,
you know, is really important.
So for us, you know, organics is a big facet in our life and every aspect of food, cannabis,
all these type of things.
So you know, I think cultivation methods, I think environmental factors, all these things
are going to lead to a certain experience or a certain experience with the plant, you
know, certain awareness level or not.
You know, when we talk about people's opinions and their inability to find balance in a conversation
when there's disagreement, you know, it's obviously it's hard in the cannabis industry
because I mean, it's hard in all aspects of society these days, you know.
People can't disagree with each other without getting in a fight.
It seems like it's like not cool to disagree anymore.
It's not cool to think different.
You know, I think that's maybe more of a societal thing, especially in Western societies where
they're taught everything they think is special, they're special, their view is special, their
perspective is special, all this kind of thing.
In actuality, it's just perspective.
It's not special.
You're not special.
Any being is not more special than any other being.
You know, it's just not how it works in the reality of this universe.
But ideologies and conditioning through Western mindsets, through other aspects of mindsets
have reinforced and conditioned this type of specialness into everyone where I think
we're experiencing that, especially in the cannabis industry because this plant will
exacerbate the ego or delineate the ego, one or the other.
And so when two people disagree, it's really hard, especially in our industry, for them
to find some type of balance and common ground because most people aren't skilled in doing
that.
Most people aren't skilled in psychology and philosophy.
Most people aren't skilled in these kind of esoteric studies that are basically based
on recognizing the self, recognizing the problems that it creates, and recognizing the solutions
to eliminate those problems.
That's not something that's taught openly in the Western culture.
In Buddhist culture and in Asian cultures, it is.
And in the philosophies, it is because we don't believe in a self like Western philosophies
do.
We don't believe in this.
We believe it as an illusory thing that's created through conditions.
So in that context, it can also be destroyed through conditions because we don't believe
it's an inherent thing.
We believe it's based off of dependence through other conditions, hence it being a result.
So we don't believe it's something that's there.
So we believe it's something that can be analyzed and destroyed versus other religions and other
mindsets.
They believe this self is there.
The soul is special.
You're special.
And that's, I think, personally a big part of that why in the Western world we can't
disagree happily.
We can't be like, no, that's what you think.
Well, here's what I think.
And everyone would be like, wow, that's cool.
We have different thoughts.
We have different views.
That's okay.
I mean, it's another thing if we're trying to talk about truth because a lot of Western
cultures now think that their perspective is truth and their truth.
And we all know that's not true.
Your perspective is your opinion based off conditioning, based off awareness or ignorances
that are developed through your life pattern.
So then you have this perspective.
And until you can recognize that as such, it's hard to annihilate such a thing.
It's hard to recognize such a thing as a problem.
So there's a lot of aspects to it, cultural and also plant-based.
And from our perspective, karma-based, meaning the result of our actions.
A lot of us make a lot of actions in our younger life, eat a lot of poor foods, impute a lot
of negative information into our brain.
And then later in life, we say, hey, we want to do something special.
We want to be a good person.
But we realize our actions don't align with that.
All of our conditioning and all of our study and all of our work that we put in for the
last however many decades or years, we realized was done towards the wrong thing.
It was done towards money.
It was done towards success instead of done towards empathy, done towards openheartedness,
done towards compassion and helping others, the things that actually are going to help
this world.
We can see someone like Jeff Bezos.
Through this whole COVID endeavor, he cashed out really hard.
Is he helping anyone?
Not a person.
So all that money, all that wealth, all that success, but he doesn't have a speck of
empathy.
So is he successful?
He seems like a troll then.
He seems not even like he's worth to be alive on Earth.
Because if you have that much money and success and you don't help and change this planet,
you're garbage.
So I think these things aren't being promoted heavily in society, or I think they should.
I think that's one thing that a lot of us are finding with this plant is that it engages
this compassionate, empathetic mind in us to where we can see this in others, where
we can see people need help, where we can want to help, where we can see this plant's
going to help.
Or we can buy more Rolexes, a new car, show it all off on IG.
Or we can do it that style.
There's a lot of different styles.
But I think it's based more off of the conditions of society and where we're headed and where
we are versus the plant's influence towards that, I guess.
Yeah, most certainly.
I think there's so much of what you said there that I've been noticing myself recently, particularly
that a lot of people are never really given a formal opportunity to learn about how to
be self-reflective and consider where they fit into the picture and how their actions
influence things.
Kind of on that line of thinking, I've noticed recently that, at least from my perspective,
there appears to be some medicine coming from an unlikely place.
Traditionally the sort of Instagram trolls like Cloud King and Stan the Man, these guys
who historically I just thought maybe provided a bit of a laugh.
Recently I feel like they've kind of maybe inadvertently started helping people realize
this.
And I noticed this when Cloud King came out with some branded cannabis, which he was calling
turds, and then another line called shmids.
And I was like, it kind of seems a bit sarcastic and ironic on face value, but I think he's
actually trying to wake people up to the sort of clout chasing that we've kind of spoken
about already and that it's not exactly the greatest thing.
What's your thoughts on them doing that?
Do you see it kind of the way I do, or do you just think it's just a troll?
No, I like Cloud King, what he's doing.
I don't know Stan the Man.
I don't know that reference.
I'm not familiar, but I follow Cloud King and I do a similar thing.
I like to bring awareness through meme, or whatever you call it.
You know, what we call in Buddhism, there's this type of debate called reductio ad absurdum,
where you posit the absurdity of a scenario or a position first.
So you basically posit the result of an erroneous position in the forefront.
In a debate standard, when you do that, you basically take someone's position they have
and you analyze the result of that position and you put that up in the forefront.
But it's actually erroneous and kind of absurd, so they're going to attack it.
But you do that in a format to get them to attack themselves, you know, them to negate
their own idea.
So it's a type of a debate positioning, you know.
More the reductio ad absurdum is just positing the erroneous result of an idea in the forefront
of a debate.
So I think a lot of these memes are like that, you know, like kind of a, not to say passive
aggressive, but more a subliminal poke, you know.
And they're going to posit this idea that's stupid, basically, you know, in the resultant
format, meaning like, hey, it's like this.
Isn't this cool?
Or this is blah, blah, blah.
And everyone's going to be like, that's so stupid or that's so this, you know.
And so what I've experienced is that people, you know, I'll posit these kind of ideas as
like, you know, this is dumb.
It's not cool.
It's not beneficial for self or humanity.
And a lot of people will get it.
And a lot of people will get turned on by it and be like, oh yeah, we're down with that.
But then there'll be those people that are like, you're so stupid.
You don't know what you're talking about.
You're lame, you know.
Just come into the DMs, start calling you names.
It's like, wow.
So I'm totally into it, you know.
I'm kind of, you know, I have people even be like, who is this Green Bodhi guy?
He says he's a Buddhist and he like does this, you know.
It's like, it makes me laugh.
You know, I was just talking with my teacher, you know.
We went to the, you know, we went to Whole Foods so we can get some coffee filters, you
know.
So and he needed some allergy medicine or something too.
So we went over there and we're laughing.
You know, we're talking about this, you know.
We're talking about how people think once you're a Buddhist, you're supposed to be enlightened,
you know.
He's like, oh, even people think with monks, you know, even we're monk of His Holiness
the Dalai Lama that we're supposed to be enlightened, you know.
He's all that we're not supposed to get angry or eat meat or anything like that.
He's all so stupid, you know.
Because the reality is we're all human.
And if we were enlightened, we wouldn't be on a spiritual path to evolve, you know.
We wouldn't have chosen a path to try to deal with all our ignorances and our own,
you know, lame ways of being.
We wouldn't have to, you know.
So yeah, so it's an interesting dichotomy what's happening now, I think, with this whole
woke mentality, spirituality.
You know, you can go do ayahuasca in any city in the nation, you know, with some wacko wannabe
shaman or some, you know, shaman that some other wacko like brought here to make money
off of and make business off of.
It's like, it's sad, you know.
But it's a societal norm right now.
So this kind of, you know, these meme lords that are sharing their perspective and trying
to shed light on the ignorances of our industry and our scene, I think it's awesome.
I love it.
It's cool.
So that's my perspective of it.
Yeah.
And one I can certainly understand in certain regards.
Something which I wanted to loop back to, because you mentioned it a bit earlier, was
you said you like smoking strains that are kind of more mentally stimulating, stimulating
clarity and reflection.
Out of curiosity, what are some of the strains which for you at least achieve that?
My favorite strain that I'm smoking on right now is this purple Hindu kush that I got from
Mr. Bob Hemphill.
This is IG Handel.
His genetics company with his wife is Crickets and Cicada.
And he's one of the more popular, respected, and cool strain collectors of the last couple
decades.
So that's actually what I'm really enjoying right now, because it offers this full range
of what I'm going for from stimulating mindset to also high satisfaction, kind of OG subdued
but it still has this very stimulating aspect to it.
So that's what I'm liking on right now.
But other than that, this Sour OG from Amico Seeds.
It's Hell's Angels OG by Sour Deez Libel.
That one I crossed the 78 OG L-A-A-F-E-2, making the Tenzin Kushes.
Those are really I really like a lot because it brings this really high end stimulating
aspect, but then it still has this chem OG kind of satisfying you're there vibe.
The Hazy Kush is another one that induces that, but that'll induce a type of euphoria
after a half hour or so for this kind of racy, edgy onset that some people love, some people
don't like at all because it make you give you that lip sweat, give you that kind of
hyper anxiety to some degrees, if that's how your chemistry is.
So those are the strains I've really been liking a lot for that kind of avenue personally.
I'm not really a sativa or an indica.
I'm really focused mainly on hybrids for what I'm liking personally.
So yeah, great answer and some good starting points for people to go look into if they're
into that sort of thing.
I know that I personally love exactly what you're talking about, you know, those mentally
stimulating sativas and for what it's worth, the one I've always really enjoyed, which
admittedly haven't been able to have that much access to, was Genius from Brothers Grimm.
That was just a phenomenal strain for sort of that mental clarity.
Just to loop back to a point you mentioned just before the initial one I looped back
to, you mentioned that there's some current sort of debate around, or discussion at least,
around whether the origin place of cannabis is sort of maybe around the Himalayan region.
And it got me wondering, do you, or have you ever been able to smoke much sort of Nepalese
or maybe even like the Chinese strains we see?
And either way, do you want to work with those strains going forward or are they a
bit too sort of land racy?
I have smoked some of them and they're not necessarily too land racy.
And I do have a few things from China right now and I have quite a few things from the
Nepalese Himalayan region and then also Laos.
Bodhi gave me some Laotian land race years back and I popped a bunch of those and those
were very similar to hazy kush.
So I was really shocked.
I busted these out and I was like, whoa, this is weird.
It smells just like hazy kush.
This is true.
Man, it grows just like it too.
This is so weird.
So of course I crossed the hazy end of that too.
So that was one land race from Asia that I really did like.
And I have some things up from northern India closer to more on the western side of the
Himalaya obviously, but I haven't really sourced a lot from the Tibetan plateau or
from even Siberian plateau.
I have some stuff from up in Siberia, but it's some different auto flower stuff, some
other things that I'm trying to look through, chimerians, chimerian stuff.
I'm just unfamiliar with the history on some of these things.
So I don't really know.
I started some of it, but it wasn't what I was looking for.
So I didn't go into work with any of it too much.
I would like to see a little more information though on the history of the gene pool.
I do know that what they're saying from the Tibetan plateau, I don't even actually know
what strain that is, but they're saying the earliest cannabis origins, it's pointing to
there now.
If you research it, it's pretty easy to find Google searches of it.
So I thought that was quite interesting.
Yeah, certainly.
I mean, it's kind of always been thought it was sort of around that area near the Afghan
sort of border with the Himalayas.
So certainly seems like there could be some credibility in that one.
Just to take us back to the question we normally ask guests when we start the episode, what
are you smoking on today or what do you plan on smoking on later today if you haven't already?
That purple Hindu kush that I was mentioning.
It's pretty much my, right now it's been my go-to all day, all night kind of thing.
So that's kind of, yeah, I've been smoking it all day and all night.
If I want to mix it up a little bit, I'll grind up some bubble hash in with it and then
take long into that.
Pretty simple.
I don't, even though I have access and I have 30 flowers to choose from, I still just put
one or two in my jar and I give away all the rest and I smoke those two strains, three
strains usually.
I mean, I can certainly vouch that many of the cultivars in Bob Hamphill's library are
just simply lovely.
What is it about this purple Hindu kush that you're a fan of?
Because we've heard a lot of people go to great lengths to try to differentiate this
particular cut.
Apparently it's quite old.
It's not the normal purple kush that goes around.
It's definitely not Jager, which is kind of sometimes confused as this purple kush in
Oregon.
What's your thoughts on this one?
Is it totally different to others or just a sort of improved version of the other purple
kushes we see?
Well, it's kind of interesting because the first purple kush I got was in 92 in Ridgecrest.
There were some guys bringing some purple kush down there from Oregon and I was buying
a lot of it and obviously selling my three quarters and getting a quarter for free.
And then just stacking up as many quarters as I could so we can all, me and the homies
can all just puff and rage this purple kush.
So from then to now I've had quite a few different iterations of it.
And this is by far the best.
In my own opinion, it makes the high from Jager kind of subpar.
It's very interesting, this strain, because it has like an orangey tangy terp in it also,
which kind of reminds me of Tangyland a little bit.
But it's just more funky, more kind of OG fuel-y, more kind of even like, I don't know,
it just has all these exotic notes that are just on another level.
And the high is just untouchable.
I haven't found something I enjoyed more to this point yet, right now.
It's one of my favorites and everyone that I've smoked out with it is in the same boat.
They're just like, whoa, what was that?
So it's something special.
And then every time I keep giving Mr. Rob Hemphill props on it, he's always like, she's
a special one.
That's all he replies.
She's a special one.
She's a special one.
He's said that a bunch of times now.
She's a special one.
And it's like that.
So that's kind of where I'm at with that right now.
Yeah, awesome.
And a good little rundown in the comparison.
So take me back.
What was your first ever experience with cannabis?
That was a long time ago.
I'm 46 now.
So I was six years old and I was in Nebraska.
I think I was five or six years old.
And me and my neighbor friend, he lived across the alley from me in the back.
And so the alleyway was our play zone.
And back then in the 80s, it didn't really matter.
You didn't have to have someone watching you.
You walked home from school.
You walked to the babysitter.
You played all day until night.
That kind of vibe.
Nobody kidnapping kids is like they are now.
Well, it wasn't.
No, no.
Probably was happening then too.
But anyway, that being said, me and my friend were playing.
And we see these plants in this guy's backyard.
And they were just like calling us.
I just remember them in the breeze, moving.
It's like I wanted them.
So me and my friend jumped this guy's fence and ripped these plants out of the ground
and took them back to my house.
And then I took them to the house and I had one of those little blue swimming pools.
It's in Lincoln, Nebraska.
Just little plastic pools that I mix oil in or whatever.
A little kiddie pool.
So we put all those plants in there and then filled it with water.
And then we were just like tromping around like a wine crush.
And just like, my dad comes out and is like, what the fuck?
What is going on?
We're like, what?
We didn't know what was going on.
So that was my first experience with cannabis.
My first experience ingesting it, I think I was in Eugene.
And I was 10 years old.
And two different times I remember, one kid, middle schooler kid, is like, hey, John, come here.
Try this.
And I tried a little hit of what he had.
And it was a little pipe.
And nothing really happened.
And then the next time was right around that time near this place called Wiztech or Cuthbert Amphitheater in Eugene.
Near the U of O Stadium.
There's some canoe shoots and there's this kid there.
A few years older than me too.
He's like, hey, come here.
You want to try this?
I said, yeah.
I walked over.
He said, what is it?
He busted out this little foil.
It had some hash in it with some gold.
And he had some kind of a little green lettering on it, like stamp, like tie probably.
And he rolled up a little ball, popped it in this pipe.
And me and him smoked this little bowl.
And I just went about my way.
I don't know if I even felt it then either.
So those are my like, around that same time, another friend of mine in Eugene's dad was growing a big field of weed in his backyard.
Or hemp or something.
And we ripped a bunch of those plants out of the ground and dried them on my roof and smoked it.
I found some bamboo down the way.
So I cut a segment of bamboo, made my own little pipe, this whole thing.
None of this is, I'm just free flowing.
I haven't learned this anywhere.
My parents, my dad was in the military, all this.
So maybe it was like past life stuff, you know, or something.
So a lot of it came very natural.
So what's funny, my friend's dad had the field in Eugene.
We just took the plants out, ripped them right out fresh.
But he had the shed that he was drying all the stuff in.
And we looked in there.
It was all brown and weird looking.
So we're like, let's just take this fresh green stuff, you know.
And so those are my first experiences with cannabis.
And then, you know, it was until I was in high school, really, before I started experimenting, you know.
There you go.
And I mean, you brought up a great little segue there in that I had read online that you grew up as sort of a military child.
And then as a teenager, you kind of started experimenting with psychedelics.
How did all of that play into being a military child?
I can only imagine it was kind of a bit frowned on.
How did you get around that sort of obstacle of the family?
Well, you know, like, so basically, you know, I wanted to, what's crazy, I wanted to be a youth pastor when I was younger, you know.
So I was like, you know, kind of, I was going to Christian schools, training to do that.
And then had some really cool experiences happen in the church I was going to.
But I didn't really, you know, they didn't vibe with my experience very well, you know, so whatever.
That being said, my dad was like very strict military.
My mom's Asian.
So, you know, we had quite a strict household.
But when I was 18, I was kind of allowed to do what I wanted.
So, you know, started experimenting with everything.
But even at that time, you know, we were experimenting with everything.
Because we were out in Ridgecrest, it's out in the Mojave Desert, you know.
And all the kids are boiling pods of gypsum weed, you know, like, eating gypsum, you know, local weed, like, you know, deter, you know, moonflower, you know, the one local weed that grows out in the desert.
They're all poisoning themselves with this, these like gypsum weed pods, you know.
So they're all having their stomachs pumped, having these like three-day psychedelic experiences, you know.
You know, and the gypsum weed experience isn't a fun psychedelic experience.
It's like one where you go blind and you like have all these crazy, scary, scary trips, you know.
That being said, so we're, you know, we're kind of a weird little town.
So, you know, we do things like drink Robitussin, you know.
I drink like, you know, everyone drink one bottle, I drink two.
You know, we take boxes of Marazine, which is like this motion sickness pill.
You eat the whole box, you get psychedelic, you know.
You actually have true hallucinations, you know.
So this is like kind of what I grew up around.
So we're just continually experimenting with everything, then mushrooms, then LSD, then all that stuff.
And, you know, just being like that kind of kid, I think from the time I was 18 to 23, I wasn't, I didn't have much agenda.
I was still wanting to, you know, at that point I was wanting to go into the special forces,
wanting to go in the Green Berets and try to go Delta and try to be like a mercenary killer.
You know, that was kind of my mindset.
But I was out in Georgia and, you know, ended up getting a 30 strip of L, but I thought it was a 10 strip because it was given to me as a 10 strip.
So I cut it in 10 rectangles instead of 30 pieces and I ate a few of those and, you know, had quite the experience, obviously.
And when I was coming down, I was watching this cartoon called Spawn by Tim McFarlane.
And, you know, I kind of saw my future if I was going to go into the Green Berets and what was, you know, I just, it was a very trippy, it was very trippy to see that tripped out.
And then, so that kind of changed my, changed my trajectory.
And that's when I moved to Eugene and, you know, just bartending, started growing herb, you know, and stopped bartending, only growing herb.
And that was kind of the, all that.
Luckily I was in contact with quite a few good elders of the Eugene community that saw something in me and started sharing literature and information with me that, you know, set me on a different path, basically.
Kind of opened my eyes to a different type of warriorship, I guess, you know, instead of being like a warrior that kills people, a warrior that like is set out and steadfast for helping others, you know.
So, just different, different.
I mean, even then I wanted to be the best killer on earth to help people, you know.
So, the intention was right.
It's just that everything else wasn't, you know.
So.
Yeah, certainly.
And so, I mean, growing up with those elders influence on you, it must have been a bit of a leg up to have, to not go through exactly all the trials and tribulations people do when they're kind of learning the ropes themselves.
What were some of the strains that they were growing or that you were gifted at the time?
And what sort of like setup were you using?
Was it like just basic lights, indoor?
Give us a bit of a rundown on how you first started growing.
Well, how I first started growing, right when I moved to Eugene, this was in 97, 97 I think, 90 and a 97.
I instantly started growing peppers, habanero, scotch, scotch bonnet, all these different datil, all these different spicy peppers because I had allergies really bad in the Willamette Valley area.
And I was using these peppers.
I was eating them just to like deal with my allergies.
And then I put a couple seeds in a spider plant in my bedroom and they sprouted.
And I was like, oh, I'm going to grow these things.
So then I made this little makeshift closet setup with like styrofoam walls and all that.
There's a little light that, 150 watt or 250 watt light that's like a parking lot light that you use for, like it was off of a dentist office parking lot light.
So I used that and then I had another little light that I was using.
And so, and then I built a little makeshift closet box after this.
My first run actually with these seeds out of the spider plant and I grew it all hermed.
They had seeds, it was garbage, like straight garbage.
Then I was like, oh, I'm going to do it right.
So I built a little box, put this light and then put a 400 watt in there.
So I had the 400 plus a 250 and built a little box in my closet.
And then the strains that I had there, obviously Eugene was kind of a hub for good weed.
So I first started growing with a strain called Trinity, another strain called Big Sir Holy, and then Blueberry and Blueberry Trin.
And another strain called IDK, which stood for I don't know, but it was, you know, Eugene chronic strain.
So obviously Trinity has the lore and the, it's like legend strain from Eugene for like, you know, forever still.
And then the other strains are pretty apparent.
But yeah, so that's kind of how it started.
And then the second grow after that little closet, I made my whole closet to grow and just had the trap door.
And then, you know, went from the 650 watts to a thousand watt.
And then we went to 2000 watt and 4000 watt and 8000 watt, you know, and then it's just like that.
You know, you just keep leapfrogging up, doubling up.
That's kind of how it started.
Yeah, fantastic.
Trinity is an interesting one because it's kind of, I feel like it's one of those strains where it's like,
everyone has super fond memories of it, but no one really kept it on lockdown.
And it brings up this idea of like, why do you think it is there are these strains, which people revere so much,
but at the same time, seemingly no one was able to really hang on to a cut or if there is a cut around now,
there's some people who are a bit like, oh, I'm not really sure if it's the real one still.
How do you think we got to this point?
I was the last one on Eugene that I knew that had the cut and I let it go because I thought it was lame
after a certain point, you know, it was having these little seed pods in it, you know,
and it was just having some degradation, I think, but that could have just been my ignorance at the time
and me not knowing how to deal with the plant in the same way.
So I let it go because I thought it was boring to me after that many years, you know.
And the new trend that's around definitely isn't that, you know, the future trend definitely wasn't that.
And we got a bunch of Trinity strains since then that were almost identical, but they weren't that.
So, you know, a lot of these strains, it's like, usually, you know, there's a person that's holding a lot of these.
Once that person decides to let it go, a lot of times it goes away because, you know,
people aren't that good at holding on to genetics.
People aren't that committed at holding on to a hundred mothers, you know,
or just going to have a space just to keep their staple of genetics, you know.
That's just, especially now, it's kind of rare.
I mean, I wish I still had that first trend, but, you know, at a certain point,
you get over it and it's not worth keeping anymore.
That's kind of how it is for me, you know.
Like the golden pineapple, it was a great one for a long time.
I smoked it a lot. Now I don't even want to smoke it, you know.
It's not something I put in my jar, even though everyone loves it.
Every, you know, new smoker loves it.
You know, just, but it's just not my cup of tea anymore.
Yeah, understandably after having enjoyed something for a long period of time,
you kind of look for the sort of new and better things.
I love that you mentioned the golden pineapple because it's,
I'm one of those people you just referenced.
I love it. I'm not burnt out on it.
It's some lovely stuff.
Is this what you would consider one of the sort of high quality genetics
which has been around Eugene for a while?
I remember I read something, I think it might have been online,
it kind of said you moved back to Eugene and found that there was all these
sort of high quality genetics and clones that were held by the community around there.
Was this one of them?
And what were some of the other ones that you really enjoyed from that scene?
Well, I mean, like I was saying, you know, I held a lot of these things
and I was the one that actually passed the golden pineapple around Eugene.
I got it from a friend.
There's this person that brought the golden pineapple to Eugene on Instagram.
His handle is shadglass and he's the one that actually brought that cut to Eugene
and brought it out of Hood River.
So yeah, that was one of them for sure.
But I, you know, when I got that, you know,
at that time we had a huge amount of genetics in the town, you know.
So like I had, you know, when you, it's very interesting when you have certain strains
and you hold certain strains and everyone knows you to hold them without giving them out,
you can get lots of strains and people will give you lots of strains.
I mean, even look at the, I had a strain called the Eugene lemon diesel.
I brought it down to Santa Cruz.
Next thing you know, lemon tree pops out.
Imagine that, you know.
You bring this strain that's the Eugene lemon diesel to a town
and next thing you know, all these strains start popping out of it, you know.
And then I found out from my, you know, Santa Cruz cannabis companies,
oh dude, you're the one that brought that to Santa Cruz
because that's where the lemon tree came out of.
I said, oh I know.
And you know.
But a lot of people don't want to say that, you know,
because it doesn't sound good for them anymore, you know what I mean.
But I started selling the lemon diesel out of a dispensary called Creme de Cana out of Santa Cruz
and I brought the golden pineapple down there too and the silver surfer.
And we started selling them out of the dispensary.
Next thing you know, all these brands start popping up, you know.
So, it's funny, you know.
Normal, very normal.
Yeah, it's interesting to hear that.
I just want to quickly ask, we've often heard that the lemon tree is some sort of lemon skunk hybrid.
Do you think it's maybe just a relabeled lemon diesel that came from you
or do you think there's maybe some sort of pollination and it was like a seed from that?
Oh yeah, I don't, honestly I don't really know, you know.
Because anytime I've been around those guys, they're super weird to me.
So, I just assume there's some truth to something, you know.
So, I don't really know, you know what I mean.
I can't say, but I do know that the lemon tree definitely isn't the lemon diesel
because it's not as good.
It's not even close to as good, but it grows different too.
It grows a little faster, a little bushier, you know.
The true lemon diesel was straight lemon pledged, lemon rind.
I mean, I never smelled a strain more lemony than that.
But the way it grew was this very slow, stout, kind of Afghani style.
But like it had very tight, you know, kind of like the master kush, but a little, you know.
It's just very interesting, but it grew more missile-y.
But very tight, very slow growing, very tight to the stock.
Yeah, okay.
So, I don't really know.
Really, when he told me that, I was like, oh, that makes a lot of sense, you know.
Yeah, sure. Maybe one day we'll find out the answer.
Another sort of genetic that I was hoping you might be able to give me a bit of a rundown
is I've seen you work with the Best Shit Ever and the Sour Best Shit Ever.
These are sort of old school cuts where the origins are a bit cloudy.
You know, you've got some people in the scene who kind of try to claim ownership over them
and other people just say, look, it's not really known.
And I think we know who we're talking about.
Yeah, I think there's only one person claiming ownership of the Sour Best Shit Ever
and he's a complete kook, you know.
So, other than that, because you can tell because this guy will steal, like,
he would steal our photos, you know, and he would use them on Neptune Seed Bank, you know,
as his own photos trying to sell the Sour Best Shit Ever, but it was Tenzin Kush number two, you know.
And so, like, anyway, yeah.
So, if someone's willing to steal and use someone else's photos as their own,
I'm sure they did that with that strain, too.
You know what I'm saying?
And from my understanding with, you know, with that person,
who I got the cut from and how they, you know.
There's a lot of sinister stuff around that kind of reality.
Yeah, definitely.
The thing about it, which hopefully I'd like to get some perspective from you on,
is what do you think are the genetics within it?
We've heard some people say that it's a whole range of different things.
We've heard more recently people express it's probably just some sort of OGS1.
Where do you sit on that?
Well, that's what I've been saying, honestly.
You know, the person that, you know, said it's a lemon tie by this, that, and the other.
Well, when I tested it with Phylos some years back, you know,
it wasn't related to any of those genetics.
And they said it was an identical clone of OG Kush.
It's an OG Kush clone is what they said.
But they also said that with Fire OG, Ghost OG, OG Kush, all that.
So, we just say it's an S1 because, you know,
I don't think Phylos could see if it was an S1 or not.
If they're saying it's an identical clone,
and I talked to, you know, people about this and they've agreed.
So, you know, I don't know what to say.
It seems like OG Kush to me.
It seems like an S1 of OG.
That's just kind of how it seems like to me.
Yeah, sure.
I think there's definitely a gathering pool of weight to sort of support that.
Kind of similarly, I've seen that you work with a male that you call the 78 LA Afi OG.
And this is interesting because it popped that name sort of pops up in other places.
Like there's the DNA release of LA Con,
which sort of alludes to a similar sort of parent, but it might be different.
What's this male and what does it bring to the table for you?
And is it the similar sort of one that we saw with the Bombay Kush?
Or it's just a similar sort of name?
I'm not really sure to be honest.
I got the pollen from my friend.
He goes by Andrew Puffin on Instagram.
And he got the seeds from Leo from Aficionado.
And they were what they were labeled.
There's a big story and a history of how those seeds were acquired.
And what happened and all that, which I don't really want to get into.
It's none of my business.
And I don't really know what's true or not.
So I don't even want to start to project.
So that's kind of what's up with that.
The genetic pool of it, I don't really know.
We can say it's one thing and say it's another.
But anyone that's talking about it, it's hard for me to believe.
Because nobody really knows.
And when I do genetic tests on it, it doesn't hit the marks that they're saying it is.
So that's kind of where I've been at with it.
I do like the genetic profile of what it's offered.
That's for sure.
So that's why I'm continually working with it.
And that's why I got my buddy.
He basically did a seed increase on it.
So I got more of that from him.
Yeah, nice.
And so how does this play into, or maybe more better put,
can you give us a bit of a rundown on the backstory of the Tenzin Kush
and how the genesis of that sort of came about?
Yeah, so basically the Sauroji from Amiko I really liked a lot.
So when I got that pollen, I got that pollen from Drew.
And it was handed to me in a little pill bottle, just a pill.
There's a little bit, like if you were to, it was a double-aught pill.
And it had maybe like a half of a pea size worth of pollen in there.
So I basically put that by the golden pineapple and the Sauroji
and the Sourbush, whatever.
And then just popped some seeds out of it.
And then every one out of the Sauroji cross was good.
Every single one.
And so that's why I kind of grabbed an affinity towards it
and started working with it.
It's just because I like the high so much and there's CBD potential in it.
But other than that, that was the reason I started working with it, to be honest.
And then the reason I started running with it is because
what was being produced on the female end was so awesome.
I just couldn't, you know, I just wanted to keep going with it.
So I started working with some males, finding some good males,
throwing in some, buy some things and getting some good results.
So I was pretty happy.
Nice. And I've noticed online that there's a few different phenotypes you like.
I think I remember seeing the number two and the number four.
How would they differ in terms of if people were going to get one of those crosses
and they're wondering, you know, what's this one bringing to the table versus the other?
How would you kind of give them the comparison?
Well, the Tenzin Kush number two is more like a souped up sour diesel.
You know, it has a lot of these camp notes, a lot of diesel-y fuel notes,
but it's going to be more stimulating even, more than the sour even.
The richness of it and the complexity, the terpene profile is a lot more complex,
you know, a lot more lime notes, a lot more, I mean,
it almost smells like super glue or kind of, you know, those kind of,
those kind of, those kind of, those kind of notes to it.
But the Tenzin Four has this sandalwood incense,
Kush perfume kind of, and it's, they look totally different.
The Tenzin Kush number four is purple, silver, very beautiful.
And the Tenzin Two is very lime green, very like sour-y looking, you know.
So that's, that's, that's, that's the difference of them on that context of the high.
On the other hand is quite different.
The high on the Tenzin Four is going to be more OG,
more, you know, Kush, LA Kush cake kind of vibe high,
versus the high on the Tenzin Two,
it's going to be more stimulating, more, you know, chem diesel kind of,
you know, maybe give someone anxiety kind of high.
Ooh, interesting, interesting.
On the other end of the spectrum,
we've got the more sort of Sativa offerings from you being like the hazy Kush
and the mystery Kush, which is kind of built off that.
What was the backstory on those ones?
And was it intentional that you wanted to have these two sort of opposite sort of
flagship strains or it just kind of came about that way?
Yeah, no, it's, it just came about that way.
So basically the golden pineapple, I crossed the OG Kush Sage from THC,
into the, this strain called the Dawn or Kid Next Door.
This is a classic Eugene strain, which was a train wreck by Purple Afi.
So I crossed the OG Kush Sage by that,
grab some males out of that, put it to the golden, made the hazy Kush.
And pretty much every single Fino that came out of that cross was epic.
And so then I back crossed it and then we popped this seed and we didn't know
what it was. Hence it was called the mystery,
but then it was the daughter of the hazy.
So the mystery Kush was just, or mystery haze was just that.
It was just basically the daughter of the hazy Kush.
And that's, and that's what's up with that.
So just a back cross of hazy,
basically that we didn't know in the beginning and then we figured it out
through testing and everything.
Yeah, sure.
So, I mean, talking about the back cross,
what sort of a male do you want to pick when you're looking to do a back cross?
If you make an F1 hybrid with hazy Kush and you think, all right,
I'll use this a male from this back cross it to the hazy Kush and we'll get a
BX1. Do you look for like the most hazy Kush leaning male,
so to speak?
Or how do you go about that process of creating that line bred strain?
Well, a lot of times when I'm doing, you know,
so like when I did the Tenzin cross,
I used four males and I picked my four best males and I used those four
because I wanted to get a larger genetic swath,
swath of the gene pool.
And what was crazy doing that,
it felt like I didn't get that.
I felt like I got more,
you know,
of the same,
all the progeny that I popped,
they were all very similar,
you know?
So I always,
I think that's quite interesting that when I do these kinds of multi-male
pollinations,
how similar all the strains that come out of it,
how all the phenos that come out of it are,
I thought they'd be a lot different.
But they're actually usually more close to the line,
you know?
So that's kind of how I do it.
Personally.
I pick my best males and I give more options.
I don't really like to pick just one male.
That's just not how I do it personally.
You know,
I have,
but that's just not generally how I do it.
Okay.
And do you like to keep the male gene pool?
Or do you like to keep the male gene pool?
Okay.
And do you like to keep males and when you re-release seeds,
you're kind of remaking it in the same way?
Or do you like to have like a pool of seeds,
pop some new ones,
pick a new male and sort of like each offerings its own sort of unique thing?
It just depends on what I'm going for,
honestly.
You know,
right now,
like I did a fem line,
I reversed the hazy and I made some stuff with that.
So I'm testing that right now as one of my first reversal lines.
So I'm seeing if they're all good before I release any.
Other than that,
you know,
really I'm just trying to see and find what I am in tune with most.
You know,
right now,
um,
Bodie gave me,
um,
Larry OG by purple and unicorn F3 that I'm going to try to make some purple OGs
with.
Um,
so I have that.
I have an indigo child male that's from,
um,
mass medicinals that I might throw into some things.
And then I have some other stuff at home that I'm going to start sourcing some
things to find some males with personally.
You know?
Yeah.
Wow.
It looks like you've got some interesting options on the horizon.
Give me a little bit of a rundown about,
uh,
how you first came to befriend with Bodie.
I find everyone's always really interested in the origins of Bodie friendships.
And I guess what's kind of interesting is,
you know,
with the very similar names,
people might've mistakenly thought there was some tension there or something like
that.
But,
uh,
I get the impression it's the opposite.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Um,
I don't remember actually when I met Bodie actually 2000 when we personally met,
I think it was 2000,
what is it?
2021 to 2014 maybe 13 the Emerald cup.
Um,
yeah,
no.
And,
and,
and I,
I was in Santa Cruz and I was doing a lot of work there and I was selling herb to
this spot.
Um,
Santa Cruz mountain naturals and Aptos,
you know?
And,
and I went in there and the guy's like,
Hey,
do you know Bodie seeds?
And I was like,
are you fucking kidding?
Someone's like ripping off my fucking name.
But really I was like,
are you kidding?
He's all,
no man,
this Bodie seeds,
he's a fucking G.
I was like,
really?
I said,
okay,
cool.
You know?
And I just like,
you know,
I was like,
I was never in the forums.
That's just,
wasn't a part of my thing.
You know,
I didn't know any of that.
I didn't know that world even existed to be honest.
So,
um,
when I found out,
um,
what was funny is I,
I find out from all these old heads,
they tell me about the forums,
you know what I mean?
Um,
you know,
my friend Mike,
he's cog you or coastal seeds and another friend of mine,
um,
you know,
Katsu seeds is,
uh,
Bob,
you know,
he's,
so they're telling me all this stuff about the forums and I'm like,
oh,
sick.
I'm like,
oh,
that's talking to Steve a lot or Bodie.
Sorry.
Um,
about all this.
And he's telling me everything.
We're just getting familiar with it all.
I was like,
it was very interesting,
you know,
because it was just,
it was out of my league,
you know,
it was out of my realm.
I didn't know that cause I was in Eugene.
So I didn't have to go get it.
I didn't have to go seek it.
It was there.
I was there,
you know,
it was like the Mecca of,
of heady herb,
you know?
So I didn't,
there wasn't,
you know,
it just wasn't a part of our wheelhouse,
but even my friend Katsu seeds,
I would send clones to people all over the nation through forums.
I was like,
what?
He's all,
yeah,
bro.
Like if you live in Kansas city and you want to cam dog,
Bubba,
cush,
OG,
cush,
I will send you all the cuts.
I was like,
one fucking legend,
you know,
so sick.
But that's what I was doing in Eugene.
Kind of,
I was offering people a lot of cuts,
you know,
but that being said,
so,
you know what I mean?
I mean,
me and Bodie befriended and just,
we found a lot of similarities.
Just in vibe,
you know,
we was funny as we actually,
most of the time when we get hang out and we've hung out over these years,
we don't talk about herb.
We talk about travel,
spiritual practice,
different,
you know,
philosophic studies,
different things.
You know,
it's like very,
very little,
little,
little about weed,
you know?
And,
um,
what's so crazy is that one of the last times I was hanging out with him,
um,
we started talking and,
you know,
we were talking about Peru and,
you know,
first time I went down there,
I was like,
I'm going to go to Peru.
I'm going to go to Peru.
I'm going to go to Peru.
I'm going to go to Peru.
And the first time I went down there and blah,
blah,
blah,
you know,
I was telling him,
I was like,
Oh,
I went down to the first Amazonian Shamanic conference in Iquitos.
You know,
he's all,
what?
So good.
I was there.
I said,
what?
He's all,
yeah,
I was there.
I was like,
that's so funny.
Cause that's where I actually had,
um,
come up with my name,
you know?
Um,
he's all,
yeah,
he's all a little bit like Supreme Bodhi because,
you know,
he was basically a crazy wisdom,
you know,
kind of like the real Don Juan,
you know,
he's last Incan Royal descendant of the Royal family basically left everything in,
um,
Peru to go to India,
took his two sons to India,
learn Buddhist Dharma there for three years under the Karmakaya lineage,
come back to Peru.
Right?
So I met him there.
And so he was basically teaching,
you know,
the path of wisdom and enlightenment through the,
Through the wisdom plants and the power plants in association with quantum physics and Buddhist Dharma, you know
So I was like, ah, you know like green Bodhi meaning the Enlightenment that that derived from the wisdom plants the green, you know
So that's the where the name spawned from that moment. So it's like very interesting all these very interesting parallels, you know, and so like
You know, we're talking some years few years for three or four years ago three years back and I was like
Oh, we should do it. We should do a collab to show that like that we're different, you know
But they were like homies and shit. He's all we should do that, you know, and I was like
I wish you donate all the money to his holiness library museum project, you know, and he's all that sounds awesome
So yeah, he gave me four ancient OG males that he had that he had a pheno hundred or someone might have pheno hundred for him
I can't remember. Those are the best ones he picked though, and he gave me those and that's what we did that project with
you know, so
Yeah, no, it's it's it's very interesting
Because the you know the admiration, you know, I have for him and you know, we share it's very
It's very cool
You know
I have a lot of respect for him and a lot of respect for what he's done as travels and
Really just more who he is as a person, you know, they had nothing to do with weed
You know just you know, he's just such a fucking cool guy that you know, he's very likable, you know, very sweet guy
You know, so then when you start to research like or even like, you know
If you just research one of his trips, you know, or one of his travels you're like, well, it's like pretty impressive, you know
So yeah, you know
it's kind of the
Kind of the brief rundown of it to be honest
No brilliant backstory and I can I can certainly attest. He's a very cool cat. He's definitely one of a kind
Interesting you brought up the ancient OG because I wanted to ask you about that. What sort of attributes do you think that male brings?
to certain hybrids and I've always had this suspicion that like the ancient OG was such a crowd favorite because of that mythical
Iranian in it. Have you ever seen that sort of thing come through in the crosses?
Yeah, so I mean for me personally that that's the reason I like it, you know the
And I'm not sure if it's from the Iranian. That's like that's bringing all these qualities, but
You know from shape
You know bud shape to
trichome size to
You know these kind of
very interesting because you know, the snow lotus has such a you know a
Prominent smell that this ancient OG doesn't bring that to such a degree, right?
So that's what it is, right? Snow lotus ain't Iranian land race or something like that. Yeah
And then, uh, you know, so that snow lotus, you know, usually is pretty strong
It comes in pretty heavy and it doesn't with this one
It's more of the Iranian that I'm assuming is coming in because it's it's something different than the snow lotus, you know
So it's like
You know the first first nug I had of it
I enjoyed it so much that I was just like I was not kind of on a hunt for it after that, you know
In mother load gardens did a cedar increase of it, you know
Link up with him and get some seeds from him and try to do it project that but then I just hit up
You know Bodhi and he's all no man. I got a bunch of males. Let's do it with these. I was like, oh, yeah
All right. Let's do this then. So yeah, it's very it's it's it's a it's a cool. It's a cool
It's kind of like honestly what it reminds me of reminds me of land race turps with a with a new age style structure
Yeah, Wow
Interesting I noticed that some other strains you were offering were
Utilizing the RAS which I believe is a cut of goji-oji. Is that correct?
yeah, so I have the pine saw on the goji RAS that Bodhi gave me some years back and
That pine saw I really like a lot the goji RAS. I like it's just a little not my head space
you know, it brings me it's a little more indigo head and
That's um, that's a little heavy for me personally just it's a little tiresome for me so
Yeah, sure. Sure. Sure. Sure
So I noticed in your work that there's often really interesting sort of crosses that
Often utilize sort of plants that aren't really used in the same way
Like I think you mentioned earlier the tangy land
I've noticed that you've used that one before and for me personally that was a strain which I
Don't feel like you see it pop up all that often
What was it about the tangy land for example that made you want to use it?
Was it just a killer strain and do you in general look to utilize plants?
Which maybe aren't being used in other people's breeding work or it's more just about what the plant has to offer
Well, yeah with the tangy land the reason I used it because it had this straight like burnt rubber
Lemon tangy vibe, you know, so it you know, it's purple. I had this look
at the smell but
personally, you know whenever I do a lineup or whenever I'm gonna
Pollinate I just kind of usually pick five or ten of my most favorite strains at that moment and I just pollinate them
You know, so it's not there's not a whole lot of them head science to it
It's more of a just like intuition and what I feel like doing more than anything
Sure, and when you make strains in general, do you tend to sort of pollinate all the females?
You've got maybe test them out and see which ones are really working
Would you tend to conceptualize it a bit more and think oh, you know
This female with this male is gonna work really well and make them a bit more like that on say on paper more so than
just
haphazardly, um, I think everything I do is kind of haphazard but um, yeah, no, I mean like most the stuff
I'm trying to line up together to to make it pencil out in the end, you know
So if I'm doing a bunch of oh geez, I'm gonna you know, do some og oriented towards those
You know
I'm not gonna try to mix the turd profiles up too much because I don't want you know
I've experienced that with the hazy that anything I cross hazy with it would turn into hazy, you know, it was like
That wasn't the best with some things but some things we've worked out really good. Awesome. Awesome
So when you do make a new strain, do you like to test it in-house?
Do you test it with testers and how many seeds do you like to see popped?
If so to get an idea of what's inside that gene pool
usually everything I give I give to two different people my one friend and
In Peru and he tests a lot of things down there and then another friend in southern, Oregon that tests
Them down there in the outside environments outside greenhouse and all that. So I'd like to do a pretty pretty rigorous test and I
You know like to give it to my friends and have them run it and tell me what they think and all that kind
of thing so
I'm not just trying to release stuff. I have but that's not that's not what I'm trying to do
yeah, I mean the stuff that I have released without testing I test and then
You know just to make sure to you know, I've I have sent some strands out that I haven't tested
But then I've later tested them and feel good about it. So it's not that big a deal
But yeah for the most part I'm trying to test everything
And but me personally, you know, all I'm gonna do in my own personal
Testing realities is pop ten seeds and if I can't get a superstar out of those ten seeds
It's not not not something I'm really wanting to release to be honest
Yeah, sure. It raises an interesting sort of question because for the longest time there's been sort of this
Underlying idea within the community that you have to test your seeds before you release them and then more recently
We've seen the advent of breeders who are open about the fact they say, you know, I'm selling these seeds. They're not tested
So they're quite open about it, but then they're still and and like in a certain regard people are like, oh, well, that's okay
You know you're being upfront about it
But then you know when maybe they've got a bone to pick with that same breeder
They'll then be like well, you don't test your seeds, you know
And it's sort of like do you feel there is an expectation to test seeds or do you feel like just being honest is more?
Important and it actually doesn't really matter what you do. Where do you sit?
I think being honest is the number one thing that should be happening if people want to risk
You know because I've just recently sold stuff that's untested because people wanted it so bad and I said dude
I haven't tested it. But if you want to rock it, I'll sell them to you, but I'm just telling you man
I haven't tested them. So I don't know and they're like I don't care dude
So it's cool, you know honesty is the key, you know
I mean me personally I think ethically I want to test my
Gear because I don't want to send stuff out to people. That's not gonna do good
Maybe not gonna germinate good. I'm not gonna perform good. I don't I don't want that for people even if I
But if it doesn't perform good
Because of their conditions
Then it's okay, too
You know, I have a hundred percent money back guarantee not money back, but I'll just replace your seeds
I'll give you packs of seeds if you don't even like anything, you know, like the way it smelled
You don't like the way it grew it didn't pop for you. It wasn't as strong as you wanted. Whatever. You just let me know
I'll just give you new seeds. Okay, it's not a big deal, you know, so
That's just kind of where my ethos is on that on that
Yeah, I saw your post on Instagram and I was really impressed with your return policy in case people aren't aware
It's just basically saying that
No matter who you got the seeds from no matter how you came about
Acquiring them like if you've got the packaging and you can show me
You know that they were my seeds and you're unhappy with the results
I'll sort of sort you out with something going forward
Do you think that that's a policy that other breeders should adopt more so going forward or what's your thoughts on the way?
Are the breeders offer return policies? I know that notably some breeders are you know, quite reluctant to offer replacement seeds
Do you feel like there's a happy medium or do you feel like your policy is sort of the best option going forward?
Oh, I don't I don't think I you know people can do whatever they want
It's not my business what other breeders do or what other people are doing, you know
I just do what I do because that's what I like to do it
That's the way I like to do it is what makes me feel good in the end, you know
I don't you know
Yeah, what other people do is not my business. I don't know
I don't want to try to make a standard for everyone how they should think and be you know
That's already happened enough this last year. I think it's stupid
so I
Don't want to get involved
Yeah
understandable and I mean recently there's been a lot of discussion over the past year or so about this idea of if you buy a
Packet of seeds are you entitled to sort of do with them what you want?
Meaning if you find a male from those seeds should you breed with it?
Do you feel like it's okay for someone if they've bought a packet of seeds to go ahead and breed with it?
and because I think you know
We've kind of seen some breeders who get a little bit upset at that and it does raise this question of you know
Well, if you've bought the seeds like do you truly own them in the sense that you can do what you want with the progeny?
Well, don't you I mean you bought them you own them
It's like that's kind of how I look at it
And I've already given everyone the pass to do whatever they want with my genetics and they don't have to
Credit me. They only have to give me a name. They don't have to give me anything. I don't care
They bought it, you know do whatever they want. This is a plant the plants free, you know
Freedom is free to you know, so do what you wish. I'm not the I'm not the boss. I'm not the gatekeeper, you know, so I
Think people should be able to do whatever they want with whatever they own
I think they should be able to do whatever they want in their own mind in their own actions
I don't want to be the one that controls it. So when people do ask me hey, man, is it cool?
Yeah, do whatever you want rename it. Whatever you want do whatever you want
That's called freedom and I'm into that kind of thing
Yeah strong point there I like that
So on a kind of different note, I've seen on your Instagram that there were some photos
I saw of these really impressive looking plants that were grown in
Greenhouses and as far as I was concerned they look as good as some of the top sort of indoor you see
Do you think that greenhouse grown product will become a mainstay of the industry going forward?
And do you think there ever might come a time when it gains?
The sort of top-shelf status over indoor or do you think indoors just always probably gonna hold that title?
Well, I think I mean me personally I think
Mixed light greenhouse is probably gonna be a way of the future at every level
Because you're gonna be able to advance and get higher trichrome cannabinoid counts
when you do a
Sun plus mixed lighting
Because you have the Sun plus you have these other spectrums
That are artificial and that does something
I think even just light deprivation greenhouse with proper climate controlled
Greenhouses is going to be the is going to be the future
Personally just because of the overhead and the pnl's and roi of what that product is
so
You know me personally
Even with all that greenhouse herb. It was grown so well
Even with all that greenhouse herb. It was grown so good. It was
So tasty. It's just and I smoked a lot of it
I mean
I still prefer indoor. That's just me, you know, um, but if I were to you know
If I were to have grown the greenhouse in the same
Um boundary of protocol as I would have the indoor I mean
It's just a way of the future really, um to have a climate controlled
Um non-artificially lit
With artificial supplementation. Um, I think that's just a way of the future honestly
I'm not a fan of outdoor herb meaning like
full season grown outside like with all the dust and all the
Dirt and all the wind and all the conditions beating on the plant the whole time. That's not really i'm not a fan of smoking that
um personally
Um, but i'm a huge fan of smoking controlled climate controlled greenhouse
Yeah, certainly and on that topic of greenhouses
What's your thoughts about big ags move into the canna space? There seems to be a lot of concern about it
but we've also seen on the other end of the spectrum that a lot of the canadian lps and
Some of the american ones have been kind of going bankrupt like dominoes in a sense over the past few years
Do you think this is a growing trend and do you think we do need to be concerned about big ag moving into the counter space?
Well, I don't think we need to be concerned it's going to happen, you know, i'm most my products that I buy are from big ag suppliers
You know, so
Why why would you buy beneficial bugs from like your growth store?
You can get them from a big ag supplier. That's going to be like a tenth of the cost, you know
um, why would you buy
Gallons when you can buy 55 gallon or you know totes or whatever?
It just doesn't make sense, you know, and the only way you can get those is usually from you know, big ag, you know
Um, because they're the the housing housing formats for these, you know
So, I mean i'm not worried about it
I like I like the I like the big ag
Influx to be honest because they have a lot of knowledge and information of scaling that just isn't in the cannabis industry
certainly, that's something I try to keep in mind because
I I forget who we were having a discussion with but we were talking to someone one time about how
a lot of the sort of um
processes and technology that are kind of being toted as
The the newest and most improved in the cannabis industry were often pioneered by big ag in like the 30s or the 40s even
What's your what's your thoughts on the idea that they have a good place to play in the sense that
They're probably going to end up producing sort of more of like the bud light equivalent for the casual enthusiast and then
The older heads are sort of the craft brewers. Do you subscribe to that sort of idea?
Well, what I what I see happening is basically there there are some collaborations happening with with a lot of this
because
when when we start working with um
Big ag and we start working with these bigger bigger companies
They're going to want to work with people like us because we're going to be the ones holding the relationship to the plant information
We're going to be the ones holding all the genetics. We're going to be the ones that can
You know with with their with their input and with their information
And with their help and our help really reach new heights of this industry, you know, that's just my perspective
mel
Certainly and do you think there are any specific lessons that the big producers could learn from the small time growers?
And I guess specifically what i'm interested in is
There seems to be this critical point where at a certain point in scaling up the quality just inherently goes down
Do you think that there's something the big producers could learn from the more craft growers to get over that or do you think it's just?
a problem of scale
Um, no, I don't think it's a problem of scale personally, but the I think um, the cultivation aspect is is is um
Not something that's going to be hindered so much by scale. I think it's more of the um
more of the
Processing aspects that are limited by scale
Yeah, okay interesting so do you think that there will always kind of be a spot in the market for the mom and pop
Connoisseur producer or do you think with the changing laws? It's going to become harder and harder
Well, it's for sure going to become harder and harder for the mom and pop because unless that mom and pop is working with someone
That can take it to the next level. It's going to be really difficult for them to survive
Um, that's just how it goes, you know
And that's how we've seen in every other industry if you even look at the whiskey industry
Um with like, you know bourbons or like, you know
Craft beer. It's the same, you know
Most most of these mom and pops aren't you know, or even the small craft breweries. They're not mom and pops. They're
You know a a diva style artist
That's backed by someone with money
You know that so you got this craft brewer that's a high-end brewer
And then they're backed with um by you know
A hedge funder or a friend that's got money or something like that to take it to this next level
So most of these craft breweries are like that, you know, so if we look at that industry
Um, you know doesn't look good for the mom and pop little grower in mendo, you know
Yeah, sure
So do you think that may be a necessary step in progressing forward is that people
kind of look to reach out and make these partnerships or
You know foster a sort of more friendly relationship with other people because at the moment
We see a lot of people trying to create their own little brand with a small team
Do you think maybe it's more advantageous to try to do something on a bigger scale in partnership with other people?
Um, I mean
even like myself
if I wouldn't have um
Made the partnerships that I have
Whether they be friends or whether they be
Colleagues whether they be whatever they are if I wouldn't have made these
partnership friendships
Connections relations. I wouldn't be able to succeed like i'm about to
Um, it just wouldn't be possible
It is with the right relations. It is with the right connections
Um, so that's just how I see it if
If anyone thinks they're going to do it on their own, I mean good luck
Because how are you going to fund that we even see how the california industry pretty much shut down anyone with under a million dollars
you know
so
meaning
A liquid million dollars that you're able to just throw away, you know
Yeah, that's been a focal point of discussion on the past few episodes and most notably we've seen there's a bit of an exodus
of people from california going to other states notably
places like oklahoma and
A few other places that have got sort of a more lax
Uh set of rules at the moment. Do you think these states will?
Basically continue to flourish or do you think?
Legalities and the things which have turned california into what it is right now will eventually catch up with these other states
No, I think some of these states saw that saw what california did and didn't want to do that
You know, they saw what happened and they didn't want to do that. They wanted to actually create business for their for their state
versus california basically creating so many hurdles where
business isn't going to happen in the state unless you're
You know unless you got a huge backbone of cash. So, um
Yeah, it's been really difficult for people I think that way
Are there any states that have kind of particularly stood out to you as seeming
more kind of welcoming to people who are looking to get a
Get their business up and running or would you say?
Look, if you're doing it now, just do it where you're at now and just do a good job
I mean oregon oregon
It's been pretty easy. Most states that are happening now are pretty easy. Oklahoma's really easy. Um, you know, obviously michigan
You know new york's going to pop off soon
Florida these places are you know, but a lot of them are they're hurdled through licensing hurdles, you know, um
so
I mean for me personally
I mean, I don't I don't i'm not telling anyone to get into the industry to be honest because
You know, I don't think it's a good play unless you've already figured it out
You know or unless you're coming with something new or something hot to the market
I mean a new brand
Really now it's a little late. I think you know
Yeah for sure
So something I wanted to chat to you about is that you are a passionate fan like myself of organics
So i'd love to know
What is your recommendation for someone who's looking to get into organics? Maybe they're transitioning. Maybe they've never grown before
What sort of a base setup you might recommend to them and do you?
Um, you know follow a particular style of organics or are you just kind of a mix and match and use what you like
Well, I um, I mainly use drys i'm coming out with my own line and my own soil line
So that's what I use right now is i'm using all my own products that i'm in
Collaboration with another company that I won't mention here right now
um, I guess until we release, you know, but we're all in licensing process right now of offering a
you know a start to finish soil and uh
You know three-part pelletized nutrient some um, you know liquid
cold extract
forest hummus
liquid product, you know these kind of things that are
Um, basically that's my that's what I use now. I use that with a couple other products, you know, I use a
You know a liquid food compost and then um, that's a liquid I use and then I use um em
Also, so, you know just basically pretty simple organics
but
um, you know a lot of dry amendments
Very little products. I mean, I don't think you can buy any of the products I use from the grow store. So
um, everything is either on bulk bulk ag or
You know, though these type of these type of genre
All organic though dry pelletized or like I said, um, you know em is a
Basically like a super lab, you know with a bunch of other probiotic reality to it
You know, and then the liquid food compost is hydrolized food composts
they add enzyme to and break down the food compost to make a liquid nutrient with it, so
So that's the basics
Yeah, brilliant and do you think that organics can be utilized or even automated such that it can be used by bigger facilities?
Because this is a sort of idea we've oh for sure heard. Yeah, we've heard a lot of people say that
You just don't see it happening
Do you see a day where there will be you know, a big producer who utilizes no till or something like that?
Well, I mean like even our ours is a somewhat no till but yeah like
Honestly, it's you're gonna have to love the plant, you know, because this organics thing isn't for the money
It's for the love of it and the the pnl and roi of it works and it can scale heavily
um
If you know what you're doing if you don't for sure you're gonna fail
Um, and you're not going to produce what you need if you know what you're doing, then you're going to succeed. Um,
I think it can uh
You know, the thing is just the yield of convention is is better, you know
So you're gonna get more you're gonna get more more more herb with uh chemicals, you know
And I haven't been able to get more weight out of organics yet
um, i've been able to match it and i've been through led and all this kind of stuff, but
Um, I haven't been able to surpass
conventional
Uh weights conventional cultivation weights with organics yet
um
But I won't you know, personally, I don't ingest anything that's grown with conventional salts and all that. So
I mean even if I grew with that I wouldn't be able to smoke it. So
Um, you know, that's just what's up. I only I personally only smoke organic herb. Um
I usually
95% of the time eat only organic food. So
Obviously unless i'm going to a restaurant things like this, you know, so that's just how I that's just how my makeup is
Yeah, certainly I I subscribe to the same sort of ideas and trying to eat organic where possible and
You raise this sort of interesting idea in my mind that a lot of people who grow organic tend to become
More conscious of these sort of things about the types of food
They're ingesting and trying to get more nutrient dense food or inputs wherever possible
And I think it was even bode who said that you know organics can be like a gateway to just gardening in general
Do you agree with that? Do you find that you also tend to just grow potatoes and you know, just whatever it may be
Because you've learned about how to grow organically with cannabis or was it the other way around for you or how did that work?
Um, it was kind of the other way around for me. I learned to grow
I mean eugene if you had you know chemweed like hydro grown weed and eugene you're like look down upon you know
If you didn't have like the dankest organic herb
You weren't like anyone in eugene, you know, that's kind of just how the vibe was there, you know
It wasn't like you're busting out. You're like, oh man. I got this hydro dude. Check out this hydro weed is so dank
That's just not what's not happening. You would be at last at there, you know
Um, that's just how the culture was there, you know
So it's just different, you know, I don't know. It's interesting you mentioned that because
In places in other spots in california and around the world, you know for the longest time, you know
I got that hydro was touted as
Being the bee's knees, but I feel like in the last few years at least in the sort of educated consumer's mind
The indoor no-till organic cannabis has become synonymous with the highest quality
Have you found this to be true in your experience?
Um, I mean i'm still waiting for people to
Give me a jar of weed that's danker than my jar of weed. I don't know
I'm, not saying that I got the best weed by any means, but I sure would love
Someone to give me a jar that's better so I can smoke it. Okay, interesting
And then I want to and I want to be friends with that person
Yeah, definitely. I mean have you ever been given any jars that were particularly impressive maybe not better but just still quite impressive
People don't usually give me weed for some reason. I don't understand why
Oh
There you go. All right people we're putting the call out
I mean I have one friend that um is from eugene that I
I always enjoyed his herb and his herb was always dank. Um, he's a good buddy of mine brent his uh, ig handles finario farms
um, and
I gotta say that in eugene. I feel like we're
Two of the better
you know organic
Growers over the last couple decades there and
I think you know, we're still two brands kicking out of that town still
so
That must have meant something for all those years
Certainly and you raise another good little segue here and that I noticed in some of your crosses you utilize the dog walker
Og which was made by a friend of the show one eye who's also based out of oregon
And it got me wondering do you find there's like networking and friendships within the oregon community
are you friends with one eye for example, or
Yeah, I love rich. He's cool. He's he's cool as shit. Yeah for sure. Rich is a good guy
um, I mean it's a it's a tight scene everyone knows each other i'm not to say everyone gets along with each other because there's
a lot of um
weird jealousies and envies and
You know obtuse perspectives based out of ignorance and all that kind of stuff just like normal humanity, you know
And then and you know how oregon is
um
Everyone thinks they're the best at it and everyone thinks they're the you know
I mean got the best or do the best or whatever, you know
It's a weird weird weird area and they wanted to you know, they want the best for the cheapest. That's oregon, you know
That's like that's all old people buying packs, right
Well, I mean even in the like, you know
any any anywhere
It's like that, you know
Yeah, most people don't even most people don't even know what good is nationally, you know, that's just how it is
I've seen i've seen all the i've seen work herb, you know
I've seen boxes on boxes on boxes and the most exotic hyperb that's like whatever
and it's fucking garbage, so it's like
You know, I don't know what's happening, you know
so you raised an interesting point which I was discussing with a friend a few years back in that
We're at a grower's market in downtown oakland
And he had a jar of headband from bob hemphill and he also had a jar of some wedding cake from someone else
And the the wedding cake it had the look it had the aesthetics
It was frosty, but there was no turps to it. It didn't leave a lasting impression
It was really kind of quite lackluster in a certain regard and yet the headband
It hit you in the face with these loud turps. It was the real cut
It just had everything you wanted from a headband
And yet my friend was saying to me, you know
These jars will sell for the same amount and I thought to myself
How can that be like the headband is clearly head and shoulders above this wedding cake?
And he was saying yeah, but you know the average consumer they're used to that headband smell
They've smelt it over the past 10 years a bunch of times and the wedding cake
It's all the bee's knees and the rage online at the moment
So my question is how do we go about educating the community or the casual enthusiast?
If this is the sort of dynamic we're dealing with at the moment
Well
That's the thing is people are uneducated and they're not going to get educated
because there's only honestly a few places in the world that have cannabis education on um,
you know high level organics or
Culture cannabis culture all that kind of thing. It's pretty slim, you know norcal
from santa cruz to norcal to
Eugene not even portland I would say but eugene. Um
Um, I mean there was a culture that was happening there for a long time
especially before
Weed was legal everywhere, you know
So that culture is something that's not going to happen anymore and only few people have that perspective and understanding
so of course it makes sense why
all this
Everyone doesn't know, you know, how could you think uh, you know a gelato cross?
That's grown with salt that has no turps is better than a good headband, you know
or whatever, you know or a good og or a good, you know, it's just
It's just there's just it's lack of education, you know lack of understanding and lack of perspective. That's just my perspective, you know
Yeah, sure
So I mean
On a different note, what would be some advice for an aspiring breeder?
This is a question we commonly get asked by the fans
How would you recommend someone go about getting their foot into the scene and maybe getting some crosses out there to the masses?
Oh, I don't know I mean I would
I wouldn't I wouldn't suggest people to start breeding to be honest, you know
Like not to make money if they want to breed just for their self and getting getting seeds out there
I think they should just pick whatever intuitively they like the best
whatever they
strive for the most
and
Do that again on the male side blend them and like start just making stuff and giving seeds out and you know
Do whatever they can to get seeds out but not to make money, you know
I wouldn't I wouldn't suggest anyone to get into breeding right now
It's pointless
Yeah, okay, so it's a bit saturated in your opinion
Well, I mean you can imagine some new
Strain person or new breeder that's gonna be new and doesn't have any track record history
You know street cred or any of that trying to make a business out of that. I don't know
Good luck
I don't know and I would I would I just don't suggest it person
I suggest if you want to breed right now just breed for the love of it and
You know, and if you want to do it for the money, then don't
You kind of raise an interesting point which we've discussed a little bit in the past in that
Is it possible for someone to get in the industry now?
Coming to the game so late specifically
I often hear this referenced in regards to like
Vape carts and maybe products which in the past there have been a little bit of shady practices, you know
Is it possible for someone to
Start a company trying to make a product like that or trying to sell cannabis or breed seeds with good intentions
Or is it just simply like the boats left?
I mean, I personally think the boats left but that's just that's just me, you know
I mean if you're
if you got a huge hedge fund and you have unlimited money and you want to throw, you know,
Quarter million half a million at branding and you want to like do it like that. I'm sure you can make it, you know
Because we all understand it's all optics right now, right?
So if you're if you got the money to brand hard and get into those optics, i'm sure you can happen no problem, but
No one that's from the street or no one that's from the industry that's known anything is gonna care
And give you respect. That's just how I see it. But
Yeah, certainly and i'm a tough tough crowd out there, you know
Certainly and on that topic of a sort of changing landscape
I've noticed that the breeding landscape itself is starting to change a bit and we're beginning to see breeders
Like for example jbz
Step away from seed selling as the main avenue and more so looking into licensing their cuts or their sort of cultivations
To different facilities. Do you see this as something which will continue to happen going forward?
And do you think we risk maybe getting to a point where home growers are kind of finding it hard to get good quality seeds if that continues?
Well, I think it's hard already to get quality seeds, I mean i've
I've tested a lot of stuff and the reason i'm i'm doing what i'm doing is because
When I test a lot of gear and try to find good stuff, it's hard for me to find, you know, so
You know
That's just my perspective. So I started doing it myself
You know, that's just my perspective so I started doing it myself and doing what I wanted myself and trying to you know
Make things out of my own intuition and all that. Um
you know, so I think it's pretty hard right now for people to
You know find good seed. Honestly, you know, I think it's hard to find good genetics. I think it's hard to find the truth
You know, it's easy to find
Whatever, but it's hard to find the good stuff. I think you know
Unless you're unless you're working with some
Some good old trusted people, you know
and
You know, those are those are those are in the industry very obvious. They're very easy to find it seems like
um
You know, there's a there's a couple handfuls of really
Quality good people that are breeding and and and they got the they got the credentials to back them most of them
While we're talking about that sort of
You know bigger facilities and working with things like that
Have you ever been to facilities and found certain cultivars that you think really work well in a sort of bigger monocropped?
Environment and if so, which ones would you recommend?
Well, I mean really any any columnar style
you know
Plant is going to do good in a you know, giant sea of green or scaled out row, you know, it's pretty much like uh
low, uh low bractoleaf
ratio, I mean low low, uh leaf to brack ratio and
high testing and you know
medium medium speed growing and
It's it's just a you know
Most of my breeding i'm trying to select for certain things like trimming and these kind of things. So
i'm not trying to grow breed a bunch of leafy stuff that doesn't have a
High cannabinoids, you know
so
um on the scale level though, I think that you know, a lot of the designers trains right now, I mean
There's a reason they're being grown the way they're being grown, you know, they do well in those conditions for sure
I mean all that, you know gelato cookie cross kind of stuff. It's uh
You know grows good in that style
Yeah, I mean you just mentioned that
Some of the traits that you're breeding for being like, you know
Ease of trimming and things like that
If you had to list in general some of the traits that you think are advantageous and you look to have within your projects
What would they be?
um terp profile cannabinoid, um
Cannabinoid production then structure trim ability, you know
Bractoleaf ratio all that kind of stuff are my
Really specifics, you know almost in that order
you know
Terp profile and cannabinoid content. Those are equal for me and then um, they both have to be awesome and then structure
of the plant
trim ability
That goes that's kind of
in that order
really the trim ability and structure equal and you know
Cannabinoid and terp reality are equal to me
They should be taken in account equally. That's just my perspective
Yeah, nice nice list of traits there that you look to work into your lines
I noticed that you did some fems where you reverse the hazy cush onto some other females
What sort of results did you find from these crosses and did you find that the hazy cush was kind of dominating?
Or a bit more passive and let the other strain shine through
They're right in the middle of testing right now. I think i'm about five five five five six weeks in flowering right now. So
It's all starting to show
Are there any that have sort of caught your eye early on or still yet to be seen?
There's quite a few what was sad as I reversed the luke skywalker og
Um, and I crossed it by the purple hindu kush thinking I was gonna make this, you know, make the infamous epic purple og
Instead I got a bunch of herms
Like everyone almost hermed out of it I was like, whoa
So anyway
Yeah, right, I guess there's something within those two that just don't compute but on that topic
Do you think that breeding with mothers that come from fem seeds or even s1s?
Are more likely to make the offspring unstable?
I mean, I think it has that potential for sure everything everything where the potential is there is going to give that um,
Give that expression in some way or another
Sure, and a sort of hypothetical question i've been asking guests lately is this
Let's just say you made a strain and it's producing
The most amazing progeny you've ever seen like without fail the best you've ever seen but the catch is
There's like 40 hermes in the line
Would you at that point think you know, I just got an 86 this project or do you think you know?
I'd release it. I just warn people what to you is an acceptable limit of hermes if it was a really fire strain
Um, I don't know I wouldn't release it if it was herming that's just me
Yeah, sure
I just that's just I just don't want people to experience that
I don't I don't think people are up to par in their cultivation skills enough to catch it
So I don't want to put that on them
Um, I wouldn't want to be responsible for that
Sure, sure
I mean if I were to have something and 40 of them would be hermed just like this lsog where 80 of them were hermed
With the purple hindu kush. I think two of them weren't
So i'm just i'm growing those two out still, you know, i'm hoping they're going to be really sick clones, you know
Like clone only elites or something, you know
So they're not going to get released but they're going to be in the in-house
Yeah, okay. Sure. So maybe like the middle ground is if you find a stable clone release the clone
Yeah, if you're to you know
cool, okay, so something which caught my eye on your website was that
You have a nice write-up about the platinum girl scout cookies and you kind of talk about how that's the girl scout cookies you commonly
Use and it got me wondering what is it about the platinum that really draws you towards it as opposed to the myriad of other?
cookie cuts
well, I mean the reason I just
I'm, i'm i'm using that cookies cut is because it was the first cookies cut, you know, so
And you know, I just got it as girl scout cookie. I just I just called it platinum, you know
Um because it was there's a bunch of different cook cookie cuts going around but my friend gave me that cut right when cookies came
out and um
his name's alec dixon and he owns sc labs and
You know, he got that cut from the boys right when it right when I started going around he gave it to me. So
That's that cut so I just called it the platinum, but it's I think it's just the original girl scout to be honest
Okay, and are there any traits about that one which you think make it sort of stand a little bit ahead of the others?
Yeah, the tricone production the vigor the
um
The smell the funkiness of it. It's just like just rank it was like rank skunk fuel and cookies, you know, so it was like
It was like that smell plus it was just stronger than the other ones that i've seen, you know
So and I noticed that you had done a cross of it with the illusion og which I believe is a strain from compound genetics
What was the story on that cross and what drawed you towards the illusion og to use that as a male
Well, just as a genetic profile and from my understanding. It's um, why is genetics? Um
Jeff, you know, jeff was the main breeder for compound before that debacle happened
and um, you know from my understanding jeff from yeast was the one doing all the breeding and doing all the
phenol hunting and doing all the selecting and throwing all the pollen and collecting all the genetics and all that so
um, so anyway, um
So that was actually from um from from from why east from jeff from why east here
so yeah, even though
you know, there's you know, there's always lots of controversy with this kind of thing, but
For me, it's the person that collected the genetics through the pollen and grew it in their house is the owner
so
All that points to why east
Sure credit credit to why east I wouldn't want to not give you credit where credit's true
well, I mean, it's just it's uh, it's just you know, how it is this this this game where people break up and you know
Leave people off the trademark apps and do different things and try to steal different things and do different things. It's an interesting industry, you know
yeah, yeah, I think it was james bean who mentioned to me the other week that uh
As far as he can recall swamp boys are the only sort of breeding duo that have managed to stand the test of time
And I think he might be right
Yeah, I don't really know but I think they're still friends, right?
You know, that's it that's it that's what they're still they're still together so I don't think uh, it's pretty rare
Yeah, certainly. So yeah, I mean shout out to jeff for making that one
Was there anything about the illusion og that drew to it? I think you did you just say it was the traits of it?
Like what were they?
I mean
the the the ogs and cams all up in it just kind of what what uh,
Why why I use it to be honest, you know, that's just those are my
Those are my those are my fave some of those things, you know, so
I just
Wanted to use it, you know, um
And there were some um
The reasons I did it too, you know what I mean? I was pretty unhappy with what happened on um
With that whole breakup just not that it's none of my business, but you know
I've just been treated like that from other people. So
you know
the ghost og skywalker og sfv
Cam dog sour it's like those are all my favorites. So it's just like yeah, i'll use this
And so when I talked to jeff, I I talked to him. I said hey jeff, man. What's up? I said I said I got this
Um from chris, uh, but who who did this, you know who grew who grew this who grew this he said I did I said
Where did who selected the strains who selected the cuts who who grounded up the genetics? He said I did
I said where was it grown? He's all grown in my house my garage. I said who threw the pollen? He's well I did
So, you know, those are enough. I did to me, you know
Yeah, and I know so I just you know what I mean
Yeah
I just gave credit to where credit was due in my opinion, but that's just my opinion. It could be wrong too
So i'm not saying i'm, right
I'm, just saying that's the reason I did it
Yeah
So I mean on a similar sort of note
I've noticed that you know your sort of friendship and collaborative network is very expansive and it got me thinking
You would definitely have access to a just a you know
Plethora of strains which you know, many people could only dream of getting and it got me wondering
Can we ever expect to see any sort of old school meets new school strains from your work?
Maybe the likes of like a land race cross to one of your males like a malawi or an akapuku gold
I think for some reason in my head it just
I just sort of expected to see something like that and it got me wondering well, maybe maybe it's in the works or it's yet
To happen. What's your thoughts?
Yeah, my my friend. Um
Bob, he gave me some genetics
he's gonna give them to me again because some of them didn't make the make the make the journey, but um,
you know, there was some land race stuff that I was gonna collab with him and you know, and vice versa and
So yeah, there's that's that's in the works too for sure. I got some stuff from um
you know
There's yeah, it's in the works for sure. I'm just kind of um
Honestly a lot of i'm not
A lot of my stuff i'm making i'm trying to make stuff that i'm going to be like, oh i'm so psyched on
i'm actually not
that's kind of selfish, but
i'm not really breeding for
You know i'm breeding for everyone else meaning i'm going to be the one to select it through my own intuition
But then i'm just assuming other people will like it because i'm hard-headed in the in the um tolerance level, you know
so yeah, no, I think that's a common sense that we've heard from guests on the show is that they
Tend to breed for themselves and you know, the the crowd's favor tends to follow that
sick
Something I wanted to ask you about because I thought it was kind of cool in a way was the mystery cush
I liked that in the sense that
I felt like it was sort of a misnomer of a name because you you obviously know what it's made of you made it
Um, what was the story around that one? And why did you decide to give it the name?
You know the mystery when you know, it's it's made from hazy cush
Well, like I was saying I didn't know actually which one which what the male was
I had to see but I didn't I didn't actually wasn't positive, you know
Until I tested it all so that's why it was mystery, but i'm like man, it smells just like this hazy
Kush, I'm just smelling the mystery haze, you know, and then when I found out it wasn't a mystery anymore
It was obviously it was it was obvious, you know
Sure, and how would that one differ if someone was kind of toying between getting those two?
How would you describe the differences?
Um, I mean the hazy kush is much more complex. Um
To me much more desirable
um
but the look and the appearance of the mystery is just so
You know desirable on that end
I don't actually don't like the high of the mystery that much personally. Um comparatively to the hazy kush is one of my favorites
Sure
So I noticed on your website that it's kind of geared a little bit more towards what I felt was sort of like a
Management or sort of consulting role for potential clientele
Is that something you hope to get into in the future in terms of like helping facilities with their cultivar selection and whatnot?
And where do you see yourself in the future in the industry?
Oh, well, that's a big part of our future to be honest because you know, we've created the conditions
We're working on this new light. That's basically, um
You know i've tested a lot of leds in the industry now and this one pretty much crushes all of them to pieces
there's not even a comparison and it's got a pathogen preventative, um
On it too. So it's
I mean it's on another level. So i'm really excited to release that
um, and then we're going to release that with a full spectrum of
you know
consulting
Genetics the whole bit and we're we're positioned pretty heavily to do that with our partners and with our group
so
We were just being patient hitting it at the right time hitting it at the right moment and in the right way
Do you see a day where maybe green body genetics are?
A little more rare and harder to find because you're sort of more wrapped up in that side of things
Or do you hope to sort of be able to offer both?
Well, i'm hoping to offer both because I think they go hand in hand and as the markets come on and international markets come on
You know, there's going to be a lot of things happening
We got a lot of stuff working in jamaica right now with some partners and
We got a lot of stuff getting ready to start happening that we're going to start
Potentially doing some international seed distribution and yet either out of there or out of canada
We're gonna you know, it's like there's a lot of stuff getting ready to start happening. So we're really excited about all of it
That's that's awesome to hear and sort of exciting stuff
something which i've been talking to a lot of guests about recently is
There seems to be a bit of like a cognitive dissonance that like if it's in a fancy package
You know sort of reflective mylar bag that it's got to be the highest quality
Do you think that people will ever maybe learn to dissociate the packaging from the actual contents?
Or do you think that's just marketing and you got to roll with it?
Well, I think it's both, you know, we understand how marketing is right now, you know, you look at alcohol how things are packaged
It's you know, it makes a difference, you know, you look at even the cbd lines and cvs or any like these
You know these stores, you know, it's the one the packaging is what's selling it. It's not the product, you know
They're all the same product. So if something says charlotte's web on it versus something says something it's going to sell more, you know
Yeah, sure. I mean we see that cookies is continuing to expand and release more and more product onto the market
Notably, they've been outsourcing some of their crops to other producers and we've seen the odd issue with quality control
Do you think that these companies might risk sort of shooting themselves in the foot by
Trying to sell an inferior quality product or do you think that their fans are sort of loyal to the brand and not necessarily the product?
Well, I think cookies is a unique brand in that context because there's a lot of brand loyalty and you know
It doesn't matter what they put in the bag. It's gonna you know
The people are going to buy it because the branding they pretty much crushed the branding reality, you know, they did really well
um and
You know and they're good guys, you know
So like a lot of people have a lot of stuff to say about them, but they don't know these people, you know
Um, you know, they're good guys. So that's i've met them. They're good people, you know, they're cool, you know, so
um, they might have had some hurdles with some different genetics or different seed sales or different this that and the other but
You know from what i'm seeing their branding level and what they're trying to do in the industry is pretty professional and every which way so
You know, I don't know it seems like a bunch of envy more than anything if people are crushing it
You're gonna have haters and that's a big sign. You're crushing it, too, you know
um, so
You know, I mean we we have some we have some stuff in in the future with cookies and stuff too so
Um, I think people should be excited about that more than anything that's happening now, you know
Once we start throwing, you know, golden pineapple to georgia pie and stuff like that
you know
Putting putting our twist on these things. I think that's when people should start getting really excited. But you know, maybe i'm just
self-centered in that perspective
Wow, that that's really exciting to hear that you've got that sort of collaboration down the pipeline
I know that you've done collaborations in the past. Are they the sort of thing that you want to pursue more going forward?
Yeah, collaborations are fun. A lot of stuff happens and it's good branding, you know
it's um, so
all those all those conditions are kind of the
The conditions, you know, I like it
Sure, and I know that i've heard a bit recently about a collaboration you have with mass medical strains where can people
Find those seeds or when can they expect to be able to get them if they're after them and what sort of plants?
Do you feel those crosses offer?
Well, well-grown seeds is going to be one of the big the big hubs for that those co-labs well-grown seeds cool beans
you know, so
yeah, I mean, you know mass is mass is a cool kid, you know, and a lot of people have um,
You know, well not a lot of people there's been specific few people that have tried to bully the kid
And that's one of the reasons I um, I jumped on you know, because I don't like bullies
You know and when I was younger I used to like beat up bullies, you know
So now i'll just make fun of them on instagram instead, you know for being bullies, you know for bullying a kid. That's
you know
Trying to do good things and he's a good guy, you know
And he doesn't he didn't do the things that these people are saying he did so I wanted to make a you know
Make it known and that's the reason i'm collabing with him is because I don't like people bullying kids, you know
It's not it's not cool. So
um, you know, I think the collaboration between us and what we're doing and the the
The the strains coming out are going to be quite unique, you know, um
very colorful
um
Obviously rich in terps on a multitude of levels
and they're just gonna be good vibe seeds, you know where people are just trying to do good things and
you know help people and do good stuff and
That's kind of um, you know
A lot of those things are going to be really neat coming out of those crosses. I think you know, just the color the color really
he's
he's he's good at bringing in that color and I think the combo with the
With with our strength and high octane profiles with his um,
You know color and terp realities are going to are going to make some cool combos, you know
Yeah, that's that's exciting to hear that the uh, the crosses are offering such, you know desirable characteristics
something which I heard
Interestingly sort of mentioned and I specifically wanted to ask you about this was that someone said to me
Oh, you know the the reason why he decided to not retire and come back was because green bode convinced him not to
That's true
Uh
Another bit of speculation that i've seen from numerous sources was that he came back for more or less financial reasons
You know regardless of whether that's true or not is not really what i'm interested in
More so what i'm interested in is this idea of the ethics behind breeders releasing seeds for profit intentionally
Every breeder is selling their seeds to pay the bills. Like why why is that like a point of contention?
Do you feel like at times people just pick points to criticize because they've just got a bone to pick like, you know
people sell seeds for
500 a pack and people don't really get as up in arms as about you and mass medical selling some seeds
For what's arguably probably a much more reasonable price
Do you think that there is this sort of vitriol in the community?
Oh for sure for sure, you know, it's like mass will sell out a drop in like one day, you know
So, of course that makes these old breeders that can't sell their seeds mad and jealous and envious, right?
I mean just uh, I could I can go on for days about this kind of topic but um
So, yeah, no, um mass was just um
you know
He was getting sick of it, you know
He's getting sick of people just hating on him and for no reason really, you know
Like because even the the reasons that were given to me by the person stirring up the pot the most
You know, he told me he screwed over bode. This person told me that mass screwed over bode seeds, you know, so I asked him
I said hey, bro. What's up? Is this true? He's all no, that's not true
I would never put myself in a position to be screwed over. That's what
Bodhi told me and I said, thank you
And then so then I said, oh these guys are full of it and you know what they kept trying to they kept trying to
Because this guy, you know mass is um, you know, he he was um
Doing this fingerboarding thing when he was younger and he started a company who was selling like fingerboards and stuff
And they kept trying to like pick on him for that, you know
Oh, he's this person. He's that person. He's that it's like
So what you know, really you guys care that much about this kid, you know, like what's your problem, you know?
And then it seemed like everyone was bullying him. So I just was like, oh, yeah
Well, you try and bully me then, you know, so then I jumped on
Jumped on board with him, you know
So if everyone wants to bully then they can bully him. They can bully me, you know
That's kind of why I did this, you know, and if anyone wants to bully
Him or anyone wants to be that kind of guy
well, i'm down to go to my jits gym and we can have a you know, live ig like
Jits battle in the gym and you know
We'll see then, you know, who's a bully, you know, I don't I don't I'm not a fan of people picking on kids
You know, i'm not a fan of people picking on each other, you know, that's that's bs, you know
So if you want to pick on people then you can pick on people that are that are that will welcome it, you know
In front of everybody, you know
And so I made those, you know, I made that very clear in the industry that i'm, you know
willing to
Do whatever
You know and then seemed like everyone just got kind of quiet then for some reason
So it worked. Yeah, I definitely have seen a lot of what you mentioned there, which is really interesting and
It kind of raised this broader idea which I really disagreed with which was that
With that fingerboarding comment in mind people were like, you know
He's had this successful company in the past and he's just coming to the cannabis scene to make money and it made me think
Like is it not possible to have been successful in another business endeavor and then come to the cannabis scene?
Because as far as I could tell that was what was going on
But people tried to make it out as though like well because you have this successful business in another industry
You're definitely here just to sell out
I mean who cares what?
People think for one
I know for sure that mass is in it for the right reasons, you know
And of course he's gonna do it and make money too because that's just normal, you know, it's not bad
Your intention is what makes it bad, you know, if you're doing it just to make money then that's not the best, you know
But that's not what he's doing it for i've talked to him for hours and hours and hours and you know
We go back to that thing where someone said oh green boat. He got him to you know, get back into the industry
Well, I did I told him that he shouldn't have jumped out. It makes him look bad and he's he's innocent
He didn't do anything wrong, you know
There's not one thing he did wrong. Not one, you know
no one's been able to prove anything and they just try to pick on him for this finger boarding thing and it's like dude you
guys
Sound like those bullies that i'd like to like knock out, you know for picking on my friends, you know, like
Stop, you know
And I mean that's that's how this whole sale hatin thing came in, you know, it's because it's basically that's a strain
That's a collab strain the hazy kush with the putang is sale hatin
and the reason it came about was because I got tagged into um, because someone was like
Well, this green boat is working with mass and you know, this this dude hates mass, you know
and so they tagged me into his page and I said, ah
I said, I don't know all this bickering and all this. Um this uh
Gossiping is above my pay grade. I said, you know, and I said by the way
I said who cares anyway about what I think, you know, I said my seeds suck my genetics suck
My weed sucks. Don't buy it, you know
I said i'm the fucking devil actually
And then um, that's all the only time I commented towards all this
And then someone commented a few a few a few uh comments down and said sale hatin
And I was like, what are they like making fun of me? I didn't even understand what the fuck it meant, you know
I'm like sale hatin sale hatin. Oh, I it took me a while to get it, you know
I was like is sale something I thought it was some type of new millennium term, you know
It's how slow I am sometimes it's these kind of things, you know
Some things i'm not slow at this type of thing. I was kind of slow at this moment, you know
And then I was finally looking it up and I was like, ah
It took me and then I laughed so fucking hard
So then that's what we started this sale hatin strain because of that one thing, you know
And then so basically I did this sale hatin strain did a shirt of this like buddha image and then this raffled 80 image like a
half and half and they release
You know release shirts and then you know
We all have our techniques of trolling people, you know
so
Um, that was my technique, you know
We'll just create a strain. We'll create shirts, you know
We'll do our own way if you want to pick on people then we'll just make fun of you for being a bully instead in
Our own way, you know
But for me, I don't like bullies so if someone wants to bully someone then, you know, i'm probably gonna
you know
Try to make them
Feel like they shouldn't do that anymore. It's like people are so uptight right now
It's like come on lighten up a little bit, you know, just just like help someone, you know
That's why i'm doing this well thing, you know
um
i'm doing this, uh, these uh
These wells in india around the city of budhgaya, you know
Because it's like man everyone's so like uptight and i'm so pent up and about something like hey
Why don't you guys just help someone?
You know instead of like putting your energy on focusing on your illusory aspects of your mind that creates suffering
Why don't you just put that energy out and help someone, you know?
It feels good. You help somebody, you know
It's like so here's an opportunity
You can help somebody, you know, it's really cheap. So it's like
anyway
i'm, kind of like that kind of guy that likes to
Play these kind of games, you know
um
You know by entangling lots of people up putting wells into you know
Poor villages in india that they don't have water, you know
What a perfect segue because I did want to ask you about the uh, the well project
I had written down as the the pump project. How did this all get started?
Well, um, you know first time I went to india was in 2011
Um to receive a kalashakra initiation in budhgaya from his holiness the daya lama
Um, but first I went to dharmasala
um
And you know went to his monastery there received chakras and bhara empowerment there then went to budhgaya
So I met these two boys in a budhgaya, you know, and they're the classic
They just wanted to take you around and you know, you know how to make money off a westerner and I told them I said
Hey, man
I'm, not that kind of westerner. I don't need help. I don't need anything
But if you want to hang out and you want to hang with me and go to all these cool places
I'll take you we can have we can be friends. I'll you know, it'll be cool. You know, we can develop a friendship
So then every year after that I you know, whenever I come to india go to budhgaya we hang out we stayed in contact
You know now 10 years later, you know
um
And I always told him I said man try to find something to do there, you know, like let's do something, you know
And then they come with this idea. Hey, maybe we should do this. Well, you know this one hand pump
Well, you know I said well you tell me how much it cost show me all the you know
Labor costs all the pipe cost the hand pump cost
Show me the village where you're gonna do it and you show me say hey john. This is where we're gonna put the village
Hey john, here's the this. Hey john do that. So I just you know
Made them do step by step
And then we did a well, you know
And we did it and put a well in there and then I posted on instagram, you know, and I said
Hey, maybe you guys instead of um blowing your uh, you know, covid, uh check on something you blow it on this, you know
That helps some people, you know
And it kind of went viral, you know now we put in I think eight or nine of them eight of them
I'm, not really sure. Um, and I have um funds for like
15 20 I think waiting now in line to do it, you know
And these you can understand how india is india's caste system
So these are the lowest caste in the world, you know poorest poorest state in india poorest
Country in the world poorest state in that country or you know in that area
Poorest the bahara region is the poorest region of india and these are the poorest people of this region
You know, they they call them untouchables lowest caste, you know, and this caste system there
So they don't even have it's all surface level water. They don't have underground water. They don't have water, you know
so
Um to be able to offer, you know, these people water like this
It's just something very simple
But you know you can see by the images on these people's faces and everything how happy they are to have water from underground
River, you know
And this is very simple, you know seven hundred dollars to do a hand pump well from start to finish, you know
Concrete pad everything little you know, so they have a little hand pump well there, you know, so they have fresh water now
So people just don't understand, you know, what kind of um impact that can put on a community, you know
Imagine, you know now all these villages that were so poor don't have fresh water probably using bottled plastic water
Whatever probably just whatever
Now they have fresh water from underground river, you know, um, you know, maybe 50 100 persons in each village, you know, so it's like
Yeah, I don't know
I like to do this kind of thing feels cool. I like to involve lots of people to this kind of thing because
you know
from a buddhist perspective
um, since we're doing this project then anyone that's
Growing our strains buying our seeds buying our herb growing our herb
Anyone that's offering any type of money is towards our projects in any way from buying whatever selling anything
from a buddhist perspective
They're generating good karma because we're doing these projects and we're helping as well in as a dhai lamas monastery
We're helping all these things with our you know
With our philanthropic work and finances and things like that. So then anyone that's a part of our
Momentum is also from a buddhist perspective generating those good karmas they say, you know
Um, so yeah
It's just fun fun kind of stuff to do
Yeah, what a fantastic sort of charity or karma or paying it forward whoever you want to put it very noble indeed
How can people get in contact with you and or sort of?
Donate some money themselves if they were hoping to help out with that
They just hit up my dm on instagram and then I just send them to the venmo and we do the whole thing
You know, it's like very simple, you know each well two will do step by step
You can see the wells that we've done. You know, the first one is usually them saying hi
So and so here's where the well is going when the guys, you know, and so we're trying to show that like hey
This is happening each time. It's fresh. It's not some fake thing. It's like here's all the proof
You know here and everyone likes that, you know, so it's very simple, you know, they just hit up the dm on instagram green bodhi
Say hey, I want to get involved in one of these wells and i'll say okay. This is what's up
And here's how you do it and they say okay boom boom boom and then they get in line
You know, like I said, I have I think 18 people in line right now
Already paid for wells and they're just you know, they're waiting their turn to get them get done, you know
Yeah, that's really awesome. Are you planning to do any other sort of projects? Maybe not wells but
Similar sorts of thing or do you think there's just still a lot of work to be done with getting the pumps in?
Well, I mean I had um his holiness the dhaya lama had um given 34 kala chakra initiations and the last one was in budhgaya
So I wanted to do 34 wells. First. I want to do 21 wells because in buddhist practices, there's a
Tara practice called 21 taras. There's actually 21 of these um tara
deities that are you know represent long life or
You know wealthy, you know healthy
You know healthy
All these different aspects of well-being and fortune in the sense of health fortune wealth fortune all these things
They call them tara, you know, it's a tara and there's 21 of these taras
So I was gonna do 21, but then i'm like no we're gonna do that really easy. We'll do 34
You know, so maybe we do 100 who knows as many villages as we can we'll put them in there
Maybe do something else saying i'm sure there'll be some other type of project that comes up right after this. I'm sure but you know
um
It's only as the dhaya lama's library museum projects getting breaking around on may so
I'm, I potentially will do something for that also, you know
again
Sure, and do you hope that this sort of arms giving
Will continue in the community long term like after the 34 wells are done. Do you have any?
Projects in mind for going forward or do you think like at that point? Hopefully there's enough momentum that people continue it on themselves
Well, I don't know I mean i'll keep this going as long as I can, you know
Um, I won't I won't stop as long as people keep giving me money to do these wells
I'll find a place to put it in in india
And that's just how it goes. Um
For sure, there'll be other projects and to do right after this because that's just how it goes
You know, there's always something to do to help people, you know
There's never there's never an end to that in this world right now
Yeah, sure
So kind of on that idea of paying it forward a bit
I noticed that recently you've done some cbd work, which is kind of not as popular with the mainstream
It's often viewed as sort of a more medicinal endeavor. What are your thoughts on the cbd market?
Um, well, it's pretty open right now, so
You know, we're going to get involved in it just because it's we should but um, you know
I like it for what it is. It created a good avenue to help everyone
Be more familiar and make it more acceptable
But you know, i'm not i'm not so much of a fan of the cbd scene. I like cbd and thc together personally
so
Yeah, okay. Sure and I see a lot of people
Discussing how it's really important to know where you're getting your cbd from these days and I guess it's sort of especially pertinent
Given we're seeing a lot of cbd come in from the mainstream
We're seeing a lot of cbd come in from various markets around the world international places like china often get referenced
Do you think that most cbd is of good quality or it really does matter where you're getting it from?
I think it matters where you're getting it from
Me personally, I like cannabis derived cbd better personally because it has you know, I I have a strain acdc
That's my favorite cbd to be honest and that's got thc in it. Um
So I mean i'm a fan, um, but i'm more of a fan of thc personally it gives me more medicinal value
Sure and I guess an extension of when you referenced
Um cannabis derived cbd we've heard a lot of discussion recently around cannabis derived terpenes particularly in reference to the vape market
where a lot of sort of
terpenes extracted from
Various fruits and other natural sort of products can come into play or even synthetic terpenes
Do you take the same do you take the same stance with that in that cannabis derived terpenes are superior?
Yes, if it's used for cannabis
Um, but i'm not really a fan of putting other terpenes into cannabis because we don't know, you know, like we do know that cannabis
um, you know medicinally
If you get limonene from cannabis
It's going to be at a certain range. You're not going to you know
But if you're getting limonene from lemons and then you introduce that into cannabis, is that safe? I don't really know
So I wouldn't want to say, you know
Sure, and I guess a more focal point of discussion more recently has been crc which seems to have really sort of
I don't even know what that is, but it sounds like garbage. You know, I mean from what it sounds like people explain to me
i'm like whoa
Not really. Yeah, I guess it's sort of like the uh, the the black resin you'd get out of the stem of a bong
but it's the equivalent of what you get out of like a dab rig sort of thing and
there's been a lot of uh
Sort of I don't want to say evolutions because I don't want to promote it as a good term
But people have basically learned how to process this in such a way that it makes it appear sort of more clean
do you think that it's highlighting the idea that
You know people are going to any length to make a market like I can't help but feel like this idea of
People often push this idea of how you know, you got to just trap hard to make a living
Do you think this is like the next logical step of that where people are literally polishing a turd?
Well, I don't think there's a logical
Format in this but I do think it's a you know an avenue to make money and that they're taking advantage of
logic, you know
Um, i'm not a fan of turning shit into good gold, you know, that's not something that i've ever been a proponent of you know
i'm
Like you get really high-end
Herb and then you can make really high-end water hash with it. That's kind of where i'm at, you know
Yeah, so I mean on that all these other avenues all these other avenues are out of my league, you know
So you you brought it up yourself water hash is this your favorite sort of concentrate
For sure 100%
And why do you think it is that we just have really seen a sharp falling off of it even amongst the connoisseurs?
It's just so hard to find
Well people can't make it because they don't have a quality product to start with
So it's like if you don't have a quality product to start with you're not going to make a quality product
And it takes work and effort and love, you know, and that's something that's lacking in our industry these days, you know
Why not just like cut your weed down freeze it fresh?
Put a hydrocarbon to it and make it make make a wax or make a diamonds or make a whatever
That's what people think's cool, right?
um, just not people that know, you know, I just
I haven't found anyone yet. That's like oh man
I'd much rather have that bho than this like really high-end low temp slow pressed rosin
You know some really good hash, you know, I just haven't found that yet
So something we haven't mentioned which I wanted to ask you about was you reference phylos earlier and i'm wondering
Do you think that sort of the scientific and genetic testing is going to lead the way in terms of male selection going forward?
Or do you think that the breeders hunch is still going to reign supreme?
Well, I think intuition and plant relation always run supreme personally. That's just my opinion, you know
I don't think these squares that are like jumping into the labs and kind of going to play overlord are going to do jack, you know
I mean look at how look at how well it did for him now, you know, I think they let go of mowgli, right and
Whatever and like, you know, that's just a joke, you know, everyone it's it is what it is, you know
So i've seen on your instagram that you've worked with some tissue culturing facilities
And i'm just sort of wondering what sort of improvements can we as a community hope to achieve from the utilization of this technology long-term
I think it's gonna um
Um, it's going to change the industry heavily, you know because
To offer that consistency
Across the board. You just can't do that in seed. You just can't you know, you can do that in tissue culture. You can get
Acres and acres all to be the same height you can
Get acres and acres to be pathogen pest free. You can do all this stuff
It's the future in my opinion
But you know because often we hear about hoplite and virus and things like that
Have you seen strains that have been able to be successfully cleaned with this process?
Not personally, but I when I had hoplite in years back when i'm darkheart nursery was giving it out to everybody before anyone knew what it was, you know
um
I got it from them and then I it took me two or three years to call out of my garden, you know
And I just did it through sight and through you know
Knowing what to look for and I didn't even we didn't even know it was called hoplite
And you know, it wasn't called hoplite and then it was not even called dudding then we didn't even know what the fuck it was
You know
Thought it was some like tobacco mosaic or something, you know
So anyway, yeah
I don't know. I mean I called it out of all my gardens. We don't have it in there anymore. So yeah, wow
I did that just just personally, you know
And how did how did you achieve that?
I think I heard bob hemphill in the past say that you can outgrow it
Is that kind of what you did like where you would yeah, please explain
So basically you take the best cuts and you keep taking the best cuts growing them in the best conditions
Growing them in the best conditions and you you basically outgrow the hoplite and you basically take new good cuts
You propagate those you grow them out you take new good cuts and then you just basically cull it out, you know
Eliminating anything, you know any time any sign that I saw of that I would throw the soil pot and plant away completely
Yeah, wow, that's cool to hear that you were able to get rid of it
Yeah
Didn't even know what it was then
I just know I didn't like it
And neither did the plant
So on to one of our final questions before we jump into the fast fire ones at the end
I've been asking a lot of guests recently if they have any concern about the possibility of there being genetically modified cannabis
specifically in the sense that maybe it's modified such that
It grows at a very uniform height or the the levels are very consistent in terms of cannabinoids so that it you know
It doesn't test hot or there's at least consistency
Do you think that's something to fear?
Not really
Honestly, I mean
Uh
I don't know like in the industry
I'm, not fearing much in these kind of contexts because everything's going to play itself out. Um, I just I guess that's that's something
not something that can really uh
You know speak on too much to be honest, I don't think it's uh something to worry about
Yeah, sure
so
on to our final
Quick fire questions, which we love to ask all breeders to kind of get their perspective on a few different things
The first question is what is the most memorable cannabis you've ever consumed
I mean, I had some maui waui when I was a kid and man I was high for like seven hours
there's some hydro weed, you know, like grown from
Oregon, I think and
I don't know that put a high on me like nothing else really. It was it was interesting
um
Other than that, I don't have a lot of memorable
Moments, you know, it was like the first time I smoked chronic, you know, it was like it made it it made an impact
That was that maui waui is growing hydro, you know
Yeah, that's interesting
so on the other end of the spectrum were there ever a specific strain that comes to mind when
Maybe a lot of your friends or colleagues were just really hyped about it loving it
And then you finally got a chance to try it and you were left a bit unimpressed
Oh, yeah, that's happened a lot
Honestly multiple times. I can't even fix I can't even explain
Definitely happened quite a few times
Sort of the more new stuff or the older stuff
Um both, you know, i've had some landrace stuff from people that are like, oh man, it's so good and you're like, okay, whatever
Um, and then some of those newer things you're like, oh man, this is the best and you're like nah
but then you do you know, like
Then I had some la kush cake that was really good
You know when I had some of this other strain that wasn't that good, you know, so it's I think it's like
each person
You know
Each person each grower all that. It's all it all comes into play there, you know
Yeah, certainly so
Let's give a desert island situation
I'm going to drop you off on a desert island and you can cultivate three strains for the rest of time
Which three are you going to take with you?
Wow
Um, there was this big sir, holy strain that was out of eugene that I first started growing that I would take that one
I would take the um purple hindu kush that I just got from sir. Bob hemphill and I would also
A good og or sour best shit ever I think I think that was those three i'd probably be good
honestly
Nice a solid selection there. So on the other end of the spectrum
Let's just say you were going to drop someone off to the island who you're not particularly fond of and you get to choose
Which three strains they're left with which ones are you going to give?
Well, I think i'd even if I wasn't fond of them
I'd probably want them to have the strains that I just picked because i'd want them to evolve their mind, you know
because maybe if I didn't I wasn't fond on them because they were like
You know the way they thought or something
I don't know. Um, if I wanted to stick someone with some bunk strains basically
Is that what you meant? Yeah. Yeah, whatever you want. I'm happy to accept the diplomatic
Give them a blue dream man
um blueberry
Blue dream and uh, I don't know. What would be another one imitator pretend to constrain purple punch. No, I don't know
What
Blackberry sorry, I like purple punch better blackberry cush
Blackberry cush was a good strain to stick someone you don't like but
There you go. There you go. Okay, so
uh
Final question for our interview today
If you could go back in time to any place anywhere in history and collect some seeds
Where would you go and what would you collect?
Wow
Well, i'd have to go back in time to you know, the tibetan plateau and try to like find some of those um, you know
root
Starter strains from way back thousands and thousands and thousands years ago, you know, that'd be one, you know
Wouldn't mind. Um, you know going to nepal try to find something there. I don't know, you know
literally
Trying to find some of that source stuff give that source feeling, you know
Go to africa, maybe go down to southern africa somewhere
Find some durban or something. I don't know really
So that was what came to my top of my head I guess, you know those three three regions south africa nepal tibetan plateau
Yeah, fantastic. What what nice old world sort of selections?
So I think that pretty much brings us to the end of things. Were there any shout outs or comments you wanted to make?
No, I really appreciate the opportunity and like this was fun. That was um, kind of
Yeah
really really stoked on this and really i'm excited about this and
hope it offers people a little bit of perspective and really just want to um,
Say thank you to even offer me the opportunity really grateful. You know, I do know that. Um,
you know bode said he wanted to do a uh,
A um kind of add-on to this at one point so I think everyone can look forward to
me and him doing a
little duo, um
Collab podcast here. So that's going to come in the future. I do know that because
he was wanting to do that so
I think this was the pilot to that and I think we're going to come on together and you know
Have a bunch of laughs one day too. So that might be pretty soon
Yeah, awesome. I mean sounds like we're gonna have an epic time with the uh, the bode thunderdome situation
That's sick
But yeah, I mean outside of that
Thank you
So so much for coming on and giving us the lowdown on uh, you like your genetics
Some some history some culture some buddhism and your plans for the future. It's been fantastic
I really appreciate it and i'm really grateful and thank you so much. It's been an honor
So
There you have it gang, what do you think
Huge shout out to john of green bodie genetics for coming on the show and sharing all his knowledge and thoughts
Likewise a huge thank you to our amazing sponsors you guys help make the show happen and we're so extremely grateful
Seeds here now number one seed bank in the game all the hottest breeders all the precious drops all the most fire strains
You know, you love them. Why would you go with somewhere else?
And I want to know at the end of a harvest if i'm not happy they're gonna look after me
But how do you know you've done the crop justice? Well simple gotta check out our other two sponsors
Coppert biological systems the number one spot to grab all the best beneficial predators
Beneficial feeds and microbe powders to make your crop happy healthy and huge success
Check out the spike or ultimite if you got mites and finally check out the apapar m for apis
You know, you want your crop to be as happy and healthy as possible
Why not get the beneficial troops on standby instead of waiting before there's a war at hand already?
Likewise
You know, they've been in the industry forever, but did you know they've got an awesome mycorrhizal product called from mix connect
Go check it out helps facilitate better nutrient uptake water uptake stress resistance short of vegetative time
Heck we've had jeff lowenfeld on the show before you've heard it. You know, how good mycorrhiza is
Why don't you get the best mycorrhiza product on the market from mix connect?
Better density better resin density stronger aroma more consistent results. What more do you want guys?
And last but not least a huge huge thank you to the one and only patreon gang
Truly a family and the lifeblood of the show ensuring episodes continue to happen
If you like the show and want to get access to early content unheard interviews little extra episodes as well as giveaways
Bonuses and so much more. Please go check out
www.patreon.com forward slash the podcast
I think that just about brings us to the end of it gang. Thanks for sticking around. I appreciate you so much as always
I'll catch you on the flippity-flop
Check that hitter
You
I'll see you
