Hello and welcome to the next episode of The Podcast, a cannabis podcast for budding enthusiasts.
You're joined as always by your boy Heavy Days here from the Upside Down Library.
And as always, this episode could not happen without the amazing support of our sponsors,
Seeds Here Now.
Number one seed bank in the game, guarantee on satisfaction, not just germination.
Why grow anything else?
You might be unhappy at the end.
Go to Seeds Here Now, they promise you'll be stoked at the end.
They only stock quality breeders and if you're not, hit them up.
They'll sort you out with some new seeds.
What more could you ask for?
Well, you got to make sure you get the crop right first and to do that, you should go
check out Coppert Biological Systems.
Be sure to check out their Ultimite, a predator mite breeding sachet for all your thrip, spider
mite and russet mite issues.
All while specifically formulated for maximum release rates in a cannabis production climate.
Likewise, make sure to go check out our new sponsor, Pro-Mix.
They've got a fantastic new product called Pro-Mix Connect, which is a mycorrhizal inoculant
that'll help ensure you have a robust harvest.
If you are after increased yield, increased resin, density and all the things that make
your crop stand out from the rest, make sure to check out Pro-Mix Mycorrhizal via, make
sure to check out Pro-Mix Connect, your number one mycorrhizal product in the game.
And last but not least, we would not be able to do this without all the fantastic sponsors
over at the Patreon gang.
If you would like to help ensure that future episodes continue to happen, please go check
out www.patreon.com forward slash the podcast.
You'll get exclusive access to unheard interviews, bonus content, giveaways, and so, so, so much
more.
Please go check it out.
Welcome back for part two of our epic episode with Doobie of AC.
I hope you enjoyed the first episode.
It was full of knowledge.
If you haven't heard it, go check it out.
However, we've got a whole nother half for you to get through.
I hope you enjoyed part two as much as we enjoyed part one.
Without further delay, let's get into it.
That's a great answer because my next question was going to be exactly about that.
The Killer A5 Hayes.
I've been reading about this because it looks like it could be, you know, the Holy Grail
for sativa heads like myself.
Would you recommend this cross for people who like the really sort of racy uplifting
high?
Yeah, definitely.
If you are looking for extremely powerful and intense Hayes hybrid that combines the
world with us, with extreme potency, it's Killer A5 for sure.
It's Killer A5.
And how would you describe that one for people in terms of the smells and the type of high
and the flower time?
Well, the original A5 clone is a long flowering plant.
It can go over 100 days.
There we harvest in my city, in the coast, last week of August.
Yeah, sorry, last week of November, early December.
They are, although they are half Northern Light, they are very Hayes dominant and very
long flowering.
The A5 Hayes is the only plant I have found that can compete with extreme potency of the
Malawi.
And that was when I experienced also the A5 Hayes the first time.
I say, my God, I say, one, this has the type of the intense and the low intense I'm looking
from the Nebel's clones because the others don't have.
The C5 is not so intensive.
Do you remember it?
That is not so intensive.
The taste is quite lemony type.
Yeah.
But it's not so, yeah.
But, and I say, wow, the A5 is the one for intense.
And it's also the one for the most extreme potency from the Nebel work.
So if I want to keep this extreme potency from A5 and I want to even make it stronger,
the only way is Malawi.
We brought the A5 to the lab and it tested 25%, but it hits like 30.
I brought the new Malawi killer to the same lab and it was 30.
So by crossing A5 with my killer Malawi parental plants, I can increase even more the THC.
Both the type of effects are similar.
Super trippy, but with narcosis.
I'm very profound.
I'm super long-lasting.
Very heavy in the head and in the body.
Both have this.
So it was very natural for me to blend them.
And the Malawi contributes increasing even more the THC, making it more richness.
Then my killer Malawi are on the 80, 80 plus flowering range.
So the flowering time of the A5 is shortened down also.
And the A5 contributes with the signature loading fence, hayseed terpins.
And that's killer A5.
It's extremely potent, intense, very high yielding and a bit easier to cultivate than A5.
And probably a bit stronger if you do proper selection.
Yeah, great information there.
I think that's going to be the one that I'm probably going to jump on.
The photos of it look great as well.
In the last answer, you mentioned the hash plant haze.
And this is an interesting one because I don't know if many people have heard about it.
Maybe unlike the C5 or the A5, which they might have heard about.
I remember I got to smell it and I tried a little bit of it, but I think it was seeded.
So it was a little different.
It was a little different, but it smelled a bit like the C5 to me in the similar terpins.
Very correct.
What was interesting about it was it felt like a real hybrid.
Like it was kind of, you know, the hash plant brought some indica.
The C5 was sort of sativary.
What do you think it's going to breed well with?
Would you want to pair it with a sativa, with an indica?
And how do you describe the hash plant haze to people who haven't tried it?
That's a very good question.
I'm glad you know both.
As you said, both the hash plant haze seed from Nebula and the C5 haze, which is Northern Light 5 haze seed, are very similar.
They have the same duct.
And the finished product is also very similar.
The Northern Light 5, the C5, sorry, has the lemony terps a bit more alive.
Okay.
The hash plant haze is a bit, you can detect the same tie-like terps from the haze seed duct, but it's more dark, more dry.
It tastes more like, the hash plant I think is more like Moroccan palm taste.
The yellow Moroccan hash taste.
Okay.
It's more dry, earthy, hashy Moroccan kind of terpenes, the hash plant.
And they are quite similar.
And as you say, the semel adds this tie-like terpenes.
We brought to the lab for terpene analysis both.
And we saw that they were very similar.
They are, for cannabinoids, they are also very similar.
Both are very similar in chemotype and in terpene profile.
The effect of the hash plant is slightly more funny, both very similar, while the C5 smoke is more tasty.
Yeah, I definitely feel like I picked up on some of those things you mentioned.
One of our listeners was wondering if you had any tips to help them grow long flowering sativas indoors.
And one of the things they wanted to know is if they had maybe an ace strain that said it was going to go, you know, say 16 or more weeks, would you recommend putting it in 12-12 from seed or does that have negative effects on the plant?
It depends because it depends a lot on flowering.
I think anything, 10 weeks or more, people consider it long flowering, right?
It's not the same like trying to grow indoors a tida or alternate haze that flowers four to six months indoors.
A sativa dominant hybrid that has already refined, that takes three months of flowering indoors and performs well indoors like golden tiger.
It requires different approach.
Okay, but considering that you are growing a long flowering sativa, okay, and the problem is just the long flowering and the size and all this.
Indoors, the typical failure that growers do with sativa is to provide a lot of pot size and a lot of growing time.
Okay, the tropical, the sativas and the tropical sativas take longer to reach sexual maturity, usually seven, eight, nine weeks.
This means that the plant will grow, will grow, will grow from seed until reaching the sexual maturity.
Before, the plant is not able to flower.
No matter the photoperiod you're using, it's not going to flower.
So if you want to keep the, if the grower wants to keep the plants small and under control during these two months that the plant is reaching sexual maturity, it's better to use a small pot, for example, three liter pot.
Just to let it grow until the plant shows sex, for example.
You say, in that way you can keep many plants in small pots.
And then when you, if you only want to grow females, you say, okay, I discard the females.
I discard the males, sorry, but this didn't take much space, only three liter pot each.
Then you have the females in small pots and then you switch to flower.
But you keep them in the small pot, okay, because the sativas, and especially tropical sativas, their flowering stretching is very strong, very, very strong.
They can double, triple, or even more, multiply their size just in early flowering.
What is the best way to control their size without topping is with rot van, using a small pot.
Typically, if you let the female in the three liter pot after sexing and you pass, switch to flower, the dominant hybrid or the tropical sativa will start to flower, will do their leaf flowering stretching, but in a more moderate way.
Okay, the grower will be able to tame as much as possible the size of the tropical sativa from seed.
And then, some sativa dominant hybrids will work well under 12-12, like could be Panama, Bangi Haze, Malawi, Malawi cross Panama, Golden Tiger.
These work well under classic 12-12.
Other strains like Pyrrhtai, Old-Timer Harriers, you need to go down 11-13, 10-14 even.
Yeah, and obviously another trick is to start from clones, from sexually mature clones.
And once it's established in the pot, you directly switch to flower.
In that way, you can have sativa, so one meter, less than one meter, a bit more, but very, very under control, yes.
Yeah, great advice there.
I was wondering, have you ever experimented with different day and night times?
Like for example, DJ Short famously said that he gives 11 hours of light, 13 hours of dark, and he thinks that it makes the plants express more sativa-like.
Have you found anything like that on your own?
Every strain is different.
Yeah, I think the reason that his approach was to start the germination of the tropical sativas under 14-10, no?
I think so, yes.
Yeah, because this is, for example, in the subtropicals that we have been talking about, in Canary Islands, in Hawaii, in New Caledonia, in Reunion Island, it's that photo period.
The longer days will be 14 hours, okay?
And then you grow the plants, and when you decide, you switch to 11-13, yes.
Very tropical strains from 0 to 7 from the equator.
For example, Thais, extreme Colombians, extreme Jamaicans, extreme Central Africans.
These plants don't flower under 12-12.
They are in an everlasting early flowering stretching.
So in those, they just grow longer and longer, and they put a few pistils, but they continue because they are feeling that they are in that moment, that they need to stretch and make space for the buds.
But they will only, this extreme tropical will only go deep to the flowering process when they are 11-13.
And even to make them fully ripe and avoid more reflowerings and reflowerings, you even need to bring down the photo period at the end, maybe to 10-14 photo period.
Yeah, very interesting, very interesting.
I've seen online that, I think you had mentioned somewhere that you felt like a lot of indoor growers only really want to do 8 or 9 week strains because they think that they are going to yield more.
But then you said, oh, you know, but if you grow a strain that takes, you know, 3 or 4 weeks longer, it will yield more.
So it is worth the time.
Do you feel like not enough growers are sort of aware of this?
Because it feels like there is not a lot of sort of commercial people trying to do sativas, you know.
How can we help get the message out there that sativas are viable?
Yeah, that's a very good question.
I don't think many people realise, especially the young ones, there's also the false myth that without indica, there's no yield in hybrids, you know.
I have many, many people that ask me the same question over the years.
I want a 7, 8 week flowering plant that yields well.
And I say, oh, early flowering plants are not the best yielders.
There are good indica strains, but you want an indica?
Okay, there are good indica strains that are good yielding with 9 weeks.
But if you want even better yields, better to grow a 50-50 hybrid, a real F1 hybrid 50-50 that has a lot of heterosis, hybrid bigger.
And wait until, for example, the Malawi Cross PCK, it flowers 9, 10, 11 weeks.
But the yield is double than a plant of 8 weeks.
So, is it worth to wait 2, 3 weeks more and harvest the double and harvest something that has more sativa and probably can provide different effects?
If you ask me, for sure.
And if we talk about the whole picture, what are the biggest cannabis yielding in the world?
Is sativa dominant hybrids with just a touch of indica.
70-80% hybrids that can grow 5-6 meters big and yield 2, 3, 5 kilos.
And they have just enough indica genetics to add the bad density to make ways.
But the long, coldest flower structure, the big size, the super vigor, all these strains that at the end will come on the final yield come from the sativa.
The good flower-leaf ratios that is a good trait for later for backup and for trimming.
The indica have very bad flower, bad ratio.
The sativa have better.
So, at the end if you want a very high yield and with very great flower-leaf ratio, you must go to sativa genetics, not indica.
And wait a bit more, but it will be worth.
Hell yeah, I like the sounds of that.
I don't know if it's the case worldwide, but I feel like in Australia and in America at least, people prefer indicas over sativas generally speaking.
And I was trying to think about why that was.
Why do people seem to like indicas more?
And I kind of was thinking, well maybe it's got something to do with how sometimes people who sort of have anxiety or are naturally a bit nervous will use cannabis to help with that.
So, you know, those people aren't going to like sativas.
But then I kind of thought, oh I don't really know, maybe it's just individual biochemistry, like who knows.
So, I'm wondering, do you feel like more people like indicas than sativas?
And how can we try to convert some of the people who like indicas over to the dark side to try the sativas?
Well, I feel like if you like indicas, if you like smoke indicas, I don't think it's the dark side or it's a bad thing.
What I think is a bad thing is the reductionism to simplify the whole qualities of the cannabis gen pool towards only the indica dominant strains that look good on Instagram.
You know, I think that cannabis has much more to offer than that.
I understand that a lot of people don't tolerate well the sativa effects and prefer the indica or CBD.
It's perfect for smoking sativa, no one is a better person.
It's not better.
Okay.
But yeah, I think it has to do with both things.
In one side, the industry, both in America in the 80s and in Holland, developed commercially within the growing.
The best strains that were developed within the growing had a lot of Afghani.
This is a fact.
Because Northern California, they need in Northern California, October is already cold.
In Holland, they don't have good weather.
So, yes, commercially, it went to fast flowering in their plants of Afghani indica genetic background.
The Afghani also, they were the most suitable strains to adapt genetics to indoor growing to shorten flowering times to make the buds denser, to increase resistance in production.
So, at the end, the standard for commercial quality weed after the skunk is, and now with the kush and the cookies, is obviously, and it's a fact, is the indica dominant strains.
Some of them have a bit of sativa.
They are very complex polyhybrids.
You see that they produce sometimes thinner leaves, but the flower is all about the refinement of the cannabis Afghani indica.
They are succeeding.
They are the best on it now in North America.
North America are the pioneers of the modern Western marijuana.
We need to thank to the hippies that we are smoking and have this cannabis culture today.
They are the biggest country with the biggest cannabis culture in the Western country.
They are pioneers in weed.
So, I cannot complain much about them.
But, honestly, their style doesn't match with my style or what I like, but it's just my taste and I don't think it's better than the other.
If you ask me, I would like to see more genetic diversity and more sativa strains being grown and being appreciated.
Yes, of course.
It's a bit like that.
It's the industry and also what you say a bit, the society we live now on, when the hippies started with all this, they wanted to make the revolution and use the drugs for the revolution.
Now, we live in the days of global capitalism.
We deal with a lot of stress.
We are very disconnected with nature, with the natural life.
We suffer a lot of depression and anxiety increase in this modern world.
So, it's normal that people need to approach cannabis from the medical way and then they prefer something that is more like a stone that will kill the day because they have had enough of the day.
They just want something that will kill the day and will help them to go to sleep and that's all.
Or if they have a medical problem, don't get high and get some medical relief from the CBD.
Yes, great answer.
I was wondering if you could tell us a little bit about the Spanish scene and what I was interested in knowing specifically was, is hash still a big thing over there?
And then as a follow-up, are there any sort of differences in the culture just even regionally from say different areas in different parts of Spain?
Yes, being close to Morocco, the Spanish cannabis culture was all about hash.
And then when this first century, the growth, the growth shops and the genetics start to come from the people start to grow in those.
And then a very thriving cannabis industry started to consolidate here.
From the seed banks, from grocers that are the small retailer to big wholesaler, to fertilizer companies, to magazines, to making events, lawyers, everything.
It started 20 years ago or a bit more, but it met when that seed bank was going down and we were just creating our industry.
So, yeah, of course, a few strong seed banks in Holland still remain strong like Greenhouse, like Dutch Passion and two new ones very strong up here like Royal Queen and Varnish, for example.
But here in Spain, we were competing, the Spanish people managed to create companies that were competing in products and volume of business with a Dutch company.
At all levels, at all levels. In a few years, now, after 20 years, the sector moves a lot of millions, creates a lot of employment.
There are legal companies like Manda, we pay a lot of taxes.
So, here in Spain, the weather is extremely good and we are one of the strongest countries in the world for tourism.
We are a population of less than 50 and we have 70, 80 million tourists per year before COVID, obviously.
A lot of people from England, Germany, Sweden, when they retire, they buy a house here in Spain to live because the weather, the quality of life is cheaper, they love our culture.
We have a lot of different cultures from the south, the Mediterranean, the north, the central, the food is completely different.
We are very tolerant, we have a lot of cultural history, we like a lot the party.
So, this is the perfect place so the tourists could come and create a recreational marijuana industry.
They all come here to get drunk, to enjoy the beach, to all this.
This is happening now with social clubs, especially in Barcelona, that is always the most tolerant city and that is going ahead of the rest of Spain.
But the model is not still fully legal, not for the seed banks, not for the producer of the clubs, not for the clubs.
It's a very incomplete model that allows to distribute seeds.
Our company can buy and sell seeds legally.
You can make products oriented for the cannabis growing, like the fertilizer, the lamps, the soil, the plants and all this.
But still, Spain is very behind the worldwide legalization that is happening in North America, Latin America now, Uruguay, Colombia, Mexico, Ecuador are also legalizing.
In Thailand, they are legalizing, in many African countries they are legalizing.
Morocco, two weeks ago, they are considering the legalization.
Here in Europe, Germany has included marijuana in the national health system.
So, they are buying legal marijuana from the BLPs from Canada, from Israel.
So, yes, it's happening, but in some countries, Europe is being slow compared with the United States, with Latin America.
I think Australia and Europe are very stupid.
In our cases, it's terrible.
I was going to say, yeah, I mean, Australia's got a cannabis program, but it's probably not very good, to be honest.
Anyway, I was wondering why, because we're kind of talking about hash, you got me interested.
Which of your strains do you think makes the best hash?
And then as a kind of slightly different question, which strain has the largest trichome heads?
For extraction, the best one we have in the case would be a bubba hash, which is a bubba course hash plant.
This is not a very low-risk hybrid, but I like it so much and the customer likes it so much that we offer.
Then the bubba course cross-pcg is also very nice for hash and extraction.
The hash plant.
And then the Calichina doesn't give so much return, but it gives a hash that is very, very special, like very exotic, intense hash.
The Calichina, quite different to the Afghani hashes that are more common with the cookies, the ogies and the bubba.
And then for Pakistani kind of hash and extraction, the Pakistan Chitrakoot and Violeta, because it's very nice.
The trichomes really carry the pigments.
So when you do the extraction and the hash, the hash most of the time becomes purple or violet.
Lovely.
Yes, this is with Pakistan Chitrakoot, the purple phenos or with Violeta.
This is quite interesting for Pakistani hash and colorful hashes.
Then for more Afghani, the bubba hash, they already recommend you.
For CBD extraction, CBD1 for sure is extremely resinous and very good for extractions.
If you want to make CBD extraction, CBD1 is excellent.
And we have sativas that are very, very resinous, but usually the sativas produce the indica, produce the resin, more divided also in the bracts, but also on the leaves, nearby the flower.
The sativa concentrate much of the resin on the bracts and not so much on the leaves.
So for extraction, they are not so good in return.
But we have sativa dominant hybrids that are very resinous.
For example, Panama fern works very well.
Panama crossbangi haze also, Malawi crosspanama, killer A5, thamadelica fern.
All these are sativas, golden tiger fern, they are very good for extraction with sativas.
There you go, some great answers there.
I was interested, I was browsing through your catalogue of strains on one of the seed banks and I noticed there was one that I'd never seen before called Hokkaido.
And it says that it's like a Japanese hemp.
That sounds very rare and unique.
Could you tell us a little bit about that?
Yeah, of course.
This was another genetic swag with a grower.
A person from Japan contacted me.
I did some research when trying to get a picture of how the two land races were divided around the world.
And yes, I read something about Japanese strains.
But it was not clear the information whether they were really psychoactive Japanese cannabis strains like Breathe4 with the psychoactive.
For sure, it was used for fibre and ceremonial uses for thousands of years at least.
It's documented in their own rituals.
And also in the fabric, for the clothes.
They have a long tradition of cultivating hemp.
I heard from a gatherer there were many, many hemp strains all around Japan.
Because Japan, you know, the climates are quite different.
The south, there are some islands that are almost subtropical.
And Hokkaido, which is the north part, is an island on the north.
It's very cold.
The summers are very natural reserve, very beautiful place.
And it has short summer, but the cold weather comes very fast.
The autumn is very short and the winter is very long.
So, yeah, it was difficult because it was not properly documented.
And after the Second World War, Japan had to comply, follow the laws from the United States.
And at that time, already the United States had the laws regarding the cannabis and marijuana.
So, I think they tried many of the old Japanese hemp strains probably have been eradicated during these years.
The previous decades of prohibition.
And somewhat in Hokkaido, which is a wilder place,
the hemp has escaped from the eradication program.
So, although they try because they eradicate millions of plants yearly.
But yes, the population of cannabis managed to thrive without human help there in Hokkaido.
And I contacted one Japanese and he asked me, what about Hokkaido?
He told me, yeah, yeah, I have some seeds I can send you.
Then we did an exchange and did that.
And I was quite excited about to see what could come out.
And when we grow, the first week was quite exciting because it grew like a hash plant indica.
Like wild leaves, looks quite like a vanilla, like the indoor plants you see.
It reminds me a lot like the Chinese indica, China Yunnan.
In some ways, it reminds me a lot to, but still those indica hash plant traits.
And yes, I have hopes that it could be a psychoactive indica strain.
But it's not.
The first population, the P1 plants we grow.
To be honest, we didn't grow it to the best potential because the first cycle we got a spider mite infection.
So we had to take clothes, then we flower them again outside, but it was extremely hot.
It was in summertime here.
I think they didn't like much the weather.
And the samples didn't express.
We brought them to the lab and they were very similar with like a hemp strain.
Like 0.5 of THC and 0.5 of CBD.
But at least it was that the CBD was synthesis, was active.
It was not.
But very recently, then we open pollinated because we didn't receive many seeds.
And for what we saw in the P1 generation, I didn't see any psychoactive plant.
The plants were not resinous.
What I smoke didn't get you high.
The analysis were under one.
So it looks, sounds and tastes like a hemp strain.
So we open pollinated.
I think we only discard one plant that was hermaphrodite.
But all the plants, the rest of the plants that were sexually stable, we open pollinated.
And our first studies is, OK, this is a hemp strain.
So we release them as a hemp strain.
There's not a problem.
Obviously, we are not going to sell a lot because our customers are more marijuana type.
But the ganja type that wants to get high with the flower.
But it's interesting to, from the preservation side, to contribute with new hemp cultivars that no one knows.
The Japanese and the Japanese have had a very prohibitionist since the Second World War.
So they don't comment anything about their Japanese strains or they can be psychoactive.
There are some studies quite old.
And some land-raised growers, they say, yeah, Japanese.
Well, that's interesting.
I want to buy some of these.
More because from the preservation side and because it's really exotic, right?
Then it's psychoactive potential.
And one grower, the P2 generation we released, we are advertising it as a hemp with no relevant psychoactive or terpenic value.
And one grower that grew a few packs found a few resinous plants and a few plants that were smelling really good.
From a few doses.
And he brought them to the lab.
And one of them had 10% of CBD and 5% of THC.
That's pretty good.
Not bad.
And the others were, the others interesting were very low in THC but a bit of CBD.
And then the third type that was like the one we found, like hemp, like very low THC and very low CBD.
So it really showed that if we look for, first, that the strain has the potential to be more relevant for terpenes and cannabinoids.
And with a bit of work working to this plant, to this kind of chemotype with more content, we can make it even psychoactive.
But it will need like back crossing to this type of plants.
Then inbreed, inbreed line, one, two, three generations and then fix it to something more psychoactive or something only with CBD but more CBD.
It can be done.
Yeah, it gives a more interesting value to this line.
And it was, we chose Discovery like two, three months ago thanks to a customer in United States.
He's a legal hemp grower.
And he had a chance to give a few doses and realised that a few had a potential to be psychoactive.
So who knows?
I mean, touch with him and maybe we collaborate to hopefully increase the cannabinoid and terpenes of this.
Yeah, but definitely there's potential to do it.
Yeah, wow. How interesting.
Maybe a future offering from the Japanese hemp strain.
That's very cool.
You mentioned preservation in there and it kind of got me thinking about a question I've been thinking about for years now,
which is for someone like yourself who's looking to get pure landrace stock,
what does the future of preservation look like to you in regards to landrace?
Considering most people kind of say, oh, you know, you can't find that pure anymore.
Even if you go to the reals, it's all polluted now.
What do you think landrace preservation is going to be like going forward?
The thing, obviously many things have been lost.
That's true.
But many things are left.
Many things are left more than the indoor cush.
Waiting for us to, yeah, I think that is a pessimistic way to see it.
I agree that very interesting lands have been lost.
Then you're not going to do anything to really find out how many good ones are left and to try to preserve what is left.
You're going to stop there only.
I don't understand this idea.
It's difficult because preservation, how it has grown up, the recreational and the industry doesn't give money.
In the future, in the mid long term, when this gets, when this industry gets more complicated,
when the genetic engineering starts, when only big companies that have this knowledge,
these machines, these qualified people, these patents,
will be able, for that profile of companies, then the different genotypes that the landraces and the gen pools that we are now looking at,
these are the gen pools that will be very important and with a lot of value for these big companies.
But in mid long term, at the moment, and for the small companies, it has very little value.
Because what is the big trend? The cush, the cookies.
This is 80% of the business.
This is 80% of the business.
So if you concentrate in, if you want to make money, you need to concentrate on this.
That's why the Spanish seed banks are coping USA, because it's the next big thing and USA is already there.
You know, but, and the only way to, the commercial gen pool is, all has cookies.
You can call it with other name, or cross it with other name, and give it another twist so it looks slightly better,
but it's a very narrow part of the gen pool and the potential and the qualities of the cannabis.
So for me, preservation, I saw it since the beginning, first as a passion for me to learn,
to where, where is the roots? In the hybrid, we find it all mixed, but where this, the taste of the scan came,
where the intense of the haze came, where the color of this came, to understand all this from the roots.
What land races give these traits?
And for me it was passion, for me it was obvious that it has an immense genetic value, something that can give you something new.
If you're always repeating the same, it's very difficult that you came up with something entirely new one,
that can make a new revolution on the cannabis.
You know, in science, if you are always repeating the same, you always finish on the same.
If you want to reach to new territories, you must start from new things, and for that, the land races,
and obviously it's the source of all the genetic diversity we enjoy right now.
It's the repository of the genetic diversity, all these genetic widespread, especially in countries like India, Nepal, Afghanistan, Pakistan,
that they have such cannabis culture for hundreds of centuries, in so many parts.
It's incredible the genetic diversity, so Stallone, India, Nepal, Afghanistan and Pakistan.
And yeah, the shorter revolution that have been happening, with the out-of-flowing revolution, the CBD revolution,
all these were traits that were very obvious and easy to get from land races,
from the out-of-flowing, from the Eastern hemp, for example, from the Russian hemp.
And the CBD from the hash plant land race cultivars, all the hash plant land race cultivars have CBD.
The Moroccan, the Afghani, the Lebanese, the Pakistani.
So, the potential to find new things, new cannabinoids, new terpenes, will come most probably from the gen pool of the land race,
most probably, rather than the bottleneck gen pool that the American industry is driving nowadays.
Yeah, great answer to a complex question.
While we're talking about genetics, a different viewer wanted to know, and I was interested as well,
what sort of Lebanese stock do you work with and how would you describe it to people?
Our listener was wondering, how often does the red phenotype versus the blonde phenotype show up in the regular seeds?
Some people, I think most of our audience knows, but I think it's good to point it out.
Usually people associate or connect hash with indica, right?
With Afghani, Pakistan, no?
But many of the traditional hashes are produced from sativas.
The most excellent cases are the Chara sativas, the Nepalese and the North Indians.
But also, the Moroccan hash and the Lebanese hash that is used following the dry sieve methods used in Afghanistan and Pakistan are sativas.
People confuse and for some people it's difficult to understand that the Moroccan and the Lebanese are sativas.
The Lebanese wheat population we offer from NHCs came from a friend from Israel.
That in the 90s, there in Israel it's very easy to get Lebanese hash.
But not so common to get wheat, but sometimes he got wheat from the Bedouins that were smuggling some products and wheat also.
And then he saved the seeds and he came to Spain for a few years.
And we kept in touch and he shared with us and with Charlie Garcia also the seeds of this Lebanese.
And it was working mainly by a friend of mine called Raspablo who did the first generation.
And yes, it's a sativa completely adapted to the dry and hot climate of Lebanon.
It's extremely resistant against heat and lack of water.
We did a test here outside putting some Lebanese plants in a pot.
Usually plants in a pot they hydrate easier.
Here in some time in Spain 40 degrees and at the exit of the air con.
So the plants were receiving the sun 40 degrees and the heat of the air con.
Do you understand?
And with other plants.
After one year, the indoor Afghani were fading down.
The Lebanese were straying.
You know?
I showed you how resistant these genetics are.
In the Bay, one generation, there were not much seeds, like 30 or something.
And my friend reproduced the line in a few cycles using a small population.
But always removing the mother dyes.
And using a very nice female in every cycle with different females.
So we came up with three lots from the same males that were pollinated with many different males in each lot.
For the P2, for the second generation.
Then we grew like 100.
We put all the three lots, the seeds were getting old, and we put all 100 plants.
Again, a lot of hermaphrodites.
We came up throwing 40, 50 plants.
Yes, and the Lebanese also has a high male ratio.
The Lebanese usually produce quite a lot of males.
Yes, after removing males and hermaphrodites, we were left with 30, 40 females.
But we managed to find sexually stable females and males.
The two main phenotypes, one more sativa with long nose that takes longer to flower in.
70 days, 74 indoors.
Bigger gilding.
More branchy type.
Thinner leaves but still big.
With more tangy, citric, mango, fruity terpenes.
And then there's other phenome that is smaller, more columnar, faster flowering, 55 days flowering or so, and more colorful.
Indoors it turns purple, reddish.
And this one, the aromas are quite strange.
It's not so fruity.
Yes, I prefer the effects of the taste and the effects of the long flowering.
And the interesting thing of the Lebanese is that most of the plants produce both THC and CBD.
They are rich in both.
Okay.
Like for example, we found like balance THC, CBD one to one chemotypes.
7% THC, 7% CBD.
Then ones with very little THC, like 0.5 and 16 of CBD.
And ratios of one to three, like 4% THC to 12% CBD.
Ratios of one to two, THC, CBD.
It's very interesting.
The main thing that is interesting of the Lebanese is that it's a new source for CBD.
It has many interesting rich CBD chemotypes and also some with CBD.
It's very resistant for other places where with water restriction, with a lot of heat.
And yes, people really like the effects.
Many growers really like the effects.
It's not very strong.
The potency is soft, moderate because it also has CBD.
But it's really pleasant, very, really happy, clear.
Yes, that sounds lovely.
I was wanting to ask you, what land-race genetics do you think are underrepresented within the cannabis culture, so to speak?
For me, I always think about haze and how there's supposedly some Indian genetics in there.
And I think to myself, you never hear about Indian.
What to you do you think is really underrepresented?
As you know, the main recreational gene pool comes from hybrids that were developed in the United States.
So the land-races that were used to develop these hybrids depended a lot on the land-races that the people in the United States receive, obviously.
So, yes, at the end, in the United States, they work mainly with Mexicans, with Colombians, and with Thais, a bit lesser, and with Afghans.
That's the main gene pool that…
That's the land-races that are more prevalent in today's modern Western recreational gene pool, to say it.
So the ones that are underrated and that we should put more attention to is, for example, the amazing work that Irathinic of Indian Land-Race Chain is doing.
To look at what we have discussed previously, that India, Nepal, probably, and Afghanistan and Pakistan, the most interesting places to look for biggest diversity, oldest land-races with older culture, and more variety.
And I think, yes, the Indian land-races, the Nepalese land-races are not very prevalent in the gene pool that people are smoking nowadays.
And regarding Indica, it's mainly Afghani.
Maybe some Pakistanis also made into the North American gene pool, but I think it's mostly Afghani.
And Pakistan also has very interesting Indicas to offer, and there are other very interesting Indicas in countries like Uzbekistan.
Yeah, interesting stuff, for sure.
So the next thing I wanted to ask you about was something which a lot of fans asked me to follow up with you.
Do you ever plan to have any sort of partnerships with any US seed banks?
I think there's a lot of US growers that really want your gear, but maybe find it hard to get it.
Hard to get it, yeah.
It's legalized on a federal level.
We will try to establish a legal business and to look for partners there.
I don't think right now is the moment.
I have friends working there that have helped me with selections and I appreciate that a lot.
But we never talked about making business there.
And now we have so many retailers that are worldwide.
I understand that the people in the United States are very used to having the product very easy to access within the United States and all this.
But well, even in this globalized world, things are not always so easy.
Especially regarding customs.
So to avoid problems, we don't want problems.
At this time, we're not shipping to the United States, but I don't think it will take much time.
Once they legalize federally and once we do a few steps here to get FITO certificates for an exportation of the seeds,
I think they won't have any complaint to not allow the importation of the seeds there.
It should be without any problem and fluently.
Until now, I would recommend to anyone interested to look in the many retailers that are worldwide.
We don't do it because we want to be quite strict with the law here.
But many retailers are shipping everywhere.
It's very easy.
Yeah.
Having been able to get some of your seeds myself, I'll let people know it is possible to get them via other means.
Speaking of Australia, I wanted to ask you, are you familiar with the Australian bastard cannabis plant?
No, not much.
Have you seen photos?
Because as you know, we are actually at the other part of the world.
In Spain, we say if you make a hole, you will appear in North Korea.
So, for us, Australia is like, it's super far, super far.
So, it's not something that we have in our cannabis culture.
I remember when we in Overgrow, when some of the Australian growers started to join us,
they were showing some Mulumimi madness of five kilos plants that were amazing.
Yeah, I remember some very, very killer Australian growers.
And then I knew about the Mulumimi madness, the Elephant Sativa, how some Thai stick arrived.
No, a lot of Thai stick arrived in the 70s and 80s there.
So, you have a very good Sativa, the purple Nimbing.
I have heard and seen, but never smoked to be honest.
So, it's a pity.
But I think it's just because the distance and because at the end, the Australian hybrids didn't make it into the Dutch genetics or the North American genetics.
And it's a pity because many people say very good things about Mulumimi madness.
So, I don't understand how after so many years, no one came up with a good representation of a good Mulumimi madness that could be spread around the world.
So, people can get a touch of the fine flowers and bread from the Australian growers.
It's really a pity.
But it's obviously a result of the prohibition.
It's just like that.
Now, you got a very valid point there.
It is surprising no one's really locked down the Mulumimi madness.
I did want to ask you, I know that you grow organically and we're very passionate about helping people to grow organically on the show.
What sort of grow style do you use?
Do you just use basic amendments and you just mix it in?
Do you do no till?
Give us a bit of a rundown on how you grow plants.
It's extremely easy because for more than 20 years following the same soil mix recipe, I'm a soil grower, I'm an organic grower.
I love the outdoor baths over indoor.
We get a very high quality peat from a cooperative here in Spain.
We have been buying this peat for 25 years and it's always the same.
We put 80-90% of this peat, then 10% of very high quality worm casting, then a bit of polmo of guano.
This depends on the strain and the stage and the transplant.
More for flowering, the guano.
A bit of cocoa if it's a strain that is slow with the roots or if we want to speed up the first week, a bit more of cocoa.
But basically like this.
Then organic fertilizer we use two brands that here in Europe are very well known.
The organic line, the bio-canna, which is basically canna vega and canna flores.
And the rizotonic which is marvelous for transplants.
And then also it's very nice, I like a lot the bio-bead, the bio-grow, bio-bloom, bio-fizz.
The first one, I usually use this one for 25 years and that's all.
I love the taste and the feeling and the vibration of how it came out.
Yeah, I don't need anything more.
There's room for improvement regarding yield, but I don't like to use chemicals.
It makes very neutral the taste and harsh.
And gives a bad vibration that I don't like in the high, like a toxic feeling in the high that I don't like.
And also I don't use much of this new era flowering stimulators that, yeah, yeah, yeah, more, more, more.
I just use guano and basic organic fertilizer for flowering and that's all.
No, no, bad busters and all this, no.
There you go, keeping it simple, I like that.
So the next question I wanted to ask you was, do you have any seeds in your stash that you're really excited to look through next?
Like what's the next thing you're excited to look on, to look into?
Okay, I have a list somewhere there.
We have a cashmere hash plant that one of my colleagues got from a Spanish hippie that lives there for decades.
And we have done a couple of generations of this hash plant from cashmere and we have a lot of seeds.
And it's very interesting, there's a job to do because there are different chemotypes, there are solarmies,
but there are some very interesting expressions like very irrational, wild leaf, colors, very interesting terpenes.
Yeah, it's quite interesting, this cashmere.
Then some sativa seeds that a friend of mine that is a sailor brought me from the Caribbean, from St. Martin Island.
It's a very, very small island in the Caribbean.
He told me that after going across the whole Atlantic that he finished all the joints and they reached to St. Martin first in America.
And then he got in touch with a rasta there that was growing super crazy sativas, like things live like needles, my friend told me.
That's what it was enough to me, like a good tropical from the Caribbean that doesn't contain indica, that hasn't been contaminated.
Then I have some interesting Colombia, the one Chilean man, he used to work for the ENCODE, do you know ENCODE?
I don't know how it's called in English. It's the Department of the United Nations for Drug Studies.
Oh, okay.
Okay.
They make some studies in Latin America of the drug production area and their relationship with the cultures and the minorities that grew there.
And this person was part of it. So he was in contact with many Colombian growers, old school Colombian growers.
And he brought me Punto Rojo, Santa Marta Gold and a mango beech.
And the one I want to have more will to explore is maybe the Santa Marta, I don't know.
Then I have different seeds from Sri Lanka.
Another one that a hippie here from my village that is half Sri Lankan brought from Sri Lanka, very small seeds, ultra long flowering, sativas, four or five months of flowering.
And I have another Sri Lankan, but these are more fresh.
So I got from Sri Lanka in 2017 when I travelled there.
And others that I'm quite curious and that I would like to, waiting in the fridge is also one that Azurri, one friend from ICMAG, sent me is the Papua New Guinea.
This I'm very, very curious to explore. I haven't explored the sativas from Papua.
I was there in 2019 for holidays, but I couldn't get with.
There you go. What a nice list.
Yeah, we have some projects ongoing this year, which is to bring back the Pure China Yunnan and hopefully to bring the Pure Tai Chang Mai.
Oh gosh, I think there'll be a lot of demand for that.
Well, don't think so. Usually the Chinese, the long flowering plants give you to say, you know, more reputation than sales.
People, yes, yeah, one more time, this and that, this and that.
But the truth is that very, very few growers are willing to grow sativas that take four or five months to flower.
It's a very, very small market.
Yeah, only the hardcore.
Well, while we're talking about long flowering sativas, I really wanted to ask you about how you got the old timer haze.
How did that go about and how would you describe the old timer haze?
The old timer haze is a very unique line.
It's one of the most extreme tropical sativa I ever had the pleasure to experience.
I don't know how to describe it.
The Finnish product is like it comes from two centuries ago.
If you saw a bottle of old timer haze to all these cookies guys and all this, they don't know how to take it.
It's like a completely different thing.
It's 200% sativa.
You cross old timer haze with an indica and the outcome is still 100% sativa.
You know, it's really extreme.
It's very tropical.
From seed, it could take six months to flower.
The clones we have are really old, 15 years old.
So, they react a bit faster.
But yeah, they are very, very wild.
Very, very wild.
What do you know more specifically about old timer haze?
I guess something I'm interested in is how did you get that stock from old timer?
And how do the different phenotypes differ?
Is it mostly just the color or are they actually quite different?
The old timer haze, there are two main phenotypes, the green and the purple haze.
Okay.
They grow and flow almost the same.
They are almost the same.
The difference is only in the second half of flowering and in the finished product.
But during the whole growth, early flowering, they look essentially green.
Okay.
If they are grown outdoors in a cold weather, usually in October with the cold nights,
the colorful phenotypes start to show.
Okay.
Usually showing a bit of the purple veins, reddish tones.
Okay.
And depending how cold is your weather, yeah, it just means that through the flowering,
the nights are lower than 15 degrees.
So this happens in tropics and subtropical.
It happens in most temperate latitudes, even with good climate like the Mediterranean.
So yes, regarding finished product, the green haze is super clean, super euphoric.
And it's a bit like the New Caledonia chester smoke, that you feel everything more amplified.
You are more alive.
Okay.
And you want to do things like you have a lot of energy.
Okay.
The purple haze and the green haze smell like an ancient wood, spices, incense.
I like to describe it like the backpack of a backpacker after traveling one month in India
and coming back with incense and spices and all the dirty clothes.
Something like that is the smell of the old-time haze, the green phenol.
And yes, the green haze, even with cold temperatures, even freezing temps, is completely ripe green.
Then the purple haze with the colder nights in October, November, December,
start to show more and more color.
Yeah, usually they show a mix of red and purple.
And yes, also the purple phenol has more like red wine, brandy, kind of alcoholic terpenes,
more berry, blackberry, strawberry.
Okay, it could have also the incense.
And the smoke is also very, very thorough.
It's all in the head.
But it's more introspective than the green haze.
Okay.
And how did you get the seed stock initially?
Okay, the seeds came from old-timers, which is one of the pioneers breeders in the UK.
And he's an old person and he was in touch with the first marijuana movement
and the first hippies traveling and exchanging seeds that came from Asia.
So he also traveled to the United States.
So yeah, he got different haze lines that he collected himself that are not derived from some school mine.
At least directly, I don't know.
You know that all the original haze is the haze that some school mine brought in the mid-80s to Holland.
And this is supposedly a pure haze line collected by an old-timer, another person,
and that has been preserved parallelly to original haze from some scum, yes.
The old-timer told me that he had three lines, but because he gave away to people to reproduce, but never no one did.
At the end he lost it and he used to breed in the UK, so he can only breed indoors.
So the old-timers were too extreme for the breeding goals and needs.
So he made a few hybrids with it, but he ended up losing his pure haze population.
At the end only one person that was called Pacific was one of the persons that received the pure haze seeds from him, from old-timer.
And he did a small reproduction.
At that time he gave away seeds to, in Cannabis World I think it was, yes, to different people, to people like Santibaba, to us.
And there were not many seeds left.
I think old-timers appreciated us, cherished us, and he gave us, and knew that we were really passionate with Santibaba,
so he gave us like 40 or 50 seeds from the Pacific reproduction.
And those were, I don't have any record or news that anyone grew more old-timer haze from the original bats,
or that anyone preserved any other haze line from old-timers other than this one.
Only the work we did is what remains alive.
Yeah, fantastic. It's a very highly sought-after strain in terms of the cult following.
Just as a random side question, did old-timer ever talk to you about giving genetics to Sam the Skunk Man, or being involved in the Skunk Project?
No.
No.
I think, I cannot say now that he worked in the Skunk Project.
He never said that he worked to develop the haze. He only said that he got seeds coming from haze.
What others are saying, I prefer not to go. It's all polemic about things that I don't know, they are a fact, so I prefer not to go in.
Yeah. So just as a sort of general question, what's your favourite offering from Ace Seeds, if you could only pick one?
So difficult. For others or for me?
How about do one for each?
If it was for me, I would go for Tai Chi. For me, it's... I don't know, it's...
It's what I call a spiritual weed. It's really a magic weed. It's very special and intense. For me, it's a magic weed.
And for others, if you want, I wanted to impress someone that don't know anything about Orsativas, something that is grow Panama Crossbanging Haze fam, and you will get a good introduction into our work.
Wow, two really solid offerings there. I was hoping I could ask you a little bit about the Panama Red Line you have. I noticed obviously it's an F10, so it sounds like a lot of work has gone into this project. What sort of traits were you looking for in it and do you have any plans to breed with it more in the future?
The Panama Red Line is probably the red line we have worked longer, more generation. And probably for long term lines, it's probably the best one.
Yes. Most of the merit on this line came from the job of Kaiki, of Charlie Garcia. He did the most difficult generation and to put it at a level that is incredible.
The Panama is a three-way Panama hybrid. It started in the United States. There was a grower, amateur breeder in the overgrowth forums that was a friend of mine, Charlie Garcia. His name was Green Grocer.
He used to grow Panama lines. He had a hybrid of an old Panama green and an old Panama red line. He worked maybe one, two generations, this hybrid, Green Grocer.
Then he passed the genetics to Charlie Garcia, to Kaiki, from Cannabio-Hell, when we were working the first years of ACIDS.
We took a third Panama Colombian red strain from Alex Mano Negra. We put several red males from this third red sativa male into the two-way hybrid, making a three-way hybrid.
Then Kaiki worked the hybrid at least until the F6, F7, until 2006.
Here, Kaiki did the most difficult job. Panama is to capture the best trace of the best Panama reds in a strain that can be grown with modern standards and compete with racing, their pins, potency, bag appeal, quality with the modern strains.
It's an extremely good job. We don't say lightly that it's the best pure sativa, Central American sativa red of the last 20 years because it is amazing quality.
It has different phenols, the red ones, the green ones, some that have so much resin that it is white, purple one.
Kaiki worked, Charlie Garcia worked the Panama until the F6, F7.
Then I started to work with the line on 2006, 2007. I did two or three generations.
The time that I worked better myself in Panama was in 2013 when I put seven different Panama lines from F6 to F10.
Then we selected among 100 different females.
Then I came up with the Panama Goddess F10 Elite, which is my work after Kaiki, after Charlie Garcia, a mix of his Elite Panama Red.
The Panama Red, the Elite Panama Red, we had at the time, mixed it with greens that I like and then worked three, four, five generations more.
Some of the line, the main parental plan we use for Panama breeding is the Panama Goddess.
It is an F10 and it is Elite. It has everything I want.
It is probably not the most ready but regarding gel, type of effect, quality of the effect, terpenes, it is the best female I have seen until now.
After 20 years working with Panama.
That is awesome to hear.
I was hoping to clarify, I noticed that the Pakistani Chitrali Kush Breeder Pack, it kind of had a lot of different phenotypes listed in it.
Is that similar to how you were talking about doing the different zamals where they are sort of like unreleased mothers and you are including them in this pack that are not normally in the others?
How would you describe the other Pakistani mothers compared to the usual one you use?
The concept of the Breeder Packs is more addressed to breeders and big growers that want to make a big selection to find that really, really outstanding plant to keep as a clone and keep for years.
These people that want to go into one of our strains as much as deep and wide as possible.
In the Breeder Pack, each pack, each strain is different so each Breeder Pack is different.
But what I try to offer is seeds from the different baselines that represent the strain.
For example, in the case of the Panama Breeder Packs, the grower can easily find good seeds from the Panama Green, from the Panama of the Red Pink Pistil, from the latest job we have done with the strain coming from the Panama Goddess, etc.
With the Calichina, different lines, they are cousins.
One has a slightly different terpene, the other has slightly different effects.
So if you, for example, want to, in the Pakistani Chitrakoot, which is the Pakistan that has been used more in the industry to produce colourful hybrids, whatever they want to put on it.
But I know it's PCK. It's so easy to, because it's the parental plant. I've been working 15 years, this is a recognised one, one of my daughters.
For example, if you want to breed with Pakistan Chitrakoot and breed in a more proper way, you take the Breeder Pack and from the green line I focus to find the best from the green.
This is the best purple for terpenes. This is the black one, very red phenotype, even the colourful ones.
Depending on the reproduction we have done and what have been the most remarkable plants, then I make a Breeder Pack that provides the best from the last breeding step, usually.
I'm going to ask all breeders at the end of the interview. So the first question I wanted to ask you was, if you could go back 10 years and give yourself some advice relating to cannabis, what would you tell yourself?
10 years ago? I believe everything how it is. Yeah, that's the beautiful life.
Oh, that's poetic. I love it. The next question we ask guests is, what is the single most memorable bit of cannabis you ever smoked, be it flower, hash, whatever it is, what's the most memorable for you?
The most memorable that I cherish in my memory a lot is the Nepali Ska Mandu, which is one of the few lamb races I grew. It was a flower with purple, pinkish hues.
It was such a delicate plant that followed with its delicate colours and it smelled like wild strawberry. And when you smoke it, it was intense, like being in Nepal.
We were childs and we say, my God, this weed from Nepal is incredible good. Then also with the tripies from the Pure Tamals and the first Tamal we did, like incredible tripie, incredible tripie.
Then other strains I miss a lot are the funny Mexican effects that make you laugh with your friends, like a bit like the New Caledonia, just more like, that is, make you smile and improve your mood.
I miss this kind of effects. You very seldom find it today, in today's weed.
Other strains I smoke, very interesting purple sativas in northern Laos, in Ban Dien, that was very strong and unique. I never tried anything like this.
And then I smoked when I was in Uxumatra in a orangutan reserve. We had to, they would like to try the, the, the, the achero, is how we call it.
The Americans, I guess, they put one to everything, but it was in, it was black. And it was just, the truth is true. And I haven't smoked in a few weeks. It was on holidays.
And if I was there in the dark, in the jungle, and one of the, that was traveling with a group, got some of the local weed from northern Sumatra, from Machi.
And they were black fermented thing that almost had no bracts, that it was only leaf and sticks. Well, we make one or two yuansai and we sell it between three and four.
And it was extremely, extremely strong. If you grow this properly with good flower and you let it ripen, because the flower we smoke wasn't ripe.
I think it's one of the strongest land raises I have experienced in northern Sumatra.
Another I cherish from the commercial strains, the first maple leaf that smelled like baby shit. Incredible terpenes.
And of course the best haze hybrids from Neville from the 90s. Jack Herring is a masterpiece. The Hawaiian haze was incredible. Only tried once, but it was probably one of the most trippy and terpy and best hybrids from Neville.
The Calimis, the old Calimis from Sirius and Simon, it was spectacular. It was spectacular.
Yes, one Philippine Calimis from Cordillera Centrales that tastes like jasmine. It was purple and tastes like jasmine.
These are probably the land raises and commercial strains that I cherish more and have more impact in me.
It would be Thamaldelica, Panama Crossbungy Haze and Tai Chi.
It happens to me very frequently with all the new strains. To be honest with you, GG4, all these cookies.
They look good and look very good, but doesn't tell me anything. This is the kind of smoke that I like to smoke in the afternoon.
And people are crazy about all this weed. But honestly, you put me New Caledonia, you can only smoke.
The course New Caledonia, to give you an example, I will take the New Caledonia back.
You can keep all the course you want.
Fantastic. So, the final question for our chat today. If you could go back in time, any place, any point in history to collect some seeds, where would you go and what seeds would you collect?
I would go to Thailand in the 70s to get the Thai stick.
Colombia in this life I already have, but yes, definitely I will go to get the finished Colombias from the 60s and 70s.
The Afgani before all the mess and the wars.
I think the most are still alive, especially in Asia and Africa, where it was really old to have it.
There you go. Good news.
I'm still positive. It's amazing. It was the time to see people like Rataneef from Indian Landry Exchange.
Because I'm so active and they should be the ones to do this and not a Westerner.
The Westerner, even if he goes to Thailand or Africa or India, is not going to get the best.
Only the locals. I'm from Valencia. You're only going to eat the best paella in the world if you are from Valencia and your grandma cooks it for you.
It's the same. You cannot pretend to go to any place and come back with the best.
It's super interesting.
Finally, it was the moment that the people from the traditional farmers and people from those countries start to understand the value and the importance of the preservation of their gene pools.
Because they are very united with many of their traditional life style.
Who can do this better than the local people?
Who should do it ethically and morally first than them?
It's amazing what they are doing.
That's why through this we are trying to support the work that the Indian Landry Exchange are doing to document the land races of the countries that have more.
And showing us that there are still so many left.
There are still so many things in cannabis to discover that shows the same thing.
That's why I like to support the people here. I'm extremely excited with every project they do.
I think the future is there.
Now that the legalization is coming to all these countries, people try to empower their local strains and try to preserve what we have left.
And then try to develop new strains. Something really new.
What a fantastic answer.
So I think that just about brings us to the end of the episode today.
Were there any comments or shout outs you wanted to make?
That I love you everyone. I love you people.
I really appreciate the support to ACES.
It has been some years. It has not been very easy.
We have had many ups and downs. It has been very hard. We have had to sacrifice many things.
But we did it because we love it. Because we wanted. Because it was our passion.
And we wanted to contribute with something.
I really appreciate how our genetics in some growers.
How happy it makes people. How happy this makes me feel.
It's a really beautiful thing and it's very creative.
And there's a lot of love involved.
So yes, this industry is not easy.
I probably never did all the things always correctly. I'm not just a human.
But I just try to be as much a good person as I can be and give the best of me in my work.
And ACES is this. Without you it would never happen.
So thank you very much. Much love.
Fantastic. So again, thank you so much for coming on the show.
Giving us all the history, all the knowledge from the landrace preserver himself, Dubio of Ace Genetics.
Thank you so much again.
Thank you so much. It has been a pleasure to start the spring, this beautiful day with you.
We are incredibly appreciative of our sponsors as always.
Go check out Seed Tier Now.
They have a wide variety of both modern and more landrace type lines.
Anything a seed addict could desire, they're going to be able to help you out.
They've got all the top quality breeders and a guarantee on satisfaction at the end of the harvest, not just on germination.
Why would you go anywhere else? They're my pick. Go check them out.
Likewise, you need a stop on by our friends at Coppert Biological Systems.
With the largest range of predator mites and other natural enemies in the game.
Be sure to check out their Ultimite, a predator mite breeding sachet for all your thrip, spider mite and russet mite issues.
All while specifically formulated for maximum release rates in a cannabis production climate.
And next up, who could forget our friends at Pro-Mix.
They're here to help you get the best crop possible.
Check out the Pro-Mix Connect MicroRyzel Inoculant to ensure that your crop is productive, resinous, dense, flavourful, all the things you want.
We know micro-rise is important. The god Jeff Lowenfeld told us.
What more do I need to say guys? Pro-Mix Connect, a fantastic product. Go check it out.
Finally, the Patreon gang. You guys know it. I love you. You are the lifeblood of the show and you get access to episodes early as well as bonus unheard content.
So if you want to be a part of the club, go check out www.patreon.com. The podcast for early access, bonus content, giveaways and so much more.
So there we have it guys. Thanks for hanging around till the end.
Appreciate y'all as always.
This is Heavy Daze signing out from the Upside Down Library.
We'll see ya.
