Hello and welcome my friends to another episode of the podcast, a cannabis podcast for budding
enthusiasts.
As always, this show is brought to you by our number one sponsors.
Seeds here now, you know them, you love them.
All the best breeders, the best prices, satisfaction guaranteed.
Get into it.
As well as a big, big shout out to Radio Rich Nursery, the one and only.
Huge, huge, huge shout out to Greensleeves Merchantile.
Got them dope graphics and logos on pack, hit them up, whatever you need.
And as always, big, big, big shout out to the family at Dragonfly Earth Medicine and
the Patreon gang.
We love you guys.
You're amazing.
Thank you so much for everything you do.
On the episode today, we have True from True Cannagenetics.
Dropping all knowledge about the EU scene, Spain, what he's been up to.
And what we can expect going forward.
Let's get into it.
All righty guys, a big thank you and welcome to our friend True of True Cannagenetics for
joining us today.
Hey bro, how's it going?
Good, my friend, good.
So we're going to start this one off with our new favorite one to start it off with,
which is what are you currently smoking on today?
Today I rolled up a joint of True Love, which is a cross of a Filipino land race and the
Truth, which is a strain I won a high times with back in 2014.
Wow, okay, there's a lot to go on there.
Let's go on the one I was a little more interested in touching on first, because we'll obviously
touch on the Truth quite a bit.
The Filipino land race.
How did you come across that one?
I've never seen anyone with a cut like that.
This is the most incredible story for a strain.
This one, like, I love the strain for so many reasons.
I had a friend I met when I was in Amsterdam, a Jewish friend of mine called Zohar, one
of the most adventurous, quirky characters I've ever met in my life.
I love him.
He's just an oddball of the highest caliber.
And that's why I probably like him because we're so alike and so different in that regard.
And after living in Amsterdam for a few years, he then moved to Barcelona.
I moved to Barcelona, haven't been in touch with him.
I'm walking along the street and see him coming towards me with this girl hand in hand.
So I'm like, bro, he's like, oh, Barry, what are you doing here?
I'm like, oh, I've moved over.
I was staying at a friend's at the time, just kind of looking for somewhere to live and
get everything settled in.
Turns out he was doing tours of the cannabis social clubs in Barcelona.
And it was an idea that me and him came up with when I was in Amsterdam because Instagram
had kicked off by then.
And I said to him, like, go and do the tours, take people around to the different clubs.
You can basically what happens is people take people around to the clubs and they just charge
a small fee or get a cut of the entry fee.
But then they're able to take people to like three or four different clubs during a day,
find out kind of what kind of people they are and pair them up with a cannabis social
club that suits that kind of person.
So he while he's doing it, he meets this Filipino girl who's on like her first big holiday away
from her mom and like on a kind of journey of self-discovery.
So they fall in love.
He pretty much jacks in his job and is just on like a whirlwind romance at the moment.
So he tells me like, that's it.
I'm in love.
Like I'm going back to the Philippines to meet a mom and a brother.
Like he's that's what I love about him.
He's one of those people.
It's like he just goes, he's everything wholeheartedly.
There's no like messing around.
This guy, he puts his whole heart into everything he does.
So I go meet them and she's just the most beautiful, kind hearted, wonderful person.
And him, like I said, he's just the most wonderful guy and a super adventurous person.
So for him, he's down for a trip to the Philippines.
So within like a month, I think they were maybe like together for a month in Barcelona.
And then when it was time for her to go back, he went back with her.
So he goes back.
He's over there.
I get a phone call from him and he says like, bro, this is not looking good.
The mom is so upset that my girlfriend has kind of just had this journey of self-discovery,
falling in love and come back with me.
I am not feeling welcome.
The brother is like the dictator from North Korea and he's looking at me like he wants
me executed at any moment.
So I'm saying to my friend like, bro, be careful.
This is the Philippines.
These are rich people.
They will have you go missing like for pennies, just like be careful.
And he's not an idiot.
So he said to me like, no, don't worry.
We're doing some sightseeing and we're coming back next week.
Like we're out of here.
Don't worry.
So I don't hear from him for a little while.
And then all of a sudden I get a phone call from him while they have gotten to the airport
and are about to board their flight back to Europe.
His girlfriend has been arrested.
I'm like, you couldn't make this shit up.
I'm like, bro, like, what are you doing?
So he said that he's then missed his flight.
And he's now trying to get in touch with her friends to find out what's going on or trying
to get help and alert them.
And luckily he had like her Facebook login had been done on his phone.
So he was able to try and reach out to some friends and try and get help.
But literally like spent maybe a week or so doing that.
During his adventure, he met another Jewish guy and said to him, brother, I need to smoke
some weed.
I am under pressure.
You need to help me find some weed.
So this other guy goes out of his way to find him some buds and gets him like a Filipino
land race.
In that Filipino land race, there's five seeds.
So my friend saves those five seeds.
And then after a week or so of not being able to get in touch with his girlfriend and not
being able to find out what's going on, he comes back to Barcelona.
He comes back and stays with me.
So while he's staying with me, I start the seeds.
After a couple of weeks, he gets a phone call from his girlfriend.
She's in a mental institution.
She's managed to get one of the girls that works there to let her use the telephone secretly
away from everyone and tells us that they've diagnosed her with love addiction and they're
literally drugging her and giving her counseling.
Heavy.
Gross.
If I hadn't have heard the conversation myself and been there and then heard the conversation
and then heard the voice messages that succeeded it, I would have been doubtful if this is
even possible, bro.
It blew my mind to think that something like that can happen.
So then my friend, as you can imagine, he's like, there's nothing he can do.
And he's super upset about it.
But he kind of like, is constantly got her in his mind.
After a little while, he gets a letter.
And this letter is just like a dagger to the heart letter.
You know, like it is the most damning, like by going on my Facebook, you broke my trust.
Like it broke down so many things, just destroyed and broke his heart basically.
And I had to say to him, look bro, this looks like someone put a gun to her head and made
her write it.
But at the end of the day, you're in another country.
There's nothing you can do.
You've got to get on with your life.
This is kind of crazy right now.
I mean, like it's so wild and I can see it's depressing you.
You need to get on with your life.
So at that point, I decided to call the strain that I was growing, lovesick, the Filipino.
Because of the love addiction diagnosis that she was given.
Hot damn, that's a neat name to a potentially really dark story.
Well, the craziest thing of all, bro, is that a month or say six weeks into Veggie Laplante,
I took her cutting from it and it bled red.
Huh, that's existing like, you know, one of Bodhi's strains.
That's so rare though, right?
Yeah, I think it's like Amphocyanins or something like that.
I'm not sure the exact pronunciation.
I've only ever seen it written.
But yeah, I think Bodhi's got a strain called Dragon's Blood that does it.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
You know about that one.
Sweet.
Yeah, yeah.
People have pointed out to me when I actually found it, people have pointed it out to me.
So yeah, that strain there, it goes like dark purple.
It's the most unique, hardy strain I've ever grown in my life.
I've seen it grow in a propagator in a dark room where the rest of the tray of cuts I discarded,
all molded and just fluffed over.
And when I went in there, the Filipino cuttings had grown to the roof of the propagator and
were trying to find light.
Damn.
And what's it like as a plant in terms of like flowering time and the high and all that stuff?
The flowering time is quite long.
Like I've got it to finish to an acceptable degree in Barcelona outdoors because I flowered
it all the way until the first week of December.
Okay.
That's quite a while.
But indoors, you're looking at like, you could get away with 14, but really 16 weeks is where
it wants to be.
And I think if I really wanted to, you could probably push it to 20 weeks.
It's one of those kinds of strains.
Like it's weird like that.
And the truth is indoors, it's never as good as it is outdoors.
Ah, that's cool.
Yeah.
Like what my plan is to do next year is to start flowering indoors, like six weeks before
the outdoor schedule flips to flowering and then take it outdoors and finish it off for
another 10, 12 weeks outdoors.
So it gets like 20 weeks altogether.
Oh, that sounds nice.
And so what's the high like?
It's a beautiful, cerebral, low anxiety.
I haven't got the luxury of being able to get things tested easily, but I get the feeling
that it's got CBD in it just for the fact that there's none of that heart pounding,
sativa anxiety from it.
But it's got a beautiful, cerebral, calming, euphoric, kind of mildly psychedelic high.
Nice.
And so what have you been able to get the flowering time down to when you crossed it
with the truth?
Yeah.
Do you know what?
I finished a whole bunch outside first week in October.
Some stunners.
So you get 10 week to 12 week finishes.
Lovely.
And what kind of flavors do they have?
Are they leaning towards one side or in the middle or what do they do?
With the regular version, way more variety.
It's all over the place.
With the regular one, the flowering time is more varied as well.
But with the feminized version that I've just done outdoors, it was a little bit more balanced.
You know, there wasn't so many crazy sativa ones and there weren't really truth dominant
ones.
It kind of evened it out a bit more across the board, which is what I find with FemSat.
It kind of evens things out a lot more.
So yeah, with that, the flavors are weird.
I'll be honest.
It's so hard to describe, bro.
I haven't got a point of reference for it.
It's kind of in a floral direction, but I can't compare it to anything.
So it's making it super difficult.
And that's the same with the lovesick cut itself.
I can't compare it to anything.
Lovesick cut itself.
I can't give you a point of reference to tell you what I think it smells like or what it
tastes like.
So it's one of those ones I need more people to try it because there'll be people with
more experience.
You know how it is sometimes someone will smoke one of your strains.
I've got a strain, Truzilla, which is Terpzilla cross to the truth.
And when I'm smoking it or smelling it, I can pick up on fruits that I know.
So I'll pick up on a mango note or like grapefruit I can discern easily.
You'll get a little pineapple smell that one I can pick out.
But when someone else comes along, I've heard someone go like, oh, I can smell papaya.
I couldn't tell you what a fucking papaya smells like for the life of me.
So I just have to take it that that person has got more papaya experience than me and
that they're just picking one of the notes out because it's familiarity, which often
makes them jump out to you.
Yeah, that sounds like a pretty sound theory.
Let's go back to the start though.
What was your first experience with cannabis?
Do you know what, Ian?
I think literally my first ever experience of cannabis was from like a super irresponsible
like family member where one of my aunties who's like semi-degenerate, basically my little
cousin when we were going on a walk in the countryside suggested to her to let me have
a pull on a joint.
And that was my first talk of a joint was from my auntie when I was like probably about
fucking 11 years old.
So super irresponsible, like not the kind of thing that anyone should be doing.
But I guess the fucked up thing is that your favorite auntie when you grow up, you realize
was the most degenerate.
And that was the gist of that.
So that was my first experience.
And always like I remember seeing her and her boyfriends and older cousins whenever
they would roll a joint and smoke a joint, I could see from a child the difference and
how happy they were when they were smoking that joint.
So I think there was always an interest from when I saw people smoking when I was younger,
I could see the change that that made in people and how everyone was laughing and smiling
a little bit happier.
And there was from a young age, I kind of had that interest and fascination.
Yeah, okay.
That makes sense.
And so where did it go from there?
How did you continue to smoke as you grew up beyond 11?
No, no, it was like a concept that couldn't be like the idea of it was baffling.
It's like, I don't even know even when I think about it, I was baffled by that.
I think the only other thing I maybe tried was like, I tried smoking a cigarette one
time and then I didn't smoke again until I was like, I think maybe 14 in secondary school.
And I started smoking with one of my friends, a crazy little Indian kid that I went to school
with that was just wild.
And I got smoking with him.
And then another friend of mine, his dad was Moroccan and he would always get hash and
he would smoke hash with me.
Lovely.
And so that would have been interesting having access to such a kind of much more high quality
and more potent high.
How did you feel?
Did you realise like that was something special or was it just kind of whatever?
Hash was so prevalent where I'm from.
I'm from like Northwest London originally.
So, that's not far from Labrador Grove, Portobello Road market.
And there's loads, a huge Moroccan community there.
There's loads of Moroccan calves and things like that.
And because of the Moroccan population in that part of London, you've always been able
to access incredible Moroccan hash.
And also back then, even there was a lot of good Indian hash as well.
There was a lot more variety, but the Moroccan has always been around.
So, you kind of took it for granted.
That was the real first experiences.
There was a lot of hash that was smoked.
My early experiences were going halves on a five pound draw of hashish with a friend
and getting two pound fifties worth each.
And that's a lot of reason why you kind of start smoking with tobacco.
And that becomes the culture in the UK.
And even when you smoke flowers, people would say, oh, you need a little bit of tobacco
to help it burn.
So, there was this kind of mythology around needing tobacco to combine it.
So, what were the first strains that you can remember the names of smoking growing up?
Let me have one guess.
Skunk.
Well, bro, that's the funny thing.
Yeah.
I remember the day my best friend phoned me and said, Barry, get whatever money you can
and come round.
We've got this new weed.
It's called skunk.
It feels like my head's a balloon on a string.
And I'm like, OK, I'm coming.
And at that point, it was like five pounds for a gram of imported bud or five pound for
a gram of Moroccan hashish.
And this, I think it was like 10, 10 pounds for a gram or maybe more.
But it was at least double.
So, the idea of all of a sudden having to spend double that for this tight little, luminous
green, stinking, blue, green, green, green, green, green, green, green, green, green,
that just was called skunk.
It was like a new thing.
This was like 95, 1995 when we started to get that.
Beginning of 95, I think it was around then.
Love it, man.
And was that like a kind of a paradigm shifting moment for you or was it like...
Huge, massive, massive.
That was like, wow.
It, the high and the difference in the effect was so impactful.
The smell, the flavor, everything like that.
It's like in your mind as a kid, you're like, my God, what kind of laboratory did this come
from?
This is like, this is incredible.
What scientists provided this?
I'll happily pay double.
Like, it changed everything.
We were just like, our heads were spun.
That's great.
So, how long was it between that point when you first started your own grow?
I would have been 15 then.
So, I basically had like a journey from the age of 15 to like 20 when I started growing
properly where my dad and his best friend would grow a couple of plants in our back
garden.
And as kids, we didn't know what it was.
And then as we got to the age of 15, we realized, and that was part of the whole thing.
This is so, this is a great story that you'll love, bro.
It's like, this is the kind of funny shit that just like, you have to laugh.
When I started smoking at 14, my best friend, I wasn't smoking with him and he found out
and told his fucking mom.
And his mom was best friends with my mom.
And our dads were best friends.
So, one morning, I go to school to meet him and his brother and cousins to go to school.
And his mom says to me, Barry, can you come here a minute?
I want to have a talk with you.
And then she pulls me into the bedroom and gives me a lecture about smoking cannabis.
And the fact that I'm a 14 year old and that cannabis isn't the worst drug in the world,
but it's not appropriate for a 14 year old.
I'm at school.
I should be learning.
My brain's still developing.
I shouldn't be smoking.
And she gave me such a legit talk and said to me, look, I'm not going to say nothing
to your parents, but stop.
Don't do it.
It's not appropriate.
And it was so on the level that I literally stopped.
I was like, bro, I've got such a blight.
I believe that she's not going to say nothing.
And for that reason, I'm just going to stop because I've gotten off lightly here.
But how harsh my friend, I'll be honest, what it was, my friend at the time, he was so jealous
that I was smoking.
I'm so afraid to do it himself and get caught that he ended up snitching on me.
That was like, he's like outlet.
So literally for them, for maybe six months or nine months, I didn't smoke.
And I would have like friends at school, particularly these two girls that I always used to smoke
with.
And most of the time they would buy the weed and I would always roll it.
Now they would come to me and I would have to roll the weed and I wouldn't smoke it.
I'd stand with them.
And I had such like good like restraint that for like six or nine months, I didn't.
And then one day my friend comes into school and says to me, oh, me and my cousin smoked
weed last night.
We asked my parents and they said, yeah.
So he's now got permission from his parents to smoke.
So I'm like, my mind's blown.
And what it is, is that his dad used to grow some outdoor plants every year and he'd like
give away 95% of it and maybe smoked the odd joint for himself on his own, like one night
when all the kids are gone to bed.
But really just enjoyed to grow in the plants.
And it got to the point where my friend and his cousin went to his parents and just said,
look, we want to try cannabis.
We'd rather do it at home.
And ask you and see what it's like.
We've tried alcohol.
It's like the English culture is that you're allowed to drink alcohol.
Parents will let kids drink alcohol.
No problem.
There's nothing for them to go like, oh, you're 14.
Yeah, you can have a beer at 14.
Oh, yeah, you can have a shandy at 11.
You know what I mean?
Like people give their kids alcohol from early.
I'll be honest.
My parents are very liberal with with drinking alcohol.
With drinking alcohol.
So when we went on holidays, for instance, like a summer holiday, two weeks to Cyprus,
we were allowed to drink a few cocktails.
We're allowed like two cocktails a night.
And that's when your kids.
And it's nothing.
And that's like a normal thing.
And the bar staff wouldn't even care for you to ask your parents.
They would just serve you.
So the alcohol culture in the UK that exists is just extraordinary.
And people just get into a negative kind of social state of like thinking that the
only way you can socialize is to drink alcohol and go to places where everyone's paralytic drunk.
People prey on one another or hitting on each other.
You've got girls worried about getting drink spiked, about being too drunk and people taking
advantage of them, people getting into fights because of the alcohol and the stupidness and
all of these kind of things.
So although to some people, it may seem crazy for kids to go to their parents and ask them that
it was probably a sensible thing, because I'll be honest, what it done is in the long term,
what it done is that I then asked my parents if I could smoke.
They discussed it with their best friends who had more experience about people that smoked.
And they come to the decision that, look, if they want to try it, let them try it.
If they want to do it, let them do it in the safety of our own home.
On a weekend as a sociable thing, one of them is 17, almost 18.
The other one's 16.
They can leave home now.
They can have sex.
They can get married soon.
If they want to try it, then really, it's better that we know what they're doing and we have an
honest dialogue with our kids, because otherwise what will happen is they will hide smoking
cannabis and then all of a sudden, that just opens up a gateway of deceit.
That whole dishonesty thing, and my parents never brought me up to be dishonest.
That was the one thing that was always instilled into me.
It was like, look, you can come back from anything, but if you're a liar,
it's hard to bounce back from being a liar.
That's who you are.
It's like, if you fuck up, if you make a mistake, whatever you do, admit it, own it up, deal with it,
but don't be a liar.
So when it comes to that, it was like, my parents, it was kind of hard for them to get their head
around at first, but in the end, they just kind of said, okay, let's do this.
And then what would happen is they would give us, this is the funny part, they would give us
like a little bit of bud from the crop that his dad had grown outdoors, but they didn't have an
idea about what we smoked.
So we were asking them for like weed for the weekend and they were giving us like a half
ounce of this bud and we're like, yeah, yeah, that should be about okay for Saturday and Sunday.
And then we would have enough to just like slowly last us throughout the weekend.
You just slowly become regular smokers from the age of 15.
I was like consistently smoking and it was only hash that we would buy from other people to
begin with.
Then the skunk came in, there was commercial bud like Jamaican.
I missed out on Thai.
I think like once we had something that claimed to be Thai, but it was dubious because I don't
know if it's the same with you, but now they send bud from anywhere in the world with a
string thrown in it.
It's like there's no stick, but they think that if they put string in it, people just think it's
Thai.
So in England, you'll get people always posting pictures like, yeah, I've got this authentic
Thai and it's got a bunch of string in it.
And I'm like, guys, that's just from Africa.
It's shit weed.
They just put some string in it to like as a unique selling point so that they can convince
you that it's Thai stick or something.
I have to send people like pictures of like a Thai stick.
Look, this is what it is.
It's a whole product.
It's not just got some string fucking wrapped around it.
Come on, guys.
Yeah.
Wow.
So tell me about your first grow.
What was that like?
The first thing I grew was one small plant outdoors and it yielded about 10 grams and
it blew my mind how good it was.
And then literally I had my best friend.
He had two plants growing outdoors, vegging.
I was giving up tobacco and the best way to do it was to start growing on my own.
So I got these two plants off of my friend, put them in the corner of my bedroom, went
to Ikea and got a blackout blind, went to the grow shop, got some bottled nutrients.
Then I got a 400 watt HPS.
I never had no fan, no filter, no tent, no nothing.
I literally just had it in the corner of my bedroom with a wardrobe, kind of half boxing
it in.
And at night I would just turn everything off and I'd be in my bed.
Even I'd watch a little bit of TV because I was like, you know, you have no concept
of like a hermaphrodite really at that stage.
Like I didn't really know what I was doing.
I was kind of like winging it.
So I just grew that in the corner and I was like, okay, I'm going to do it.
I just grew that in the corner.
And the real inspiration that got me like, that made me want to grow was the book Hashish
by Rob Connell-Clock.
Before I fully grew indoors from one of the head shops where I would buy like high times
magazine, rolling papers, bongs and things like that.
I saw the book Hashish in there and I got that book and read it from front to back.
And literally when I got to the end of that book, that's when I decided like, never mind
a little outdoor plant every year, just like that didn't matter.
I wanted to become a grower.
I felt like I understood so much about the plant from reading that book that I wanted
to grow.
And from that, I got Jorge Cervantes book, The Grow Bible.
And I literally read that in something like 10 days.
I went insane reading this book front to back and literally finished it.
The next day, that's when I went and got all my equipment.
Good effort.
And so, how long was it before you found your way onto the forums?
Well, in Jorge Cervantes book, at the very back of it, it had seeds direct and overgrow.com.
It actually had the website links.
So, it is when I read that book, I actually discovered overgrow and seeds direct.
So, I was able to get my first ever seeds from Gypsy Nirvana's original website and
also go on to overgrow, which just blew my mind.
Wow.
And what are some of the memorable things that you remember being around for on the
overgrow website or forums?
I was just so overwhelmed by everything that was going on.
For me, just the strain base, I was obsessed with the strain base, with all the information
about the strains.
If there was a Jeopardy special subject thing on strain base of overgrow and genetics released
from 2000 to 2010, that would be my specialist subject because I would go through that in
such detail.
I knew every breed, every strain name, what the background was.
It was just incredible to go on there and to see some of the growers on there was just
wow.
And so, who were the breeders you were looking up to at that time?
For me, it was always like, to begin with, it was always the Dutch breeders.
Like, I was always like a big fan of serious seeds.
It's like serious seeds to me, the way they actually done their breeding and came with
everything was incredible for me.
So, that made a huge difference.
But once I got onto the forums and started to see all this American genetics, that's
when things really got interesting because everyone in the UK was growing the Dutch strains
that I was familiar with.
It's like the people that I knew, those strains were available.
And it's always the interest of getting something unique that kind of got my eye.
So, the minute I saw all of these unique breeders, like I remember getting bog seeds, one of
these boggle gum and some other things that were like deep wreck, things that like, you
know, if it had an elite clone involved in it, it was some kind of American genetic that
was like a clone only.
If someone was working with something like that, that is what attracted me.
It was like, I wanted to grow things out that I knew when I passed a joint to someone in
the UK, they were going to be looking at the joint for answers.
You know, when you pass a joint around to people, they take a toke and then they look
at the joint as if to say, hold on a minute.
And then they look around for some answers.
That's what I wanted.
And it was things like, I remember getting sour bubble from bog way back in the day,
which is like a bubble cush cross bubble gum.
And that was just a game changing flavor, bro.
That kind of flavor is just next level.
Same with sour diesel, same with like train wrecked, same with OG cush turps, the minute
chem dog flavors came along.
I grew out a lot of those flavors pre 2010 and it was like revolutionary.
When Oregon Kid done those OG cush S1s, that was just insane for us, bro.
To have OG cush in the early 2000s was just wild.
So I always looked out for those boutique breeders, the little crazy guys that had something
with a story behind it, something that no one else was growing that had like documented
photos that you could see you were onto something special.
Wow, what a cool backstory.
And so what's one of your favorite kind of nabs in terms of packs you picked up off the
site, just off the top of your head?
Do you know what?
This is one of the ones that deserves a mention.
There was a guy called JLP, John Lee Peddermore.
This was probably my greatest discovery on Overbroke and he transferred over to icmag.com
when that started up.
And he was a guy called JLP, which stood for John Lee Peddermore.
And what he done, he would make seeds and give them out free.
And he was the only person that was allowed to get addresses from people directly on ICMag
and was allowed to do that and deal with people direct.
And he would send out thousands upon thousands of packs of seeds.
And he'd done the most incredible seed projects with all the latest, greatest genetics that
maybe other people weren't able to snag.
And he'd done cool projects where he'd done like, he'd done a cross once, which was, I
love the concept.
He'd done two strains called Romeo and Juliet.
And I can't remember what the genetics were, but it was the same cross done both ways.
So he used like a male New York City diesel cross something.
And then he used the female New York City diesel versus the opposite male.
And then he released them as both Romeo and Juliet so that people could grow both of them
together and get an idea of what the male and females impart differently and have some
kind of side by side comparison to see what the results were for that.
Yeah, that's a cool little proof of concept of doing side by sides with people.
I guess the question that jumps to mind immediately for me is, do you feel like when you do a
kind of a sense check yourself like that with the two variant strains, do you feel like
really at the end of the day, what you're testing is your ability to select a good male?
Because what if in just one case you pick a dud male and then in the other, you pick
like a good one and that's the reason why you get such different results?
Yeah, 100%.
100%.
That's exactly it, bro.
At the time, like the concept is wonderful, but depending on the work that's gone into
it is how it is variant.
I mean, it really does make that difference.
Like, it's a huge difference because like you say, without a male being...
without knowing what your male does to begin with, that's one of my favourite things is
to actually figure out what does a male do?
Yeah, I guess that should be the goal of all breeders to have that as a bit of a pastime,
right?
But...
Bro, it shouldn't be a unique thing.
It shouldn't be like a mind-blowing concept to people, but they should be able to give
you a list of what a male does and be able to show you in a variety of crosses those
results consistently.
So, yeah.
Yeah, that's a good one and I think we'll touch on that in a bit, but I just want to
rewind for a second.
So, you were snagging some cool packs off Overgrown.
Something I picked up on which is really probably one of the most obvious things people will
pick up on about you if they Google you is that you're quite well known for your cut
of Casey Jones.
Is this where you picked that pack up from?
No, do you know what?
Casey Jones, basically around...
I think it was in 2004.
Like maybe two or three years into my being on Overgrown, maybe two years I think I'd
been on there, Overgrown now had got clogged down and there was loads of...
It lost the community vibe the bigger and bigger it got and then Icy Mag started up.
Because I discovered that the website Gypsy Nirvana Seeds Direct, they had a shop not
far from London, which was like within driving distance to me.
And back in the day, you're so paranoid about dealing with anything in the post, online,
anything like that, that I contacted them and said like, oh, I do work down there.
Is there any chance I can pass by?
And they said like, yeah, we've got a shop.
And they had like a little head shop where you could go in and see them.
So, for me, I went down there and actually met them.
So, when they started Icy Mag, that was kind of like a big, massive thing for me.
And I got into Icy Mag and that kind of got the Icy Mag Cup going.
And that's when I started to meet American growers and breeders.
The Icy Mag Cup and through Icy Mag is where the world of the industry and the community
really opened up to me because I was able to see other people's flowers that had been
sent from America.
I was able to try cup entries for the Icy Mag Cup from Rezdog and Jimmy Knits and Smokey
the Puffmaster, all of these guys that had the East Coast Sour Diesel Cup and got to
try Elite Genetics and got to have my own bud there.
I was always someone that sent a shitload of bud over or took it with me.
So, I always had a rucksack with like five Tupperware containers full to the brim with
different flowers and always wanted to see what was around and what was available and
see what people thought and try better things.
So, that was when I got the Casey Jones seeds, was when I met the heads because they were
visiting Europe.
So, I met them at the Icy Mag Cup, got the seeds off of them and then the next year I
entered it in the Icy Mag Cup in 2007.
I think I met them maybe 2005 and then 2007 Icy Mag Cup.
I'd grown it out, done massive selection.
I kind of selected, not massive selection in the amount of seeds, but massive selection
and dialing in.
I was so obsessed.
It was the first real time that I decided to keep clones from seed selection.
So, not only did I do the selection, but then I grew it out so many times and I flowered
out like 40 plants and chopped it every single day from week eight to week 11.
And then I had them all jarred up with the exact day on them and then I would smoke them
and whittle it down to the 10 best days.
And then I grew it again and then I chopped down like five plants on each of those 10
days and then I went through the best ones and whittled it down.
And then I'm like, all right, day 64 is the day for this Casey Jones cup.
Now, this plant here is the best one of that batch.
This is the one I'm going to enter in the ICMAG Cup this year.
And I really thought about my entry.
A lot of people don't put full into an entry.
For me, the key to winning a cup like that is if there's a 35 gram requirement, you want
to provide 35 buds that weigh approximately 1.1 to 1.2 grams.
So that by the time the person takes out the twig and breaks it down, they get their gram
sample.
It's one bud.
No one has to break up big buds of your entry because when competitions have to start dividing
things up and doing those, they're under pressure and they haven't got time to gently break
up your big bud that you sent in because it was your best bud.
That doesn't work in a competition unless it's one where they're keeping half of it
for a judges panel that want to examine it in that detail.
When it comes down to individual judges, you really think about presentation, the trim
job, a nice boulder.
Don't use the top buds that have been directly under the light.
Go for the second shelf.
I always pick those like, you know, like if you're picking one gram buds, it's never going
to be those tops.
It's kind of the middle level ones that have got the best frost, that have had a little
bit of protection, that are just stunning.
Those are the ones.
Of course, yeah.
In the words of Pee Bud, the shoulders of the plant.
That's exactly it.
Leave the heads.
Love it.
Love it.
So, you entered the cup and what was the end outcome?
You got to finish the story for us.
Yeah, basically I entered that year and at this point, a lot of the UK were entering
but everyone was smoking with tobacco in the UK at that point.
Even a lot of the growers from IC Mag.
So, although other good growers entered, when it came to all these Americans being over
and judging, I was growing cocoa and had been growing pure for seven years, like six, seven
years by that point.
So, I was so obsessed with the flush that mine smoked so well and I had such a good
entry and it went off so good that I finished second place to John Lee Pedermore, JLP with
sour diesel.
He grew out sour diesel and got first place.
I came second with Casey Jones.
So, for me to come second to one of the internet legends was just like a dream come true.
That for me still is like just the most incredible one because it opened up a whole world of
friends and amazing contacts and just everything blossomed from that point onwards.
Yeah, it sounds like an awesome win.
I guess the thing which immediately jumps to mind for me is when you first started growing
it out and dialing it in, did you realise how special of a cut it was or did you think
like it was just pretty good?
Nah, I knew it was nuts bro.
It was nuts.
The thing was yielding ridiculous.
Like my first plant of it, I yielded like 12 ounces from the seed plant in a 10 litre
pot of cocoa.
It's like it was just ridiculous and the turps on it were just insane.
It was one of those ones like I said, if you're at a party and you roll a joint, you pass
it round and as it goes round, you see people talk on the joint, look at the joint and then
look around the circle to ask someone like, what the fuck is this?
Because it's literally hitting them with so much flavour, it's just coating their mouth.
Hell yeah, that's the goal, right?
And it was all unique.
The background of KC Jones is Orient Express, which is Billy Goats, Bangkok Betty, a chocolate
tie cross train wreck and then that was crossed with sour diesel.
So, completely unique things.
There was no familiarity in any of those flavours to the palette of like a UK smoker.
Hell yeah.
So, there were some other cuts of KC Jones that went around.
There was like the schmo cut, but yours was considered the best for sure.
But what did you think of the others?
Did you ever get to try them?
Do you know what's funny?
I had two cuts myself.
I had a Typheno as well, that was incredible, but I let it go.
It's like I was then still at the mindset of like, I can't have two KC Jones, you know,
like I'm trying to only really keep six mothers or something like that.
And I always loved the like mindset of like, a new one's got to come in and knock one of
those off and eventually I have to whittle down my selection so that I have one of each
strain.
I was naive to the reality of two of the same strain being unique enough to warrant both
being kept.
Yeah, I can certainly feel myself being guilty of that one as well at times.
Regrets, regrets, bro, regrets.
But you know what?
The strain was passed out and I smoked it a couple of years later and it was given to
me as something different.
They had mixed it up.
They were calling it the Mass Sour because we had a Massachusetts Super Skunk cross sour
bubble and they gave me the bud and when they gave it to me, I goes, this is the KC Jones
cut.
I didn't even need to smell it, nothing.
I goes, that's not Mass Sour, that's the KC Jones.
But the guys wouldn't believe me.
It's my cuts, both of them, but they wouldn't believe me.
There you go.
Well, full circle, right?
So were you breeding at that point?
No.
Do you know what, bro?
I wanted to become the best possible grower I could and I held breeders in such high regard
that breeding wasn't even on my radar until I was asked to do a project for someone.
The idea of breeding is like I had friends around me that were growing hobby growers
like myself, like my friend Dr. D online.
I would grow out his seeds and he'd do little hobby breeding projects and even at that stage
for me, I was like, I knew that there were levels that I hadn't reached as a grower.
The idea of breeding was like, to me, a slap in the face of people that were doing it because
you had to, I thought you should get to a certain, like master your craft in one regard
before you try and get to a next stage.
So it wasn't until I competed in the IC Mag Cup, I saw that my bud was on the levels.
I met Mrs. Grateful, Grateful Head's wife.
She was in the UK and I got to spend some time with her and she got to smoke everything
I had and she told me like, Barry, you're true, your stuff is on point.
You're on the level of all of us in America.
This is the truth of it, bro.
The best growers in the world are a nine out of 10.
That's my thing.
There's no tens because we all know that for every single minute of every single day
of an entire crop to go perfectly doesn't happen.
Eventually, it will get to that point because technology and room setups and grow techniques
are evolving, but at the moment it's not at that level.
And how I feel is that the best grower in the world on a day to day is an eight out of 10.
Occasionally, when you hit a nine, that's when you say to your peers,
check this one out, this one's special.
That's when I will like bother saying something.
I'll maybe have 30 jars sometimes and offer them up just like, yeah, I've got this, I've got this,
I've got this, but there'll be one that I know peaked, one that really stood out and is on that
level.
It's like ironically enough that Spanibus last year, I grew a cheese plant that was that level.
It was like, oh, this is as good as I've ever grown a plant.
For whatever reason, this one had the right
root zone.
It was healthy, happy, the light was correct, the temperature was right, and people were
going crazy about it.
I've never had people, people were just shocked.
They're like, fucking hell, Brian, I've never had cheese like this ever.
People were really, really excited about it.
And it was one of those ones that I knew.
It was the one I was saying to people like, look, these are all my things, but even though
these are all my creations, this fucking cheese just came out crazy.
Check it out.
And that is it really.
That is it really.
Once I realized I was in that realm of being able to attain eights and nines occasionally,
that's when I was willing to take on the concept of doing some breeding.
Fantastic.
So, we're going to lose our linearity in time for a moment.
Fast forward for a second.
I've heard from a few various sources that you frequently have the best flower at Spanibus
most of the time.
Do you agree with that?
And what do you feel is the kind of state of affairs with the flower at Spanibus in general?
Also, there's Terp's Army Farm.
I've got to mention them because there's a couple, a UK girl and I think her boyfriend's
Italian.
They're called Terp's Army Farm on Instagram.
First of all, I have to shout them out because I have a massive amount of respect for them.
They grow on that level.
They're people that I would say are on the elite level of like, yeah, they're growing
eights and nines consistently.
They really put in the work and they really have a love and a passion for it.
So, before I big myself up, I definitely got to give them a shout out because I love what
they're doing.
And there are other people that have got some amazing buds, but I always plan for Spanibus
especially.
It's like from always, if there's an event, nothing pleases me more than being there in
my element, around my peers and people that when you show them things, they appreciate
it.
So, I go above and beyond and out of my way to try and make sure that I've perfectly
dialed everything down to the time in so that the flowers haven't been cured for too long.
They're not too fresh.
Try and get everything right and really just flush everything.
It's like my genetics, I believe in and I know that if I flush everything right and
it's clean, then that makes it stand out because I know there's a lot of like, oh,
why ashes are myth and all of these kinds of things.
It's like, I'm no scientist, but I know the whiter the ashes, the more I enjoy it.
So, I don't want to talk for anyone else.
I'm not saying I haven't had things that don't burn a little bit gray that weren't nice,
but whiter ash is a smoother, cleaner, more enjoyable smoke for me and those results are
shown by the feedback that I get.
And you'll notice that anyone that's ever talking about my bud in a good regard is often
talking about the flush and how clean it smokes.
Yeah, for sure.
So, let's go back in time now and go back.
Tell me about the first cross you ever made.
Was it intentional or was it an accident?
Do you know what's funny?
The first cross I ever made, I lost the project before I ever got to harvest the seeds or
grow them out.
That's kind of what got me on the path of breeding.
I was doing a project for someone else, for a res dog from Reservoir Seed.
Dun, dun, dun, dun.
Like, that will have people like, dun, dun, dun, dun, dun.
That will get people super like, I've triggered a bunch of people now.
But it's like, don't worry guys.
I learned he was a fucking scumbag too, just like everyone else.
But it's part of my history nonetheless.
So, yeah, I was actually doing a project.
I was doing a chem dog IBL.
So I had started doing that project for Res because he knew that I knew the Chem D.
I had got a lot of familiarity with that cutting by being around it a lot on the East Coast.
So when he actually asked me to do a project, it was the Chem IBL because I realized two
reasons.
One, I was familiar with it.
And two, because it was the IBL, he realized that he could ask me to do the project without
having to give me the cut because it was just crossing the seeds in crossing and doing an
IBL.
So inbred line.
So I didn't need to actually use the cutting.
He just wanted me to select multiple males and hit the best females.
Yeah, he did a lot of interesting stuff where he'd like, you know, B exit, then F2 it or
F3 it and stuff like that.
Did he explain to you his rationale behind that at all?
He was a fan of Mr. Soles and the Cinderella 99 and the back crossing theory.
So that was his thoughts on that.
Some of it, as people will tell you, there were versions that were good.
There were ones that were bad.
There were ups and downs.
Some of it he did himself.
Some of it he farmed out to other people.
Often it was farmed out to friends who fucked it up and the seed still went out.
So there were bad batches.
So it was all there was always crazy stuff like that going on.
The last batch of sow diesel IBL wasn't made by him.
That was made by basically connoisseur genetics who just used two clones that weren't even
given to him by Rezdog.
They were two sow diesel clones sourced by someone else.
And it was just easier for Rez to do that.
He was so burnt by getting scammed for the East Coast sow diesel cut.
Anyone who remembers Icy Mag will remember the Friendly Friend fiasco where someone came.
That was their name, Friendly Friend.
It's like if someone's professing themselves to be called Friendly Friend, it's like,
hmm, you're pushing it a bit too hard, this friendliness.
Do you know what I mean?
You should have been suspicious with the name.
But he ended up getting the East Coast sow diesel cut off Rez and starting his own line
where he used that cut but called it Indonesian diesel.
And there was this big drama on Icy Mag.
And it was hilarious.
But after that, Rezdog didn't want to give out the cut ever.
Because if you know the forum world back then, cuts were so guarded that once it was out
and people had it, they were using it, breeding it, trading it.
It was a crazy world for cuts back in the day.
You had to earn your stripes to get a cut.
Things have changed so much these days.
It's like, yeah, back in the day, it was a sign of respect to know that you had certain
cuts because you had done something to get to that point where someone offered you a
cut.
You wouldn't go out asking for cuts.
You would earn your stripes by putting in the work.
And then the right people would see what you were doing and offer you the right things.
Yeah, wow.
So, I guess the question that I want to ask is, how did you lose the project, as you said?
So, basically, being in a prohibition state like the UK where I used to live,
the house got robbed for the growth.
Oh, no.
Which is, it's like, the way things always work, right?
Like I say, loose lips sink ships.
And what happened is that the business partner who arranged the property had a best friend.
And that best friend robbed us.
Because, sadly, with prohibition and the way things are, it brings a lot of negative attention
from the wrong types of people.
And people will get into their heads that they can justify doing those kind of things.
And all of a sudden, you lose a project.
And it's like, it was a sad thing to lose.
It's like, I had two rooms.
One was the seed project and one was the flower project.
And it's like, to lose the seeds was more heartbreaking.
It's like, you're fucking idiots.
You've stolen a bunch of seeds that are worthless to you.
And now, I've lost everything.
So, that was the first loss I ever had.
It's like, the first time I ever did anything with anyone other than myself, I lost the project.
So, what happened after that?
You just stopped working with Rez?
After that, by that stage, I then stopped working with Rez.
Rez was doing all kinds of weird shit.
He basically blocked a mutual friend from giving me the East Coast Sour Diesel cut,
some super sly moves.
And he had just generally started to show his true colors and reveal himself not to be...
Like, this is the thing with Rez.
Like, this is the thing with Rez.
His perception online was a scumbag piece of shit.
He used to come across so rude and abrasive that he wasn't likable.
I clashed with him online.
The only reason I ever got to know him is because I was friends with Grateful Head and
Mrs. Grateful, the creators of Casey Jones.
I was friends with them and they, in turn, were friends with Rezdog.
There you go.
And I guess they just had a better relationship with him than most, I guess.
Yeah.
And that's how I met him, by going to America to visit them and then, in turn, meeting him.
And I got to be in those circles and be around him.
Then over a period of time, he just turned out to be a fucking...
A major, major piece of shit in real life.
But as with a lot of people who have a certain degree of intelligence, they're able to say
the right things at the right time to people, tune into their frequency and use them to
their own ends and gain.
So that's the kind of person he turned out to be.
And then, yeah, I was kind of lucky that when they had a whole bunch of drama and all got
busted, I was in prison myself.
So I wasn't visiting America, seeing them at that time, gladly.
Wow, Gio, how did that happen?
I got busted with my partner at Connoisseur Genetics.
Basically, after the first Rez Dog project, I had all of my female selections from the
chem project.
Plus, I had all of my female selections from just growing as a grower, because I had a
variety of different things.
I had Moat of Breath from Jimmy Nitz back in the day.
This is like 2008, 2009.
I had it before it had a name.
It was just crosses that he gave me when I went and visited America, because I met Jimmy
Nitz in America.
He's one of the best growers, most humble, and he's the guy that changed my whole thoughts
on feminized seeds.
His San Fernando Valley reversal that he'd done to Trainwreck and to the ChemD are, to
this day, my top 10 fems I've ever grown.
Moat of Breath is in my probably top five ever.
Well, it's interesting you say that, because I actually had the question I wanted to ask
you.
Do you ever feel like Moat of Breath is kind of similar to the truth?
On paper, they look like they've got a lot of similar elements.
Basically, I've tried to get that same chem, is what I love.
The fart gas, 80s joke shop fart gas, that turd that people smell and go, oh, that smells
like fart gas.
That is what ChemD smells like to me in its essence.
With the Moat of Breath, you had an OG structure with that foul, rotten ChemD stank.
That's what I like in the truth.
That does come through in the truth.
That's a term that I love and I've often worked towards.
Would you consider the truth to be kind of your most well-known strain?
Yeah, Terpzilla as well is quite well-known.
That one was grown out by a good few friends and got into some good growers' hands.
It won a few cups.
That's another one that's real well-known and hyped up.
I've had that for a long time as well.
I've never released it.
I think that's made it more well-known as well.
The fact it hasn't been released, it's just been grown and people have got to smoke it.
It's picked up a few cups.
It's interesting you mentioned the Terpzilla because that one uses the Terperella.
That one caught my eye because it's got that chocolate tie in it.
I was wondering, where did that come from?
Do you think that maybe plays a role in why Terpzilla, even though a bit of a distant relative,
does kind of shine through as one of your more well-known crosses?
Do you know what it is?
I think I may be getting them mixed up.
Yeah, it should have sent Chocolo.
I'll be honest with you.
That strain there is a fem seed that an IC Mag member made.
When I started True Candid Genetics, I'll be honest, I don't like making fem seeds.
That's the truth of it.
When I originally started True Candid Genetics, I was under pressure to release some fem seeds.
One of my friends had made the Chocolo cross supersaw the haze, which is Terperella.
He had those seeds.
I just said to him, look, bro, I'll release those for True Candid Genetics because I need
to sell some fem seeds because the market is just going crazy for them at the moment.
I don't want to make them.
I want to focus on regular breeding.
That one isn't even made by me.
That's the one and only time a strain or anything has ever been released by me that wasn't made by
me myself, the seeds.
It's nice to get that out there because it's not something I try and hide.
Generally, it's not something I would ever do, but that one isn't made by me.
Yeah, that's all good.
We've heard other breeders talk about doing similar things.
We've talked about how the truth is one of your more well-known strains, but let's put
that in contrast to what do you feel is your best strain?
Maybe there's something which flies under the radar a little bit.
What's your personal favorite?
I'll be honest with you.
Do you know what?
The real king strain for me is my Chem Valley Cooks, but I've not released it because my
whole philosophy behind that is that when I got the forum cut, I got it from an IC Mag
member called Crunch Bubble.
He got it with the crew that he's with in San Francisco, another grower called Abba
Roots whose seed company is called Always Be Flowering, I think it is.
They passed us the cut.
When I came out of prison in 2011, they sent me the forum Girl Scout Cookies.
That was a groundbreaking strain.
But when I bred with it, I knew that I get no pride from breeding something that just
tastes like cookies.
What I'd done is when I created Chem Valley Cooks and crossed it with an SFV Chemdog male,
I never wanted to release that because really, it was very cookie dominant, the females.
What I wanted to do was search for a male that when I bred with that male, it gave all
of the bag appeal and favorable traits of the cookies, but allowed me to impart all
of the flavor from the mother plant.
That's why I love the Chem Valley Cooks because it's allowed me as a breeding tool to release
a variety of strains now that are giving me the turf profiles that I want, but the bag
appeal that the modern market is obsessed with.
I've got one at the moment called Crimson Cookies and another one called Cheminade.
The Cheminade, everyone's loving at the moment.
That's a great lemonade crossed with the Chem Valley Cooks.
Grape Lemonade is a Lemon Lari OG crossed Chemdog crossed Grandaddy Purple.
Wow.
Okay.
And so, when could we expect to possibly be able to get those for ourselves?
That one's available at the moment.
The Cheminade's available in regular seeds now.
Those are out there.
All my seeds come in packs of 15.
The reason I do that is because I'm obsessed with, as a grower, I always wanted to be able
to have my selection and then keep a few.
So, for the average grower, I'm confident that from a pack of 15 seeds, you can pop
10 seeds, find at least one amazing keeper, and then have five seeds.
So, if ever anything happens, you've got five seeds from that original pack because there's
something in growers' heads that no matter what, if they've had a keeper from a pack
of seeds and they lose it, even if it's the same strain, same parent, they really have
an affinity for that pack of seeds that it came from.
So, if they've got a few left over that they can go back to, they feel more happy that
they've got that.
So, I kind of feel like 15 seeds in a pack is a nice number for a grower to have and
give them a little backup.
Yeah, I like that.
Applied psychology in breeding and marketing.
There we go, a new one.
But I just want to go back to a minute because I was actually talking to our buddies from
Always Be Flowering just earlier today, in fact, and I mentioned I was going to be chatting
with you.
And he actually basically kind of relayed similar information to what you just said.
But what I wanted to ask was, he said, you know, you were one of the first people, if
not, you know, the first person in the UK to get the forum cut.
How did that change the scene?
What happened at that point when you got it?
Without any shadow of a doubt, we were the first.
The cuts were sent to me and immediately shared with my business partner at the time, OJD of
Connoisseur Genetics.
That's who I was working with at the time.
I got those cuts.
It was incredible, bro.
I couldn't believe how they got to me.
Literally, we come out of prison, got messaged by my buddy Crunch Bubble.
And he said, look, man, we love you guys.
We love what you're doing.
We've got something special for you.
We want to send you.
And he FedExed me cuts.
And they were there within three days.
I had six rooted cuts of the Girl Scout cookies and six unrooted cuts.
They all rooted.
And all of a sudden, we had the most insane, mind blowing strain we had seen in fucking
years.
It was a game changer, bro.
Literally, people in London in 2011, 2012, were paying 10,000 a kilo for Girl Scout
cookies.
10 a gram all the way.
You want a kilo?
It costs 10 a gram to the kilo.
And people were buying that happily, doubling their money.
And it was selling out.
People were going home, raiding their bank, fucking looking down the sofa.
People were like, OK, I'll get 10, 20 draws.
People were just going crazy for it.
It was a game changer, bro.
It's that level where every now and again, a Turk profile, a look, something comes along.
At one point, it was Purple Bud.
That was so rare.
When the Blackberry cut that was on Overgrow popped up, it was like, my god, Purple Bud.
And that's how it is.
When new buds come along, they're just game changers.
And cookies did that.
It's like, it was crazy.
The people that got it were going wild.
Hell yeah.
And so, were you breeding at that point or were you looking to get back into it after
your little stint?
Yeah.
Yeah, we were breeding at that point.
It's like, the truth of it is that at Connoisseur Genetics, when we were making seeds, OJD was
making seeds.
I was making seeds.
And OJD had another friend who was making a lot of seeds for us too.
So when we were locked up, we were still having seeds produced.
So we were never stopping.
Me and OJ, we're no longer friends.
We don't get on.
Things happen, perspective, different views, such as life.
But we went through some adventures.
And when we got locked up and were in prison for trying to win a high times and getting
busted, we sat in prison, made strain names up, made phone calls, relayed that info, had
our work still released, and lived on in prison.
We did not stop.
I made a point of teaching at least five people how to grow when I was in prison.
I made a point.
I was like, you think you'll stop me, but you will multiply me because I will teach
as many people as possible how easy it is and what a wonderful life you can have from
growing.
And that's what I made a point of doing.
We continued to run the business.
I learned Photoshop and use it in my business to this day.
It's like I made the most of it.
I was like, you won't stop me.
I'll use it against the system and I will use it for my cannabis business.
Fantastic.
At what point did you diverge and start your own company?
Basically, after we came out of prison, me and OJ tried to work together.
And as with a lot of people that do business together, business and friendship doesn't
mix.
So, it got to the point where I walked away from Connoisseur Genetics.
It would have been around 2011, end of 2011 or maybe early 2012.
And then that's when I started True Canna Genetics.
When I walked away, I wanted to try and salvage a friendship.
So, I started fresh.
It's like my original releases for True Canna Genetics, rather than do anything with anything
that we've done.
I released a couple of Femme things that I had done that he hadn't.
So, it was kind of unique.
Like Tertzilla originally did get released in limited packs on Icy Mag.
So, a few packs went out and were sold.
But it was small amounts.
Same with the Purple Halitosis, the Grape Lemonade and a few other Femme crosses.
I released those for True Canna Genetics originally, but they were small batches.
When it actually came to full distribution, I started with Fresh Palette and I went for
regular seeds.
And I've always wanted to try and stay on that line.
So, what I did is because I'd become such a fan of the Chemdog profile and from growing
the Chemdog IBL and the Chemdog back cross work that I'd done with Connoisseur Genetics,
I got some SFV cross Chemdog.
And that is what I used as a male to hit up a few different things to start the foundation
of True Canna Genetics.
And one of the original strains was Chem Valley Cooks.
Also, the Truth Sagan Star, which was a Sensi Star cross and then Broadleaf Black, which
was a Black Domina cross or Black Domina.
I never know how to pronounce it.
I think you said it right one of the two times.
I don't know which one either.
But it's interesting you bring that up because I wanted to talk to you about that, specifically
the SFV Chemdog component.
Was that one of the various SFV IBLs crossed to the Chemdog?
Like, how did the genetics work?
Because on face value, it sounds like two clone only, right?
So, I'm wondering where the male part is.
That is ResDog's ChemD back cross.
It's the back cross two, the second back cross.
A male from that was hit to the San Fernando Valley OG Cush Cut.
Haha, okay, cool.
Well, when you put that in context, it then actually kind of makes me feel like the Chem
Valley Cooks is kind of like, it's not all that different from a GMO thing in a way,
you know, like it's got the similar components.
Yeah, the GMO kills me because it's like, I love that it's taken this long for everyone
to fall in love with the ChemD Terp.
It's like it had to look like cookies for the modern generation to fall in love with
it because that's what the Terp is, you know what I mean?
That is straight ChemD Terps, but it's just got all the bag appeal that everyone goes
wild for.
So, yeah, that's like, that is a good look and it's a beautiful Terp.
It is.
So, how would you compare the Chem Valley Cookies to something like the GMO or one of
the various other ChemDog Girl Scout hybrids like ChemScout or whatever?
Like the GMO, like most notably has that horrendously long flowering time, right?
How does the Chem Valley Cookies compare to those ones?
Well, what it is, yeah, with the ChemDog, to really get that Terp from the ChemD, I've
crossed the Chem Valley Cooks with the truth.
So then what you're getting is you're getting the SFE Chem from both sides.
That one I've called True Dough and that one has got the Chem Terp to perfection.
It's got that wicked fart gas stink and that one finishes at like eight, nine weeks, 10
if you really want to push it.
And that one's got all of the bag appeal.
It's got low leaf to bud ratio.
It's like super, super dense and it's got super, super high resin content.
It's like, oh, I've been pressing rosin on my Sasquatch and my God, it's just amazing.
I showed my friend yesterday and I love it because it was one of those times when you
let them smell it and they tell you the thing that it smells of before you give them any
hints.
And he said straight away, that smells like fart gas.
And it's like, he goes, not in a bad way, but do you know what I mean?
And I'm like, yeah, I do know what you mean.
That's exactly what I wanted you to say.
The fact you said it, it just put a big smile on my face.
So yeah, I reckon it's there.
In the Chem Valley Cooks itself, that one, the flowers, the one that I've selected as
a keeper, I've kind of gone away from the Chem Terp.
I've gone for like a sweeter, more floral, doughy kind of Terp for the actual Chem Valley
Cooks itself.
So that one I'm testing at the moment.
I've done the set, like an in-cross of that and I'm waiting to see what they're like.
I haven't had an opportunity to grow them out, but I've not been rushed to get the Chem
Valley Cooks out as a strain itself because like I said, for me, it was more about selecting
a male to use as a breeding tool than releasing the flowers.
Yeah, of course.
So if we're trying to continue on the story, so to speak, at what point did you decide
to leave the UK and head over to Spain?
Do you know what happened?
After originally getting busted, going to the High Times and going to prison, I decided
to send Bud to Amsterdam and that was a nightmare.
When it got there, I just wasn't happy with how it was after having sent it.
And I literally decided to myself, the only way I'm ever going to win a High Times is
if I'm in a city, grow the fucking Bud out, put it into Tupperware, walk up to the people
and hand it over like that.
That's how I need to do it.
And I decided, yeah, that's what I'm going to do.
And tied in with that as well at the time, a crazy, a fucked up thing happened is that
my girlfriend at the time came to visit me from America, got refused entry into the UK
and I ended up just saying to her, look, move to Amsterdam.
I'm going there to grow now anyway.
It was only a matter of time.
I need to fucking do a High Times in Amsterdam.
It was kind of perfect timing for me to leave England and go to Amsterdam and be in the
city and win a High Times, which from being a kid before even growing, seeing the High
Times and the High Times Cup, it was always so prestigious.
A lot of people want to criticize it.
I could probably talk some shit about High Times too, but at the end of the day, proof
is in the pudding.
The fact that someone like me could place and win in the High Times, the fact that someone
like Lady Satiba Genetics can win, the fact that someone like Karma Genetics can win all
those times, that is the fact that Feno find is the fact that all these people can win
is proof that smaller people can win these cups.
And it's not all about who does the big sponsorship, who does this, who does that.
It's like for me to win a second place High Times blew my mind.
The reality is that the small guys, when they go to the High Times, your first place is
third place.
You expect the big boys to sweep one and two, and then the up and coming little guy who's
making a name and putting in some work might snag a third place.
But then five other guys equally deserving are going to lose out.
So when I stood there and they said second, like they said the third place, I looked at
my cousin and said, oh, well, it's been fun.
And then they said second place winner, that just blew my mind.
It's like, and it shows that like putting in work and fucking dedicating yourself to
something can pay off.
Cool.
So you're in Amsterdam and you'd won second place.
At what point then did you travel?
Like where'd you go at that point?
Amsterdam was such a crazy adventure.
Anyone that's ever lived in Amsterdam knows that it's the most like you can walk around,
smoke, go to coffee shops, smoke all that.
But trying to grow there is so fucking difficult.
It is mind bending.
Like you will literally move into a place and a neighbor will come and knock on your
door and ask you who you are and what you're doing.
As if that's just a cool thing to do.
Like they want to know and they are on to everything.
So when I originally went there, I had a huge grow with a coffee shop and the grow got robbed.
So before I ever even got a harvest out of it, it got robbed.
And then I was left in a situation where I literally had to throw two 400 watt lamps
into a room in my apartment, pop four packs of seeds.
I had to grow the seeds out for eight weeks, harvest eight weeks, dry for two weeks.
And then I had one week to trim and hand into the high times.
And I literally for my high times entry, I entered a whole plant,
including the tiny little like 0.3 gram nuggets and everything, because it was just a whole plant.
I had to enter it without smoking it.
I just had to choose what plants I was going to end up.
Gee whiz.
Sorry, what plant was that?
That was all of them.
I entered the truth that year.
I think maybe we entered Ken Valley Cooks.
We entered a few different things.
And sorry, that's my dehumidifier going crazy.
I entered a few different things, but the truth is the one that won second place.
And I literally had to, like I said, I had to just choose the plants and enter them.
Because each plant, because I only had like a couple of weeks to veg and had to do everything
in such a small space of time because of losing the other grow.
I didn't have big enough plants to even really do selection.
I just had to kind of eye it.
But I was going to say the truth is, and it's ironic that I say that,
is that I knew from week five the winning plant.
My friend that I was living with at the time who runs an extraction company called Yellow Brick
Labs, we knew.
When I showed him like, smell this one, he was like, yeah.
He just confirmed to me.
When you know the standout plant, he just gave me the nod just to say, yeah, that's
fucking abrasive.
It just had such a beautiful, aggressive smell.
So that was the one that I knew was special.
And that was the one that got me the place.
Very special place in my heart, that one.
Lovely.
So how long did you continue to hang out in Amsterdam for?
Bro, like I said, it was so difficult to live there.
Everything was so difficult to do.
And it was so expensive that I won a high times in November.
In December, I went to Morocco to like a beautiful farm over there to like do some research for
them.
They basically wanted me to find out what was left on the material after they had done
four grades of hash.
After it had been hit four times and they'd got everything off of it, was there anything
left on the material?
Because imagine if you've got five ton of material and there's resin left on it and
you throw it away.
What's the potential?
A little bit accumulates.
Yeah.
So it was incredible to go there and find out that one of the strains had 4% return and
another one had 7% return with just a crude, simple, like open blasted, like BHO extraction
just to get numbers.
So as far as distiller, somewhere like Morocco just has fucking incredible, incredible potential.
So was it then you transitioned over to Spain?
Yeah.
My plan was always to go to Spain after I won a high time.
So after that, it was a couple of trips to Barcelona to set all things up.
And then I moved there in the early part of 2015.
And Barcelona, the cannabis social club scene had always appealed to me.
Before I even moved to Amsterdam, I had said to friends like, yeah, eventually Spain and
Barcelona with the cannabis social club scene is going to be the place.
And once a bunch of friends were living there and I'd met loads of people that were over
here with clubs and doing things, the opportunity was here to come over and people kind of invited
me to work.
A lot of opportunities opened up.
And so is the European scene kind of the Mecca that it's made out to be, especially Spain?
Barcelona is the epicenter of the European cannabis industry by far.
It's taken over Amsterdam.
This is the place where people come on a regular basis.
You know, as a kid, like from the age of 15 onwards, I was going to Amsterdam constantly,
like most English people.
It's a 50 minute flight.
It costs less than 100.
You can fly to Amsterdam for a day if you want, you know what I mean?
And hang out.
It's like people, I know people that have been 50 times in their lifetime to Amsterdam
because they do it like a weekend away.
Like you can spend more money getting taxis around London than what you do if you get
a last minute flight over to Amsterdam.
So people would do that so regular.
But as Amsterdam has tried to push out the cannabis culture and kind of fancied the whole
place up, it's kind of given the opportunity for Barcelona to have a thriving social club
scene and to start to draw all of those same people over here.
And with a variety of different like airlines, with the seasons that are quite mild over
here, everyone loves it.
And I've got friends that nobody I know who's been here once has only been here once.
They all come back many times and often two or three times a year.
What a little ad for it all.
So what's the Barcelona scene like in your opinion?
Are you in the heyday currently or is the best yet to come?
It is awesome.
It's incredible to be in a place where people have the opportunity to make something of
themselves.
To be at the start of any industry where people with passion are able to put in the work,
find their niche, fine tune it and then put it out to the world and build a brand.
It's amazing to see from all the different social clubs that have a variety of styles
to them so that no matter what kind of person you are, you can find somewhere that suits
your vibe, that has your kind of people.
Whether it's 1UP, which is like full of retro computer games with an amazing menu, with
a cereal bar with like 50 different breakfast cereals, all the American fancy fruit loops
with marshmallows and all of that kind of stuff.
There's that incredible place.
Then there's Tresol, which is like the most insane artwork.
It's got like already like 20 plus pieces of art from some of the world's most incredible
street artists.
There's places like La Calada, which has got the most amazing murals and like a real laid
back vibe with like lots of in-house work.
Same with We Flowers, where they do a lot of their own growing, extracting.
Alma Social Club, there's so many good ones and there's something for everyone.
There's places like The Plug for the younger guys that like the trap music and like all
the hype strains and all the like super like latest, greatest, Cali this and Skittles that
and all of those kind of things.
It's like, yeah, it's an incredible place with the clubs.
Now you're starting to get shops are popping up.
You're getting like real high end head shops.
There's a place called Hedgestash Barcelona that now have anything that touches in America.
Glow Trays, the Puff Co.
Peak attachments.
They've got everything so you can go there and get all your backwoods clothes.
You know, like I'm pushing 40.
I'm not going to buy backwards clothes.
I don't even smoke backwards.
But I know what these 20 year olds are like and it's like to be able to get all of this
stuff that's in America that everyone's seeing on Instagram to now be able to get it in Barcelona.
You'll get people from England flying over just to get the latest, greatest stuff from
this shop because they've got all the like exclusives that you can't get anywhere else.
So it's adding to the culture and the scene.
It's like there's a new place that's opened up called the Wacom Bakery, which is like
a stoner friendly food spot that's got loads of baked goods.
So they're just stoner guys that have opened a place and they've used the old name Wacom
Bakery, which is an awesome one because I knew a place on the East Coast called the
Wacom Bakery.
So slowly you're getting things with the Cannabis Museum that Scentsy have got.
You know, you've got other things starting to pop up so that on top of the social club
scene, you've got other things for people that are in that scene to come and see and
do.
And it's adding to the culture massively out here.
Yeah, what an awesome description of it all.
So one thing I wanted to touch on which you yourself referenced, the hype game.
It's a part of the American scene, which I don't really enjoy that much myself.
You kind of referenced it, but I'll ask it.
Has it infected the Barcelona scene and are the plug kind of like the equivalent of the
Jungle Boys of Barcelona?
The plug's just like incredible.
Basically, he's built the most incredible spot.
What he's done there, people try to replicate and anyone that tries to replicate it, they
fail.
He came and done the perfect spot for people who are interested in the latest, greatest
things.
The latest kind of music that the UK scene's putting out, the American crossover.
He's got a record label, so he's got all the best music playing for that age group and
that genre.
So it's not my style of place, but it's incredible.
And what he does is he not only has all the latest, greatest strains from Cali, but he
also has loads of stuff grown locally as well.
He does source out good local stuff.
So he has everything across the board.
That's the truth of it.
It's like a lot of people want to hate on whoever's doing really well.
And that's just the modern day mentality.
It's probably been the way since day one, since existence.
But what he's got there is an incredible place, but it's not for everyone.
That's why I said Barcelona's incredible, bro.
If you like guitar music and acoustic stuff, you'll find a club that's got three guitars
sat in the corner for you to go and play guitar.
If you like the latest, greatest grime music, trap music, the latest strains that have just
dropped, then there's somewhere for that.
If you like art, there's somewhere for that.
If you like computer games, there's somewhere for that.
So with the plug, they are killing the hype game, but they're doing it properly.
And they are getting the best stuff.
Do you know what I mean?
They have the connections to get the flavors.
What annoys me is some of the other spots that are just trying to be that, but they're
getting shit, Cali Bud, and trying to charge through the nose for it and promoting that
massively and trying to convince the world that Cali Bud's better because their markup
and profit margin on that Cali Bud is higher.
And that's where the problems are.
The problems aren't places that are trying to get the best thing for people to try the
latest, greatest things.
The problem is places that are getting sub-par bud that are pricing it crazy.
And then all the staff push that over local grown stuff to people who don't know any better.
And that is rife.
And the hype game with that regard is kind of fucking bad in Barcelona because unless
you go to clubs where there's educated staff who can educate people about the grower and
the genetics, they just sell the latest, greatest.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That's the same everywhere, I think.
But I want to touch on something you mentioned there.
You said that there is a variety of different things on offer depending on where you go.
So, I'd love to talk about some kind of Spain-specific clone-onlys and your experiences
with them.
And the one I most want to ask you about is a plan I've always had on my mind forever.
Have you ever smoked that clone-only of Queen Mother that goes around Spain?
No, I don't.
What's the background on it?
Aha.
So, it's from the Delicatessent crew who are kind of like friends with Cannabiogen.
And it's across of like a reunion island with like this Congo hybrid.
So, real raw sativary land rates.
But apparently, there's this specific cut that goes around Spain of it that's just meant
to be insane.
I think there's a cut that's a Congo one called Lily or something like that.
Yes, yes, yes.
That's the name of the cut, Lily.
Yeah.
Incredible trip, bro.
I have smoked it.
It's one of the only standout things I've ever smoked in Barcelona that when I first came here
in 2015, I think I was given that in La Calada and We Flowers.
They both have that cut.
I think I was gifted it in La Calada and it was the best example I've smelled of it.
What a beautiful profile.
I was like, Congolese?
Is this really a Congolese?
I was like, fuck, this is so tropical.
Beautiful, bro.
Beautiful.
Yeah, cool.
That's one which doesn't get talked about a lot.
But I mean, on that point, what's going on with Ace and Cannabiogen?
Do you have any contact with those guys at all?
I just feel like they've kind of fallen off a bit.
Was there like fallings out between them?
Was there some craziness where Ace was meant to have taken the genetics of Cannabiogen
and they split up or something?
And he's like, yeah, there's some kind of like conflict I heard from someone.
Okay, yeah.
I just noticed that both of them have seemingly stopped putting out new releases, whereas
they were on a bit of a good run for a while.
Basically, what I got told, I'll speculate.
This is total speculation.
This is what someone told me.
Someone basically told me that Cannabiogen was the one who was really doing the work
and that Ace kind of half jacked them.
So that's the story I heard.
Whether that's true or not, it would explain why they both stopped doing it.
Because if one guy didn't make it, the other did.
The other guy can't jack it.
Yeah.
And now it's all gone and he can't make them again because he jacked them or whatever.
Who knows?
But yeah, it's a strange one.
Yeah.
Well, I mean, it's totally possible in the sense that Charlie Garcia is well known from
the Cannabiogen crew as being a legit breeder.
So, it would make sense that they're the ones doing the work.
But anyway, you know, maybe we'll find out the answer to that one another day.
So, is there anyone doing anything over there that's kind of really innovating in your opinion?
Yeah.
Do you know what?
There's a few crews out here.
There's a lot of hash making crews.
Spain is a hash making culture.
So, because of the hash making culture, there's incredible people doing amazing work out here.
You've got Eminem extracts, La Sagrada Familia extracts, the guys from We Flowers, Alma Social
Club, La Colada, Nerd Extracts who has a one up club.
Also, you've got a UK guy called...
His name will come to me in a minute.
I'm having a brain freeze.
But yeah, there's loads of good people over here, bro, doing loads of good work and building
brands.
There's like growers.
There's a grower called Nectar Monkey that I know that does like live soil and he really
puts in the work to put out an incredible high end product.
And you get a lot of people that will do everything in house where they're growing things, they're
pressing stuff themselves.
They've got rosin, they've got flowers.
Do you know what I mean?
I've got a friend that does edibles as well.
So, him and his girlfriend, he grows, she makes edibles that they sell to the club.
They're called Fresh Flower Farm and Fresh Flower Edibles.
It's like, that's the kind of thing I mean.
There's like, they came here from England and were able to build a life for themselves
by taking some risks, putting in a bit of work, persevering, going through some ups
and downs, but having a goal and a dream and wanting to come and do something.
And Barcelona allows you to find your niche and find your spot and build something.
So, yeah.
There's lots of people doing cool stuff.
That's another one I have to mention.
Growers with Attitude, they are doing incredible stuff over there.
Yeah.
Shout out to those guys for sure.
So, I guess the next question that jumps to mind based off that is, how hard is it realistically
for someone to pack their bags and move over there?
Give me a little bit of a rundown.
Is it feasible or is it quite easy?
Basically, you've got to have enough money to do it.
Basically, you've got to have enough money to set yourself up for six months, really.
That's what it boils down to.
It's like, you've got to be able to come over here and afford to lay down deposits
and rent on a house for the first six months so that you can find a house, move in, set
yourself up, get a crop down, and then the ball's rolling.
So, anyone who can set themselves into a position to do that and can get it right can do it.
But it's not that easy.
You've got to find the right house.
You've got to make sure that you can rent that house.
You've got to make sure that you've got the documentation and the bank account that
you can show someone that you're self-employed, that you're a computer programmer, artist,
designer, and that you work online and set yourself up and get a house.
And then once you're in a house, you can set yourself up and be a part of the scene.
But it's not that easy, bro.
It's like, it's easy if you can make it happen.
But it's not just pack your bags, turn up, and it all falls into place.
It takes a lot of planning and a lot of fucking determination and a bit of cash as well.
It's like, it's not cheap to, you know what it's like with anywhere.
You've got to pay one month to the agent, maybe a couple of months as a deposit.
And then really, you need to have your first three or four months rent ready to be paid.
Ready to be paid so that you can get a crop out.
Yeah.
Pretty sound advice.
Electricity is always an issue here.
The houses are wired so bad that most of them are limited.
You can barely run any electricity.
So you've got to find a house where you can actually run enough electricity to grow properly.
So there's a lot of factors like that where it's like, once you're here,
there's a wonderful sense of privacy and your house is your castle.
Everyone minds their own business and a lot of people grow.
My neighbors grow.
They go into their grow room.
When they open the door, it opens out into their garden.
They don't do it discreetly.
They don't give a fuck.
It lights up the hill that we live on.
I live on like a mountain.
It lights it up that at least six houses down the hill know these guys are growing.
They had 20, like 15, 20 foot plants in their garden.
It's like they harvested the whole thing in their back garden.
It's like they don't care.
And I've got other neighbors that have got plants in their front garden.
So it's like people mind their own business out here.
If you haven't, if you're not showing off, if you're not a flash fucker, who's driving a fancy
car around working class people, stinking a weed all the time and making a noise,
you're going to be cool.
It's like that.
Most of the people I know that come out here and live well, it's like the guys at Terps Army
Farm and Fresh Flowers Farm, those guys, peaceful people, not flash people, have come out here,
set themselves up well and keep themselves to themselves, are polite.
Don't be too in to the locals because you don't want to get into too many conversations.
It's like I tell people I've got a t-shirt company because I have a t-shirt company.
It's like, so that's it.
I can run my t-shirt company from Spain.
That's why I live here.
And I go to the post office and send my t-shirts all the time.
So.
Yeah, makes sense.
It is wonderful.
It is very private, but it's not like I've seen a lot of people think because they see a lot of
people like myself over here doing it well, that people just think it's easy to come over and do.
It's like, but everyone has to realize what I put on Instagram is what I want the world to see.
That's my business fucking page.
You'll get a little bit of who I am, but I can't tell you every up and down and trials
and tribulations I'm going through.
So when people ask me, I will always encourage them, but I'll give them a heads up and let
them know like, look, these are the pitfalls.
You've got to be aware of this.
This is what you need to do.
But it is possible if you have a real passion for growing and you really see yourself wanting to do
it and take that risk and come and live somewhere because there's always risks to everything.
Do you know what I mean?
We're still in a prohibition state.
Things are crazy in Barcelona at the moment.
The Spanish police have beaten the fuck out of protesters and yeah, it's a very volatile
spot at the moment, but I love it here.
It's given me a wonderful life, even through the ups and downs that it provides.
Yeah, right on.
So in the scene over there, what's it like with the growers?
Are they looking to pop new things and find the next best thing or are they all just trying
to get like the hype clones from the States?
It falls into the two categories, bro.
If you can't like, well, I'll make a like, this is like a dig.
This is like a dig at people.
I already know before I say it.
Yeah.
So I'll be honest and say it that way.
There's two types.
There's the people that can't grow quite well enough to make and select something and make
it shine and make it sell on that merit.
So they need to go with hype strains to sell their bud.
And then there are that level of grower who grow so well and have so much passion that
what they want to do is select their own thing because they're growing is able to make that
shine as much as any elite and they can get the same money as someone selling a Skittles
cup grown out or a gelato cup grown out.
So there are a lot of people that are like, no, do you know what?
I can do my own selection and find something unique and grow it to that level.
And that's what I like to see.
It's like it's probably evenly split.
A lot of people are just jumping on the hype and trying to get the latest, greatest cuts.
That's always going to be the case.
But a lot of the time there's a lot of sharing in Barcelona and you do see cuts passed around.
So it's kind of more like I'd like to say it's more on the positive side where people are
hunting for keepers.
In the UK, that's happening a lot now.
That I've seen blowing up more and more in the UK recently.
I've noticed that because cut-ins are going to the worst growers, you know, like people
who are like average growers will buy cuts.
And because of that, the elite growers that used to get those cuts, because this is, let's
be honest, this is how it used to be in my mind.
When you were at a certain level of growing, cuts would come your way.
It's like I got to a certain level and I got the cheese cut from Brightside, who was an
IC Mag grower.
And it's like, that is because I'd grown to a certain level.
It's like you would never give that cut out to someone who wasn't growing to a certain
level because you want that cut's reputation to be withheld.
It's like that was the whole thing.
It's like elite cuts went to elite growers and that's why they were elite.
The minute they go to average growers, they lose their shine and their reputation is ruined.
And now the UK is seeing that because all of these hype cuts are being grown out by
average growers, which is then ruining the market.
And they're realizing there's more longevity in finding something unique themselves and
building a brand so that people come back for that specific thing.
Yeah, no truer words ever spoken.
But to loop back to a point you just made about how cuts are shared around in Spain,
I wanted to ask you, you've bred with a plant called Nicole.
Is this the same Nicole that the DNA crew got from that Spanish dude?
And what's the plant like either way?
Nicole is the cut from Maramberos, who's a Colombian guy.
Yeah, yeah.
That's the one.
Yeah, he's a friend that gave me that cut.
It is the same one that DNA used to make the...
What is it they made with it?
I can't remember.
No, the Nicole Cush.
They made Nicole Cush with it by crossing it to the Kosher Cush.
Okay.
And so, yeah, what's Nicole like as a plant and what do you think pairs well with it?
To be honest with you, as a plant, as flower form, I'm not a fan of it.
Like I didn't like the way it smoked.
The unique thing about Nicole is the resin type.
It has a type of resin that comes away from the plant and is the most solid resin you can imagine.
To make static sifts with it and to do extracts and things like that,
it makes just ridiculously rigid extracts.
It's an incredible hash making plant and that's why it's become one of the biggest
hash making strains in Morocco is the Nicole Cush.
When they crossed it with the Kosher Cush, it's kind of given it a little bit more to it,
added a bit more flavor and really allowed the resin to just drop like crazy.
I heard that they were making something like four times the yield with the Nicole Cush
from crops to like their own stuff.
Crazy yield, just incredible hash.
So I looked up the genetics on it and it's largely just a mixture of kind of like
blue satellite and shish kaberry and a few other blueberry type of things.
MK Ultra.
Yeah, yeah, that's in the mix as well.
How do you feel about the blueberry flavors and does that shine through in that clone at all?
Yeah, it does.
You know, there is that blue, like it has got that blueberry,
like there is a hint to it that kind of stands out.
It's very unique.
It's very, very unique.
In the market, you know, like there's nothing.
Do you know what really it smells like?
It reminds me of one of the Great Gardener strains because that's also got the shish kaberry in it.
So it's like it's the shish kaberry that kind of dominates because I've smelled it also.
Is it, what one is it from the Great Gardener?
I can't remember what strain it is.
Is it the Barbara Bud or one of those?
Yeah, Barbara Bud, Afghani cross shish kaberry.
Yeah, that's it.
It's got a familiar turp.
So basically, whatever the shish kaberry is, if you ever get a chance to smell something
with the shish kaberry, no, that's very similar to the Nicole.
Yeah, okay.
Interesting, interesting.
And so, while we're talking about flavors, what is your favorite flavors in cannabis?
Do you know what I like?
Tropical.
That's the like, you know, real tropical floral notes.
I like those, but I also like, it sounds crazy.
But I remember once a girl texting me and saying, can purple be a flavor?
And I'm like, that's what I'm working towards.
I hope so, kind of thing.
Because she had dabbed something combined and wanted to know if purple was a flavor.
And like, that's the flavors that I like.
I really love the purple flavors.
And depending on how I breed with certain things, it refills different kinds of purple flavors.
So you get all the like, lavendery, what I describe as like grandma's purse candy.
You know, like old lady perfume, incense, those kinds of floral kind of purples.
And then you get all the grapey, merlot, wines, berries, dark fruits, those kinds of purple.
So, there's so many purple flavors that come through, depending on what direction you breed
things in.
But I do love all those different purple flavors.
And broadly speaking, what type of highs do you like the most?
I like hugging a bud high.
The bud that makes you feel like you're just wrapped in a warm, cozy blanket of wellness and
well-being and like, not overly narcotic, but that nice little fuzzy feeling of wellness.
That's why I smoke cannabis.
That's the high I most go for.
Even in the sativa lines I'm trying to breed with, I'm trying to cut out that anxiety.
That anxiety, the heart racing, all of that.
I want a cerebral, euphoric high that kind of can allow you to relax into it.
And that's what I like, that calm.
Something with a calming effect.
And I think CBD being in things is intricate to that and not being completely bred out.
Yeah, it's interesting.
I've been thinking about that same kind of thing myself for a while.
I would be interested to know your thoughts on this then.
Do you think that's a quality that you can try to breed into a strain, or do you think
it just comes down to kind of like an individual connection with a certain strain you might have?
I think it's both.
I think you can breed towards it based on your own experience and what's available to you
to get from friends who you can get to try it.
But because everyone is individual, we do all need to find the perfect one for us.
And that's why I think it's about selection and growing things out.
And when people grow things out, grow them out three or four times.
Don't make your selection off of the first seed run, because not every grow is dialed in.
Sometimes the second run plants are completely different.
Sometimes a third's better.
It's like, give them all a good try.
Try them at different flowering times.
And I think that's the real key to get into that, where I want to feel from my smoke,
is actually dialing in your plants and doing the selection and looking for things that do
connect to you.
These are the strains.
And often the terpene is the thing that connects to people.
That entourage effect is like, you get people to connect to certain terpenes.
So it's obviously like there's certain things they need to look towards,
and certain terp profiles is often what will help them.
So it's like, I wonder often if like lemon sativas and lemon indicas will be good for
a certain person that that particularly connects to them.
And then they go, oh, it works both ways.
Yeah, for sure.
I mean, while we're talking about breeding for a moment, a question our viewers always love.
What are some of your tips for picking the best male possible?
Oh, do you know what?
I always, this is how I look at it.
When it comes to a male, I never search for males.
I wait for males to identify themselves as the one.
It's like, I never like to think, oh, this is the cross I'm going to do.
I'm going to select a male from this.
I like to wait for a male to pop up that's incredible.
You know, often when you're growing out plants, you have a plant.
It's happened like, I remember probably like before I started breeding, it probably happened
three times in like five plus years where I had a plant that was my favorite plant out of the pack
that I was the most excited about.
And then it turns out to be a male and I'm heartbroken because I'm not a breeder
and I just chop it and I want females.
Those are the males that when they've got everything about them that just stands out
from the structure, it's like normally you will see a male.
It has single branch and shit like side branching.
You can spot a male, like the females are the ones that have all the candelabra,
big wide side branching.
It's normally obvious just from structure.
So when you do get a male that has the perfect structure
and then you touch it and it stinks, then you're onto something.
Then that's the start of this could be a good male.
Cool.
Cool.
So I noticed on your Instagram, you've got some photos of the Kem Valley cookies crossed
Afghani and it immediately made me wonder where'd you get the Afghani from and what
kind of traits did you look for in that male?
Bro, the Afghani is the craziest thing I've ever found.
It's my greatest ever random discovery.
I got contacted by someone who had a friend that had come back from Afghanistan in the
British Army and had some seeds and the guy offered them to me.
So he sent me these seeds and there was like 37 seeds, I think.
I grew them out.
Out of the 37 seeds, when they started, they all look pretty uniform except for one that
was growing with single blade leaf and it looked like a run.
It was like growing short and everything.
I had to prop it up on a couple of pots to get it up to the height of the rest of the
canopy and I thought to myself, let me mark that one with a little star on the number
so that I remember it was looking weird at the beginning in case later on things grow
out.
It turned out to be the most incredible plant you could imagine, bro.
The rest of the plants were all very similar and had varying degrees of whackness, basically.
They were like no resin, no yield, slightly nice smell, a little bit perfumey.
I had one nice, maybe two nice ones that were very similar in profile to all the bad ones.
Smell profile was across the board on say 30 or 25 of them that were female was all
across the board very lemony floral.
This one plant looks like an OG kush.
It makes me believe that OG kush is at least 50% Afghani without any doubt in my mind.
What do you think could be the other 50%?
I don't know.
I'll be honest with you, if I hadn't heard the stories recently about what the crosses
were because it's actually down now from that TK Origins guy, it's like one of the strains
that he says is half of the genetics is a cut.
I'm presuming that that's an Afghani strain.
That's my presumption and that is Afghani dominant.
If you see the pictures of the plant that I'm growing, honestly, when I say about it
being a single blade leaf, it looks like an OG kush cutting when it was growing.
I actually thought that's got a bit of an OG kush look to the seed plant when it was
a baby.
Yeah, no, I don't doubt you at all.
Like Bodhi and Doc D have got the Iranian which is like a dead ringer for cookies, right?
Yeah, that's it, bro.
Honestly, it's like it makes me believe it so much.
Yeah, okay.
Interesting, interesting.
Well, I guess time will tell with those ones as to what they turn out to be.
I want to do a bit of a throwback to something you bred a while back.
I noticed in one of your posts, you said you also bred a grand doggy perp strain.
Was that different to the one that was offered by Connoisseur or was that the same one given
you were there?
And I guess the follow-up is, how come we don't see or hear much about it from you?
Basically, that one, what happened is when I lost the Rezdog IBL project, I had another
grow house where I had all of my female selections and my males and then there was a security
breach at that house.
So, what ended up happening is OJ at the time had Connoisseur genetics and the only crosses
he had done was using a G13 haze male that had come via Soma.
That's like the one that he used for a lot of his crosses.
Yeah, that one got shared around Amsterdam a fair bit.
Oh, yeah, that one got pimped out hard.
So, that one, that got traded over to us for the Casey Jones cut.
The Casey Jones cut went back the other way.
So, OJ had bread with that and what happened is I had to remove all my plants from the
house.
So, my dad, who's just a fucking legend, he's the most straight-going guy that just does
anything for me to help me and just supports me so much, he literally had to come to the
house.
We loaded up like 35-foot plants in big flat-screen TV boxes for removal, loaded them into his
van and moved them to a grow that OJ had.
And then OJ, rather than just holding on to my plants, just pollinated all my selections
with my males and made seeds with the whole lot for Connoisseur genetics.
So, at that point, it kind of took my project from me and I kind of said, well, how about
I come in on Connoisseur genetics together?
And that's when we become partners at Connoisseur genetics.
So, when we were working at Connoisseur genetics, that was the ChemBx project.
So, from that, a whole bunch of things came out.
So, the first batch of seeds he made using my male selection of chem with all my females
like MotorBreath, Trainwreck, CrossSFV, the Casey Jones, a whole bunch of other things.
Anyway, they got made and then I made another batch of seeds.
The batch that I then made, I remade a few things like the Chemi Jones.
I also made the only batch of Grand Doggy Purps because when he done the original batch
of seeds, we didn't have the GDP cut in that room because it was my genetics.
The GDP, the Grand Daddy Purple cut, OJ had actually sourced that one.
So, when he gave it to me, I did a batch of Grand Doggy Purps.
And that was the only batch that ever got made because after that, it was not long after
that we lost the cut of the male.
So, we weren't able to make any of those strains again with the same male.
So, it's been remade by Connoisseur genetics, a female version, but it's slightly different.
The actual regular version has never been remade.
Interesting.
And so, have you ever wanted to work with that or is that just kind of falls under that
banner of like fresh start thing?
Do you know what?
The Grand Doggy Purps, that is in the Purple Project that I had done and the Purple Project
I've used for breeding.
So, I have kind of took it with me because I've used a couple of different things like
that I've gone forward with and done.
Like when I first came to Barcelona, I literally just went through like 400 of all of my seeds
that I had made that I had and just done selections for all of those and started reselecting.
So, I went through some of my granddaddy purple hybrids from when I'd done a reversal.
So, the grape lemonade, purple halitosis, rainbow Jones, and a few of those things are
all seeds that both me and OJ had made and had stock to go through when I got here.
Yeah, interesting.
Okay.
That was the last project of connoisseur genetics.
The last project I'd done was basically we'd done the GDP FEM project and then when we
got the Girl Scout Cookies together, we'd done a Girl Scout run.
But the most horrendous thing happened is that I was fighting broad mites at the time
and I was using the Swarovski mite.
I'd beaten the broad mites, but I was still using the Swarovski mite as a preventative,
but I didn't realize they eat pollen when they haven't got bugs to eat.
So, I'd done a reversal of the Girl Scout Cookies, pollinated the tent, and literally
got like three seeds out of this plant, five seeds out of that plant, two seeds out of
that plant.
It's like reversals are hard enough, but when you've got a bug that eats pollen, it turned
out to be ... That was the last project I actually done with connoisseur genetics and
then he'd done a cross and then we walked our separate ways.
Yeah, that was just a funny one to learn a very valuable lesson about what bugs eat when
they haven't got bugs to eat.
Yeah, wow.
There you go.
The more you know.
I forgot to ask you earlier when we were talking about the truth, but just in line with if
we look at a lot of your strands are on offer now, a lot of them have got the truth in it.
When we look at your Keeper Cut of the truth, what type of characteristics does it pass
on in terms of the female and then also in terms of the male?
With the female, what I've done is I decided to go all with my own lines.
It's like I don't really want to be just breeding other people's stuff and other people
hype work and this and that.
Everything I've got has got like, I've got some kind of hypothesis and idea of what I'm
trying to get towards.
Really what I've done is I've got my two males that are the truth male and the Ken Valley
Cooks male and the idea of them is to have breeding tools.
One adds all the favorable characteristics of the OG Cush, which has proven itself to
be one of the most, if not the most legendary, popular strains in the world.
The other one to have all of the bag appeal and characteristics of the Ken Valley Cooks.
That's the key thing.
It's like for me, I want low leaf ratio to bud.
I don't want to be trimming loads.
With the truth, it gives hardly any leaf.
It's kind of like the double-edged sword is you never have no trim from it, but you hardly
have to trim.
For me, when you're doing lots, you don't want to be trimming a lot and as things become
bigger and bigger, the less you've got to trim and the less people are in.
If you can flush a plant to where the bigger families fall off and then you've got just
a basic little manicure that you're doing a couple of pounds in a fraction of the time,
then people are going to, that's going to make a difference.
And there's even like any grower that I know doesn't like trimming.
That's one of the main characteristics.
The other one is branchiness.
I like good side branching.
I like plants that respond to being topped well so that they get a good amount of heads
on them and that you can top and train plants.
I always go for that in my breed and then try and go for a male that's going to give
good structure.
Solid answer.
You just referenced the idea of using your own lines.
Do you think that breeders should look more to using females they've found themselves
or just in general from their own projects?
Or do you think there's also kind of a space for people who just want to repeatedly cross
one male to just a bunch of clone only and don't really search to their own female stock
too much?
The second, bro, I think there's a room for everyone to do everything.
As prohibition comes to a close, there will be a niche for everything.
There's always going to be people that need to do the latest, greatest and cash in on
hype and do well.
I'll be honest with you, if I was doing that, I'd be making a lot more money than what I
am because I have the opportunity to get whatever cut I want as quick as I want and then do
those kind of crosses.
But I get no real pride from that.
I get much more pride from creating something unique and having goals and aims and seeing
people be able to find something unique that then stands out and gives them something that
they're able to work with and turn heads with.
For me, just crossing things, if it's just give something that already exists, I get
no joy from it.
But I love the fact that anyone can do whatever they want.
That's what breeding is about.
The key thing is people just need to do their homework.
It's like if you're buying seed from someone, have a look, see what they're doing, see where
they come from, see what it's like, see if it's hype, see if there's any real work going
on.
Ask a few questions, do your homework.
You've got to put in the work, otherwise you will end up wasting three months of your life
growing out a bunch of shit.
And if you do your homework, it's easy to find out who the legit ones and get something
incredible.
Yeah, of course.
So, there are a few other notable breeders who are in the Spanish scene.
Do you socialize much with them or is it kind of like it's a bit hard to meet up or whatnot
and people are just kind of doing their own thing?
I'll be honest, I've had such a hard couple of years.
The last couple of years, I've had a few issues with my housing that meant me having to shut
down to a minimal, minimal basis, which has made things super difficult for me.
And it's meant that most of my time is just spent at home, working, keeping to myself.
So, sadly, I haven't had as much time as I would like to be socializing with the scene,
but there are lots of people doing cool things over here.
And I'll be honest, that's why I love Spanabyss so much.
It's the one time of the year when everyone's out.
I get my dad to come and house it for me, look after my dogs and my plants so that I
can be away for the whole week, just socializing, catching up with everyone, seeing what everyone's
got, seeing the evolution over the year.
And I do get into the city, but not as much as I'd like.
But there's amazing, amazing things going on as far as breeders and people trying different
things.
And it's a lot of the Spanish underground guys doing cool stuff with old Neville's Hayes
cuts I've seen around and little things like that.
Those are the ones that interest me.
There's a couple of little things like that.
Yeah, I heard there's a crew of guys over there who have been safeguarding the A5 and
C5.
Yeah, I've got some friends that have recently got those as well, as well as the S, is it
an S5?
Is there an S1 as well?
I think there's one with an S, the S5 as well, maybe.
I recently heard some friends had that.
I want to get those myself and play with those.
They're definitely special.
Yeah, certainly, certainly.
Okay, cool.
Well, why don't you tell us what's your new project you're looking forward to doing or
you've currently got underway even?
The projects I'm most excited about is, like we said earlier, is the Afghani, the land
race Afghani that I've got.
Also, I got given some Pakistani land race seeds from the Neelum Valley, and I've done
some selection from those.
I did those both at the same time, the Pakistanis and Afghanis.
The keepers that I've got from those feel like real building blocks.
They've got such strong, unique flavors, such good, strong, resilient, fast, root in healthy
genetics.
I'm super excited about working with those as well as with my Filipino.
It's kind of the mix of those at the moment.
Testing those lines is what I'm going to be focusing probably.
The next year is going to be focused on the land races.
At the moment, I've got a good selection with my Chem Valley Cooks mail and my Truth
mail that have been released.
I can kind of let those sit for a while, and people are going to be able to enjoy those.
I've always got many strains that are made that I haven't released.
In the vault, there's probably another 10 or 15 strains that slowly, while I'm doing
all the testing and working on the land race projects, I can also test some of the things
that are in the vault.
Slowly, if they make the mark or not release them to the public every now and again, like
for Spanibus, I'm looking to release something.
A purple halitosis across the Chem Valley Cooks.
That's one I'm working at the moment.
That sounds exciting.
You just referenced the idea of working with some land race stuff.
I'm always interested in knowing, would you ever be willing to travel or want to travel
to collect some land race stuff yourself?
Do you know what?
The ideas always appeal to me.
And if I wasn't so busy and had the funds, I would definitely do it.
But I'm so lucky that I've got people like Himalayan Connection and Land Race Genetics
and a few other good-hearted people from Instagram that have reached out to me.
And I've been gifted some very, very special seeds.
I've got some, is it Sumatra tripping weed?
That from Indonesia, some seeds from there that I was given by Himalayan Connection that
I'm going to be working with soon.
And things like that for someone like him who searches out genetics at source and has
an incredible network of people to reach out to me and give me something so unique that
he searched out for years and years.
And him to see something in me to say, look, bro, I think you could do something special
with these.
That's incredible.
So I'm excited about working with those soon as well.
So I looked through some of your work just online and I noticed in a few places that
you had essentially worked with some super silver hay stock.
I was wondering, where did you get that?
Was it from like the pre-2000 stuff or is it more newer?
That's the SSSDH.
That was basically there was a cross from ResDog.oj at Connoisseur Genetics done a selection
from and got a super silver sour diesel haze.
And that is cross with the cookies, which is in my cookie fever.
And that one, yeah, that was ResDog's cut, which is like old, old black pack when Shanty
Barber was breeding.
That was a very special cut.
Say what you want about Res, he may have been a bit of a cunt, but that was a wicked cut.
Yeah, it's funny that that sentiment comes up a fair bit.
So I've noticed more recently you've been doing some collabs with OCD labs.
What does that mean in practical terms?
Like what do you do?
What do they do?
And what's your ideal collab like?
To be honest, bro, what that is, that was something I started myself with a friend of
mine way back in like 2013 maybe.
Yeah, about 2013, a friend of mine who I don't work with, like I'll be honest, OCD labs now
is kind of redundant because I haven't been really doing much work for it.
It's me that's doing the work now because my partner went off and done his own thing
now.
So really it's just me making rosin now through my own genetics.
And the concept behind that, bro, was just literally when I saw how the American industry
was going, I knew that an extract company was essential.
So I started an extract company and I had a friend who runs, at the time he was just
like a forum guy that was on the forums and he was like in the UK, he was working for
like an estate agent, but he was so on point and obsessed with like the extract game.
He was one of the first people to ever had shatter that was super on point.
So me being on the pulse of things, I just decided, I'm like, bro, let's start an extract
company.
Like you can be the front man, like I'll provide the genetics, let's have an extract company.
Everyone's doing it in America, let's just do it.
I'd rather have an in-house one and being able to put out all my genetics and do that.
And then because of all my friends in the industry, we just made some amazing links
in Amsterdam and we just had a wonderful golden age in Amsterdam where myself, Ramon
from Yellow Brick Labs now, and another guy called Rick who runs something called, I can't
remember the name of his company now, but he's an Amsterdam based guy.
We all ran OCD Labs together when I was in Amsterdam and we did work for Soma, we did
work for DNA, we did work for Maranberos and we done all the stuff for True Canna Genetics.
So we were putting out so many extracts at a time when there was no scene in Europe.
There was the only other extract company that existed was Nerd Extracts and that was literally
it.
So we kind of were at the birth of the revolution of extracts and from Amsterdam, we just had
people coming over constantly from the UK, just getting tons of extracts and just blew
up the whole European scene.
It was incredible to see that change.
The amount of people that we gave first dabs to that now have glass shops, extract company,
edible company, clothing line, just crazy.
Like just to see that everyone who's been around this scene has been inspired by the
whole birth and the influx of social media, the way that's affected it.
It's crazy.
It's crazy to see.
Yeah, huge progression, right?
The amount of extract companies that exist in England and it's a country where it's illegal
and there are like extract companies that have built amazing brands, all kinds of edible
companies.
It's like it's wild to think that it's got to that stage now.
Yeah, 100%.
100%.
So I don't know if we've touched on it already, but I'm always keen to know what style of
growing are you a fan of?
Are you into the no-till?
Are you into cocoa?
What do you like?
I've been like my first ever grow that I've done was, remember I said I got two plants
off my friend that he dragged in from outside and they were soil.
When I went to the grow shop and got set up properly, the guy advised me to grow with
cocoa.
So from that day forward, I grew with cocoa and because I was always so obsessed with
getting it clean, I've always loved cocoa for that reason.
The way I could grow multiple strains, not have any real deficiencies and get it flushed
out.
It's like my examples of soil growers and organic was never great until the last few
years.
Since no-till really blew up, there's a guy called Roadrunner420UK, who's in the UK, of
course, and he does incredible no-till.
He is one of the people that showed me what the results can be.
It's like I know that the best of the best is always going to be soil grown, but the
problem is it's so hard to get that right and to dial that right.
I once took over a grow from some people and it's like out of the room, I had some plants
were like the best thing I've ever smoked, but it was like 20% of the plants were like
that.
I couldn't get them all to be right.
I had some deficiencies here and some bits there.
Now, as a breeder growing so many different strains all the time, cocoa is easier for
me to maintain.
But as far as smoking and the best of the best, my outdoor no-till dragonfly medicine
in the ground, in the sun, that's probably my favorite thing ever.
That's what I really love.
It's like I love to grow outdoors.
If I could be somewhere at the perfect climate, had a long season, outdoor sun grown is something
magic about those turps.
Indoors, yeah, if I had a small tent, I would do no-till.
I'd keep it like that.
I may move into that over time, but it's something I need to practice on a smaller scale, dial
in, become confident with, and then go towards.
I can't make such a big jump when I'm dealing with like 30 to 40 different mother plants
that I'm keeping healthy and making seeds.
As far as seed-wise, the best seeds I've ever made are the ones I made outdoor organic grown.
They're the biggest, fattest, healthiest, most incredible looking seeds.
I have problems putting them in a vial because they're so much bigger than the normal seeds
that you just about get 15 in a vial.
That sounds lovely.
Eventually, that's where I would like to get to.
It's just going to be a progression where I get the tech right, get myself confident,
and then I will eventually move to a no-till kind of grow setup.
That's the goal.
Do you know what I mean?
I don't know how close it is, but I think that's the goal.
At the moment, I'm very lucky that I've got a couple of good nutrient companies,
Buddha's Tree and Shogun Nutrients that I use, and they're both UK-based companies.
I've said to people, as a UK breeder, although I'm not living in the UK,
I expect the UK growers to support a UK breeder.
I myself try and support UK industry as much as I can.
When it comes to me getting my packaging or stickers done, I use Sticker Express.
If I'm getting my nutrients, I want a UK brand.
If I want lights, I want Crop Master LED.
I will always try my best to use a UK company if possible because I'm trying to tell people,
look, I'm a UK guy breeding.
I've got just as good as anywhere in the world.
Geography doesn't dictate quality genetics.
It's about the hard work that you put in and the genetics that you've got.
I can't push my brand to UK people and not do the same.
Yeah, of course.
That's exciting to hear that you're almost fully there with the no-till.
A quick shout out to Roadrunner and Vic Firth, two homies holding it down in the UK.
We've talked about how in Barcelona, there's an established concentrate scene,
as well as in the broader Spain in general.
Is there a similar phenomenon going on where vape carts are taking over the scene,
like we see in the States?
Yeah, sadly, vape carts are like the casual smoker kind of thing that people
who can't roll a joint or whatever just want to buy them.
There has been a bit of an influx.
Amongst all the shit that people have been bringing over from America,
there's a bunch of renamed carts that you could just tell is like hot dog water
with extra equal 20.
Do you know what I mean?
That's like microbutane old turps.
Wow.
What do you think we can do to help counter this and get people to realise that
a really good-grown flower or really nice made concentrates are a superior product?
I think you've got to name and shame.
I think people need to go around, take samples from a bunch of places,
get them all tested, and then name and shame people that are putting out products
with these things on them.
And then slowly, the people that put in the work and work hard to get a clean room
and not use pesticides and not spray things on, it's like,
I go above and beyond to only use beneficial microbes and things like that
because I don't want residue on my plants because any residue is going to come off in an extract.
So to keep a clean garden and not have anything with residue,
it's horrendously fucking hard to get to a level where you're happy and keep in a clean garden.
So it's hard when that's not appreciated.
So when testing becomes more prevalent, I can't wait because everything I put out will get tested
and that will be one of the points that I want people to understand is
clean, well-grown product that hasn't been sprayed with shit is not easy.
And until people actually know, it's like, it makes me shake to think
the things that people are consuming because
the export market that's happening from America of stuff that's going to fail the standards
is just terrible, bro.
And the distillate that's coming over, it's like,
man, people are using distillate and things and it's like, wow,
you just know where that's coming from.
You can't get enough distillate in America to fill the demand.
So if it's getting out at the prices that it's getting out at, no wonder.
It's like, it's a price where I've had to say to people like,
that's not feasible, bro.
Go look in America where it costs to get clean, distillate that's tested
and ask yourself how you're buying it for that price in Europe.
It's like, people need to wake up and really pay attention to things because
sadly, the market is making too much money and the minute anything makes a lot of money,
it brings in the wrong type of people and there's opportunists that are taking,
like, how can there be fake diamonds out now?
What the hell is going on in the world where people are selling
tree sap diamonds and things like that?
It's like, it's just crazy.
So, the black market causes these problems, bro.
That's the reality of it.
The only thing we can do is just work towards some kind of regulated market to avoid all the
fuck-ups.
So, what do you think is most optimal?
Legalisation or decriminalisation?
Decriminalisation.
Yeah, I think decriminalisation and allow people to use their intelligence and allow
people to test these things and that to be part of it.
It's like, I think that makes more sense for people to like,
bro, if you want to be an idiot and you want to get the cheapest thing and you don't care,
that's going to be your mentality no matter what goes on and you'll always go to a backstreet
person.
But if you're sensible, you'll look for the right things that have been tested and all of that.
So, the people that do that will have the best spots.
It's like, if there's a place in Barcelona that all of a sudden everything's tested and
certificates to say it's clean, mold, pesticide, fungicide-free, all of that,
and they've done it off of their own back, then they're the ones that people are going
to pay attention to.
They're the ones people are going to want.
So, I think that brings us to our quickfire questions before we wrap things up.
So, first question I wanted to ask you, what's your favourite food?
Curry.
What type?
Do you know what?
I'm from northwest London, so I've been brought up around West Indian and Indian people.
So, people from Jamaica, people from Grenada, people from Barbados, so hot Jamaican and
West Indian curries and lots of Indian food.
I was brought up around a lot of Indian friends, so the best Indian food in the world outside
India is in London.
It's like, we've just got incredible spots.
So, yeah, those are my favourites.
I actually miss the Indian and the Jamaican food from England more than anything.
For sure.
So, what's your favourite thing to do in your spare time?
Spend time with my dogs, just enjoy living in the mountains and going for a peaceful
walk with just nothing around other than beautiful scenery.
That's really the most enjoyable times when I'm most at peace, where I have a nice few
fat dabs and set myself off on a nice little walk with the dogs.
Sounds lovely.
So, next question.
What has been the most memorable cannabis you've ever smoked in your whole life?
I smoked African Land Race when I was like 16 and it made me go blind for like three
minutes on a high street.
Chasing that high?
Bro, I've been looking for that one ever since.
Now, I've done so many other psychedelics and drugs in my adult life and never once
has it been as terrifying as those three minutes.
Wow.
Best and worst three minutes.
Okay.
So, on the other end of the spectrum, what was the worst strain you've ever smoked?
And my follow-up is, what's the worst strain you've ever smoked?
Part one.
And then part two is, what's the worst strain you've ever smoked that somehow got a lot
of commercial traction and other people liked?
Worst strain I've ever smoked?
I'm from the days of sticks and seeds.
So, when I was like maybe 1999 or 2000, yeah, say 98 or 99.
98 it would have been.
Yep.
That's it.
I've done a mental math.
In 1998, I was getting weed that was coming in with Albanian guys and I think it was like
from Albania or somewhere in that part of the world.
And I was paying like 25 an ounce.
Now, bear in mind an ounce of weed normally was like 140.
So, 25 an ounce for this weed, it was horrendous, bro.
It was one of the things that started making me smoke pure because I just had so much of
it and you needed to smoke so much of it, you could actually just leave the tobacco
out and just smoke two grams.
So, that was the worst weed I've ever smoked.
But it was just funny because I was getting so much of it and moving so much of it.
But my God, it was terrible, bro.
It was.
It might have been hemp, I don't even know.
And then so, what's in your opinion is the weirdest strain which you didn't really like
but commercially it seemed to take off?
Do you know what?
Yeah.
I'll probably seem like a fucking hater for saying this.
But for me, I've never been that taken by gelato.
It's like for me, I can understand why Skittles is hyped.
It's got a profile that makes people go, wow, it's incredible, the profile.
I can understand why Sherbet is.
Like Sherbet's got a wicked, I love that profile.
I can understand the hype behind that.
It's like, Lemon Tree, it's like when that kit got hyped up, I'm like, oh, I've got something
that smells like Lemon Tree.
Like a lot of things, I've got something, I can go like, I've got something because it
smells like that, I've got something that smells like that.
So, I can see hype when things don't, but gelato disappointed me every time.
I've smoked better crosses of gelato than gelato.
I've been disappointed by all the gelato, but some gelato crosses I've been impressed by.
There you go, the inception.
So, our next question, you're on a desert island, you can only take three strains with
you, what are they?
I would take my Chem Valley Cook's Male, and then I would take my Grape Lemonade 23,
and then I would take a Terp Zilliqa.
Lovely, and then you'd get to work?
Yeah, and then I'll be good, I'll be able to go in many directions.
That's a tropical fruit on a tropical island.
Lovely, lovely, happy with your coconuts, I like it.
So, the next one is, if you could have one clone back that you've lost or one that you
wanted but were just never able to get your hands on, what would it be?
There's two.
There's one I can get back and I'm going to get back at some point, and then there's one
that I can never get back.
Yeah, yeah, do tell more.
The one that I can never get back is a cut of sour bubble that I had, which is from Bog.
Now, Bog will say publicly that that's a freak Fino of bubblegum.
I've heard from someone that he privately said it's a sour bubble, it's a Babakush cross.
Anyone who knows anything about Babakush knows sour bubble is a Babakush cross.
I don't want to hate on Bog, he's a lovely guy, I've got a lot of respect for him, but
sour bubble is Babakush and bubblegum.
I would bet my life on it, may I be struck down by lightning if I'm telling a lie.
Anyone who smoked it, tell me what you think, I would love to see comments on this one.
But that for me, as much as it was that, it was incredible.
So, it's like I criticise him for not admitting what it was, but I'll be honest, it was probably
the silliest thing he ever done because if he would have said back in the day what it
was, it would have blown up even more and been even more hyped.
And at a time when it was kind of like Reservoir Seeds and Bog were the two kind of hype companies
online and it was all about being sour because sour diesel had blown up and Bog was trying
to capitalise and get in on that hype market.
So, he done that cross, called it sour bubble, but said it's a freak sour Fino of bubblegum
because his whole line is bubblegum based.
But I've heard he said to someone in private that yeah, it's a bubble cush hybrid.
So, there you go.
We've heard that sentiment before.
And then what about the one you can get back?
The TK, the triangle cush.
I'm waiting for that one to come back to me.
But of all the things, yeah, the triangle cush is the one I'm missing.
I just, I haven't really made an effort to get it, bro.
It's like it'll come back.
Eventually it'll come back.
I'm not a chase, chase, chase thing.
So, a few people know that I want it.
Eventually it'll come to me.
Yeah, I share that sentiment.
She's an amazing plant.
I miss her quite a lot.
So, the next one, the final question.
If you could go back in time, anywhere, any place, any time throughout history and get
some seeds, where are you going and when?
I would go back to when Thailand had loads of thriving things.
There's something about Thai weed I love, all the different variety.
And the one that I really, really crave more than anything is the old juicy fruit Thai.
I would go back to when the juicy fruit Thai was there and was undisturbed and was just
ready for the plug in and get that to work with.
Really, really solid answer.
So, any shout outs or comments you'd like to make?
Yeah, shout outs to all of the UK scene, to the guys that rep my stuff, Mr. Mattick,
South Smokers Club, to Ice Toker 75, Mr. Green Fingers 420, to the whole UK scene like Bone
Mouth Farms and Bezzle who are doing projects together now, getting into breeding and doing
cool collabs and everyone, the whole UK scene that's thriving.
There's so many, like, yeah, there's so many good companies coming up.
Everyone should really pay attention to the UK scene.
It's a small island, but my God, the passion there is incredible.
And when prohibition eventually ends, you're going to be able to see some incredible growers
and people that are just doing amazing things.
So, all of those people in the UK, my cousin, Raw Phantom on Instagram, the Barcelona people,
Terps Army Farm, Fresh Flower Farm, those good, good people that have offered me seeds
over the years, all the people that have offered me clones, all the people that have sent me
clones, everyone that's helped me get to where I am, supported me through hard times, people
under the stairs, genetics, who helped me out of a difficult, difficult situation and
auctioned some seeds for me during a difficult time and basically covered my rent when I
was in dire trouble.
So, just know that this industry has got community in it.
It may be turning into a big industry, but in its heart, there is a community and there
are people out there that do this for love and passion.
If you pay attention, you'll see who's who.
Yeah, what a lovely sentiment.
So, again, a big, big, big thank you again for coming on, sharing all your stories and
setting the record straight on a few things.
Barry of True Canna Genetics.
Awesome talking to you, bro.
It's been a pleasure.
I love your show.
Every episode is just engrossing.
I love the history and hearing all the different stories from everyone.
Can't wait until the next one's out.
So, again, a huge thank you to True for taking the time to stop by, chat today.
I'm digging the EU vibes, guys.
I hope you guys are as well.
As always, huge shout out to Seeds here now, Radio Rich Nursery, Organic Gardening Solutions.
Greensleeves Merchantile.
You know them, you love them.
They're the sponsors that make this one happen.
We appreciate them so very, very much.
And as always, Dragonfly Fam, Patreon Gang, we love you to the moon and back.
Thank you so much for watching.
We love you to the moon and back.
Thank you so much for all you do.
I'll see you for the next one, guys.
We'll see you.
