Hello and welcome everyone to the next episode of the podcast.
The Canada's podcast for biting enthusiasts.
As always brought to you by the number one sponsors in the game.
Seeds here now.
Best breeders in the game.
All my faves.
Well, most of them.
Love that price.
Love that satisfaction.
Hit them up.
You know why.
Radio Ridge Nursery.
Killer cuts.
Do I need to say more?
Go check them out.
Guys, no brainer.
Organic gardening solutions.
Best products down under.
Suss it out now.
And finally, Greensleeves Merchantile.
You know them.
If you need them graphics, if you need them logos, hit them up.
They'll sort you out.
Big shout out as always to the Dragonfly family and to the Patreon gang.
You guys are the lifeblood of the show.
We appreciate you guys.
Thank you so, so very, very much.
On the episode today, we have the man himself, Koma of Prolifico Seeds.
Telling us all about what he's been up to, what he plans to do going forward and setting
a few things straight.
Let's get into it.
All righty.
So, a big thank you and welcome to our next guest on the show, the one and only Koma of
Prolifico Seeds.
Thanks so much for joining us today.
Cheers, brother.
How's it going?
Good, my friend.
Good.
First question we love to ask people.
What are you smoking on at the moment?
Currently, I'm smoking on some solventless strawberry mamba from Ridgeline Reserve, grown
by Ridgeline and then processed by Happy Cabbage.
I've got my little five grams I'm allowed to buy in Oregon.
They'll let me buy a shopping cart of liquor, but I'm only allowed to buy five grams a day
of rosin.
So, there's that.
But yeah, just a few grams, a couple grams a day going down the hatch as per usual.
Love it.
In general, what are some of the dispensaries you rate in Oregon?
Because I remember when I was there very briefly, it was a little hit and miss.
Yeah.
I mean, the dispenser that I work with has our strains that are grown under my guidance,
regularly fresh drops in Bend and in Hillsboro, the fifth element.
You can check out Archive Seed Bank for really good clone drops and he oftentimes has really
good hash there too.
Shit, man.
Oasis out on the coast has some good herb and really cool scenery.
I mean, like you said, it ends up being hit or miss because the dispensaries oftentimes
are just fluctuating on what they're intaking.
So it ends up being kind of just like you just chase the products more or less than
the actual dispensary.
Because some of these guys, like a great example here is the Happy Cabbage team.
They make drops.
Let's say they make this really good flavor, but they don't make it all the time.
Well, when they do make it, some dispensaries might get it, some might not.
So you're kind of chasing the drop versus chasing the actual, this is a good dispensary
or something.
So it sucks when you're on the outside looking in, but it's much easier to follow the drops
and follow the certain flavors you like whenever you're plugged into it.
So the next time you come out here, dude, just let me know and I'll make sure for sure
you're plugged with some fucking fire.
We'll enjoy a dinner or something, get a drink or something, brother.
You're too kind, my friend.
I think what's really interesting is kind of what you just touched on there, where there's
often a common sentiment, especially by like kind of the more Cali growers who kind of
say like, oh, you know, the quality of growers in Oregon isn't that good.
But as you alluded to, it's hit and miss and that's pretty much the case everywhere.
Even in Cali, it's pretty hit and miss.
So I guess the question is, do you feel like there's much of a difference in the level
of growers in general in Oregon versus Cali or it's kind of just like a rivalry thing?
I'm not sure who started that whole thing, but obviously a bunch of really good growers
migrated north and maybe some of them migrated south.
You know, like this whole West Coast is it's a mecca for cannabis.
It has been for decades.
We've been kind of on the forefront of a lot of stuff, but some of the best stuff that
we have and we've gotten comes from the East Coast.
Oh, geez.
And sours.
And this isn't stuff from West.
This isn't from Oregon or Cali.
So in my in my honest opinion, I just think it's one of those dumb rivalry things that
people do.
You know, it's like any sports rivalry or anything else.
It's just a you're over there and we're over here.
So that's kind of great.
But I've literally seen absolute chronic in both places and I've seen complete dog shit
weed in both places.
And the same goes for people and for growers and for prices of food and for everything.
You know, it's like hit and miss everywhere you go.
You can find something good and you can find something bad.
It's not really like you can't draw a line on a map and be like, this is where all the
good growers are and everybody outside of this isn't as good.
It's like it's kind of silly.
There is definitely a lot of really, really good growers in California.
They have a giant population.
They were ahead of the curve before a lot of places.
So like I said, the West Coast has been a Mecca, but Oregon, like we have some really,
really good growers here, some great breeders, some amazing projects.
And we definitely hold our own as far as anything.
Raws and hash, anything, herb, all extracts, you know, edibles like we have really good,
good people here.
So I love the state and it really has been nothing more than a light in my life.
So I have nothing negative to say about Oregon.
There's obviously shit growers here, but there's shit growers everywhere.
So it doesn't really mean anything.
Yeah, that's a sentiment I can definitely agree on.
So take us back.
What was your first experience with cannabis?
Oh, so seventh grade, I used to walk home from junior high the same way every day.
And there was a kid that used to walk in front of me or behind me every day for a couple
months and we would always walk maybe a block apart.
And one day after school, we just walked together.
And he asked me when we were getting to my house, he said, you ever smoke pot?
And I didn't want to sound stupid.
So I was like, yeah.
And I'd never been stoned before.
I tried to smoke pot one time, but I don't know.
I don't know if it was like we were smoking fucking.
I don't know what happened.
It's just I didn't get stoned.
So I told him, yeah.
And he's like, drop your backpack off and come to my house.
We'll smoke some pot.
And I was like, all right.
So I drop my back off, we walk to his house, another fucking half mile, we get to his house,
his mom's gone at work for another three, four hours.
And we walk in his back room and he pulls out from under a love seat in his bedroom.
What is a fucking half a pound of weed?
And we're kids, we're both in seventh grade.
Flash forward, this guy ends up being one of my best friends and his dad is a fucking
huge grower.
All right. So that's where this weed came from.
He just took it from his dad.
His dad has fucking hundreds of pounds.
So flashback, he pulls out this giant sack of weed.
I don't know how much weed is, but it was a full gallon Ziploc freezer bag he stuffed.
It was at least five or six ounces, if not a full half pack.
He has a little plastic finger bong, like one of the ones that's just barely bent back
kind of at like a little like like out of 45.
It has finger grooves with a little finger carve.
I know a bunch of people know exactly what I'm talking about.
Graphics ones.
Yeah. Like the little plastic graphics ones.
Yes. And it's got a little snapper bowl on it.
And he just starts loading snappers.
He takes like a couple of rips and then he hooks me up.
And I'm instantly stoned.
Like I got stoned after like two hits.
I was fucked up and I was in love, dude.
I fell in love with weed instantly.
I had always had this like really weird negative cloud hanging on me.
I was just fucking my childhood was dog shit.
So it was just this like thing.
It just felt right.
It felt so good.
And funny, I was chewing sunflower seeds the whole way to his house.
And I'm just sitting there and he's all right.
He's like now he's like, you really want to get stoned?
He's like, you're going to take a giant hit and cough it out.
And I've never smoked weed.
So it's the first time I've ever smoked weed.
And I take this giant hit of pot and cough out the smoke.
And if you've ever coughed smoke out, you'll know it is fucking so harsh
on your lungs and on your body.
And I just started dying.
And then I threw up on his floor, all those sunflower seeds
that I ate all the way to his house.
And he just looked at me.
He watched me throw up.
And I think he got a kick out of making someone so high.
They threw up and he's all you have to clean all that up.
And I was like, yeah, no, no worries.
Like, I'll clean it up.
I was so fucked up.
But we ended up becoming really, really good friends.
In fact, good enough friends that he ended up in prison not too long ago.
And I've fucking been shooting them money and shit just that way.
His wife has has money because he is one of my best friends.
And he did introduce me to this plant that I that I just absolutely adore.
And I'll spend the rest of my life dancing with.
So I feel like I own forever.
He is he is one of my best friends.
And Josh, we'll see you on Christmas, boy.
He's going to be out right before Christmas.
So, yeah, let's go.
Let's go.
Well, they put him in, dude, in Texas.
This dude just caught a case and has spent the last two and a half,
almost three years in prison as a parole violation
because he had an ounce of pot and five grams of BHO.
And I really want everybody to wrap their heads around that right now.
Fucking five grams and one ounce of pot.
And they they put my friend in prison for years of his life
while his sons are in very important times at 10 and 12.
You got little boys that are fucking
turning into young men and you're going to take their father away
because he had a little bit of a thing that makes him feel good.
Do you know how crazy this is, man?
We're living in some type of weird.
I don't know what this is, but this is just some more really a nightmare
where you'll just destroy a family and tear them all down and apart
because a man wants to make himself feel good.
You got to be out of your fucking mind.
That's the shit that we deal with.
I know Australia doesn't have it any better, but it's just like
it's just crazy to think that this is the land of the free
and shit like that will still happen to you here.
Not so free, huh?
Yeah, it's a real issue you've kind of highlighted.
So just to extend on that a little bit, what do you think is going to be
the future of the federal laws of cannabis in the States?
Although full, it'll be fully decriminalized soon,
they'll they'll take their band hammer off of it and release the banking.
They're already doing it right now.
In the next few years, there will be interstate commerce.
They've already opened up interstate commerce once for certain deals
because, fucking I can't remember if it was Nevada or Arizona.
One of those states ran out of pot, so they allowed one of the other states
to move some pot over there and eventually it'll be full interstate commerce.
You'll just have to pay your licensing fees and then your your transaction fees.
When something goes from one state to another, you'll have to pay a fee on it
and don't get their money.
They built an entire system around this plant being illegal.
So it was basically tax dollars.
Like we put everyone in jail and then we make them go through rehabs and shit.
And it's all tax dollars.
That's how we generate money for marijuana.
They realized quickly that they could generate fucking 10, 15,
20 times more revenue by just letting us have the plant
and just doing it like anything else.
Free market, you know, letting it free market run its course.
We're never not going to smoke pot like humans love pot.
We've loved pot forever.
We're just going to enjoy it, whether they made it legal or not.
So I think they finally gave up on that.
And now they're just going to make their money this way.
So it's just a matter of time. It's not that long, maybe a few years max.
And it'll be federally decriminalized.
And I think a lot of that has to do with them wanting to get their own
hands in on it.
You know, I mean, they want to be able to bank their own weed money.
A lot of these fucking investors and a lot of these people are cops
and ex governors and people that were totally opposed to cannabis
until they saw a way to make a ton of money off of it.
And so they definitely still have their little cop buddies
and their contacts and they're still fucking buddy, buddy
with their senator buddies, you know, so like that's how circles work.
That's how they've always worked.
I'm not oblivious to that.
So, I mean, I figure a few years max, it's just a money thing.
You can't put that much money on the table and not expect everybody
to want to get some of it.
So we're talking about billions, not millions, billions of dollars.
So definitely it won't be too long.
Yeah, well, I mean, kind of funny, but also reality, like you talk about
like investors being ex-cops and stuff like what about Stan the man?
Like what's the situation with that?
Let's get me started on him.
I honestly, I mean, I'll tell you honest to God, I cannot fathom
how that guy is welcomed in the cannabis community at all.
As soon as he posted a picture of himself in a police uniform
and said, I was a cop, then you're not welcome here.
And I don't want to be rude to police officers, because I know that not all
cops are the enemy or something.
It's not like that.
It's just that we're on one side and they're on the other.
That's it. It's always been that way.
I got raised in the streets.
We don't fuck with cops.
That's it.
And I don't know how the fuck you guys think that that dude talks to anybody else.
I mean, let's just be real.
You're a cop for 10 years, 15 years.
Who do you think your buddies are?
When you shut off your cell phone and you're not Stan the man on Instagram,
who is your friends?
Who comes to your parties?
Whose house do you go to for birthdays?
Who do you do? Fucking you do it with other cops and cops families.
You're a cop. You were always a cop.
Cops are cops.
So now all of a sudden there's this dude who has access to all these weed people
who's fucking a set.
I mean, and you think he's the only one?
I mean, you would be a fucking fool if you didn't realize the entire cannabis
community on every level has some form of someone undercover.
The federal government is not stupid.
They're definitely they're watching everything.
They're not oblivious to what's going on.
So you don't think they've put their own players in play?
I mean, come on, you'd be fucking silly.
I mean, dude, I just don't know how people don't realize some of this stuff.
But I definitely don't think we should be welcoming them with open arms
when they for decades tore apart our families,
put men and women in prison, took children and put them in CPS programs,
basically stealing fucking children.
Now that we're finding out about what CPS is,
a basically a child pedophile fucking hijacking service.
It's just a joke.
They've they've completely abused their power when it comes to this plant.
And we should not be just welcoming them to our side.
Now, you made a bed.
Now, fucking laying it, fucking laying it.
Don't just get to come and play now.
I get it. It's legal now.
So sit your fucking ass over there and watch me make money.
Watch me enjoy my time with the plant that I love, that you used to fucking
cause drama.
I mean, how many times Stan put somebody in jail for having weed?
I mean, how many times a cop got a fucking cause somebody's life,
some drama over a plant?
Trust me, I've had enough interactions with them as a kid growing up,
even as an adult, as far as cannabis goes, that I know that we're on one side
and they're on another side.
So and it's not just him.
Like I said, it's my strong, strong feeling that we need to defend our area.
Like we need to just be very aware of who's joining and who we're welcoming
and who we communicate with and who we allow in our DMs.
And we're talking it with a buddy, buddy.
It's very important for some people to not feel like they're members.
Like you're not us, dude.
You're you, dude.
You can make an account.
You can post weed shit.
You can comment in the weed shit all day long.
But we should not be accepting everybody.
You can try. You can sit there.
You could be in the peanut gallery.
But for certain people to get held up, dude, you got to maybe prove who you are,
maybe throw in a couple of decades of some fucking I'm not a cop shit or something.
Just throw it throws me off, bro.
It throws me off because a bunch of people, a bunch of people are just
totally oblivious with the potential for disaster
when you're allowing complete outsiders into such a such a fragile.
It's like, dude, this plant and our lives, like a lot of us operate.
Aren't they lying? You know what I mean?
So it's like I don't want to say too much and cause any drama for people, but
it is what it is.
But we have our lines and we have our rules for a reason.
I never needed to tell the rule.
Don't fuck with cops.
That's not a rule that you need to tell people.
That's the automatic. That's automatic.
When we were little kids, nobody in the neighborhood ever said, hey, don't talk to cops.
We just fucking do better.
We knew better. We knew not to talk to cops.
I'll tell you a quick story.
One time I was sitting in a trailer with this dude.
We're just sitting there smoking cigarettes.
And this fucking ex-con comes in all covered in tattoos.
And he's sitting there all fucked up, dude.
He was all spun out and shit.
And he's like, give me a cigarette, man.
And I gave him a cigarette.
And then we left me and my friend Larry.
We were out on the street on our bicycles for maybe fucking two minutes.
And this cop pulls up to us and he goes, hey, come here.
And we're like, what?
And he goes, you seen this guy?
And he holds up a piece of paper that had that dude's picture
that we just saw in that trailer and said five thousand dollar reward.
And I just fucking looked at the cop and I was like, fuck, no, we ain't seen him.
Mind you, I'm a poor, very, very poor kid.
And I've never seen five thousand dollars, nor will I in my mind ever be seeing five
thousand dollars. But the fucking fucking cops like, dude.
And that's before I'm in the weed game.
I'm not even in the weed game.
That's just like street shit.
Like, I don't know how we've come this far.
Like I saw a picture the other day of a guy at a event.
He was at like one of these weed events and the cops, you know, they're there
doing their like just patrols, how they walk around and shit.
And this dude took a picture with the cops.
And he's like, they used to bust us.
Now they protect us.
And I just laughed.
And I was like, why the fuck would you take a picture with two Riverside County
sheriffs and be like, they used to bust us now?
They're our homies. They're not our homies, bro.
They're not our homies.
They're not your fucking homie, dude, please.
It's just at some point it's got to be like, dude, holy shit.
This isn't a real thing I'm dealing with.
But that's with everything.
I mean, we could just go on and on about the madness of the world.
It's not just the weed community.
It's like everyone's losing their fucking minds.
So it shouldn't be.
It shouldn't be so shocking to see silly shit happening in the weed community.
Just because we smoke a plant doesn't make us, you know, safe from silliness.
Yeah, no, I agree.
And some wise words in there for sure.
So before we get too into all the various topics of meme discussion, I wanted to
dive into. Let's go back.
You'd just gotten high with your friend, you'd established that connection.
Do you remember what that first strain was that you were smoking?
Or at least you remember what it was like?
It was just green.
It was just green bud that his dad grew.
His dad was a grower in Texas in the early 90s.
So he was really risking the biscuit.
And he had probably about a half an acre of outdoor that he a little plot that I
had seen maybe twice.
And sorry, I'm completely congested.
But he signed this and got me.
But he had a little outdoor plot that we had access to the pot.
I don't know what strength his dad was growing, but definitely good pot.
Like it wasn't bad.
It wasn't seeded pot.
It was it was his dad's little private stash.
Just a really good green bud.
Definitely for a young beginner smoker got the job done.
We were always torched.
His dad would leave like half smoked joints on the lid of the doorways and windows, you
know, like the little seal, like the above doorway.
So when we would walk around the house, we would just run our hand across the top of
those doors because his dad would set joints everywhere and that's where he would hide
them. So we would just get like half smoked joints and get fucked up.
I mean, fucked up, dude.
I remember feeling like I was like mildly hallucinating, like, holy shit.
Yeah. Good, good fucking vibes, man.
And it was the best start.
I absolutely have the coolest memories of starting my relationship with this plant that
I'll have those memories forever.
Just really funny times with those guys, with Josh and Ian that are just forever, man.
It's fucking great to look back at the beginning of smoking and falling in love with
something that has such a huge impact on your actual life and everybody's life around
you. You know, like it's just a big deal.
So it's pretty fucking cool.
Yeah, that sounds awesome.
So as you were growing up, it sounds like you had access to, you know, more kind type
of bud. Were you aware that there was also like, you know, the reggies or was that just
totally out of your world?
No, we just got whatever bud that was around.
It was it was just whatever.
It was never anything special until I was probably 16 or 17.
I found a pretty good chronic connect.
And we used to just force feed that guy money because he was the only one who had chronic
that I'd ever seen, like real fucking chronic, chronic.
And yeah, it was just random weed up until then, dude, whatever we could get.
And so what was the first strain that truly kind of inspired you, like maybe the first
name strain?
Oh, gee, man, I remember like it was yesterday.
I was, in fact, it's funny because my buddy that's up here, I got a buddy from SoCal
that came up here to kind of help me do some growing and stuff, Snot Rocket.
He was at my house when it happened.
This kid came over to sell me some pot and he had pure kush, real kush.
And I smoked some of it and I fucking fell in love.
I had never smoked weed like that.
It felt so good in my chest.
My palate was just fucking it was like I couldn't believe that I had been smoking weed this
whole time. That wasn't that.
If that's my if I could make a point like it was one of those moments where I was just
like dumbfounded that I had been smoking pot that wasn't that flavor.
And definitely OG.
It still is to this day.
Real good gas.
OG crosses are just like, I don't know, they got a place in my heart forever.
And so we've heard a lot about the origins of OG over the past year or so with the TK
Origin guys popping up and whatnot.
What do you think is behind it genetic wise?
Dude, it's I don't even don't even go down those roads.
And I'll tell you why. Because if you go online and you look for lineage histories, it's
just a goddamn mess.
Everybody's got stories of where Kem came from or Sour OG and what it's named for.
And it's just all a mess.
I just could give two shits about it.
I quickly realized that I don't have a lot of time on Earth, so I don't fester into
emptiness. Like I won't go into a rat's maze at all.
If I look at it from the top and I see what it is, I will do it.
I just won't waste my time doing it.
So something like that is exactly what that is.
There's a couple other things like a great example for me and my type of personality is
learning about computers and doing what you do.
So I have a podcast that I'm about to start and I'm waiting to find the right person to
work with to do all my engineering and all my my post production stuff.
I can't do it and I don't want to do it.
I tried to start learning it, but it's like a it's a rat's nest.
Right. To me, because I don't do computers.
So it's just like all of this shit that I have to learn how to do.
And it's something that it's like, like I said, I look down on it and I see it's just
going to be a total fucking chaos thing.
I just don't want to do it.
And when you go looking for any strain, I swear to God, you can go find five stories
for every single strain on the Internet.
And then if you go to somebody that actually knows about cannabis, lineage like
Archive or or Riot, Riot actually knows a lot of shit and Archive knows a lot of shit.
You'll quickly realize that most of the shit on the Internet is not true.
So then it's just like, why would I fill my brain with false information or half
information? It's just stupid.
Like if something's fire, it's fire.
I don't give a fuck if it's fire.
It's fire. If I like the way it tastes, if it breeds true, just because something tastes
good doesn't mean it's going to make good seed or breed true.
So you got to just go.
You just got to get in there and go.
And if something's breeding good, it's putting out good offspring.
You can keep the projects moving.
And I mean, that's really where I'm at with it.
I don't go too deep on that whole Internet bullshit trade.
Yeah, no, that makes sense.
And I think that's a good quality to have.
But something I wanted to chase out what you just mentioned, some parents may taste good,
but don't necessarily make good seeds.
Are there any popular clones out there which you think fit that rule?
Absolutely.
Mac One. Mac One makes amazing flour, looks fucking amazing.
Every person who grows back the back one has frosty buds.
It always looks good.
It always has this really cool, earthy profile that like it's just different.
It's great. It's kind of got a little bit of a mute, slow veg and it's got a little bit of a
shitty growth pattern.
It's not the most vigorous of growers, but the buds are really good.
Everybody loves it. It does not make seed.
I don't give a fuck what anybody says.
I've heard from everybody.
It doesn't make seed.
I've dusted it with three different studs.
It will not make seed.
Now, maybe it's that's why we're going to move into the F2s and maybe make a BX menu with
some of the stuff like we're going to have to work projects with it to try to find vigor in
that gene marker.
So there's just something about that plant right out of the top of my head.
It's the only one that pops into my mind that just won't make seeds.
I've fucking worked with hundreds of plants and I can't think of anyone that's been that
bad. So but it's amazing flower.
And that's why people will still continue to want the crosses of it.
And I'm pretty sure with some F2s or some BX work, we could find the gene marker that'll
promote seed production and we can just work from there, you know, using that as a base
marker. That's all.
That's all it really is, dude.
When you're breeding, you're just looking for markers.
You're just looking for the right markers.
So every breeders got different palettes and they have different ideas of what they want.
And that's that.
You know, it's really it's kind of cool.
We're all like little chefs, you know, we're in our kitchens and you just have to find the
one that you like, the way the food tastes.
And if you like the way the food tastes, then eat there and support that kitchen.
And if you don't fucking go somewhere else, real simple.
So just to quickly follow up on that one, have you ever seen any of the Mac F2s that
are maybe keeper females?
I'm just really struggling to find some myself online.
No, I haven't seen.
I've seen some Mac crosses.
I haven't seen anything.
I haven't seen anything.
I also can admit that I oftentimes don't stay up to date with what's going on.
I'm so locked in to my own existence.
And the reason why I do this, I have five kids.
I have multiple grows that I have to look over.
I trade jujitsu five days a week and I'm just like, I'm just locked in, dude.
I stream.
I do like the stuff that I do so that I don't have a lot of time for other people's stuff.
So it's it is what it is.
It's like a curse because I know that I'm missing out on interacting with people and
definitely about watching projects happen and what people are up to and shit.
But I just did.
We got one life, man.
I'm just living my life.
You know what I mean?
Just do with me.
So not trying to bother anybody or cause drama.
I'm fucking just hyper focused on living my my existence.
I just started skydiving, too, which is fucking amazing.
So I just added one more thing to do.
I'm just like, I don't know, man.
I don't see people's projects.
So there probably is fire F2s or or, you know, I'm assuming I don't know.
Did did he not make F2s?
Has he made F2s?
Yeah, he's made more originals as well, but I just haven't really seen much come from it.
Yeah, I mean, if you got to also understand, too, that just because someone's F1s were good
doesn't mean that the F2 seed stock will be good.
Matt, Matt kind of pointed that out to me, explained to me that it would be better for me
to lock shit down through a BX menu than actually using F2s.
You see more variance through F2s and F3s.
So it's pretty crazy.
You know, maybe that Mac F2 isn't as good as F1s.
I don't fucking know.
But just honest opinion, I don't know.
So and I know I know.
I just know that I don't pay a lot of attention to other people's projects, so it's not really
fair to ask me that question.
Yeah, no, good. I did want to ask you something you just mentioned.
You mentioned you were streaming.
I want to sidetrack for a moment.
What's it like streaming on Twitch these days?
I heard it's a little bit going downhill, maybe.
I just got there.
So the grind, you kind of have to just grind for a year or two to really get in the grind.
But we have a regular 20, 30 people watching.
I mean, it's not a lot, but it's fun.
I get I drink a little margarita and smoke some dabs and play some video games and laugh.
Sometimes I use it as just like how I do my IG live where I'm just sitting there talking on the
grid and sometimes I'm playing games.
I'm about to set it up where I'll be sometimes watching YouTube videos while you can see my
face and the YouTube video so we can do like commentary on stupid videos and shit.
I'm about to have it set up a little different, but it's fun, man.
I enjoy it. I think it's cool.
It's a it's a I don't know, dude, I'm just looking for Instagram.
Fuck this all over.
I spent years on Instagram building an audience for them to just take it away, which is really
shitty. Like I got shadowbanned because I like certain posts and I share certain posts and I say
certain keywords.
And no matter what anybody knows or thinks, they're listening to what you do and they watch
everything you do. And it's all through the program.
It's not it has nothing to do with some person sitting in some office going, we need to
shadowbanned, call to the grower.
It's dude, if you like certain posts and let's say let's say.
A great example is they'll just I'm assuming I don't know for sure, I just know what
happened to my posts.
I started talking about things that were against the grain, but are 100 percent factual.
And as soon as that happened, I started seeing it and it got worse and worse and worse to the
point to where my interaction is like less than one percent.
Like they just took away my whole audience.
So I don't I just feel like I wasted years.
It sucks. Now, don't get me wrong.
People know who come with a grower is and they know who prolifico seen is.
So it's not a waste.
But imagine if I had access to my hundred and thirty thousand followers and only twenty
thousand of them were real people that followed me and I made a T-shirt for sale every
month. I could sell what, five thousand T-shirts out of my thirty thousand real followers,
five thousand T-shirts sold a month with a ten dollar profit.
Think about it, dude.
But they don't they don't want you to make money on Instagram, not without paying them.
Every time I make a post, it says promote.
They want me to give them money for my post to be seen.
And they purposefully don't let them be seen because they know that it triggers a thing
in my head that pisses me off and I want it to be seen.
And if you have the money, you're going to pay for it.
That's how a lot of these businesses have stayed successful on Instagram.
They just pay the advertising money.
And I and I've thought about it.
Should I just pay for the advertisement because I have a business?
This is my business. Something about it won't let me do it.
I don't know if it's because I'm a stubborn Irish asshole or if I just don't like if I don't
like Instagram. I don't know what it is, but I'm not giving them a fucking penny.
I'm not going to do it. So, it is what it is, man.
You touch on a really important issue in terms of how the algorithms are affecting our
community. Do you think ultimately people will get so sick that we'll just get off
Instagram or do you think there'll be some sort of compromise?
I don't think they'll ever compromise.
Like I just had a post removed today for against their against their terms, and it was
just a weed post.
I don't think they'll ever compromise.
And I don't think that it'll be very much longer before something
comes along that will take people's attention.
You know, the same with my space.
Something came along. It took that.
And when Facebook was out, nobody thought Instagram was going to be as big as it was.
So, I'm assuming something eventually will come along.
Right now, Instagram is just very easy for a lot of people.
So, they're using it out of out of ease, I think.
There's a few other things like Canna Buzz and stuff, but they just I don't know what it
is. I don't know.
They don't function as easy as Instagram.
And our customer bases are on Instagram.
That's where everybody is.
So, if I'm trying to make money or generate revenue in any way or build any type of
momentum towards generating revenue, I need to be in front of my customer base.
And that's where all these people are.
It's on Instagram. So, right now, they kind of have us by the balls.
There's really nothing we could do.
Like, you just kind of got to just go with it.
It just it sucks.
Like I said, there's really nothing you can do.
So, I don't see it.
I don't see them ever changing and I do see people getting tired of it eventually.
But there's nothing that I see that's going to take anybody yet.
So, we'll see.
Yeah. So, let's jump back to the story for a moment.
How did we go from smoking the chronic to then having your first grow?
I tried to grow for a second in Southern California.
I didn't know anything about growing.
This guy brought over a high pressure sodium bulb and ballast.
And I bought it for 250 bucks and I set it up in a little trailer, like a little
trailer, but a shed in the backyard and it had no AC and it was summer in California.
And I didn't realize like I didn't know anything about growing.
I was like, oh, shit, it's like 140 degrees in here.
I didn't have any plants in there.
I just set it up just to like see how the room would work.
So, I never grew right there.
I just started growing outside.
Like I grew weed outside probably maybe like three, four years.
I grew once outside in Texas with a failed harvest.
I grew twice.
So, once in Texas when I was 15, failed harvest.
We did not get our buds.
All rotted and I've got all like fucking disgusting and shit.
So, 17, 18 and 19, we grew pot outside in California.
Decent harvest, like nothing to write home about, but definitely learning about
growing pot and learning about getting better with the plant for sure.
I didn't grow weed for a long time after that until I got here at 26 and started
growing indoors here in Oregon, 26 to now for the last 10 years.
Growing weed inside here pretty much consistently every year.
Killer, killer.
And so, what was the first big name clone you got?
First big name clones I got were OG cuts from Rascal's crew.
I traded Piazzo Grow and Stinky Farms clones and they brought some stuff up
from Southern Cali, probably a Y5-3 and the Fire Cut.
Those were the first real clones I got.
I'd grown some good pot before, but I had never like done it.
You know what I mean?
Like knocked out packs on packs of chronic and really like changed my position on
the board and those clones really helped me change my spot for sure.
I started just doing it with fucking day and night.
I went from second gear to fucking just straight pin fifth gear.
Like it was fucking crazy how fast everything changed.
Like quick little story.
We were struggling, struggling, struggling.
I got those clones, veged out a big ass.
I had 12 hoods in this garage, all OG.
And I'm seeing if my kids are crying.
All right.
I filled it up with all that OG, the Y5-3 and the Fire and I got like maybe 19
pounds, 20 pounds of like real good, solid top nugget and sold all that shit at 28.
It was the first time I'd ever fucking just lumped, come up like that.
It happened so fast.
Everything was always a struggle before, you know, you would like harvest weed and
have to try to like sell a pound of this guy, sell a half pound of this guy.
You know, you're just like hustling to sell it.
But I had real gas for the first time.
It was like gas, gas.
And that shit was just fucking gone.
It's crazy. Those were crazy times, man.
Crazy times.
So the Fire OG was the first real good cut.
No, not Fire OG, not Fire OG, just Fire Cut.
It's not the same.
Oh, OK.
So Fire OG is probably just renamed something, renamed.
There was basically Saturn OG, Jupiter OG, all these fucking they're probably the
same three OGs renamed.
I mean, dude, a handful of OG cuts.
Don't get me wrong.
When the first OGs came over, they did what OGs like to do, which is throw S1
here or there. So people found a seed here or there.
The little S1 made a little pollen here or there.
So there was OG hybrids made real quick on accident.
And then OG S1s that were planted right away.
I mean, someone finds a seed in something that's really, really dank.
The first thing, if they're a grower, the first thing to do is throw it down.
So the Fire Cut is definitely not Fire OG.
And Rascal made sure he I didn't know that he's the one who schooled me on that.
So props to him for making sure that the true stories get told instead of, you know,
muddied up history.
I don't know how happy he was that I got those cuts, to be honest, but I definitely
got the Wi-Fi 3 in the Fire Cut from Paiaso and Sticky Farbs.
And it did fucking save my life.
So props to everybody involved.
And I really don't know what to say, but that was the first real, real dank that I
got in the first time that things changed on my board.
Yeah, OK, killer. Thanks for the clarification.
I didn't know that. So I guess the question is, is it still your favourite of like the
OGs or what's your favourite?
My favourite OG is TK for sure.
Like pure TK is fucking unmatched.
Tastes amazing.
But I'm just a...
If you gave me good chem, I would like, you know, I'm the same way.
Real sour, real chem, real sour, real TK.
They're all right there with me.
They're all the same. Like I love them all to death.
So that's my style.
Gas.
Love it. OK.
Yeah. So what was it then that stimulated you to begin Prolific Coast Seeds?
Pretty much just my failed running of other people's seed.
Like I grew weed for years and for a long time I was growing other people's seed and
seed I was buying off the Internet and just regularly coming up short, even to the
point, I've said this before, to the point where I was questioning myself.
I didn't know if I was even a good grower, dude.
I didn't know what the fuck was going on.
Like I was just having a really hard time in the beginning.
And then I got those cuts.
Right. And it made me realize real quick, I was worth three thousand a pound, right?
Like in a busted market, nobody had no fucking weed money in Oregon.
Like this place was dog shit.
So even in a market that's falling apart, I was eating and I quickly realized it
wasn't me. It was all this whack ass fucking weed I was growing.
And there's a bunch of people here that still do it to themselves in Oregon.
Like you said, the booth growers of Oregon, how they have this like bad name.
A lot of it is just the strains they're growing.
They're not bad growers.
They're just growing fucking weird strains that are not like heat.
Heat. So that being said, I mean, I don't know.
I don't know. To me, to me, it just seems like to me, it seems like we we made a
choice. We made a choice that we were going to lead our own destiny.
And I knew right away that I could do the job.
I knew exactly what it was to make seed.
I wasn't oblivious to it.
I don't get me wrong. There was a bunch of outbreeding.
I didn't know. And there's still a bunch of stuff about breeding I don't know.
And I love to learn.
And I'm getting better regularly.
So that's fine. I just knew that I could do a good job at it.
And it was an important position in the cannabis industry that needed to be taken a
little more serious than a lot of people were taking it.
And that's that.
It was just that. So we made the first group of crosses and we gave them to our
friends to test.
Nothing was for sale.
I was actually only making seed for me and my crew, me and my immediate homies, just
so we could all have fire and sell packs of fire, new crosses that nobody else would
have. The seed was so fucking good.
My friends were like, you have to sell this, dude.
Everybody told me the same thing.
They're like, bro, I just tested 30 cake, 30 case, Morris, 30, 30, honey tree.
This shit's all fire.
Everybody was saying the same thing.
I got multiple keepers.
This is fucking I heard that from everybody.
I got multiple keepers.
When you hear that multiple keepers, that's like a green light because I popped
hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of seeds and found nothing that I could keep.
Nothing that I can make money off of.
It all had the names.
It all said cherry this or kush that or fucking OG this.
But none of it was gas.
None of it was cherry.
None of it was OG or kush.
So then I'm sitting over here pulling my dick, telling my wife, you know, it's going
to be different this time, babe.
We're going to harvest. We're going to have straight fucking kill.
And it was a kill.
And then it was a kill again.
And then it was a kill again.
How the fuck am I supposed to look at her in the face and tell her?
How can I look at her in the face and tell her it's going to be killed?
It ain't going to be killed.
We don't have kill.
So I had to fix that shit.
That's what I got kids.
I got a wife. I got people that are relying on me.
Big reason why I was able to learn how to grow and do this job well was fuck, dude,
if I didn't do it well, we were going to die.
Pretty simple, pretty easy to be good at something when you don't have a way, you
know, like that's it.
Like we're here.
We were all in with with the plant.
So what you're all in, you're all in.
You can't pull the chips back, bro.
That's not how the casino works.
Yeah, wow, that's some real honest motivation right there.
So you've worked with a lot of different OGs, what do you feel they pair best with?
What do you think is a good breeding partner for an OG?
Oh, dude, everything.
So I don't really like fruity pot or like exotic like profiles, really in pot.
I like a bit dabs, but I don't really like them in the flower.
But when you put OG studs with like a lot of this stuff.
The profiles are like perfect because they still taste a lot of the offspring still
taste gassy, but there's these undertones on the back end of whatever, like, I don't
know if it's just my studs because my studs really do breed heavy.
So when I dust something that has no OG in it, a lot of the offspring comes out with
OG profiles, a lot of threes and fives, a lot of that leggy OG profile, even though
my studs are shorter stud, you'll still see OG profiles just the way they look and
definitely the way they smell.
But like I said, you'll you'll find so often times that a lot of the offspring has
these undertones of these side angles of whatever was dusted.
So I just really feel like it goes good with everything.
It ends up being just about individual partners of those partners mesh well because
some females won't accept pollen and they won't make seed.
And that could be that specific male to that specific female where that female would
accept seed from maybe her brother or from a different stud, but she won't accept
pollen from that stud.
Most of the time, that's not the case.
It's just that she won't accept pollen like the Mac one is a great example there
where you could touch it with a thousand different pollens like it does like to make
seed. That's why those seeds are so fucking expensive when they go to market, because
there's not a lot of them.
In theory, like, I don't know.
I don't know, man. Whatever.
Next question. I love it, man.
I love it. I should have asked you before, but I forgot.
When you were kind of before you got into your breeding days, were there any breeders
you particularly like the work of or maybe even looked up to and thought, yeah, like
this guy really knows what they're doing?
Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah.
Like as far as knowledge, as far as knowledge goes, I really feel like Matt and
Archive, they fucking are like human encyclopedias.
Those dudes know pretty much what needs to be known.
You know, like if if the earth was going to end tomorrow, you want to take these two
fuckers and stuff them in a hole somewhere so when they don't so we don't lose all the
weed lineage because they know they know all the shit.
They're really both really fucking sharp.
And I looked up to Karma a lot.
The Karma crew are some just absolute legends.
And I truly feel like this like time tells the story with breeders and with people in
general. And Karma's been here for fucking a long time, dude.
And they haven't done shady shit to people over all these years.
And they haven't fucking lied to people or made some waxy drop.
You know what I mean? Like they've proven time and time again what their character is.
And that's what it is to me is like all the bullshit aside, dude, fucking time never
lies. Time always tells the story.
And time's fucking never been defeated.
Like we all get the story in the end.
So I just I looked up a lot to them.
I looked up to HSO.
I looked up to I mean, I still do.
I know it's not that I looked up to them, but I know what you mean.
Like we're a younger breeder kind of like I definitely had a few people that were
always I was always looking forward to hearing talk and always looking to to learn
from and see what they were doing.
So definitely.
100 percent. So what is kind of your general vision or trajectory you'd like to take
PCS in?
I have a couple of pretty big ideas.
I want to just, you know, it's like PCS to the world pretty much.
I just want people to have a shot at growing real gas.
If you live in some fucking third world country, you buy seeds, which people do.
You know, I mean, I could honestly tell you most people don't have gas.
Most people in the states don't have gas, especially places like Vermont or fucking
Oklahoma or Kansas or South Dakota or these like off the wall states that never had
weed programs and like nobody really set up their shit big.
They don't have access to clones and they don't have access to good or sour or
whatever. So me making the crosses and making the seed and making what I made and
what I do make is for a purpose.
Like I want people to have access to that potential.
The same thing that happened to me where when I just finally got gas, my whole life
changed. We were struggling every fucking day.
Every day was a struggle and we didn't know how the bills were going to get paid next
month. We just would hope that it was going to be OK.
Big ups to my man, Boost Freak, because that little motherfucker saved my life so many
times. I don't even I'm telling you, but I've had a couple homies out here that I just
cannot imagine what I would have done without these people in my life.
And I'm here now because of the support that I was shown by a few really close friends.
And I mean, in reality, dude, like that's what it ends up being.
You just got to got to. You got to just understand that.
You're going to set your own pace, you're going to set your own mission, and we've set
our own pace, that's why I don't rush menus like a lot of people's like, where's the next
menu? Where's the next menu?
I'm not going to sell you guys something that's not ready.
I'm not going to sell you anything that's not proper.
So we just finish what we're doing.
We're waiting to do these giant hunts where I could truly look through the gear.
And I mean, I don't know.
It is what it is, dude.
I got a ton of people online that are supporting PCS, whether we instantly launch or
launch the next menu or not.
So I feel really comfortable with my position and we're just going to do what we've done
consistently the whole time, which is not fuck with anybody.
We don't we don't lie to anybody.
We don't rip anybody off.
And that's it.
And I truly feel like it's the best advice I could give to any young entrepreneur coming
into the cannabis industry or any industry in general.
Just don't be a piece of shit.
And you're already ahead of the game.
You're already 80 percent ahead of the game.
There's fucking only you're already in the top 20 percentile.
Just don't rip anybody off.
Don't lie to anybody.
Don't do anything shady or sell some fucking cut cart pens or fucking you know what I'm
talking about? Like everybody's always trying to get over on everybody.
Just don't be that guy.
And you're already in the top tier.
So you're ahead.
Love it. Love it.
We're going to get back to that topic in a little bit and you'll know what I'm talking
about when we get there. But for the moment, let's jump back a minute.
What was the process like for creating the PCS One Male?
Like guide us through its genesis?
OK, so I basically had a pretty big hoop house outside that I was just not sure what I
wanted to do. So I flowered out a bunch of Casper OG seeds.
In reality, I didn't find any females that I liked.
I was not even going to use the Casper OG male.
I was going to use a Scotts OG male.
I was going to go a different way.
But I have a at the time I have a really, really good Scotts OG female.
Probably one of the better cuts that I've ever come across and found in my life that I
found from seed.
So I know I'm one of the only few that has this specific cut.
I had given it out to a couple of people, but it's pretty, pretty close.
And I dusted that Scotts with the really gassy OG dog Casper OG male that I found.
When I collected that seed, I probably had maybe 3000 seeds, 5000 seeds.
I quickly gave a shitload of them to my friends and I only planted maybe 150 of them.
I did not find what I was looking for in the first group.
And I'll quickly explain.
I was searching for short.
I just really had this concept that if I could find an incredibly short OG dog plant,
then I could defeat the one thing that causes issues in everybody's OG projects, which is
this lanky shit.
OG has this fucking tendency to just run on everybody.
So I was specifically looking for a gene marker, like I told you earlier, that was going
to promote this short plant growth.
And because the next step was to touch my Wi-Fi 3.
And I know the Wi-Fi 3 just happens to be a short OG structured plant.
It tastes like gas, tastes fire, but it does not grow like a lot of OGs.
Like the San Fernando Valley or the fucking TK, how they'll run on you.
They get laggy.
Wi-Fi 3 does not get laggy.
So I know if I could get this second, this fucking first layer done on a short scale
and I'm going to dust this Wi-Fi 3, then I'm going to have this double gene marker of
short plants.
And that's exactly what happened.
The second time I went through that seed stock, I planted 200 plus seeds.
I found an incredibly gassy OG dog plant that was fucking shortish shit.
I dusted my Wi-Fi 3 with that pollen.
Mind you, the whole time I'm dusting a bunch of other shit.
So I have a bunch of these projects, like all types of side project.
But that's where the milk came from, was me dusting this Wi-Fi 3 with that shorter
stud from the Casper on the Scots, which are both laggy, mind you.
The Scots is laggy and the Casper is laggy.
So it was just a total random find that I found a short child from that cross.
The Wi-Fi 3 cross was 175 seeds once we dusted the Wi-Fi 3 and I found the PCS1
stud. I instantly knew which one I liked out of the crop, out of the group.
And I isolated him, took a bunch of cuts and started making the projects, like
started using him, that first one from seed.
I've since just been taking cuts of cuts and just keeping him alive and keeping
him in my rooms in vegetative state, anytime, ready to go.
Anytime he's ready to bust a nut, always hanging out.
I love it.
So what are some of the attributes or characteristics of males that you like to
look out for when you're selecting something?
Or is it more of a by feel thing?
Oh no, you have to.
You have to do...
Well, Arkiv said something that was kind of smart.
He says, you know, that's what's cool about reversals is you can taste the male
before you have the male pollen because you're reversing a female.
So you kind of know where you're at.
It makes a ton of sense.
It's something that I didn't do.
I'm going to have other projects in the future and it's something
I probably will do.
So it's cool.
But as far as my selecting, I was just selecting on vigor.
I was selecting on actual growth pattern.
And that's about all I could select on, you know, smell, vigor, and
how it actually is growing.
So we, when I took clothes, you got to realize, I guess I didn't explain when I
chose the PCS1 male, there was a whole lot of males in there.
And when I took the clothes, you know, there's probably four or five males that
are pretty short and then there's another four or five that are not that short, but
still gassy.
And one of these males is going to be PCS1.
When I took the clothes, I, the first thing I'm looking at is which ones are
rooting fast.
Cause that's instant vigor.
That's telling me a real important story.
And the PCS1 male that I did select was absolutely the first one to start rooting
and it was fully rooted at like eight days, completely rooted, ready to be
transplanted.
So completely full of vigor, OG doll, short structure, just everything that you
were going to draw one up, it would be what you would want.
You know what I mean?
It has what you need from the OG and it has what you don't want.
I did exactly what I tried to do with it.
It breeds true, everything it touches turns to gas.
So it's just an incredible, incredible first, first stud to come out the gate
with and make some really good projects for people to enjoy.
Hell yeah.
So you just briefly spoke about how many seeds you like to pop and how many you
had popped in the past.
Pretty nice numbers you had there.
I guess as a general rule of thumb, obviously people can do amazing work with
small number of seeds, but in your mind, what are the numbers you'd like to work
with to feel confident that you were doing the project justice?
Um, in reality, a couple hundred per, if I'm really selecting at least a couple
hundred, but that's just me.
I am a little bit of a over like, I, I just do it.
I'm so worried.
Like when we found keeper Case Morris, I was kind of like, fuck, cause I had
already seen kids online with what I thought maybe might be better case for
us.
And I, and I'm like, that kid only popped 20 seeds and I popped fucking 200.
So it's like, I'm always a perfectionist.
It made me want to go back through case wars and pop even more of them.
And he very well may have had the better ones.
So in my, in my eyes, it's a couple hundred, but that's just me.
You could find heat in a 10 pack, 20 bag, dude, and just find absolute kill, but
breeding a little bit different.
It's definitely nice to be able to look through, through seed stock, at least a
hundred or a couple hundred would be probably, probably a little bit better
for, for us as breeders, as we're looking for as many, as many, uh, variables as
we can find here.
Yeah.
Okay.
And how would you feel if someone bought say one or two packs of your gear, found
a male and started breeding with that?
Dude, a bunch of people hit me up and asked me if they could use my stuff for
their projects.
And I don't have any problem with that at all, dude.
That's kind of what this whole thing is.
You know, it's like, if your projects are good, people will like them and maybe
there'll be better pot out there.
I don't have any qualm with people making money, people making good chronic, people
smoking and chronic, like all of that sounds good to me.
So, as long as you don't go green naming shit and changing names and taking my
lineage away from me, then I'm fine with whatever people do with my seed, to be
honest, man, straight up.
Yeah.
That's an awesome attitude to have, I think.
So, what are some of the plants you want to work with going forward?
Maybe some of the females you plan to breed with?
Um, so I'm going to be doing, I'm going to be doing a bunch of TK stuff.
Speaking of, I'm going to be doing some chem work and some sour work, making some
chem and sour hybrids.
Um, essentially dude, I'm just going to be sticking with what I enjoy and the same
thing that I've done the whole time, which is just a lot of gassy hybrids and
trying to bring, bring girth from the chem side of my chem four line into a lot of
these, these other projects that I have.
Basically chem sour OG, man.
Chem sour OG for me.
It's a tried and tested combo, right?
Absolutely.
Absolutely.
Well, I think that's where a lot of breeders have gone weird, where they're all
trying to be like the next, they're trying to make the wheel over with.
There's still a bunch of hybrids that are really good that could be made with chem,
sour and OG, different OG profiles.
Chem 91 is not the same as chem four.
There's a couple of different sour diesel profiles that are really good.
Like, let's fucking see where this shit could take us.
And then introduce some of this land race stuff that's going to throw an entire new
plethora of, of hybrid F1 fucking offspring out.
I mean, dude, that's where it really, we got it.
We got to work on our end before we're just like, you know, let's just fucking mix
and match with this garbage from the hills of Peru that's been growing at fucking 10%
THC for the last 50 years.
Like I get it.
There's, there's genetic diversity in there that we don't have that could change
ours, but let's build ours up.
Let's make sure our shit's super fire.
Like, I don't know.
I just feel like it's all fresh and brand new.
We haven't even come close to touching the tip of the iceberg.
The actual, the actual beast that is within our potential with our, our diversity we
have now with our libraries we have now, it's just like unlimited potential.
So I'm just ready to see what we could do as far as with our chems and sours and
our, our different hybrid projects, because I really feel like there's a lot left to
untouch that's untouched.
Yeah, I would agree.
So you touched on a staple of the show, the chem dog, which one is your favorite?
Uh, chem four, chem four for sure.
It's got this amazing, juicy, big bud structure.
It's a little slow.
It's what I don't like about it.
It takes about 11, 11, maybe even 12 weeks to finish properly.
And I don't like that at all.
It's a little fickle to grow to.
So we're already working on, on making some hybrids that carry that same profile over,
but finish a little bit early, eight, nine weeks and still have the same that that
taste is fucking so good.
It's almost unmatched.
I absolutely love chem.
It's just fucking such a beauty.
And, uh, to have chem and OG hybrid flavor in sour, like those, the potential there is
everything to me.
So that's what I'm after is just working these chems and these OG lines together.
So given your experience with the OGs, when you look at your chem plans, do you see any
relationship there or do you think they're just different?
Oh, there might be.
There might be, but chems tend to be much leg here.
And I mean, they, they have, dude, I'm sure it's all somewhere tied together somewhere.
There's a cousin or a mom or something, you know, but I just, they're just definitely
different. So, I mean, I could say, yeah, I could say maybe I could see it because they
both have a, definitely have a gassy profile, like real OG and real chem have kind of
this, this funk to it.
But, um, I don't know.
It's one of those things where I'm just, does it matter if they're related?
It doesn't really.
I mean, if they are, they are, if they're not, they're not.
They're both fire as fuck.
They're not going anywhere.
So it's one of those things, like I don't really pay much attention to because it doesn't
matter either way.
Yeah, no, understandable.
So when you consider the OG high and you think about that kind of commonly associated
terpene profile, the fuely, lemony, cushy type of thing, would you A, consider that
your favourite and B, do you think that that's part of the high or do you think that that
just happens to be the terpene profile associated with OG Kush and it's more like the
cannabinoid profile that does it?
Well, our highs, how we get high is all individual.
We all have our own individual cannabinoid systems and they react with THC and terpenes
and your body.
It's actually terpenes that are kind of the driving force on how people feel when they
smoke pot. So I did.
I just loved the way that it's always tasted gas like that profile and how there's no
ceiling with OG.
So like other strains, I could smoke and after a couple of weeks I won't get high
anymore. Like chem, sour OG and cookie, real good cookie crosses.
They are not like that.
I will always get high if I smoke them forever.
I could smoke OG for 30 years straight and I'll get stoned every fucking time, every
time. But if I smoke like Green Dragon or some fucking random strain from somebody,
like after a couple of days, I just won't get high.
My body will quickly, quickly adapt to it.
But there is no ceiling on OG or chem or sour, period.
I don't give a fuck who you are.
Everybody agrees with me on that.
I've talked to fucking hundreds of people.
It always gets you stoned and that's why it'll always have its place because it's the
fucking king. The king.
So what is it, do you think, that is required in a strain for it to have that ability?
Because we often hear this topic brought up among guests where they say, you know, like
it's just got no ceiling, you just keep getting higher.
Is it just quality or is it like a certain profile?
Oh, I do think it's lineage because it is seems to be the same group of plants it's
coming from, which is OGs, chems and sours and cooking hybrids.
So, I mean, it's most people are reacting the same way to most strains.
But there are some people that are off, like they're not the same.
And that's where I'm saying we all have different endocannabinoid systems, but a lot
of us have similar cannabinoid systems.
That's why we could agree some, you know, oh, this gets me really stoned.
There's a lot of people that smoke stuff that agree on it.
And then there's a handful of people that don't agree on it.
And it's not like they're wrong.
Their bodies just don't react the same to it.
So it's not you'll hear people talk about, oh, this makes me really nervous and freak
out. You know, it's like, yeah, that's the way you react to it.
It's not it's not the pot.
That's the way your body's reacting to it, too.
I mean, you probably drink fucking wine coolers and freak out, too, or whatever.
Who knows what's happening when you get high.
But yeah.
OK, cool. Well, just on a little personal note, before we wrap up on the OG stuff, one
of the OGs that I really, really loved, admittedly, I haven't tried them all.
What do you think about XXXOG from Oregon Kid?
I've never smoked it.
Damn, that backfired on me.
No, I've never smoked it.
Oregon Kid is an OG, though.
He's definitely not going to be growing snicker fritz.
So if he's got something that he's bought his name on, I'm sure it's fire.
He's definitely an OG.
He knows what gas is and he knows what take is.
I would definitely trust him.
If somebody said I got something from Oregon Kid, I would assume it's going to be gas in my
head. That's the first thing I think.
So I'm sure it's probably good.
Yeah, OK. So we kind of touched on cookies here and there.
And obviously you've done some cookies cross OGs.
Do you think that's one of the better pairings you can do with cookies, like cross to an
OG now?
Absolutely.
Absolutely. I mean, dude, the problem with the cookie crosses is they all carry the
same marker from the first cookie, which is an unstable marker.
Like it was made with CPK.
That was an unfinished project.
The CPK went S1 and either pollinated the DERM or fucking something in their garden.
I don't know what it pollinated, but there was never a male to female that made Girl
Scout cookies.
It wasn't like that.
It was an accidental pollination.
So they started selling packs of that plant that they grew out from that accidental
pollination. And that plant had the same marker that its mom and daddy had where it
would throw S1. So every pack that comes out has a few seeds in it.
Everybody in the bay was buying cookies.
So there was a seed here, seed there.
People started planting. That's where you got OGKB, Forum and these other cookie
hybrids. And they're just, they're just where people started making all the cookie
hybrids. That's where it was coming from, was from the S1 lineage that was coming
straight out of their garden.
They kept S1ing on everybody who touches that cut.
And it carries through into all the hybrids.
So nothing that has cookies in it is going to be like super stable.
I've heard people online complain.
They're like, you know, a lot of these European breeders have way more stable gear.
And I'm like, yeah, the shit is fucking 12 percent.
Like if you want to grow fucking dog shit weed, you grow it.
We're growing fucking elite hybrids and cookies, OG, sour, kev.
That shit has a G marker that it says I want to self reproduce.
If you're not going to give me pollen, that's what a plant's doing the whole time.
It's growing as a bud swelling the whole time in 1212.
It's just waiting for pollen.
The second you touch it with pollen, it doesn't grow like it used to.
But plants that make big ass buds, they don't make big buds after they're pollinated.
They focus all their energy on making seed.
So that's what that is, is that thing is swelling.
It's just putting pistols further and further away from its mass, essentially
making a larger surface area to potentially collect a piece of pollen.
So, you know, I don't know.
At some point, at some point, people got to realize there was never a male
in the female that made cookies.
That's why they never sold cookie seeds.
And then when they finally did sell seeds, they ripped everybody, Jigga
ripped everybody off and sold them London pound cake and candy pain and all these
seeds that were just mutant herby trash.
It's it's the biggest snickle fritz that's ever happened in the
weed industry's history.
It's fucking crazy, crazy.
But.
The it's I'm not denying the fact that they had access to one of the best
tasting cuts I've ever fucked with, whatever that was that did the self
pollination in their garden, they they grew it out and named it Girl Scout
Cookies and that shit tastes amazing.
But it does inherently have a problem where it wants to S1 and it did S1
constantly, and that's where a lot of that shit came from.
That's where a lot of the cookie offspring, the cookie hybrid offspring
comes from is from that.
That's where almost 99 percent of it came from was their S1 packs that they
were selling to people.
So it's whatever.
So do you think that they'll ever have to kind of face the music for the
candy? They just did.
I feel like they did just now.
Jigga could sell Jigga couldn't sell a pack of seeds right now if he wanted
to. So I think people pretty much got the hit right now.
What just happened? I mean, that was like I said, that was Snickle Fritz.
It is what it is.
I'm not going to sit here and talk numbers or anything, but they sold five
hundred dollar packs of seeds, a couple thousand packs of seeds at five
hundred dollars apiece. You do the fucking math and
hardly anybody got good offspring.
Most of the people couldn't even get the seeds to pop.
They wouldn't even pop.
If they did pop, they were growing off mute and trash.
And it's like it's just such a Snickle Fritz.
I just can't even believe that it even happened and that they would even have
any body supporting them at all.
I figured that'd be a full 100 percent black listing.
There's still people that support them.
So it's whatever.
But like I said, time wins everything.
So you can't beat time.
That's why Jigga disappeared.
Jigga and Berner claimed Berner claimed Jigga's account just got deleted from
Instagram. So fucking make a new one and get a shout out from your boy Berner.
You'll have 50,000 followers in fucking two weeks.
But you know, you don't want to come face the music.
You don't want to see what people are going to say to you.
You don't want to fucking face the reality that you just stole a couple of
million dollars from your customer base.
That's exactly what happened.
So just like I said, it's never happened in the history of the marijuana
industry. Something like this.
Someone with such a huge name that was held in such a high regard by a lot of
people, not everybody, but a lot of people did think that they had good
potential to drop good seed.
And then it was just the absolute worst seed drop of all time.
Never has there been a worse seed drop from anyone, small company or big
company, period.
Interesting. So do you think that we'll see them again?
We're hearing whispers in the wings of the community that Jbeezy is locked into
doing more projects for them.
Oh, Jbeezy works with them for sure.
And they might release stuff under Jbeezy.
But you'll never see Jigga posting his little homemade colourful packs
again. Remember how he made...
I mean, if you go, I mean, you go back and look at how this all happened.
This was all just a huge snickle for its grab.
So but you'll never see Jigga talking about his fiendy old
hunts and all these fucking F1 race car and all this shit.
The videos are just a joke, man.
Like the fiendy old hunts.
They're just so fake, dude.
They're all so fake.
Berner's never bred anything.
Berner doesn't know anything about breeding cannabis.
Jigga doesn't know anything about breeding cannabis.
Like I'm a young breeder.
I have a ton of shit to learn about breeding cannabis, and I literally have
forgotten more about breeding cannabis than those two dudes together have ever
learned. They fucking literally know nothing about breeding.
And it's so crazy.
Like a great example is the whole F1 video on YouTube.
And I hate to go in on these guys right now, but I just feel like this is this is
a perfect time since you asked about it.
There's a video where they're talking about what makes cookies.
And anybody who watches it can see right through this.
If you have any common sense at all, you could tell right away what happened.
They were around people that said the word F1 and they didn't know what that was.
They didn't understand what F1 was.
So they said that F1 was F1 race car that made that as he's stumbling all over his
words because he has no fucking clue what he's talking about.
He can't just tell you what made cookies like you asked me right now.
What made what made me out?
I took raw and I dusted it with the PCS one stud.
What is raw? Raw is fire.
OG dusted by Scott's OG male.
What's PCS one, Wi-Fi three dusted by Scott's OG dusted by Casper OG.
I can tell you right now any project that I've done and it takes me two seconds to
tell you what I did.
If anybody that if you ask them, if you ask them an honest question, how did you
make this? And they go, but you're fucking full of shit.
You're a fucking liar.
You're a liar. And it's sad that we've even come this far with such an important
plan. And we still had people around us like that, that were just willing to just
lie, just willing to steal.
And that's so much. That's why I'm saying if you join this industry and you just
don't lie and steal from people, you'll be in the top 20 percent right out the gate
because that's what everybody's out here doing.
They're all just bullshit each other and lie to each other.
It's fucking so great.
It's like this one big grab to try to get each other's pockets.
But that that team and that story, it will go down in history as the biggest money
money snatch in all of cannabis history.
Hands down the worst seed offspring of all time.
And they just had such a huge name and everybody expected so much more.
It's fucking is what it is.
It's crazy. And no, I don't think they'll ever be back.
I know Jay Beasley will cover them.
But Jay Beasley has his own fan base.
So people will people will still they'll still make money.
But they sell they sell fucking toasters with cookies on it and backpacks made in
Taiwan and shit like they they sell everything, dude.
They're always going to make money.
So it wasn't about money.
It was about integrity.
And they don't got no integrity.
I love you for referencing that.
So interestingly enough, I noticed that you haven't done as far as I know, you
haven't done any crosses with Sherbert or Gelato.
Do you ever plan to?
And as a follow up, do you think Shabinsky made the right call by kind of distancing
himself from the cookie fam a while ago?
Oh, you know, I don't know his story.
He definitely seems like an outsider to me, just like a rich dude that just has
connections and stuff.
He very well may have made those strings.
And if he did, congratulations.
They've had a huge impact for sure.
A bunch of people enjoy him.
He's not my flavor of person.
He's kind of what I call I really feel like there's two really there's two really
strong personality types that are in this marijuana industry.
I know one of them is what I would call the regulars.
And then one of them is called the Hollywoods.
And the regulars are just people selling fucking dope and selling edibles and
whatever. We're just out here working.
And then there's the Hollywoods that are all about the magazines and all about the
interviews and all about the pictures and all about the let me get my product in
this. What is he got?
His fucking weed.
Does he sell his weed in like some fucking super rich white people store?
What is it? I can't remember what it was.
It was like selling weed out of Louis Vuitton store.
So I can't remember what it was.
No, it wasn't Louis Vuitton, but I don't know what it is.
He's got his weed in some fucking he's like all fancy pantsy type guy.
And I it's just not my style.
Like all those people that he works with are people that were not cool with weed,
you know, 10 years ago, five years ago, even.
So it's just a money thing.
Oh, a lot of people are going to be like that.
And I don't think that he'll ever go anywhere because he's a hustling
motherfucker and real hustlers.
They don't they don't give a fuck about anything else.
They just grind. So I have a ton of respect for him in that aspect.
He's going to grind it to the wheels fall off.
And I don't have anything to say outside of that.
I mean, he is he is who he is.
I'm not personally going to make
crosses with his stuff.
Not that I have plans to at least.
I mean, if something tastes really fire and it breeds true, I'll use it in my
projects. I don't have some like fake made up shit in my head
where I'm not going to use your shit because, you know, whatever.
Like, I don't like exactly who you are as a person.
That's fucking dumb.
I just I didn't have any plans on using any of his stuff.
That's for sure. But, um, yeah, we did.
He's just he is who he is, man.
There's just a bunch of people with different personalities.
And I have a real strong personality type, too.
So there's a lot of people that don't like me just the same.
So I'm not I'm not too stressed out.
So the way the game goes.
And would you ever consider breeding with gelato or sherbet?
Yeah, I mean, if it was if I got something, if I had a cut,
if I grew it out and the weed was fire and that cut bred true,
I wouldn't be afraid to use it in projects.
So to answer your question, it's not it's not a yes or a no.
Like, it's just whatever.
If it was something that I came across that tasted fire.
Yeah, that's what anybody should, you know.
I think that's a good outlook to have in general, right?
Like, you know, just be down with whatever.
Yeah, no, I'm just down to grow chronic.
You know, I've always just been about this plant.
Like, I like to grow chronic.
I like good flavors.
I like to make good hash.
And I don't really give a fuck about anything else.
I don't care about the names or the lineage trees or any of that shit.
I just don't care.
I just want to get fucking stoned.
I want my friends to get stoned.
We want to get bread and we want to live out our fucking human lives
here on a good vibe.
You know, some of us, we grew up so fucking poor.
This plant is giving us everything that we never thought we would have, dude.
Like everything, dude, that we never thought we could ever, ever touch.
We get because of this fucking plant.
So I can't put into words how thankful I am to it,
how thankful I am for the people who support PCS.
Like all of it is a fucking dream at this point.
So we're just riding it, riding that wave, brother.
Love it, love it.
So I wanted to ask you, because I think you'll be able to answer
better than any of my previous guests really could.
And it's a bit more of a lightweight topic anyway,
which I think will slot in nicely here.
Have you tried slash what's your opinions on that famous Oregon cut, Jaeger?
Oh, yeah, it's funny.
I just got in trouble online the other day because I sat on someone's post.
I thought it was fucking trash.
It's just one of those cuts that you either like it or you don't.
I don't like it at all.
I don't like licorice turps.
I don't like it does well outside.
And Oregon has a really rough weather climate for growing pot outside.
So it tends to be any cut that shows up that does well outside here.
Everybody goes bananas for it because they're like, yeah,
something that's not going to turn into fucking complete shit by September.
So it's like I get it.
I'm not oblivious to it.
If you're an outdoor farmer in Oregon, try to eat fucking grow all the Jaeger you can.
It's not something that I would ever use in my projects or grow inside.
I would never. That's how I can tell a straight is good or not.
Would you grow it inside?
Would you grow it inside for your head stash?
Like, no, you're not growing fucking Jaeger inside.
So it's just it's one of those things.
Some people like it, though. So, yeah.
Yeah. OK, so.
But there's some people that there's some people that like to get fucking
chicks to take shits on a big kick up at the balls or they can't have an orgasm.
So people are fucking weird, dude.
Like not everybody's the same.
If a chick took a shit on me, I'd punch her in the fucking throat
right in her T3 vertebrae and I'd stab that bitch's fucking.
Your neck would be fucked, lady.
Your neck is fucked.
The next place you walk is going to need a fucking wheelchair ramp
because you're going to be paralyzed.
That's what you get for shitting on me.
Next question.
OK, so let's let's chat about some other notable Oregon ones.
Have you had any experience with the J1?
No, no, no.
All right. It's a good one. I like it anyway.
What about Blue Magoo?
Yeah, I've smoked it.
I've seen some decent examples of it.
Not anything to super write home about, but definitely not as
not as repulsive as Jaeger.
All right. And then my final little one on my Oregon list.
Have you ever seen Pink Champagne?
Oh, absolutely. Oh, I've seen the Pink, definitely.
And it's got a really cool profile that is champagne.
When you open up a bag of a PC, that's exactly what you smell is a
a soft pink rose champagne smell.
It's fucking so smooth.
Super cool to smell something that's like what I that's the word.
I use words like exotic for that profile.
It's kind of fruity, but it's not like a fruit that you're used to smelling.
And yeah, I absolutely like that straight.
I don't smoke a lot of other people's flowers.
So, you know, unless I see it in extracts, I don't I don't smoke it.
But I have ran across it in my time here and it is very fucking good for sure.
If it's grown right, obviously, like anything else.
Yeah, lovely. It's definitely one of my favourite ones.
So you're in Oregon where there's actually quite a good number of notable breeders
around the area. Who are some of the ones whose works you vibe with?
I've used Archives Casper OG to build out my
stud and to help build out my stud.
He was one of the three pieces.
He makes a lot of good crosses that a lot of people enjoy.
I don't grow. Like I said, I stopped years ago, stopped growing other people's seeds.
So I never grow like any of his new projects.
But he's from here. There's a lot of there's a lot of.
I don't know, man. It's I don't really grow people's seeds.
After after I decided to make the switch, when I first got the really good
clones, I focused heavily on production
of my elite clones and training and collecting and building my stable.
And I just didn't grow a lot of seed outside of my own seed projects.
So it's hard for me to just sign up for someone and be like,
yo, this guy is the guy who's doing good up here.
It's like, I don't know.
And I don't like I told you earlier, I don't pay a lot of attention to other
people's projects, how they turn out, if they're good or bad.
I kind of stay at my own rate.
I'm hyper focused on my own projects and my own stuff and my own journey.
And that's pretty much the only way I can get it all done, you know, is just to not
give a fuck about what other people are up to.
So it's nothing personal at all.
If someone brings something to my attention, I definitely will check it out.
I just did.
It's just one of those things that I decided to do a while ago.
And it's been definitely good for me and for my energy and my time to not get all
involved in everybody's anything.
You know, I just don't just stay fucking focused on PCS and what we're doing.
So and I'll tell you why, is because I spent many years, not many years spinning
wheels and not focused and not hustling and being all caught up in everybody's
drama on here and caught up in my own drama.
Like, what the fuck, dude?
Fuck these people.
Like nobody here gives a shit about you.
If your page is shut down tomorrow, do you think people are going to lose sleep?
Nobody's going to give a fuck.
Like you're just going to be gone like a fart in the wind.
So you need to focus and make sure that you you take advantage of your
opportunities and everybody's life.
You're going to have left and right turns and you can look back at your life right
now, all of you listening and you could go, man, I went left right there and I
should have went right, right there.
And everybody could see a spot where they went left or they should have went right.
And I just want to minimize those as much as possible.
You know what I'm saying?
For myself.
So.
Yeah.
Understandable frustration.
I get it.
So I've noticed this trend, right?
Where it's like it's not enough for like the meme pages to try to be funny or whatever.
Like they've got to have their own little counter brand on the side.
And I have a feeling this is kind of what leads to their inevitable downfall.
What do you think about the meme pages in the community?
Do you think they should just steer clear of trying to start their own business like our
friend Kelly Terps Factory?
I feel like people are going to do whatever they do.
I really don't care what people do with their business lives.
I like I'm not too stressed on it.
Like I said earlier, time separates all of us.
So eventually time sorts all things out.
I've seen a hundred brands come and go, you know, over the past five, six years, brands
that were so fast out of the gate that were big talkers and were this and that.
And now they're just non-existent.
So I'm not stressing on it.
Do it like if somebody wants to make a fucking brand, make a brand like all power to you.
I wish everybody well.
Uh, I don't think that most people are doing it right.
So that's why I feel like I'm just so comfortable with time because I just know that time
works fast. So if you're not doing it right, you're not going to, you're not going to
stick around very long.
And you really can't count hundreds of companies that have just come and gone in the
last five years. So the reason why is because they weren't met for it.
You go on Craigslist right now and find in any city in the country, you can find garden
equipment for sale, like weed growing equipment, because this shit ain't for everybody.
Bunch of people think they want to come and do it.
And then all of a sudden it's not, you know, it's not the fucking grand vision that
they thought, Oh shit, I actually have to mop floors most of the time.
Being a grower is actually being a fucking janitor.
I pretty much feel like a fucking custodian.
That's what it is. If you just just a heads up for all you young growers, get a fucking
mop, get to know the broom, give the broom a name because you should be dancing with
that bitch every day.
It's fucking crazy how it's a total title shift in your brain from what you thought you
were going to be doing to what you're actually doing.
Fucking funny.
Yeah, I can relate to that one a lot.
So, just to kind of wrap up this last little section we've been talking about, Matt
Wright has put forward this joke, but I reckon it would be great, right?
Where we have like a WWF ring at like the cannabis cups and people can like settle their
beef in that. Would you sign up for it?
Absolutely.
Absolutely.
You find you know, WWF though, we got to put some gloves on or let me actually smack some
of these kids, put geese on them and we could actually do some jiu jitsu or something.
But no WWF as long as I really get to fucking show them my intention.
I love it. And you just segwayed perfectly into the next question whereby I was going to
say, how do you think jiu jitsu plays into the cannabis lifestyle?
Because we see that they're so heavily intertwined in their usage among the practitioners
of both. What do you think it's about the both that draw people to both of them?
Well, the first thing is probably the healing aspects of cannabis spiritually and mentally.
There really are cleansers.
You can let a lot of shit go just by having a good session, you know, a really good herb
session or dab session.
You feel different when it's done, if it's done the right way.
A lot of people just abuse marijuana and abuse extracts.
They don't really truly use it as the medicine that has been gifted to us as jiu jitsu
players. I find tend to be cruisers like a lot of jiu jitsu guys are just these like
cruiser types, right?
The surfer mentality, the fucking the fucking the cruise through life type, man.
And that's where pot is like it always finds the cruisers.
And it's a cruiser drug.
It feels good. It makes food better, makes movies better, makes sex better.
It makes jiu jitsu better.
It makes things better.
It's just the way that it is, the way it always be.
That's why I thought it was funny that pot was so fucking outlawed for so long that like
they finally realized we're never not going to smoke this drug.
Like you can keep it illegal forever.
We don't give a fuck.
So they're like, we better legalize this and make money off of it the other way.
It's like, yeah, you should probably do that because we love pot.
Like people love pot and they're always going to love pot because it's fucking amazing.
So it's definitely not just jiu jitsu.
If you go to the NBA, like almost fucking like easily half the NBA smokes pot.
NFL players, a bunch of them would love to smoke pot for healing their bodies.
And instead of taking pills and shit, like it's not just jiu jitsu.
It's just fucking it's the way it is.
And if we really dove into it, we would quickly find out that a bunch of our school teachers
and a bunch of our bankers and a bunch of like pot is just really pretty fucking prevalent
in our society.
It's just one of those things that was kind of not talked about as much.
And alcohol was really promoted and people were kind of just quiet about it, about the pot part.
But they were definitely doing it.
That's for sure.
Yeah, definitely, definitely.
So you kind of touched on how there are some sports where the players would benefit from
being able to use it, but currently aren't allowed.
What do you think will be some of the first sports to open it up?
And do you think UFC might be one of them?
Yeah, the UFC, the NFL and the NBA, I can all see in the next few years just releasing as
the federal government's leading back in different states or leading back into legalization.
Like it's only a matter of time, dude.
We never thought that we would see this when we were kids.
If you told me, hey, man, one day you'll be able to just walk in stores, buy pot, walk
two blocks up the street and walk in a different store and buy a pot.
I'd be like, you're fucking crazy.
But that's where we're at.
So it's definitely changing.
And it's man, it's changing pretty crazy how fast it's changing.
But we'll see.
I don't think I don't think we're going to see anything but progression.
So that's part of progression is releasing people from its clutches of illegality.
You know, it's pretty fucked if you have a job and you still have to piss in a cup and
all you want to do is smoke a little bit of pot.
You can't because you don't want to lose your fucking job that pays you seventy five
thousand a year because God forbid if you had to go make sixty thousand a year, it's
like you're already struggling.
You know, it's like they've got everybody by the balls.
Dude, it's really weird.
This whole fucking this whole story and how it's getting played out is fucking weird.
Yeah, I agree.
It's it's kind of ludicrous in a sense.
And you touched on how, you know, things are always changing.
So let's segue back into some strange stuff.
Things are always changing, especially kind of the hottest strain of the month.
What do you think is going to be the next big flavour profile to take over the scene?
I hate to toot my own horn, but my PCS2 crosses are really going to light up 2020 with the
Kem and the OG profiles coming through in a hybrid offspring.
Like everyone's going to find basically OG Kem, Kem OG.
Like you're going to find profiles that are the best of both worlds.
Like, you know, Karma's sour projects.
I'm sure he's going to do some more sour stuff, but everybody's been loving his sour
projects. I've seen so many people post about his sour projects.
So I'm sure Karma and the boys will come out with something dope for 2020 with that
sour, some cross or maybe just do some more line work on what they already have.
I don't know. But I know a bunch of people have fallen in love with that shit.
So.
Hell yeah, you beat me to my next question, which I was going to say that I can see that
you've started to make some new crosses with the PCS2 male.
Tell us a little bit about how that one's a bit different from the number one.
And what was its Genesis story?
So basically, I just took my PCS1 male and I dusted probably 30 different cuts, 25
different cuts. I was just looking for, you know, good seed stock.
I still have a bunch of those crosses, but one of the first ones I went through was the
Kem4 that was dusted by the PCS1.
And we found so basically what made me decide to use that was the female offspring that
we found. So we planted a bunch of those seeds and flowered out.
Fuck, 80 or 90 females and a bunch of them were just fucking Kem and OG hybrid,
fungi power.
So I decided to use that same seed stock to select a male from.
Knowing that that profile is getting pushed through in that seed stock, it doesn't
necessarily mean that it's going to come through on said male.
But as we started checking the PCS2 offspring right away, that's exactly what we saw
was anything that was gas that got touched was fucking just it was like pouring it was
like pouring gas on a campfire, pretty much like that's all we did.
We added girth to a bunch of stuff with the Kem4 and you can smell and taste the Kem4
and a bunch of it, especially the the OG crosses.
The cookie crosses tended to take it a little less, but you could still smell it come
through like it's still there.
It's definitely prevalent.
I think people are really going to fucking enjoy the only reason I haven't released them
to market. I've let people get at them in my auction, but I've only released them at
auction and not to market because I personally want to do my big fetal hunts before they
go to market market.
And I've just been waiting for this facility to get finished so I have room to do my big
hunts.
Lovely. So if we look at all of the different PCS2 crosses you have planned, which one are
you most excited for?
And out of the first release with the number one male, what out of those was the ones
that you kind of just decided you liked the most?
So out of PCS1, the best thing that we found that I think that I think I like the most is
definitely the Meow.
The Scotts OG cut that I have that I built all that stuff with is so fucking dank and it
comes through in a lot of stuff and it definitely comes through in that cross, but it has
a it just has a different different vibe to it.
It's super chunky and Meow has just been so consistent, like every 15 pack, you know,
every 15 seeds per one pack of seeds, there's a fucking bomb keeper.
This is like everybody finds a keeper in that's that cross.
So I absolutely love the Meow.
It's done a lot of people solid and it's done me really solid.
We have some fucking power keepers.
The PCS2, I'm pretty stoked about Congo, which is the Zookies dusted by PCS2 and I'm.
90 percent sure one of the biggest strains of the year is going to be the Chompawatt,
which is is the raw dusted by PCS2.
So we're just like I said, we've popped the seed, we found offspring that we like, but I
don't want to say this is it until I do the 200, 300 seeds per and I'm about to have room to
do it. So I just figured I would wait to sell the seed.
I have a bunch of the seed ready to put to market.
I would just wait to sell the seed until I did my hunts.
So it's just chilling.
Yeah, OK, cool.
So just as a quick follow up.
So you just said it was the raw.
What's that one? So raw is fire.
The fire cut that I got from Rascal's crew dusted by a Scotsogee male.
And when I did the big Scotsogee fetal hunt, when I found that Scotsogee female, I found
like six males.
I ended up flowering three of them and killing two of those three before they ever
dropped pollen.
I just kind of wanted to see how they were building their flower sets out.
And I ended up flowering one of those Scotsogee males and I dusted everything that I had.
So at the time I had maybe like seven cuts, 70 lead cuts, and I made a bunch of side
project stuff. And that was just one of them that I decided to plant and look through the
fire cut dusted by that Scotsogee male.
And I found hands down one of the nastiest O.G.
Iveron cuts that I've ever fucking smoked or seen in my life, the raw.
And it's just it is what it is.
That's why I named it raw, because it's just raw.
It's so gassy and everybody who fucks with it loves it.
It's just super dank, super enjoyable.
Love it. The rawest of the raw.
So do you think it's important that breeders should be trying to hunt their own females?
I've noticed it's a trend that there are some breeders who the females they're crossing
stuff to, it's just the clone only.
You never see any of like their own strains getting crossed to a male.
Do you think that's an important thing?
Absolutely, it's important.
That's what you would be looking at for real line work for people to start doing their own
lines and stuff. Like myself, I haven't dusted anything that's not, I mean, maybe that
raw cut, but most everything I've dusted has been me dusting clone only leads.
And the reason why is because I just am brand new at breeding.
So as soon as we get a little further down in the journey, there's definitely going to
be different lines made and line work.
There's really nothing I could do at this point without the space that I need.
So I'm kind of just hanging out.
As soon as I get the space, I'll be able to expand into those projects.
But without a doubt, it's imperative to be a breeder, to truly be doing your own line
work and selecting and building stuff from inside your own projects.
What do you think about the idea of like a standardized seed pricing system where like if
it's like an F1 and the two parent...
Nope.
You don't even need to fit in.
Love it. Love it. Tell me more.
Tell me more.
A standardized pricing.
I'm like, nope, we're all different, dude.
And some people's projects are just complete dog shit.
They have no depth and they don't have any potential.
Like I want right now, everybody who's listening, think of your favorite breeder.
And once you have them in your head, I want you to think of all the strains they've
released in the last five years.
And now I want you to think about all the people that you know that still grow any of
the stuff that they released over the last five years.
And I want you to understand that a bunch of that seed that was sold had no offspring
that was keepable. It was just seed that was sold to you as a customer because it had a
name and you thought it might be good and it might render something good.
But did it? How many strains have we heard of in the last five years from all of us?
Right. I mean, I'm a brand new breeder, but I'm serious.
Put everybody's name into that.
How many of them are...
Where are the keeper keepers?
Like, dude, I've seen so many menus come up with nothing to be heard of from the menu.
So, it's just one of those things.
I don't think that all of our projects are the same.
I don't think standardizing prices on where things are on a tree would make any sense
at all.
So, out of all the breeders currently out there, how many of them do you think are actually
doing a good job in terms of what they should be doing and delivering to market, etc.?
It's like a percentage.
It's a 20 percent.
It's a 20 percent again.
Two out of 10.
Two out of 10.
There's right now currently people making seed for the marijuana industry.
There's maybe 300.
250 to 300 people making seed for the marijuana industry.
And maybe one out of 10, two out of 10.
10 percent probably is a better estimate.
10 percent, literally.
There's about 20 or 30 guys that you could fucking trust that you know are going to
deliver.
It's a short list, man.
It really is.
But like I said, if you put billions of dollars on the table, every wolf, it's the same as
if you put a dead body on the Sahara, right?
Every wild dog, every coyote, every fucking thing is going to come.
The vultures, everything.
The lions.
They all show up because there's food.
So that's what we're dealing with here is it's just a budding industry and a bunch of
people showing up to get their due.
What they think is their due, at least.
Yeah. So I think we're kind of in the midst of the corporate cannabis takeover in a
sense. Where do you see things going on the big ag level?
I mean, as far as growing smokable good product, never.
They'll never compete.
I don't always end up just an extract form, whatever they're doing, whether they're
freezing it or just drying it and making fucking crude or whatever the fuck they do.
I don't really I don't stress on them at all.
Like I've never I've never been worried about anybody else.
That's not what bothers me about big ag.
What bothers me about them is their potential to control law, their potential to
control my human existence because they are afraid of the little guys.
They always consistently show they are big industry knocks around little industry to
make all the profits available to them.
That's what Walmart does.
That's what everybody does.
I just worry about all the smaller farmers, the mom and pops are going to be turned
into straight legitimate outlaws again because they want to grow some pot for
themselves, maybe sell a couple ounces to their people or whatever.
And that's not going to be an option anymore.
It's just it's the whiskey tax all over again.
We're just living in some fucking alternate reality where the government shows up and
just says, you can't do that.
Why?
I'm not doing it.
I'm not hurting anybody.
What are you talking about?
You guys are fucking liars and thieves and killers and you guys fucking kill kids with
drones and shit.
And I can't grow a plant like, dude, we're living fucking some weird shit.
It really is weird shit.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's a wild times kind of Twilight Zone stuff.
It's a wild time.
It's a wild time.
Yeah, it's a wild times kind of Twilight Zone stuff.
So, were you around when the forums were really big?
No, I was, but I didn't.
I don't use, I never used a computer or got on the forums at all.
I was never a forum guy.
Yeah.
Okay.
Well, I mean, I think you can still have a pretty good input on this one.
Why do you think people reminisce so much about the forums, even though the general
knowledge of the cannabis community is much greater now than what it used to be back
then?
I think because they had it, it was a little tight.
It was a little more tight knit.
And pretty much everybody kind of knew everybody on whatever forum you were on.
Like everybody.
It was just much more tight knit.
There's a lot of outsiders now and it's just saturated with just fucking idiots.
So there was one forum, I can't remember if it was ICMAG, which you couldn't even
comment at first.
Like you had to join and be a member for a while before you could say anything.
You had to like message people and then they had to message you back or something
like six times before you could comment or some weird shit like that.
I don't know if it was ICMAG, but one of them was pretty serious about just letting
anybody come on.
You had to work for it a little bit.
So that was kind of good.
Probably kept some of the people out, but definitely I think it's just a, it's just
one of those things.
It was a little bit of a more tight knit group.
So no biggie.
Yeah.
So what do you think about the rise of the vape cartridges and everything that's
followed with that?
It's just dog shit, man.
I don't have any.
They're just trash.
Just quick way to make a buck, dude.
People turning all kinds of garbage harvest into processable money.
It's what it is.
You'll never, ever see anybody put really good flour into anything like that.
So it's always just dog shit that they're trying to make money off of.
I've never seen it be anything else other than that.
So it's just, it's one of those things, man.
It sucks, but whatever.
It's just the way it goes.
Yeah, of course.
So what would be some tips you would offer for someone who's thinking about getting
into breeding, but just doesn't really know how and just what would be your kind
of advice about how they could get things started?
Oh, first things first, shut off what everybody's going to say to you.
Cause people are going to tell you that, you know, you don't need to do it or
it's not for you or whatever.
Don't fucking listen to anybody.
If you want to breed, um, make sure you have a nice, decent selection to start
with, like a stable, build out a little bit of a stable and just start.
Make sure you're reading and understanding the basic concepts of what you're doing.
So you're not all over the fucking place and don't overthink it, man.
Just make some cool new crosses to enjoy.
And if you get good at it, maybe people will enjoy your stuff enough to, to want
to buy it and you can fucking sell seed.
And if not, you'll always have your own seed stock of stuff you like or backup
seed stock in case the fucking world goes fucking D-Day shit and you actually have
some seed for yourself, you know, like, I don't know.
Don't stress on it.
Don't let anybody fuck with you.
Don't let anybody dictate your shit.
Make sure you have a nice little stable to start with and fucking do it.
Some good advice.
So, how important do you think it is for people to have a social media these days if
they're looking to be like a breeder, for example, or an influencer in the market?
Is it critical?
Yeah, you're not going to be able to sell anything if you don't have social media.
Like, nobody sells shit unless they have actual storefront space.
Like, they have to have social media.
That's where our community is, is on Instagram and social media.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And so, I've noticed you've got quite an impressive following yourself.
What would be some tips for people who are kind of struggling to get their follow account
to where they want it to be?
Well, Instagram's algorithm is pretty much junk now.
It's busted up.
So, I don't know anymore about Instagram.
But what I did back in the day before it was bought by Facebook and Mark Zuckerberg pulled
the shenanigans was just post good pictures regularly.
Make sure you stay interactive.
Post a picture in the morning and a picture at night so you get two different audiences,
you know.
If not, sometimes the same group of people on both pictures, you know what I'm saying?
So, a lot of people are on their phones in the morning.
Some people are only on their phones at night.
If you post once in the a.m. and once in the p.m., you have a good chance of people seeing
one of the posts.
Make sure you're interacting with people.
Don't be a fucking asshole, dude.
You'll be good.
I literally built my whole thing by just being me, man.
Just interacting with people, helping fucking countless growers with simple questions that
a lot of other growers didn't want to answer.
Giving myself to the community for years, like just being available and helping people.
It's not something that's for everybody, but it's definitely for a lot of people.
Don't be afraid if you want to get your foot in the door.
Just like I said, don't be a piece of shit.
Just start interacting, start doing what you're doing and your count will go up, I'm assuming,
if you're not being a fuckhead.
Love it.
Love it.
So, in your opinion, what do you think will go down as the notable cut from the 2015 to
the 2020 period?
And the reason why it's a very specific question like that is because I think it's pretty undeniable.
2010 to 2015, that was really the cookies era.
What do you think is the last five years?
Wow, I mean, everybody's different, man.
Everybody's got their own thing.
I really feel like there's been good projects from a bunch of different people.
For me, it's just I can't get away from the same stuff that I fuck with.
It's just OGs and Kevs.
They never go old to me.
There's definitely going to be always new projects and stuff.
People that are going to be making all types of stuff that I just don't have any interest
in at all, but a bunch of people like.
So, you know, I mean, CSI has made some really cool stuff, some really cool hybrids.
I personally did, like I said earlier, you know, it's just one of those things where
I don't smoke a lot of other people's pot.
I don't pay much attention to what other people are doing.
I stay super focused in my own little thing.
I think a lot of people take that the wrong way.
They think that I'm like ego or that I like don't give them good energy or something because
I'm like hyper focused on my own shit.
But it's the only way to get out of such a hole that I was in.
Like people don't realize I came to Oregon with $800.
Like we spent $650 on our first month's rent.
And by the three weeks in, we had no money.
We barely made it.
So everything I have, I got from nothing, from zilch, dude, from starting from zero.
And I realized quickly I could get more for my family and do better for my tribe if I
just don't pay attention to everybody else's shit.
It's like, dude, I can't look my kids in the face knowing I just wasted fucking hours of
my life arguing with some random kid on the Internet or some shit.
You know what I mean?
So I said, I just won't, we won't do that anymore.
We're just going to pull up and scrap.
If you really have a fucking problem, we're going to scrap.
If not, then I'm not going to give a fuck about what you're saying because it is what it is.
That's it straight to the money.
Yes, sir.
All right.
So I think that brings us to our last couple of quickfire questions, a little bit more
yes, no type of things.
So first one, what is the best bud you've ever smoked in your life?
I don't know.
Either the Crippler here in Oregon that was gifted to me years ago and I lost the cut
because I'm fucking stupid and I don't know the guy who gave it to me.
It's just a total random event.
Or the pure real deal OG Kush that I smoked the very first time that I smoked OG Kush.
It's still to this day is one of the purest cuts I've ever come across.
And it was so fucking smooth and amazing.
So on the flip side, what's the worst weed you've ever smoked?
Oh, boy.
That's definitely that Mexi brick.
We've gotten weed from Mexico that still smelled like gasoline that was smuggled in the gas
tank and the fucking packs were leaking and they actually got gasoline into them.
And weed is like a sponge.
It just sucks everything up.
So I've definitely gotten gasoline, dirt weed growing up as a kid.
That's the worst fucking weed I've ever smoked for sure.
Wow. That's a new benchmark you set there.
But OK.
Fuck you. I'm not the only one.
Get the fuck out of here.
If you ask anybody from Southern California will be like, oh shit, I completely forgot
that we smoked dirt weed that actually smelled like gas.
Big gas, boy.
That's where the passion comes from.
Right. Yes, sir.
Now, don't worry. I've certainly smoked my fair share of.
You guys have smoked fucking aboriginal dog shit weed.
Don't give me that.
Riddled with PGRs, trust me.
Yeah. OK, so let me put a spin on that one for you.
What's the worst strain you've smoked, which commercially kind of took off a bit and
people, some people thought it was good, but you were like, no, this is trash.
Jaeger, Jaeger, Blue Dream, Jaeger.
Yeah, those are the Jaegers, the first one that really pops off coming from Oregon.
There was just a lot of people that were really liked it and were hyped on it.
But I really think it was just because it finished early and it wasn't it was something that
would get out on the outdoor, you know, without getting rod.
So. Yeah.
OK, so you're on a desert island.
You can only take three cuts with you.
What are they?
Oh, that's that's going to be pretty easy for me.
I'm taking a chem.
I'm taking a fucking pure TK, like the real deal TK, chem four and a real deal sour.
That's it. Tree piece, maybe with some sour.
Easy money. Love it.
OK, so what is a cut that you've either lost over the years or never quite got access
to that you'd love to get back?
And I know you mentioned the cripple before, so it's got to be something other than that.
OK, Bay 11, I grew out some seeds one time and I found a cut, I found a plant, Bay 11,
that was absolutely phenomenal.
I, for some reason, didn't like those structure of the plant and I just didn't clone it.
I was very specifically looking for certain structures and it was easily one of the top
five best tasting pots I've ever smoked in my life.
And I just tried to re-veg it.
I couldn't get it to re-veg.
It was devastating.
So.
It's a bummer.
I think we've all had similar experiences like that, right?
Yeah, it was still to this day still bothers me a little bit.
Honestly, there's a little piece of my heart.
Alrighty, so on to our final question.
If you could go back in time, any place, anywhere, where would you go?
When and what seeds are you collecting?
If I could go back to any place in time, anywhere, surprisingly, I wouldn't go that far
back. I really wouldn't be there to collect weed seeds.
If I had the trigger and I could just go any place in time, I would go sit down and have
dinner with my grandmother.
I would make her a nice tri-tip and salad and I would just enjoy her company and her
conversation for the night.
And she was my absolute best friend.
And when she had me, I didn't quite have my head on straight.
So I was all over the place and I didn't get to fully enjoy her energy, how cool of a lady
she was. And I readily always.
That's the first thing that pops in my head when someone asks me that.
If you could go to any place at any time, it's always I just crave to hear her voice, to
enjoy her company one more time.
Yeah, that would be the best for me.
Yeah, what a beautiful sentiment.
So do you have any comments or shout outs you wanted to make?
Dude, all you guys listening, just understand a couple of things about this industry.
It is it is a dogfight out here.
There's a lot of people trying to get in your pockets and trying to do shady stuff.
If I had a dollar for every time I heard someone talk about somebody else ripping them off,
I wouldn't fucking need any money.
It's just the way it works out here.
So be very aware.
Keep your head on a swivel.
Be kind to your employees and to your people that you work with, so that way they don't
feel the need to go anywhere else and you guys can build together.
Be kind, kindness, kindness, man.
Be gentle.
All the other bullshit doesn't mean anything.
So we're going to be in and out.
We're going to be in and out of these lives really fast.
And you're going to be remembered by your people how you were with them.
So just be aware of how you are as a person.
And when you get into the weed industry, do it from a good spot.
Don't come here just for money.
It won't work.
You got to have a little bit of love for this plant and she'll feed you forever.
Lovely, lovely.
So thank you so much, Tacoma of Prolific Co-Seeds for coming on, dropping all the knowledge
and sharing all the insight.
So a big, big thank you again to Tacoma for taking the time to stop by, have a chat today
and give us the download and all those different things.
Huge thank you as always to our amazing sponsors, CTNR, Radio Rich Nurse,
Organic Gardening Solutions, Greensleeves Merchantile.
We love you all.
And we always, always, always give a big shout out to the Patreon gang and the Dragonfly Earth family.
You guys are amazing.
We love you so very much.
Thank you for all your help.
Thanks for hanging out to the end, guys.
I'll see you for the next one.
I'll see you.
