Hello and welcome to the next episode of the podcast, a cannabis podcast for budding enthusiasts.
As always, these episodes could not happen without the fantastic support of our sponsors.
Seeds here now, you know them and love them.
Best in the business if you're looking for a North American based seed option featuring
the latest and greatest breeders, all the hottest drops.
Guess what?
They got an incredibly shmick new website with fantastic new prices.
They've been slashing the cost of everything to give you the best deal while still offering
their guarantee on both satisfaction and germination.
Don't delay, best in the business.
Thank you so much.
Likewise huge shout out to our friends Simply Souvenirs, our homies holding down the fort
in Europe.
If you're in the UK or Europe and you're looking for a hand selected range of boutique
genetics from both local and international breeders, check out Simply Souvenirs.
They have the best customer service in the game as well as new drops occurring on the
regular including some amazing smoking accessories, vapes, dab accessories and rigs, so much more.
Check them out, Simply Souvenirs.
We appreciate you guys.
In order to make a name for yourself, you not only need to find and make some good genetics,
you need to run them properly.
Check out our friends Copert Biological Systems.
They have all the best solutions in the game for all pests and pathogens.
The best way to keep your garden happy, healthy and pumping on all cylinders is to be proactive.
Don't wait for an infestation guys.
Get onto it now.
Grab yourself some AcuparM if you're worried about aphids or some Spidex Vital if you've
got spider mite issues.
I promise you guys, knowing that your garden is pest and pathogen free is next to heavenliness.
There's nothing better than a high quality crop that is 100% free of contaminants.
Shout out Copert Biological Systems.
We appreciate you guys so much.
Likewise, you got to make sure you're getting the most out of your garden.
And for that, we need to give a big shout out to our friends at Pulse Senses.
If you're after more yield, more resin, higher quality concentrates and flowers, you need
to get serious about your growth.
So get a Pulse.
There are many hidden variables that can hold your growth back that you simply may not even
be aware of.
VPD is a common one.
You can't feel it, you can't see it, you don't know about it.
But let me tell you, your plants do.
If you get a Pulse Sensor and dial the parameters in, you will see your plants responding in
front of your eyes.
From a single tent to a single room to a multi-facility operation, don't hold your next crop back.
Get serious.
Pulse Sensor.
A huge shout out to the Patreon gang.
If you guys want to get early access to upcoming content, unheard exclusive interviews with
some of your favorite guests, as well as access to ad-free content and genetic giveaways going
down monthly, check out the Patreon.
www.patreon.com forward slash the podcast.
So, on this episode, we're joined by a highly requested guest.
A breeder I've wanted to chat to for a very long time.
On this episode, we have none other than the genetic genius, Snow High.
We get to discuss all things landrace, breeding, preserving, history, future, so much more.
Let's get into it.
Alrighty gang, we're here for another one.
And on this episode, we are extremely grateful to welcome the genetic genius behind Snow
High Seeds.
The landrace lover and breeder extraordinaire himself, Snow High.
Thank you so much for joining us today.
Thanks for having me.
It's very good to have you on the show.
One of our most requested guests.
So I'm sure we're going to get a lot of fanfare for this episode, but I want to ask you, because
you mentioned it a bit earlier to me, how's the garden looking today?
Have you been in there?
Oh yeah, the garden is every day.
So yes, I've been in the garden lately.
And what are you working on at the moment?
Right now I'm working on a bunch of Mexicans, Thais, some Hawaiians, Colombians.
I'm trying to bring back some of the old Colombian red type stuff.
You know, people were familiar with like wacky weed.
It was actually like the resinous versions of the Colombian red or the Punto Rojo.
So I've been looking for the phenotypes that are more specific to that.
I'm trying to bring back some of the favorites that people love, the Colombian gold.
Certain varieties of Colombian gold that are kind of more sought after than what people
know as Colombian gold, because a lot of the Colombian gold was actually either like a
low lid Colombian red that was bleached or another Colombian that was like bleached in
a sense.
So a lot of what people think is Colombian gold was something other than what it was.
And I'm also working on some different Thais.
I'm analyzing the different varieties, trying to narrow down where the chocolates came from.
I have a good understanding of where they are, but I'm verifying what I already know
with what I'm finding, trying to prove from me growing the varieties of chocolate Thai
that were here in the States that were sold as sticks and then taking what was land-raised
or heirloom varieties grown in Thailand and Cambodia and Laos and trying to figure out
what the genetic stock was that created these.
What was their names that the growers were using for these strains?
And then as it trans-shipped to different countries like Australia, United States, Europe,
what was the strains beforehand and when they got to the sellers that people received?
So I'm trying to narrow that down.
A bunch of Highland Thais, mango Thais, purple Thais, juicy fruit Thais, lots of different
squirrel tail, Thai stick varieties, just trying to narrow down what the provenance
of these are, where they came from, what provinces the majority of these varieties came from,
were they lowland, highland, the microclimates associated with them, the people, the history
of those people, did they come from China, did they come from India, that type of thing.
And then I'm trying to bring back some of the Hawaiian lines that people love, which
are easier to grow.
They have the resin and the high types that people love and just something special that
a lot of people really love are the Hawaiian types.
And the Mexicans, I'm trying to bring back some of the heirloom stuff that people are
growing still in Mexico and some of the older stock that I'm trying to preserve so that
more people can be familiar with these lines that I grew up smoking, which is some of my
favorite of all the different types of herb.
Mexican cannabis is a special thing to me.
Wow.
I think one of the catchphrases I say on this show is, you've just given me so many avenues
we need to go down.
That was truly fantastic.
I guess the first place to start is, you mentioned the Colombian red and gold.
How would you give someone like myself, who has never been able to have either, unfortunately,
how would you compare and contrast the two?
Well, the Colombian gold, let's start with that.
Colombian gold is a really unique high compared to other varieties.
It's its own variety.
The high is mostly in the head.
It's clear, euphoric, it's psychedelic, colorful, but it doesn't affect the body.
So you get an all in the head type of high.
The tastes are honeysuckle, astringent, kind of affects the nose, but it's light.
It's a light, airy aroma.
When the smugglers went to Santa Marta, the Sierra Nevada, the peninsula where all the
transshipments were happening, the bales that they were getting, they were getting 200,
300 bales of Colombian at a time.
The Colombian gold was maybe one bale, maybe two.
They had to go to farm to farm and they were only able to collect enough for maybe one
to two bales at a time.
So it was very rare that people actually had the true Colombian gold.
There was varieties that were called Lamona or Lamota.
Lamota means high on a hill and Lamona means the blonde.
Those were like the Araujo Indians, the Indians that were up in the high Sierra
Nevadas. They had a variety of Colombian gold, which was more of a highland Colombian.
And those were more of the longer flowering varieties that were gold, red, purple, turned
orange and rainbow different colors.
And that's the real special stuff.
Now, there was also lowland Sierra Nevada Colombian gold, and those were the smaller
plants, also very nice, but not quite as longer flowering as the highland varieties.
So that was kind of the Colombian gold.
So the majority of them will turn purple and gold.
Some rare phenotypes will be red and then rainbow colored.
For the opposite side, which is the Colombian Punto Rojos, the Colombian reds, those were
more of a narcotic high.
The reason is that it has a CBD content in it.
So it actually has like a body effect, unlike the Colombian gold.
So there's CBG, CBC, I would believe that's probably THCV as well, Delta 8 and 9 THC as
well. And then a lot of different cannabinoids, flavonoids and antiscience, the things that
change the colors of the plants.
As you will find with the Colombian Punto Rojos, they'll turn red, blue, purple and
shades that are more dark, kind of like the Panama red.
At one time, Panama was part of Colombia.
So a lot of the Punto Rojos were actually the same as Panama red.
But the varieties that were closer to the border with Panama now were actually more the
jungly types. They were hotter.
They dealt with more resin.
They had to deal with the more extremes of the heat because they were more of a jungly
type. So when people think of Panama red, it's actually like a Colombian variety.
So it's closer to Colombian Punto Rojo.
And so you get these longer, different high types that are more physical.
People actually, when you had a really good Colombian red, thought that the Colombian red
high was more more favorited than the Colombian golds.
And the really resinous varieties of Colombian Punto Rojo were what people called
wacky weed. And those were the very resinous, dusty types that people would sell.
The resellers would call it wacky weed, but it was Colombian Punto Rojo.
Wow, what a comprehensive rundown, I feel like I've learned so much because what's
interesting is that the Colombian as a broad umbrella has really come into the zeitgeist
because I think that with the advent of the black Cuban haze becoming very popular in
the past few years, we hear a lot about the Colombian dominance you see in that cut.
And it got me wondering, do you think Colombian is one of the unsung heroes in haze?
Because a lot of people, including myself, used to attribute a lot of the magic of haze to
the tie. But I'm now starting to think more and more, was the Colombian really contributing a lot more
than I maybe gave it credit for?
Well, there's more than one haze.
So you got to narrow it down to is it the
haze that first came around?
The first haze was more Mexican Punto Rojo with the Colombians that were coming around.
So Mexican and Colombian were more of the composition of what
people know as haze.
There's old timers haze, which seems to be all Colombian, which is not even not even
haze. It's just considered a haze, but it's not what people know as
haze. So those two can be considered confused because they look the same, but they are from
Colombian genetics.
But what a lot of people believe is the special stuff are the Colombians that are in the purple
haze is from the Colombian purple variety.
So it could be from the Corinto side or from the Colombian Punto Rojo side that
you get these purple phenotypes.
Also, there's the purple haze from the Colombian Punto Rojo, I mean,
Colombian Santa Marta gold.
So the combination of these different Colombians and the purple phenotypes got what
people know as purple haze.
Later, if you're looking at original haze, that was
messed with with Sam when he went to Holland, they added the ties then because
what they had for haze was kind of lacking.
So they added the different hazes and the corolla and the Vietnamese and different lights.
Wow, that's incredible.
So just to clarify, if someone said to you, what do you think the original genetics in
haze was, what would you answer with?
Huh, well, it's me and Neville used to talk, he was a friend of mine and never got to
meet him in person, but we used to talk via Skype.
So. I don't want to say anything that would.
He was very coy with his answers.
He received the seeds in New York from some people that were doing the
shipments for.
You know, they weren't considered.
They weren't they weren't the people growing the variety, so these were like the
resellers that got the seeds, but the seeds that were turned into original haze and
Neville's haze seemed to be more like the mulambany madness.
Wow, bombshell.
But, you know.
It's hard to tell what you see from some of the pictures and what some of the seed
banks had received, some of that stuff seems to be Thai dominant, like the original
haze for Flying Dutchman, some of the earlier stuff seems to be Thai dominant.
So it's original haze, Thai dominant.
So.
You know, was it Sam Sam stuff that was used with the haze that they got and they
kind of went from there or was it original haze that was previous to that?
It's hard to say, but it seemed the Thai stuff was more.
Original haze later on, but if you look at some of the structures like Neville's
haze, some of the phenotypes look like mulambany madness, which, you know, they're
Thai derivative. So that would make more sense, I would say, I assume.
But if you look at some of the older pictures of the haze and some of the people that
were breeding it had said Mexican Punto Rojo was one of the portions that created
haze and then the Colombians that came along with it, Santa Marta Gold, Colombian
Punto Rojo.
But I'm growing out all these varieties, trying to derive what exactly was there,
trying to recreate what was the magic from those lines and then trying to make
something that is new, but using the best varieties that we have or able to use now.
That's incredible.
I don't suppose by any chance you've talked to Bodhi about this.
He kicked that idea around a year or two ago to me.
He said someone should recreate haze and just, and he was telling me he had a
Vietnam that could work well as the Thai.
Well, actually, Bodhi, Coastal and I, we've been working on this for the last couple
years, working on our separate parts of it.
So this is an idea that we've been thrown together, trying to work towards over
these last few years.
So we're working together trying to get that to fruition.
I'm so stoked to hear that.
He did tell me that.
I sort of didn't want to throw that out there unless you're comfortable with it.
So that's great.
No, no, we're totally comfortable.
It's exciting.
I mean, you know, I got to chat with Kegu and he's keen as well.
But just to loop back to what you said.
So do you believe then that haze, like a two-parter here, do you believe haze has
any Indian genetics in it?
And as a follow up, recently we had a gas of Swami on and he said that he suspects
the Thai that we see in haze these days was the squirrel tail.
Do you have any thoughts on that?
OK, so there's when you think of haze, haze has got to be what was sold by, you
know, by Neville and what was done by previous people in Santa Cruz.
But this wasn't it's not old timers haze.
So what people think is haze has got to be a mixture of a mixture of a mixture of
what people think is haze has got to be like original haze.
That's that's haze.
But old timers haze is considered a haze.
It's not the same thing.
So those are two separate varieties.
They're not the same.
They may look the same, but they're not the same, if that makes any sense.
So the Thai that was in it, squirrel tail, who knows which one's squirrel tail?
There's different there's quite a few different squirrel tail ties.
There's quite a few mango ties.
There's purple ties.
There's highland ties.
There's purple highland ties.
There's lowland ties.
There's golden ties, lemon ties.
There's so many different ties.
Which one could it be?
I don't know for sure, but I'm trying to figure that out by growing out all these
different ties.
Squirrel tail is kind of a broad naming of a lot of these strains.
So squirrel tail is kind of to depict these Thai varieties that have the long
colas.
Colas de Zorro, they call them in Mexico, the fox tails.
The squirrel tail is kind of like the same thing.
So it encompasses a lot of these different Thai stick varieties.
So it's a mix of different varieties.
A lot of these different Thai stick varieties.
So it could be a Thai stick or a squirrel tail.
It's kind of like a total name for a lot of different ties.
But it's not just one specific tie, if that makes any sense.
Yeah, OK, interesting, interesting.
So it sounds like Colombian definitely plays a bigger part in it all than what I
initially suspected.
Do you think that people do see ties with a bit of rose shade glasses and maybe
Colombians do deserve a bit more interest?
Because that's largely been my experience that people seem to be more interested
than in ties than Colombians for the most part.
Well, I think ties are very special and there's a lot of different ties.
So but a lot of that is nostalgia.
You know, a lot of the 60s and 70s, you know, people grew up on sticks.
So there's a lot of nostalgia there.
But from the haze portion, a lot of what people love about the haze is the purple
haze, the colors.
And a lot of that has to do with Colombian majority of it being Colombian.
Either all the way Colombian or Mexican-Colombian.
And then later on, they added Vietnamese and some of the other lines.
Yeah, sure.
So just to loop back, you mentioned your friendship with Neville and this is a
discussion point fans are always interested to hear more about.
Gas from Swarmy said that, you know, he knows Dwight.
And from what he had heard, there's a few sort of, I won't say unreleased Neville
strains, but just some of his work floating around that never really made it out
there. I'd be interested to hear your, you know, sort of recollection on your
friendship with him and any interesting sort of discussion points around his work
you might be able to share.
Well, Neville, he was coy with a lot of his answers.
He didn't want to give too much.
You know, I asked him directly where a lot of this genetics came from, you know,
that he brought over.
I kind of theorized that the guy who did, was it Sensimilia Tips out of Oregon?
Yeah, I think his name was Tom.
Oh God, I'd have to, anyway, Tom Flowers or something like that.
No, that can't be it.
Something I'd have to go back and get the name.
But I kind of theorized that some of the stuff that he was working at the magazine,
he introduced Neville to.
So that was a portion of those genetics that he received.
The other portion of those genetics came from Jim Ortega.
The Ortega, Indica, the G13 and a lot of other lines.
So Jim should get a lot of the credit for a lot of the genetics that Neville had.
Because a lot of it came from him.
Neville also said that when he did breeding, he thought that anything that was bred to
like F4 was pretty much true breeding.
Anything past that was kind of being redundant, which I kind of argue with.
It just depends on the variety.
Yes, certainly.
I mean, one of the points we had discussed a lot was that he was a guy who, for some
people, was someone who was hard to get along with, you know.
And a lot of people have sort of resonated with the idea that for some people it had to
be like a separation of the art and the artist because he burned a lot of bridges and
stuff. At the same time, a lot of other people just have sort of straightforward
friendships with him. Would you describe your friendship with him as fairly
straightforward or was he like a complex guy that he gets described as at times?
He was definitely complex, but he was also straightforward.
I mean, he had he had sickness as well.
I mean, we would both have problems with the disease states.
He had a tick-borne disease, kind of like Lyme disease here in the United States.
It was a tick-borne variety that was attacking his system.
But it was from Australia.
So he was sick with that tick-borne disease.
And, you know, it definitely led to his poor health.
And, you know, that was difficult for him to get around and to do things because he was
constantly in pain. But he definitely wanted to try to he wanted to be honest as he could
with what he was doing.
But, you know, some of the business relationships that he got into weren't necessarily
thought out. You know, he get into it and then realize that some of the people flaked out on
him. I won't specify who those people were, but anyway.
Yeah, he seemed pretty straightforward for the most part, but there's a lot of secrets there
that he didn't want people to know.
I don't know if people know, but Neville, he was in Holland because his family history was
from Holland. So his family came from Holland, but he went there for treatment for
for narcotics, heroin.
So he's being treated by the Dutch government.
And after going through treatment, the Dutch give money for rebuilding their lives and
they could take that to build a business.
So Neville took a loan out and created the seed bank with that money from the treatment
program, which they didn't really like.
But, you know, that's he was able to create a business that way.
And through his knowledge of fish breeding, he was able to use that knowledge for fish
breeding and to breed cannabis.
And he went searching for different varieties in Afghanistan and Hungary and different places
trying to get varieties that he used at the seed bank.
And then eventually went to the United States and got varieties there.
Yeah, that's a great synopsis.
I've actually heard a few different stories.
I suspect yours is correct because you've spoken to him.
But I've now heard three or four different animals people say he's a breeder of.
I've heard birds, dogs, cats and now fish.
I wonder which one it is. Probably the fish.
Fish, that's what he told me.
And that made sense.
I don't know about the other ones.
Fish is definitely what he told me.
And why would you, you know, fish is kind of a strange thing.
And, you know, fish multiply and you kind of get the filarial generations that fly.
The filarial generations, the F1s, F2s out of it.
So it makes sense that he used that for his breeding purposes.
You know, he's kind of used, you know, that type of breeding into what he used for plants.
Yeah, certainly.
And you touched on the seed bank and I wanted to ask you, there's a growing sentiment among the real heads and breeders that I know of that is essentially along the lines of Neville's stock or stock from the seed bank is some of the most consistent slash killer stuff you'll ever get.
What's your experience with it?
And do you think it probably is some of the best gear that was ever available, so to speak?
Well, no, I don't necessarily think it's the best ever.
The stuff came, a lot of it came from the United States.
So it came from like private breeders and growers that were, you know, doing their own breeding practices.
And then they were brought over and then exposed to the rest of the world.
Some of the earlier stock he was able to get, like in Afghanistan, was good at first, but then it was watered down through Dutch practices of homogenization and early flowering.
So these, a lot of people think that a lot of Afghani, for instance, are all broad leafed and they're all fast and, you know, indica looking plants.
They don't realize that the best varieties of Afghani were actually narrow leaf varieties.
And those were like the hash, you know, for hash, but they were longer flowering heirloom varieties.
But because in the mid 70s, there was so much want for Afghani hashish that they couldn't keep up with production.
So back in the past, they'd keep, you know, big wheels of hashish with the family heirlooms and crests imprinted on them.
But all those old hashish slabs were sold and then they had nothing left.
So what they did was incorporate the heirloom varieties with the varieties that were along the sides of the roads, the more the tribal types of hash, except those faster flowering, not quite as good, but produce a lot of resin.
So they incorporated the two and then it watered down the Afghani genomes, the varieties that were people got exposed to after like 77, 76, 77, that started going downhill.
The king got ousted in, I think, 76, 77, King Zahir Shah, but he had maybe 30, 40 years of peace, maybe even longer in Afghanistan.
And what happened was prior to the Paraquat spring in 1979 in Mexico and in Jamaica, the CIA had sprayed Paraquat on the poppies and the hash producing plants, as well as the food crops in Afghanistan, basically bruning their food supply.
So basically starving out the people.
So once they had permission to do that, they left the CIA and the people had nothing else to grow.
So they were starving, their food supplies got ruined by Paraquat.
They were sickened by the Paraquat.
And so they went back to what sold and grew the fastest, which was cannabis and poppies.
So in a way, we kind of caused the terrorism and all the stuff that happened later on.
Then right after that had happened, there was people starving.
It caused the people to revolt.
The king was ousted.
The cousin went into being power and then the Soviets invaded.
And then we know what happened from there.
Just like the Taliban is going back into Afghanistan now and taking control, a lot of the varieties that were freed up after the United States went in there and started coming available are now going to be disappearing.
Same as what happened after the Soviets invaded.
Those varieties that people were able to get and had for many decades and years, had able to get these nice great Afghani varieties.
And after that, they weren't able to get these nice heirloom Afghani lines because of the invasion of the Soviets.
But back to the seed bank, I think that all over the world, there's lots of breeders that have been growing these lines, a lot of them from land races, and then develop their own acclimatized stock.
Those are the unsung heroes, the smugglers, the growers, the people that went to harm's way to gather these varieties.
Those are the people that should be recognized.
And a lot of that is not known.
So a lot of these heads went through dangerous times of camp helicopters in California, which is California against marijuana production, very harsh and stringent laws against cannabis.
But yeah, there's a lot of unknown people that should get credit for the stuff they did to create some of these varieties and to sustain them.
Certainly, we've heard that sentiment before that Neville certainly was standing on the shoulders of giants in what he released and made commercially available.
I'd be interested to know, have you been tracking at all the Northern Lights reproductions that have been done by Todd McCormick and CSI slash Matt Riot?
It's from Northern Lights Greg, who seems to be the legit source of Northern Lights. Do you have any thoughts on that? Have you seen that?
Honestly, I haven't been online, so I don't know what other people are doing.
I've heard stuff, but I don't know what they're claiming or what it is. I have really nothing to say about it because I don't know.
I remember getting Northern Lights in the 90s when it wasn't a seed line.
And what I remember from the Northern Lights that we got, it was a very highly resinous, almost blue-white crystalline herb.
Very narcotic, but also made you high. Very stony stuff.
But unlike the stuff that was produced by the Dutch later on that was sold as Northern Lights.
So, yeah, I don't know. There was a Northern Lights variety by Classic.
And his story is that he met up with Indian Jim up in Washington on a fishing trip, and he was able to get some of the Northern Lights from him.
So I've grown that Northern Lights, and that one's very strong and high quality.
So other than that, and the Northern Lights I smoked back in the early 90s, the Dutch Northern Lights is something different.
What other people are growing, I have no idea. I'm not following anybody else. So I can't really say.
I would love to quickly ask you, what's your thoughts on NL5 Haze?
Because there has been a notable resurgence among consumers and growers.
And I guess more broadly, it often does get given the title of the poster child of cannabis.
How did you feel about it? Is it a special one for you or just a more well-known one?
It's just a more well-known one. It's a higher yielding, hazy-ish, and a conceivable multi-poly hybrid.
I think it gets a lot more publicity than it should.
There you go. Well, look, I mean, following on from that, I had a number of questions,
but more importantly, the fans had a lot of questions about Neville's Haze.
And I guess it speaks to the fact that it is so rare. Even now, you really don't see it going around much.
And people are aware that you've got a cutting. So people were, and myself, very keen to hear,
would you be able to give us a bit of a rundown on what your Neville's Haze cut is like?
And do you plan to work with it going forward at all?
Well, it's not a cutting. It was a seed line. And the seed line was originally from Mr. Nice.
It was bred to F3, before I bred it to other things. The phenotype that I chose was a large-yielding, candelabra style.
So it had some of that Northern Light structure, but basically the larger plant structure, like the Columbians,
so it had some bulk, but it also contained some of the haziness to it.
But it was more like a Mexican, creating these long, thick, bread loaf-like colas.
The smell was incense-y, like an Indian Nang Champa, but more rich and sweet.
It's very luxurious and unique. Whenever I'd bring that, when I was supplying herb to the different medical clubs in the early 2000s,
when I went to the different clubs, I'd give samples to the different bud tenders.
And the female bud tenders especially loved that stuff, and they always wanted more. It was that good.
But the Neville's Haze was almost near perfect. You get almost as high as you possibly can.
The taste, the smell, the aroma, it's all very, very good.
I crossed it with the Purple Thai, so it gets the purple traits, the colors, the trichomes turn purple,
the resin glands, the trichomes have some colors to them.
That adds a different type of flavonoid and turpentine profile than the regular Neville's Haze by itself.
It makes it a little more complex.
But it's a great and wonderful plant, for sure.
The other Neville's Hazes that I've grown, those ones seem to be more sparse, very nice, but more hazy-ish.
But the one that I use is more of a larger yielding, but also retains all the best qualities that you'd want.
So, a large yielding haze is what you want as far as yields and buds and the density in a modern variety.
But with all the qualities of the longest flowering hazes, almost, if that makes any sense.
That's amazing. While you brought it up, I guess I'll quickly touch on it.
I also noted that you had the Oregon Purple Thai, is that correct?
No, I didn't have Oregon Purple Thai.
I have a Chocolate Thai that I believe was the source of what created the Oregon Purple Thai,
which is a highland Oaxacan gold and the Chocolate Thai to create the Oregon Purple Thai.
Except the Chocolate Thai doesn't have any of the mutations and weird stuff that's associated with Oregon Purple Thai.
So, it's got the colors, it's got the highs, everything that you like about flow, blueberry.
I believe a majority of that comes from that Chocolate Thai, which I believe is a Purple Thai.
But we haven't gotten there to verify it. So, I believe that is the root stock of Oregon Purple Thai.
I've bred that into some varieties. I've released a little bit of it so far, but I lost the mother, unfortunately, during my aunt's funeral this last Christmas.
I have a little bit of the seed stock left, I'm going to try to revive, but what I've bred into it is still available.
So, there will be some magic still and then I'm working with other Chocolate Thais.
But yeah, it's definitely a special line.
That's fantastic. Thanks for the clarification.
And I guess as a follow-up, I noticed you've got the Blueberry Blast, which is a really cool strain.
It's got the blueberry and the Neville's Hays in there.
I guess I was sort of wondering, how would you describe that one?
How did it turn out? It sounds like it could be a better version of Blue Dream to me.
And as a follow-up, what's your thoughts on the blueberry family in general?
Are you fond of it or it's just sort of one of the things for you?
Well, where to start? Let's start on the Blueberry Blast.
When I was supplying the medical clubs in Southern California, we were growing in Northern California.
Our family farm is in the Emerald Triangle area.
So, I was able to see what was selling in the medical clubs and one of them was Blue Dream.
This was before I got famous.
I went to where I was growing and found the different cuts that were going.
There were two different cuts of Blue Dream.
And then I grew those commercially that same year.
This was before most people knew about Blue Dream.
So, I bred two versions of it called Pipe Dream and Blueberry Blast.
The narrow leaf, more hazy version, Blue Dream was bred into the Pipe Dream.
And the male for that was the Acapulco Cold C-99 male.
The Blueberry Blast had the Johnny Blaze, which is Neville's Hazen Blueberry.
It was slightly larger yielding, that Blue Dream.
The leaves were a little bit more broader, not by much.
Resin production was a little bit more on the narrow leaf one for the Pipe Dream.
But they were both awesome and very close in effects and yields.
The quality of the Pipe Dream was just slightly better in my opinion.
I liked it more than the one I used for the Blueberry Blast.
But the Blueberry Blast was my version of a commercial variety.
It was the best Blue Dream at the time.
Basically trying to make it better.
There's quite a few phenotypes.
Most of them are larger yielding.
Some of them are more hazy.
But you can have a 7-week Blueberry Blast for some of the faster phenotypes.
And then you can have one that goes to 14-16 weeks for something longer.
But all of them are super resinous.
Blueberry, cedar, wood aroma.
Very luscious and tasty.
The effect is kind of like Strawberry Cough.
It's got that original haze type high.
So you get really high for a few hours.
And then it allows you to eat munchies, or eat if you like, and sleep if you want.
In a nice, dreamful, restful state.
So it's kind of like an all-encompassing high.
It lets you go up, and then takes you down if you need to do what you need to do.
Because some hazes and sativas will keep you amped for a while.
And it can be tiring.
It can wear you out.
But that allows you to do what you need to do when you want to.
Yeah, beautiful stuff.
And what's your thoughts on the work by DJ in general?
I guess I'll preface this.
I noticed you do the great Crush F3.
So I'd be keen to hear your thoughts on that one.
I guess you're fond of it.
The Great Crush is awesome.
Beautiful line.
Very strong.
Has some mutants.
As a lot of the DJ stuff does.
But it keeps it interesting.
It's very strong, potent.
Smaller yielding indica.
Breeds well with other lines.
I made some very powerful varieties breeding with it.
Very tasty.
Some phenotypes are better than others.
Yeah.
The Blueberry lines, a lot of the stuff is...
It was better at one point than it is now, it seems.
Some of the genetics were more pure at that point.
I think it's kind of...
Something's changed over the time.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
Something's changed over the time.
I think DJ has said it was the Afghanis
were kind of added more into it.
It kind of seems more evident
with the flow.
The flow seemed to be more
Mexican
More Mexican
in yield
and percentages than it is
nowadays.
Now you get more of an Afghani
centric type
of variety with a lot of these flow
and Blueberry types.
The Blueberry that I had back in
1997 was super tasty, flavorful.
The stuff now
is also very flavorful
but the phenotypes are kind of
all over the place.
Awesome stuff.
Good breeding.
If you're looking for specific plants
to grow, they're great.
Breeding can be a little odd
because of the multi-polyhybrid
aspects
of the lines in general.
While we're talking
about strains of yesteryear
I'd love to quickly ask you, were there any
notable ones that we hear a lot on the show
like the SSSC?
Did they ever put out any notable
things for you or were there any other brands
from around that time that really
stick out in your mind as quite memorable?
Well SSSC
I got to know
one of the people that did
the shipping for SSSC
and some of the strains that he was
growing, SSSC
Super Sativa Seed Club, had incorporated
in their lines.
What's known as William's Wonder
was actually my friend's strain
and
I don't want to say where he's from
but he's from the United States
and his name was also
my name but
the other name for
John is William
so William's Wonder was
one of his strains.
The Hawaiians were also associated
with my friend
and some of the other varieties
as well, Hooser, Hoot and Holler.
So just like
him, he was
able to incorporate to what a lot
of people loved about
SSSC just like Neville
got stuff from other people
and shared it with the rest of the world.
He should be noted
as being something that people
got something really
that they enjoyed from this individual.
Some of the
varieties from SSSC
were the same as the seed banks.
Basic 5 was the Neville's
sorry, the Northern Lights
number 5. The Basic
5 Skunk was like Skunk
Northern Lights
crosses or like Shiva Skunk
so a lot of the stuff was just renamed
but some of the same cuttings that were available
to the seed bank
and SSSC in Holland at the time.
What people known as the
Pine Town Durban
Pine Town is actually a town
or a little district
in Durban so it's not a
any Durban, it's just from
that part of Durban
in South Africa.
A lot of people, the South African
crosses
South African is the Durban
in those crosses.
It doesn't say that
but it says South African but South African is actually
the Durban. It doesn't say
on the description but if you see South
African it's Durban and then whatever
the cross is.
There you go and a
lot of people speculate that the
common Durban cuttings floating around
the USA at the moment
the notable ones have maybe
some Afghan crossed into them. Do you have
any thoughts on that?
Well I know a lot of the Dutch ones
definitely seem like they have Skunk
to them. The ones that are in the United
States, I don't know.
There was
Durban that was
associated with one of the
guys that did some of the
cannabis books.
It wasn't Rosenthal, it was
the other gentleman.
The name is escaping
me at the moment and this is
an older gentleman.
Mel Frank?
Mel Frank, yeah. Mel
actually went to
a
Durban and brought
back some seeds. A lot of what
people got, one of the
stock that
was released as Durban and then
I think some of the seed banks in Holland got
was his Durban poison.
But what a lot of
some of the growers were growing in Mendocino
was different versions
of his Durban poison.
Yeah.
What people see are these little stocky
Durban poisons.
That's from his stock.
But Durban poison is actually a hybrid
of
some of the Bantu tribe
that came from northern
Africa down to South Africa.
The Swaziland and
KwaZulu
the Zulu Nation
and then the
Eastern Cape
tribes. Those varieties
got mixed in with what was
later came in from
the indentured Indian servants
in the 1800s from mostly
South India
from like Kerala
Orissa, Andhra
Pradesh and then a small
percentage from Himal Pradesh
in the northern Indian area.
But majority of the Indians
that were indentured servants, basically
slaves
but were moved
from South India
to work the sugar plantations
after they freed the black slaves.
This also happened in the West
Indies like Jamaica. The indentured
servants came to work the sugar
plantations and that's where
you get some of the Jamaican varieties which were
Indian and
Mexican and then later on were Indian
Columbian.
Interesting.
But Durban poison is a combination
of African
African and South Indian.
That's why some of them
are more compact and bushy
and then other ones are more taller like a
Malawi or
some Malawi.
There's definitely some
variations with the Durban poisons.
It's not just one variety.
That's why I think a lot of people
misunderstand. It's not just
an heirloom land race now but it's
acclimatized over a period of time
due to two peoples coming together.
Lesotho is a version
of the same thing going on
where it's like Bantu
tribes mixed with
North Indian
because some of the
Lesotho varieties are very stony
and physical. So it makes more
sense that that hybridization
is a combination of the two.
Yeah.
Interesting.
You just mentioned the Indian
genetics. Why do you think
they're so sort of underrepresented
compared to a lot of
other land races? Do you think they've
got something to offer that a lot of people might
be overlooking?
Oh, absolutely. There's a lot of varieties
in India. They were growing
cannabis for many, many years
for the people
for food purposes, for medicine.
So, yeah. There's definitely
a lot of stuff underrepresentative.
Why it's not getting
the notorious
highlights like other varieties?
It all depends. Maybe
it's been watered down by
mixing up so many varieties.
Some of the
Indian varieties,
they create a lot of hashish from it.
So it's hard to
see the different
varieties from one another.
Some of the Colombians are
more colorful
as far as standing out as a
sativa. So maybe people
will see the Colombians standing out more
so, like with a haze.
The Indians, I think,
don't get
the credit they need to. There's such a wide
area of
growth in geographical
people. So there's so many
different people, such a long
history. They
had what was called
Soma, which was
the sacred cannabis.
Just like the Persians
had Heoma, the Zoroastrian religion
pre-Afghan
area.
Once an area
of long cannabis
history
has been separated
by religion.
A lot of what was India, previous to
the 1950s, was
where
Pakistan is now, at Bangladesh.
What is India was all of that
previous to that
point. Just
a mix of different peoples.
There's a lot of stuff that should
be revived and a lot of that
knowledge
should be explored more. A lot of
different varieties. I think there's some good people
from the Indian Land Race Exchange
are raising.
Some other people that are trying to
put some more focus on these varieties
and these farmers that should be supported.
Because a lot of these people
are starving. They're not getting
much for their cannabis.
They're not getting much to live on in general.
I think a lot of
governments should support these people
these histories of these
cannabis varieties because it's not only
a history of these people. The cannabis
is kind of like
a sociological, social
history. It's
something that they can grow that's
also a history of those people. It's knowledge
passed down from
father to son to
mother to daughter. It should be
treasured. There's so much history there
that we just haven't been able to
let the rest
of the world know. Hopefully
with time we can
show people more of what's
out there.
Most certainly. Definitely need
to have more attention placed
on the Indigenous farmers and supporting
them. I guess you
sort of touched on
the farmers. A conversation I've
been having more so with
friends in private sort of goes
along the lines of
is what we're doing with modern
cannabis breeding
really that good
compared to what the
Indigenous farmers were doing? Because it
seems as if we're losing a lot of the special
stuff. A lot of
people complain about how there's this
sort of same, everything
has this same quality. Everything in the
dispensary sort of feels about the same.
What's your thoughts on this? It's
obviously a deep philosophical rabbit
hole to jump down but I'd love to hear your take.
I don't think it's
that difficult. I think a lot of what people
are growing and are
exposed to are what was
created from the seed banks.
A lot of the seed banks were
Northern Lights, Skunk
and then that was incorporated
into almost everything.
Everything's a Skunk, Afghani
Northern Lights type high
but only from certain varieties.
The Afghani varieties that the Dutch
were growing, I hate to pick on the Dutch
but this is what was happening,
to grow varieties that would
be more conducive to indoor flowering
they selected
plants that would finish fast
would be more
homogenous, meaning they would
flower and then
the whole plant would flower at one time
instead of flowering in
stages.
So when
you pick plants that are early flowering
and
homogenous
you're actually
selecting the qualities
that aren't as potent.
You could if you get lucky
but when you pick out varieties that
aren't disease resistant
aren't for potency
aren't for quality, you're losing
the best parts of the plant
so you're watering them down.
Unfortunately they were watering down
a lot of the genetics
to fit a need
because of
the illegal state of cannabis
that's been happening
since the 1930s.
You know
cannabis was illegal so they had to go
indoors for the most part so they were
breeding varieties that would grow indoors
easily for people. So the Dutch
were doing this as a convenience
which made sense but unfortunately
they watered down a lot of the
genetics.
Another thing that happened was the genetics stocks
that they had were great but
as they were trying to keep
germination, fresh seed
available to the customers
they were killing off or destroying
their old seed stock.
The problem was as they were watering down their
varieties for fast maturing
homogenous plants
they couldn't go back to their old
seed stock because they destroyed it because
they were trying to keep fresh seed stock.
So the only thing that they had
were these old clones
but the seed stock wasn't something they could go back to
unless they had long term storage
or something they could. But they destroyed
a lot of genetic
germplasm
unfortunately and that's
why
they're searching around the world for
new varieties or old varieties that
farmers were
growing in the United States, around the world, Australia
or different countries now
because of what happened with the poor
breeding practices.
Breeding for potency and quality
is what I do
foremost. Everything else you can narrow
down. You can pick for faster
flowering plants out of those once you've acquired
something that's strong and has the qualities
you want. Colors, taste,
aroma, all that stuff can be fixed
but if you've got a weak plant
that doesn't have the qualities
that make it unique
then it's not special.
So the majority of what people
are growing out there are fast growing
great for production
great for a farmer
but the people that are smoking it are getting
the end result
of what
is good for the farmer but not good for the
smoker.
So people, if they want these
higher quality strains, should ask
breeding practices
to evolve where some of the
better higher quality plants are made
to yield more
and then also request
getting, paying the farmers
more for something that may take longer to
grow but has
a higher quality that
these smokers would like to enjoy.
Because there's so much more out there
that's possible but they're just not
being able or being
exposed to it because
the lack of availability
and the lack of commercial
growers growing these varieties
because they just don't yield as much.
So if you have a plant that yields
5 pounds and another
plant that yields a couple ounces
you're going to grow
the plant that grows 5 pounds because
even if you sell it super cheap you're still
getting a lot more money
for the farmer. So the farmer is just thinking
apples and oranges. They're growing
these things because they're trying to sell
they're trying to make money but
it doesn't make any sense for a farmer
to grow something that barely yields
anything if they're not going to get much for it.
So that's an unfortunate reason
why people aren't getting exposed
to these varieties
because it's just not worth
the farmer's time because
the smokers aren't paying for that
extra time spent
to grow these varieties which take longer
and don't yield as much.
Eventually some of these strains you can get
the higher yielding
plants with the higher
qualities. Like I try to incorporate
with some of my varieties.
But sometimes you just need to
spend extra time to grow them because
people are missing
out on the best quality highs
and experiences.
If you grew up on
cushes and indicas
you may have not ever gotten high
you've just been stoned.
People just don't understand that high.
They don't understand that you can get happy
and giggly and
laugh yourself into fits
and laugh so hard that your stomach hurts
and you start spitting up
it's a great, wonderful
experience. There's so many different highs
that give you happiness
and euphoria and colors
there's a lot of magic out there
and most people haven't been able to experience that
unfortunately.
You mentioned it yourself just then
that you've tried to breed some
strains that have that high quality
and the increased yield to accompany it
for all the listeners out there
whose ears have perked up.
Do you want to throw some recommendations out there?
What of your strains fit that bill?
If anyone is keen to try.
One of them would be the Dragon's Fire
it's mostly Thai
Hawaiian but it's got the
longer flowering Thai highs
but with
more of a Hawaiian
modern resin profile
so you get the larger yields
and resin from a modern variety
so you get the yields and looks that everyone wants and smells and tastes
so it smells tasty
wonderful like pineapple
tropical fruits but you get these
wonderful soaring highs, euphoric
energy
that just makes you happy
unlike many other varieties so that would be one
but there are so many that
I could mention
Blueberry Blast was a good one
though I have to
remake the variety because I'm sold out
but that was another connoisseur
commercial variety. It yielded very well
it was great for growers
and it was great for smokers
so it was all encompassing
there's many varieties like that
but there's also for the true connoisseur
you get these
modern resin profiles
but with the longer
flowering highs associated with
Thais, Colombians
that sort of thing
Wow, that sounds really special
I mean a few questions
back, you referenced the Akapuku Gold
C99 male and I noticed
you used that quite a bit
do those crosses also fit the bill in a sense
because they seem like fun
uplifting sativa, do they have the yield
as well or are they more for a different sort of
cross? Actually a lot of those
were for commercial
purposes so you get a higher quality
commercial
viable
but with the highs
that people want
so the C99
Akapuku Gold
varieties were more of a
more of a
trying to get people to
try out some of these lines
but with a semi
moderate flowering period
so it's fast enough for many
people but takes a little bit longer
than some but you get
high quality unlike a lot
of varieties so you don't get the same
generic high
Yeah
Yeah sure that sounds like a great sort of
middle ground
You've touched on it a bit and I'd love to delve deeper
into it
there's a lot of discussion currently around
what is it that actually
causes us to perceive something
as an indica versus a sativa
and I've heard people more
recently say oh it's all the terpenes
but I remembered having a discussion
with Bodhi I believe it was
and he said to me I've got this
Afghani that smells like
this Thai I've got and they both
test it like you know about the same
like let's say they both test it 20%
and they both smell the same
but one's clearly indica and one's
clearly sativa and it got me
thinking like yeah what really
is it because I'm not so sold it's
terpenes but I'd love to hear more and be
educated
A lot of people they
call multi polyhybrids
sativas when they have it up high
and they call
the narcotic
stony effects
indica
the truth is that
the nomenclature the names for all this stuff
is kind of all over the place
a sativa would typically be
like a tropical or equatorial variety
but it doesn't have
to be because there's microclimates everywhere
so like in Afghanistan
there's also sativas
there's narrow leaf varieties
they have the up highs
but you can also have a
sativa that has a narcotic effect
so you know it depends
are people calling the sativa
because it's got narrow leaves
you know
a upright
smaller flower
set
with an up high sativa
but if it has a narcotic effect
is that an indica or is it a sativa
it's still a sativa
but it's got a narcotic effect
so the
chemotypes associated with a lot of these varieties
basically a lot of this stuff
should be renamed
indica should be anything that should be from India
you know indica
India
there should be hash plants
there should be equatorials
there should be tropicals
there should be jungle varieties
there should be highland
there should be lowland
more of the environment that's associated with
and the type of plant it is
is it a hash plant or is it a ganja plant
is it something that you smoke for flowers
or is it something that you harvest for hash
or is it a hash like plant
so indica sativa
you know it's kind of too broad
and people use it for
they say oh gee kush is sativa
because it's got an up high
and indica
but you know just because it has an up high
doesn't mean it's a sativa
clear as mud
yeah
I mean I think as you know
the extension of that
what do you think is the mechanism
through which it's different
do you think there's maybe some yet to be
characterized molecules
and like if they're there they give you that more
uplifting effect or
how do you think it plays out
or if the speculation is sort of yet to be
proven I guess
well there's a lot of unknowns
in cannabis mostly of what people
have been studying is the cannabinoids
and the terpens the primary terpens
but there's also long chain terpen profiles
so there's these
things that insects
ward off against
because the plant is
giving off a terpen profile
that is like a pesticide
also
so it acts as
like a hormone for humans
but for the plant species
so there's these unknown
terpen profiles that
we have yet to
record all of them so we don't
even know
all that are out there so we need to
identify them and then we need to identify
what their properties are
because they work with the primary terpens to have
the tertiary effect
you know they go with the cannabinoids
and the primary terpens to add
to the overall
effects there's also these flavonoids
that
cause colors and
cause effects and
the effects on a
nerve
can result in that
nerve firing
for a longer period of time
or shorter period of time
think of a sine wave you know those things you see on
like an EKG that
goes straight and then it goes
up and then goes down that is
let's just say
a nerve firing so we have
THC for one it
fires off
at a certain height well
you add another cannabinoid
like CBG and that height
actually goes even higher
well you put CBD in that
in that same
two molecules might go lower
but it might
extend the duration of it so it
lasts longer so you have the same effect
but longer or you have
the same effect but not as
high but longer
or shorter so these things
that add
to these cannabinoids these different components
either can make the high
more potent
or less potent or make it longer
duration or shorter duration
it could also cause effects
that give you like a soaring effect
or a
heightened color effect
or
sensation that is more
associated with the hearing
affects your hearing
so the cannabinoids
affect
the nerves by
either directly
attaching themselves and
making it more potent
longer duration, lower duration, higher duration
it's all these different effects that need to be
cataloged and what the
uses in they do
so
as far
as the effects of like
Inicastativa a lot of
the basic information is
you can have a Colombian gold
or you have like Acapulco gold
these don't
have CBD in them
they have THC
sometimes THCV if they're from
Thailand or South Africa
some from Colombia
or they have CBG
CBC
but there's no CBD or if there is
it's a super small amount
though you can have something like
Panama Red or
Colombian Punto Rojo that has CBD
but is also
considered like a sativa
so you get these narcotic effects mixed with the high
sativa effects
but in a different way than say a hash plant
that has more of a
narcotic effect so more CBN
so high CBD
and high CBN
tend to give you the narcotic effects
lacking CBD with these other cannabinoids
give you what people
feel as a sativa effect
yeah brilliant stuff there
I'm going to have to go re-listen to that myself
and I'm sure the listeners will as well
in terms of
a sort of slightly adjacent topic
I've spoken to DJ Short
and many others about this but I'd be interested to hear
your take on what causes
modern strains to have a sealing
you know you can only get
so high and if you keep smoking you sort of
don't go anywhere else but with a lot of
the land races particularly the sativas
you can sort of just keep going and
going what do you think causes that
sealing?
sealing is CBD typically
so CBD can be used
if say you're freaking out
or your friend's freaking out
or you've taken edibles and
you're just too high
taking doses of CBD will
modulate the
high effect so the
uncomfortableness that you get from too much THC
can be
brought down with higher amounts of CBD
so it'll bind to the THC
and kind of get you out of that
you know at least bring you down to a more
comfortable state so higher amounts of CBD
will kind of help
with that for the sealing
that's high that seem to take you higher and higher
those strains seem to have no CBD
or very little CBD
also there's also
you know cannabinoids that are
in higher amounts like CBG
CBG
varieties with THC seem to
potentiate
make the THC more potent
so you know
higher amounts of CBG with the THC
along with THC
V you get even more expressions
like Malawi varieties have the THC
V so you get more of this
rushing waves of euphoria
and seems like there's no
sealing as you smoke more
basically
you smoke a little bit and you can't
physically smoke too much because
you're just so high
because you keep going higher and higher
but if you had CBD in that
you could kind of counteract
the uncomfortableness of the high THC
in your body
and it'll bring you down
if that makes any sense
yeah certainly
so I guess I'm wondering then do you think
that a lot of these modern strains
have some amount of CBD
in them that sort of unknowingly
is limiting us
absolutely yeah most of what
people are smoking has CBD
or some concentration
that's mainly
what is in a lot of these
it's a multi-polyhybrid with CBD
in almost all of them
yeah great
some good food for thought
so let's go back to one of the questions
we normally start the interview off with
what have you been smoking on recently?
chocolate Thai
some Mexican varieties
like Mutual Con, Verde de Limon
my Devil's Skunk
Devil's Tit
which is Durban Poison
Aquapolk Gold C99
it's a wonderful strain
super potent
wonderful taste
and it can be absolutely too potent
concentrates will freak you out
I remember taking two hits
at the Emerald Cup
and I was in a fetal position
waiting for myself
to come down
it was very uncomfortable
for quite a while
but that was from concentrates
made from the Devil's Tit
which I tried to get judged that year
but all my samples for some reason
never got judged
so that was the last time I had any samples
in the Emerald Cup
ah very interesting to hear that
and I love the idea
being in the fetal position
sounds up my alley
I noticed online that the Devil's Tit
as well as the Purple Pantera
some of the more popular lines that popped up a lot
on the various forums
what was interesting to me was that
given the diversity of the genetics
you work with
do you ever feel like you can predict the winners
or what's going to be the fan favourite
or is it really just a bit up in the air
you know it all depends
one year we entered
in the Purple Pineapple Bomb
which is pineapple, Thai and grape crush
it tastes good, it tastes wonderful
it's got a great high
and people love it
but the thing is it wasn't our most potent
it wasn't the thing we were most proud of
so sometimes it just depends
sometimes if something is familiar to people
but different enough
to go hey
wow this is actually quite good
those usually seem to be the ones
that people gravitate to
so maybe something familiar
has that modern profile, has the colours
and looks that people want, that smell
and then an amazing
high to go along with it
so it's not always the most potent
the most unique
the best in my eyes
but people dislike something that's familiar
as well
yeah sure sure
I mean on the other end
of the spectrum so to speak
I noticed that the Railgun
is such a super fun mix of
genetics, like a sativa lovers party
and along with that
came quite a hefty
100 plus day flower time
it got me wondering
do these sort of strains ever get out there that much
or is it really quite difficult
to find people willing to run it
actually some of these strains
were created
in like testing
rounds where I was
growing different varieties and then we'd grow them out
and initially I didn't
make a lot of seed because
we're testing out these varieties
so what people
get out there is not too much
there's just not a lot available
because of the
breeding practices because a lot of preservation
was being done
which takes a lot of time
you're spending a year and a half on one strain
trying to do selections
and preserve it
you don't get a lot of time to
create other varieties
so
some of these strains
are just not a lot available
for people to grow
so I'm trying to work out the stuff that's more popular
I'm trying to go back to those and do
larger selections
for people so they can
get exposed to these varieties which are quite good
like the Devil's Tit, the Dragon's Fire
the West Coast Purple Diesel
Blueberry Blast
try to make stuff available to people
this is wonderful
and there's a lot of varieties that I've made that
just knock people's socks off
but I just need to go back and
make more of it available to people
Yeah, God, I can only imagine
you've got such a catalogue of work
it's really cool to see
out of curiosity, look, I'm going to be
a stickler here, I'm really keen on the Railgun
can you tell me what it's like?
Railgun is trippy
very
God, it's
very Thai dominant
it's got the Zamolinite which has got
South Indian flavours
and highs
it's very psychedelic
can be noid-inducing
where you can get panic attacks
but it's also very
euphoric and very desirable
it's kind of like
walking the edge of being super uncomfortable
but really high, really flying high
and being in a
rollercoaster dream
it's really good
but it's kind of hard to deal with
but yeah, it's
really tasty and the flowers are actually
pretty dense
due to the Angola Red Thai
Purple Thai male
it kind of gives you nice good flowers
that yield well but also
retaining a lot of those long flowering
highs
from the Zamol lines
Yeah, nice
and did you ever try the Zamol
it's pure form, it's got a bit of a
cult following to it, that's for sure
there's quite a few
3-5 different Zamol
varieties, they're all kind of
Malay
Thai
Indonesian
Indian, South Indian
derived
but it's a French island so there's a lot of
variability depending on what part of the island it's from
but yeah, the Zamol by itself
is really trippy, it's hard to grow
seeds are hard to germinate
for some reason they seem to
lose viability quite quick
quite quickly
so it's hard to keep around so you gotta
renew and refresh the stock quite often
Oh wow, that's an
interesting trait you really don't hear about very much
Well, some
varieties will last longer, I think it's due to
the seed coats, some of them are more dense
and seem to
allow the seed to
last longer
but other ones will be more
shallow, less
density to it
smaller
and they seem like they dry out
quicker or they just are more susceptible
to heat and they just
lose viability a lot faster than others
You got me curious now
Tupata, how do you
store your seeds and how do you germinate
them?
For storage, for what people get
it's a cool dry place
that's what people are flying, if you store
in a refrigerator, whenever
you take it out of the refrigerator you need to germinate
those right away
if you don't, the moisture that
seems to come from the refrigerator
will actually
make them unviable quite quickly
so if you refrigerate
anything, you can keep them in there for quite
a while, you want to try to
not use desiccants because desiccants
will work for a while
but after a period of time
they will go bad and actually
pull more moisture into where those seeds
are being kept
fouling the seeds
but if you use a refrigerator, once you remove
from the refrigerator, you want to
put them right back as soon as possible
but if they're out for more than an hour
or so, then you
want to germinate them as soon as possible
because they lose viability
quite quickly
There's also long term storage for
varieties that you want to keep for a long
period of time, you have to freeze them
and they need to be wrapped within
glass vials, within rice
within coffee containers
and then frozen
and you want to make sure those are
thawed out
but don't retain moisture as you're thawing them out
because that moisture will
cause issues with the seeds
but the majority of what people get is from a
cool, dry place
Now I am
recommending what's called chemical
scarification
basically you use hydrogen peroxide
3% with water
50-50, so most of
the stuff you buy at the stores, at least in the
United States, 3% hydrogen peroxide
you mix it
50-50 with tap water
tap water in the United States has
some bleaching
agents, which is good because it's a
disinfectant. The hydrogen peroxide
is a disinfectant so you could also
use bottled water
or whatever you want to use water, but the idea is
you want something that will disinfect. The hydrogen peroxide
will help soften the
shells of the seeds
causing what they call scarification, so it softens
it and also disinfects it
because the sources that
people are getting these seeds from
especially if they're from outside
their country. If they're from outside the country
I would recommend freezing
whatever seeds you get, at least overnight
and then defrosting them
and make sure they dry out without
any moisture. If you freeze the seeds
you're killing the eggs, the larva
and any live adults
that may be
coming along for the ride
with your seeds. A lot of
people don't realize that a lot of the
critters and stuff that they're getting are from
seeds they're getting from outside the country
and these could destroy your plants
they could
eat up all your seeds
and within a period of time you'll find
little webbing
inside the seeds and they'll be eaten
from the inside out as they devour
your priceless seeds.
Freezing it is a good way of killing them
and then you can store them for whatever period of time you want.
Germination, once
you've done the chemical scarification
you want to wash with tap water
or bottled water. Running water is usually
best and then you dry them off.
I recommend using a paper towel
with tap water
and then checking on the seeds
with a moist paper towel wrapped
and folded and placed inside
a sealed baggie. You can place that
in a cool dry place or with a
heating mat. You check
on the seeds maybe every 8 hours
until germination.
Now you want to make sure that you wash
your hands with soap and water
don't touch your face or your body
because there's bacteria, there's different
um
funguses
that could be incorporated
from your body and then you can contaminate
your seeds so they'll mold.
If you use a heating mat
I recommend only using it for maybe
24 hours to 48 hours, that's it
because the heat
and moisture will cause mold over a period
of time. So heat
will help push along
the germination process. It helps
but I would
quit using that after a couple days. There's
also some heating mats that you can
adjust and use a lower
um
heat setting and if you have one that
has adjustable setting then you can use
lower heat and use it for a longer
period of time. But if you have a heating mat that you just
plug in and you have no
ability to adjust the heat
then I would use it for more than 24
to 48 hours tops.
But checking on it every
8 hours of your seeds until they germinate
um up to 3 days.
So after 3 days I recommend
using a fingernail
or
maybe something to
open up the seed cases
and then removing the film that's
around the embryo of the seed and then
sowing the seeds in a sterilized
soil starter soil.
I use a
soilless medium or a medium that's been
sterilized
and sterilization is
I recommend something for starting
seeds because of what's called
damp off. These seeds
or seedlings
haven't built resistance
yet to
fungus and bacteria that are in the
soil that is great for
you know growing plants but if these
plants haven't built the resistance to them
yet they will
cause damp off and they'll die.
So a lot of people are killing their seeds and don't realize
it because they're using recycled soil
or they're using bagged soil that's been opened
you know several times which has
created a fungal development
which isn't great for these seedlings
and seed embryos.
An easy way of sterilizing
your soil is taking your medium
and placing it in a turkey bag
or oven bag and then
moistening the
soil not so
it's soaking wet but so it's moist
and damp
and then basically put it in a microwave for
2 minutes and you do this
3 to 4 times
and then on the 4th time
you seal the bag with the little zip
tie that comes along with it
the moisture that's in the bag will steam
and sterilize
the soil and that last
zap of the microwave is 3 to
4 minutes. You gotta
estimate it or guesstimate it
due to the strength of the microwave but that steam will
help kill any of the harmful
pathogens in the soil.
The good stuff will come back within a minute
or two so you're not destroying
what's in the soil for a long period of time
you're just killing the bad stuff
and that's what you want to use for
seed starting
or for seedling transplants
or planting plants in
general because there's nothing
bad in it at the time.
And then
you sow the seeds
basically I like to use
natural light to begin with
and then once they've come above the ground
then I use T5 fluorescence
and basically
veg them until
you're ready to transplant them to
beer cups and then
you veg them with
whatever light regimen that you want to
use. The light regimen that I
use for vegging plants
is
13 hours of light in a 24 hour
period and I use 12
hours from
say 7am to
7pm that's 12 hours straight and then
in the middle of the dark period
so 5.5 hours
after the lights
have gone off
so you have 12 hours of lights on
so say 7am to 7pm
and then 5.5 hours
of darkness the lights will come out for one hour
so basically like in the middle of the night
the lights come on
and then after that hour of light
the lights go back off for another 5.5 hours
and then the cycle is repeated.
So basically
an hour of light in the middle of the dark period tricks the plants
in thinking that the days are longer
longer days
will keep plants in veg
and this is a good way
of saving on
electric bills and it is
a good way of
transitioning when you go to
flower the plants there's not much
change from veg to flower
for flowering plants
and sexing plants I basically
use 10.5 hours of light
and 13.5 hours of darkness
the dark period is actually what
triggers flowering not the light
so the 10.5 hours is
kind of the right ratio
that you need for extreme flowering
you can sex most plants within 3 to 4 days
the more extreme
would be 7 to 10 days
but most flower
most things you can sex within 3 to 4 days
no problem
that's what I use for
germination
that's incredible
very detailed answer
for me the natural progression is
tell me how you grow
are you organic, soil guy, coco
what's the run down
I'm an organic guy so I like using
organic methods
sun grown is my preferred method
but I like to do my selections indoors
to speed along things
so
I sex plants basically after the
first
true leaves
I actually use what's called the FIM
technique which allows
you to do a topping of the main stem
and leaving 2 thirds
left over
from that you're able to create
not only just from topping
2 different branches but sometimes
3 to 4 the optimal is
4 different main branches from that one pinching
and when you pinch
the apical buds
the main stem of your
plant
it causes what are called auxins
to go from the
top of the plant down to the roots
and will cause the roots to grow
more
this means we repeat it basically every 4 to 5
days or 3 to 4 days depending on
the growth rate of the plant
and every time you do this
you're creating more main branches
and you're also creating more roots
so it's going back and forth
so I do this in veg as I'm waiting for the plants
to get to the right size
so from seed
for like Indica's and Multipoly hybrids
from seed to flower
I like to veg the plants from
30 to 60 days for like Indica's
and hybrids
for longer flowering tropicals
and equatorials I like to veg the plants
from 60 to 90 days from seed
Nice
Nice
and what's your thoughts on selection of
males? Do you like to
do it based on that initial
when you're sexing them or do you
wait longer? How do you select males?
Well
I do certain things
what I look for is under natural light
when you're sprouting plants
under natural light there is
like a day or two which
the sprout will flash
certain traits like colours
like you can see a flash of red
or purple in the
sprouts when they first
come up above ground
just for a day or two and that's kind of
indication what they'll do in flower
so you can actually do your selections
for colours that way
picking out the special plants
early on so you don't have to
waste your time growing out of these different plants to get
those special plants
but you basically indicate
this one had red traits
this one had purple traits and then as
you're vegging it you kind of
see that
when you maturely flower
them out you can see how
as a little sprout this told you that
this is going to be a super colourful plant
and it will have these special traits
for
selecting males and females
there's three types of DNA
that's used in cannabis
there's like the cellular
DNA which is like the structures
that's what you see
outwardly, you know the
structure of the plant that's kind of like
the female side, so females
you want to see the structure, you want to make sure that
they have good branching
lots of branching because if
they're not branchy they're kind of hempy
so if there's not a
lot of branching it's more of a hemp plant
it's kind of all stem
so you want super branchy plants
for your females and then
also you want to look at the roots
you want to pull off the pots
I do a lot of repotting so I get to examine
the roots but you want
to look at plants that produce good root zones
you don't want a little teeny carrot
you don't want to go through growing a plant
for nine months and then seeing that
it has a small little carrot of a root
and this is why your plant
you know sucked
so when you're breeding and you're selecting for these plants
you kind of look at the root zone, make sure they're
prolific, either growing
sideways or downward or they're good roots
because if you got 20 or
50 plants you're selecting
from and there's no
real way of telling the difference
between the plants from the top up
but the roots will tell you which ones will
grow better because that
is kind of like the
mitochondrial DNA
the ability for it to
uptake nutrients and
then convert that, the sugars, into energy
ATP, same as humans
humans take sugars
from the mitochondria
and they'll switch the sugars into ATP
adenosine triphosphate which
is energy, plants do the same thing
so cannabis has
this mitochondrial DNA
and that is something that you can see through
the way it converts sugars
and creates stem and
growth of the plants
the other thing to look for is
the chloroplast DNA
what creates the terpens
the cannabinoids
the
plants that
create the
carotenoids
those are like the colors
in the plants
that's why I look for colorful plants
that have reds and purples because they
have these flavonoids and different things
that impart certain terpens
and cannabinoids
that make certain plants
special, not only for flavors
and tastes but the highs associated
along with that
stems, I rub them
using a piece of paper
or something other than your fingers
because you smell one plant
and you smell another plant and they kind of mix together
but if you use a piece of paper
you can kind of smell the aroma of that plant
and if it's pungent or stringent
or if it affects the nasal passageways
it affects it in certain different ways
because of those long chain terpen profiles
I was talking about before
those long chain terpens are something
that are kind of unknown
but your body kind of recognizes
a certain experience by smelling the aroma
of that plant and that one's special
so you kind of mark
that this one's got this special aroma
it's got a resin profile
it's got good roots, it's branchy
that's something
that is good to select for
for males I kind of
do the same, I look for
the large root zones
the branchy ones and the ones that have
different color content
so if you've got a bunch of males
and some of them have
patioles that have purple in them
but there's nothing else, the rest of the plant
is green. Another one has
purple patioles but it has purple stems
and the sepals
are purple, then that one's got a higher
quantity of color to it
so that one might be chosen over one that
has just green effects
because there's nothing really
you can pick
from it other than the colors
so those are just a few things
that I use for the selection criteria
as well as
resin content
there's also the type of trichomes
on males, so if you have
a male that has
trichome production on the
sepals of the male
flowers
I call them flowers, but the male
projections that
drop the pollen, if you see
resin on them, then that's also a good
trade, especially if they have different colors on the
like the
Neville's Haze Purple Tye
F3 male
that I use for some of my lines
it had purple
resin trichomes on the males
so that's kind of an added
cool thing that I like to see in the males
That's awesome
to hear, what a comprehensive rundown
gosh I feel like that's becoming my
go-to saying for this interview, I'll have to
come up with something better
but following on with that
I wanted to ask just a few
of the common things we hear nowadays
about selection, like if you agree with them
the first one that comes to mind is
DJ Short always loved to say
that he wanted the more sativa of the two
parents to be the mother
so do you feel like
there's any sort of correlation
with that, have you ever heard that one?
Yeah
mine might
be the reverse of that
so with me I think the females
are what you see
so if you want it to look a certain way
you want the female to be that impression
but if you want the potency
and qualities, that comes from the male
so
for males I look for
the ones that are stinkiest
have the more branching
and the colors
so colors, branching
and
root development
for the male is what I think parts qualities
and potency and then the female adds
the looks
and some of the smells to the line
and that's kind of where I see
potency and qualities come from the males
and structures
and the way to
use those
like the mitochondrial DNA from
the females
so chloroplast
some mitochondrial DNA
and cellular DNA for the males
mostly mitochondrial
and cellular DNA for the females
Yeah that's brilliant
I think Subcool said
something along the same lines essentially
so that's interesting to hear
that that's a line there and he sort of noticed
that too
I also forgot to mention that other question
when you were talking about your light cycle
shout out the gas lantern method
you really don't hear about it too much these days
but that's cool to hear you're rocking it
I guess
It's a modified gas lantern
I use it for the veg period
to fool the plants
but the flowering cycle is something I've developed
and the way I've developed it is
the reason I use 13 and a half hours
of darkness is that
plants that are growing in Hawaii
or at the equator
aren't stimulated by
longer periods of dark period
it doesn't actually cause the plants
to grow any faster
so I try to think
if I was a plant at the equator or Hawaii
or other places on earth
what would work in all these different places
so the 13 and a half hours of darkness
works in nature
but it also works for all these plants
to kind of give you the right ratio of light and darkness
Yeah I love it
So if I just loop you back to one of the other
common breeding selection tips we hear
What's your thoughts on the old stem rub?
Stem rub is great
that gives you the aromas
and the stuff that you should be
the more pungent or aromatic
that the line is
if it basically
makes you feel like a certain way
then that is something special
and our chemistry is
evolved with cannabis
I mean our endocannabinoid system
is evolved with cannabis
it's evolved with us or we evolved with it
it's intrinsic
to human development
so when you have an aroma
that does something to you
with certain plants
there's something specific in that
chemical compound profile
that is affecting you
in whatever special way
the primary terpens with the long chain terpen
profile along with the cannabinoids
that affect you
is it a flavonoid with those terpens
it's a combination of all the above
it's the stuff that we need to
do more studies on
but they just haven't had the funding
and the right people to
yeah definitely
I guess a question I wanted to ask you
given the amount of diversity
there is within your clone library
when you finally
do go to make a new cross
do you approach
it as very conceptual
like you sort of map out on paper
more of like a let's mix
and match and then sort of go from there
based on what feels good
how do you approach breeding new crosses
well I
there's a lot of work that goes
that no one ever sees
so there's a lot of stuff written down
of what would be great to work together
so there's projects within projects
so I'll attempt to
grow out a bunch of varieties
that I'm working for a certain project
well that project may
go ahead because I've gotten the males
and females that I want with the
you know the varieties that I need
to create that project
well another project may be delayed
because I'm not getting the plants that I need for that project
so a lot of it's written down
everything's mapped, all the seeds are grown
the quantities
it's
all written down
I have map after map of seed trays
of all these different varieties
and growing out these varieties for certain projects
a lot of them don't get to fruition
and then as you're growing them
you know shit happens
plants die, there's damp off
there's birds that might destroy them
there might be a child that goes
in and pulls up plants
you name it, things have happened
you know a light falls down on the plants
killing those plants
you can't help life
so you can't always plan
for everything
a lot of these
happen because you're just trying to
make the best thing possible with what you have
a lot of times there are attempts
at preservation and if you can't
do preservation
there's conservation and then if conservation
is not possible, meaning
you have only like two plants
and you're just trying to do what you can
with them, but if you can't
do that then you make something special with it
and sometimes that gets
that's kind of like with what you have
so trying to make special, whatever things
you can make as special as possible with what you have available
Fantastic
Fantastic
So what sort of things can we expect to see
coming out and how long
away are they?
Well there's the Haze project
that we talked about and that's been in works
for several years already
so we were taking like the best varieties
that we've been growing over the years
and kind of like going
yeah this line would be great for the Haze
project and we'd you know
put that aside and then
work on other plants
so we've been steadily going through the different
varieties, picking out the best plants
for the Haze project and then
we're making
our crosses with the best plants
and then we're
also
once we've done that individually we're doing
them with each other, you know we send
each other these different plants so the Haze projects
are
for the near future and the later
future so there should be
some stuff coming out that will be kind of
pre-Haze project stuff
that will be released so a lot of that
should be picked up if a person can
because it's going to be special in itself
as well as what will be coming
you know later on. There's going to be
I don't want to jinx
myself but there's
going to be like a
hash Haze line
but it's basically called
Mirage, it's basically using the best
hash lines to make like a hash
Haze but it's all different hash
production varieties from
around the world so like
Kashmir
Persian, Turkish
Lebanese,
Afghani, just using the best
hash producing varieties and creating
like a Haze version of that
but not Haze but
a hash you know
mix of the best plants.
Chocolate Thai, I'm
trying to bring back several different chocolate
Thais as well as
different Thai varieties so I expect
different Thai steak varieties
as well as chocolate Thais and other
Thais to
be available at some point.
Mexican varieties, I'm trying to
bring back some of the heirloom
varieties that we've
grown so the first generation were like
saving the plants
a lot of people go I grew one plant
and it wasn't what I wanted from the line
well one plant is going to be one
variability in a line that
needs work and saving
in itself so people will get
to experience
you know these Mexican varieties that
give you happiness and awesome
effects but if you're growing one plant
you're only getting one aspect of the line
so sometimes you need to grow out more than one plant
sorry guys
grow more than one plant
to experience the line and save your life
some plants will give you or some lines
will give you several plants that are
wonderful and great but some
of them that are absolutely stellar
just comes out from a
few more plants. Not all the times
do you have to grow out a hundred plants to get
these wonderful plants but if it's a
preservation or a conservation it's only
been you know one year save the seeds
were from the 60s or 70s and
they were you know maintained
but barely maintained they need
selection so that first year of
saving it
you're not going to get the best
plants while you are the grower and growing
these out so it may need another generation
or two before those beautiful
expressions the best expressions of the line
come out for people so I'm going to be
working on bringing some you know lines
like the Acapulco Gold and others
to make it more
something that people remember as
being that awesome smoke that they
had back in the day. Some other
things are going to be some Hawaiian
varieties I'm trying to bring that
bring more of those available
some of them were
unknown Hawaiian varieties
I'm not going to say they were Maui
Waui or Puna Butter or something else
because I didn't know but they
could be some of them are
fantastic Hawaiian lines but
I'm going to say the
time frame it was from the island
it may have been sourced from and
leave it at that
you know you as growers can you know
decide what you want I'm not going to
butter it up any more than I know
already but there's going
to be some heirloom Hawaiians coming out
several
different Mexicans some of the
haze purple haze
Colombian golds
reds wacky weed
Vietnamese black
Vietnamese Delat
there's a
Vietnamese haze I'm making which is basically
five different Vietnamese
heirloom strains all like land
mixed together
so that one's going to be
special for people
so you get these psychedelic flowers
that are
racy to purple
and colorful
some of them are candelabra style
some of them are like weeping willow
so there's going to be a lot of expressions
a lot of cool stuff for people to try
so Mexicans, Colombians
Thais
Hawaiians
and then the hash lines
and then there's going to be some of my
other lines that I need to refresh will be coming out
as well
I have a lot of African stuff coming in
the near future
but you know just like the Indian
varieties that will be coming after that
and the Afghanis I'm also doing some Afghani
lines there's just so much
but you can only do so
much but I'm trying to preserve
as well as making these lines
as much as I can
before it's too late because
they become unviable pretty quick
and if we can't maintain the seed stock
then it'll go bad
so I'm trying to maintain them
for everybody's future
because if I don't do it
who knows who will
anyway I'm just trying to make
more stuff available for
people while I'm here
Very noble
act and we're all very appreciative
in amongst all those
names you mentioned
you referenced the Black Vietnamese
we had a few questions about that
could you just give us an overview of it
it appears to be quite a
fan favourite
yeah I mean
the Vietnamese Black was more of a
jungly weed it was more from
not the southern portion
of Vietnam but more from
not quite the China border
but something that was near
the Isan province but more inside
of Vietnam
in Vietnam
they've had a huge loss
of genetics
I don't know if it's from the
communism there but
there isn't a lot of cannabis production
even
20 years ago
there was a lot more varieties
and now it's really hard to find anything
so there's been a lot of genetic loss
unlike Thailand
that had a resurgent, Laos, Cambodia
Vietnam has lost a lot of their lines
but the Vietnam Black was
a jungle weed
somewhere
around the same latitude as
the Isan
area of Thailand which is
more of the
northeastern portion of
Thailand which borders Laos and Cambodia
that's kind of a special
area there but more
so on the Vietnamese
side so it's like a thin peninsula
kind of like Florida
a lot of the varieties that are now there
are from the southern portion around
Dalat and the south
in Dalat there's really nothing there anymore
my friend
his family is indigenous from that
part of Vietnam
he's indigenous Vietnamese
and he went
looking for stuff through his
cousins and family
and he wasn't able to find anything
it's very rare and hard to find now
so what we've been able to preserve
is kind of like the last remnants
of what was there at one time
in Vietnam it was
they used to have a huge cannabis culture
but because
of what happens
with making things illegal
over time has caused
a lot of eradication throughout the world
a lot of that eradication happened
in the 1930s
after alcohol prohibition was
changed over
they decided to make cannabis illegal
but they got that notion from
the apartheid movement
in South Africa so a lot of the
anti-drug laws that were created
were to control
people in South Africa
to like
the people that were
slaves that were freed
were controlled by
use of
creating cannabis being illegal
because a lot of the native people
were smoking cannabis
so they made those illegal to try to control
people then so in the 1930s
the United States incorporated
some of that to also control
the Mexicans and the black people
in the United States
through
you know trying to scare the public
into thinking they were rapists
from consuming cannabis and different things
there's a lot of literature put out
there that was
totally false just trying to scare people
but it was a way of controlling people
and to force them
to go to a different country because
at that time the stock market
had crashed and people
were scared of losing
their jobs and didn't have money
so they went to picking on
people from neighboring Mexico
or in some
of the poorer regions of the
Americas so that
unfortunately caused the
United States to incorporate those laws which forced
other countries like India
that had a huge cannabis history
and long-reaching cannabis
history to make things illegal and that
forced all the different
countries around the world to
create the drug laws that they have now
and a lot of them have reversed
reversed themselves
like they have in the United States
unfortunately
Yeah it's got a very
sort of checkered history doesn't it?
I guess this would be a good point to jump into
What's your thoughts on the current state of legalization
and what's your
thoughts on the future of it?
Do you think that we're going to move to a model where
the average home grower slash small
producers pushed out and it's all corporate?
Well unfortunately
a lot of the laws that we
as
a democracy
we vote for things but they get
changed after we vote them
so the lawmakers change
what we vote for
so a lot of stuff is not what the people
had voted for
and that is sad because
it forces out a lot of
people that could
be growing it for medicine
for small
farms
for small businesses
they can create a lot of things
for textiles, for cement, for medicine
there's so many uses for cannabis
but unfortunately
when these laws are voted on
they're changed by
companies
that buy out these lawmakers
and then no one's
happy except the people that have money
to be able to circumvent these laws
and establish
businesses
so the state of things
is not very good
legalization would be
great but the people
need to be able to grow
what they want
and for people that can't grow
what they can
they need other people to grow for them
so there needs to be outlets
for people to
get their cannabis grown for them
and then
there needs to be studies on this stuff
we need to be able to
use this for pain
medicine or for
PTSD
uses for sleep, anxiety, depression
there's so many medical uses
for different ratios of
cannabis and the different cannabinoids
that can be useful
but the laws need to be changed
where more of that is available
for people to study
less of the big businesses need to
get less
availability to
what the typical man doesn't get
so there should be equal laws I guess
around the world it seems like
legalization is opening up
so hopefully I have
great hope that around the world
we will
get to a point where
we're in a better state but right now
it's all over the place
and it's not good
but I am hopeful that
people will
get together and
vote for something that's truly
helpful for the world
because we could be offsetting global warming
if we grew enough plants
we could be changing
a lot of these things that are being used
for wood, we could be growing cannabis
for construction uses, everything
there's so much that if we just converted it to
cannabis, fuels
textiles, everything
food, nutrients, supplements
it's all there
we just need to make more use of it
yeah, I guess that was my answer
yeah, certainly
we can only hope that
governments around the world adopt more
of an open view on these things
I guess on the more individual
level, I'd love to ask
as we do a lot of our breeders
what would be your advice for someone
who's just looking to get into breeding
to take their game a bit more seriously
what would you say
to them?
I'd say
just grow
just grow plants
the more you grow
the more experience you get
try not to take
what you read in these books as fact
because there's a lot of BS out there
there's a lot of stuff that people just
regurgitated that's not necessarily
true
so
take experience for what it is
grow out the plants and get your
experience first
go ahead and breed
take some plants
do some selections
you don't have to grow out hundreds of thousands of plants
to do some breeding
but it's not helpful to
take stressed out plants
do pollen chucks
with clones that you got from somewhere
from someone
and then try to push those out
to everybody else
because those multi-polyhybrid pollen chucks
are just not helpful to anybody
and then getting clones from everybody
more stuff from seed
doing selections yourself
selecting plants
it should be done more
everybody's relying on other people to do the work for them
so they get these cuttings
there's so many more potent strains
there's so many high qualities that people are just not experiencing
you're saying people don't experience
a lot of the different highs and qualities
it's because they're doing these clones
that everybody else is growing out
so you're only getting what other people are doing
but if they're growing stuff from seed
they can create their own clones
from these lines and have special plants
it's very easy to find
one pack of seed and get
some very good
traits out of them
you just need to grow out the plants and experience them
and don't be afraid of
growing plants for a long period of time
the best plants
aren't the fastest plants
and don't kill plants
that need some nurturing
because those plants
usually are the best plants
if you just
give them the time to grow
it's kind of like the ugly duckling
it might look weird and offset
but it'll grow out of that
it'll grow out of those weird traits at first
and once it's established itself
you get these beautiful plants that you get to experience
so grow all the plants
don't kill everything
and just because a plant is
experiencing intersex traits
doesn't mean that
they got bad seeds or something
usually that's a sign that
they're under stress
so they're being over watered
or there's too much nitrogen in the soil
or there's insects
invading and chewing out their roots
or sucking the life
out of the plant
they're telling you there's something wrong
so usually figure out what that problem is
and then remedy
the problem and then keep growing that plant
but the real thing
for breeders that are trying to get into it
just grow the plants and keep it simple
some great advice there for sure
and I definitely get behind that guys
you can do some cool stuff
even if you're not popping hundreds of thousands
of seeds
I guess I would love to quickly ask you though
if someone wanted to try to up their game a bit
maybe take on a more raw
line, you know, like try to filly
or breed some Thai seeds or something
have a good go at it
how many seeds do you think they should run
given we know you tend to need to run through a few more
what sort of number
would you throw out there as like
just a ballpark figure
well it's hard to say
so if a line is raw
there's no selections done
you're going to need a lot more seeds
if a person has done a preservation
and there's done selections over a couple
of generations
or if it's a true breeding strain that's
been preserved
you'll need less seeds
so if a person's worked the line
you may only need a pack of 10
but 20 is better
but if you
got a raw seed line that
you're going to need selections
you might need 30-50 seeds
it all depends but you can still
grow out those plants
from a small selection
make more seed and then from those seeds
you'll have a lot more seeds to work with
so you can work with
10-20 seeds
it's going to take you a little longer
use all the males and females
grow those out, make seed from them
and then you have thousands of seeds to select from
the problem is when you get that many
plants is what do you select
after that point
it just gets to be where there's so many
plants that it's hard
to make the selection
so you really don't need thousands of plants
unless you're doing full large scale
breeding practices, that's a lot of work
so basically
you can narrow it down to
10-15 females
4-6 males
and you can
do a lot of good breeding that way
and as long as
you're selected for
certain things
branchy plants
things that have odor, resin production
good roots
you'll do well
but there should be a goal involved with the breeding
you should do it to improve the line
there shouldn't be just crossing this
and that because it's cool
what's the use of that, I mean that's fun
but if you really want
to do some breeding you should have an end goal
you want to
take a line that grows small
and make it grow big but keeping the same
type of quality flowers
that's a nice goal to have for a lot of
people, for instance
certainly
you can only reach what you aim for
I've seen in your work that you've
incorporated deep chunk into
a few of your lines and I guess it sort of
fits that category of preservation
what's your thoughts on Tom Hill's line
I've always been a fan
deep chunk? I might have
used one a long long time ago
with some purple bubble cush
but I don't usually use deep
chunk much, deep chunk is very
it stomps all over
the genetics, meaning it
it takes over
it's a good quality
indica, broad leaf
hash plant, Afghani
more of like a Mazar-i-Sharif
shorter but larger
flowers but not too tall
chunky
it's good breeding material because
you can kind of, you know, what you're going to get out
of it, so if you breed something into it
and you see those traits you can kind of see what
what the other line imparts
into it, so it's a good training
line for breeding I guess
because you know it's going to be consistent
certainly
and do you have any experience with any of his other lines
like Pine Tar Cush, X18
his Hayes
yeah, I actually
took the Pine Tar Cush and I bred it
into the
Citrale
and I bred that into the OG Cush
project I did and the reason
I did that was I wanted to impart
real Cush into the
modern OG Cush, so when
people grew out my varieties
they couldn't say oh there's no real Cush in it
because it imparts
both lines, so I
grew out those, the Pine
Tar Cush, which is
a pretty good line, it kind of has an
Afghani look to it but it's Pakistani
has a good aroma profile
and yeah
the stable breeds from Tom Hill's work
so
yeah, Tom Hill's got some good work
the X18 was good
a nice Pakistani
line, similar to the Citrale
lots of different aromas, fruit flavours
nice stuff
not overly potent but a good breeding material
kind of good to breed with other things
lovely, lovely, and I mean
you just touched on OG a moment ago
you've done quite a few different crosses
with different OG cuts and so
I'd love to hear your take on
the different OGs if you have a preferred
one and how some of those crosses
turned out
sure, so when I was
growing for the medical clubs
in the early 2000s
we were growing
what was available
in Northern California and then bring it to
the medical clubs, the medical clubs wanted OG
Cush
so the medical clubs
that I went to, they would take
their OG Cush cuttings and they would
have 1000 watt
HPS, high pressure sodium
lights growing under each plant
lollipop
so huge lights, lots of energy
huge
electric bills and
rooms just with these
small plants producing
not a whole lot but
it was worth it to them because
people were buying it for a high dollar
but they
didn't yield with the shit
they grew poorly, rooted poorly
because most of them were derived
from bag seed, someone's bag seed
was, this was some really good stuff so they grew
it out, usually from
stressed out situations
it hermed, so there's stability
issues with it but the smoke was
really good
so I
asked one of the
guys, the place was
G3 Collective, it was in Upland
Southern California
and they try to fight
the state and the DA
and lost but anyway
I asked him what are the two lines that
have the highest
quality flowers that you guys love
but don't yield much
and don't root well, I'll breed
these and improve them
and so he gave me the SoCal
G13 cut
and the
the
True Kush cut
and he said these are the best
we have, I wish they yield more
and I wish they rooted better
so I basically bred
my idea
was to breed the modern Kush with
real Kush
so I decided that I didn't like to reverse
anything so just reversing
the pollen, you have unstable
plants, you can't make
anything stable from instability
so I decided to use real males
so I used the Citralli
which is a Pakistani
line with the
Pintar Kush and I found
a male that was more Afghani
land-raised looking and I used that
to pollinate
the True Kush
and then from there I basically
grew up 50 plants and I selected the best
males and females so I worked down
from 50 plants down to like 17
females down to like
9 males
and then finally worked down to the best
10 females
and 4 best males
and then it worked down to the last
3 males
and the last 7 females
and then I bred those
to create what I call
True Gangster Kush
those 2 males I also
used to breed
to the other OG Kushes that
I was growing out and I over
several years of going to all the clubs
I collected all the
different OG Kushes from the San
Fernando Valley Kush, the Skywalker
the Hell's Angels
OG which is not the same
as my Hell's Angel
line, there's
also the Diablo OG
the Abusive OG Kush
there was the Fire OG
from Northern California and the SoCal
Fire OG, the NorCal Fire OG was
a lot better
and there was a lot
of other OGs and
Master Kush and different lines
I grew at the same time, Tahoe OG
trying to find
the best OGs so my
selection criteria was finding the most
potent, highest quality OGs
but at the same time I was trying to find
ones that grew well
and rooted well for the breeding
purposes because
ones that
produced really good flower
but didn't grow very well weren't worth
it to me so
I excluded the San Fernando Valley
Kush because it didn't
grow very well, it was a short little plant
produced wonderful great buds but
from what I was trying to do
it didn't cut the mustard
though I'd like to go back and do some breeding with it
but not at the time because
it wasn't what I was looking for
so the best cuttings that I found were
the
NorCal Fire OG
and OG Kush we got from the Hell's Angels in Oakland
it was at the time
27 year old cut that they had
it was called OG Kush
I used that line to create the Hell's Angel
line
I also
grew out the Skywalker OG
which was
the best one I felt
it just did the trick every time, every time he smoked it
it just
checked all the different boxes
the Abusive OG was another one
that was very good yielding, also high quality
the best
one was the OG Kush we got from the Hell's Angels
and the Skywalker, those were my two favorite
the Tahoe was also a
larger yielding, good OG
but not quite as good as the Skywalker
and the OG Kush we got
the Fire OG
out of SoCal was
not very good yielding
it was kind of wiry and it was
good buds but
it just wasn't growing very good
the NorCal Fire OG
yielded very well and had
the same good characteristics
as the SoCal one but it was just a better plant
in general and I did some breeding
with that to make the
the OG Purple Fire
tie lines
but Skywalker
the Abusive
the OG Kush we made
different lines with those so I had
bred with those, unfortunately
I had a
warehouse in Southern California
which I was using when I came
down here to do some breeding but
it got sabotaged
so all the cuttings, all the
different things
I was doing to
bulk the OG lines
the two Gangster Kush projects
that I had done was lost
so I only
have a small amount of seed left but I need to revisit
those for people but that
whole OG project got squashed
because of all the loss of all the plants
for reproduction and all
the different
clones that I lost
I lost Juice Fruit Tie
the One
the various lines
the Maliwauee, different things that
I don't have anymore
Wow, that's a bummer to hear
you lost that
right at the end of the story you mentioned you lost
the One, what's your thought on that?
You've come more to the forefront of discussions
with a few different breeders using it
do you think it's as good as what some people
make it out to be?
Well I smoked
it years ago
but at the time
when I smoked it there was an earthquake
so
I didn't know if it was
the earthquake or the smoke that
hit me a certain way, I think it was
the combination of the two
it's definitely got
it's a special potent weed
it's definitely got some great qualities to it
for sure
And there you have it gang, what do you think?
Huge
shout out to Snow High for swinging by
dropping that part
one of two Knowledge Bombs on us
and as always, huge thank you to
our incredible sponsors, Seeds
here now, all the latest breeders
the hottest drops
an incredible new website
they've been slashing prices to give you the best deals
while still offering their patent
guarantee on satisfaction
and germination, check them out
likewise Simply Souvenirs, if you're
after a hand selected range of
boutique genetics, both local
and international, check them out guys
they've got everything you need from seeds
to smoking accessories to vapes
everything under the sun
Simply Souvenirs, they'll look after
your best customer service in the game
huge shout out to Simply Souvenirs
Big shout out
to our friends at Copert Biological Systems
providing all the
predators you need to keep your garden pest
and pathogen free
check out the Spidex Vital
if you're worried about spider mites
you should release these things periodically guys
I promise you, you will view it as an investment
in your garden, ensuring that you
never have any spider mites in your garden
should be one of your key priorities
as a cultivator
Huge shout out Copert Biological Systems
we appreciate you and your support
likewise Pulse Sensors
do you want more yield, more resin
better flower, better concentrates
who doesn't?
Check out Pulse guys, if you're ready to get serious
get a Pulse Sensor
from a single tent to a single room
to a multi-facility operation
don't let hidden variables
hold your crop back
get your grow parameters in check
and start yielding the highest quality possible
huge shout out Pulse Sensors
Pulse, thank you so much
likewise, big shout out to the Patreon gang
we love and appreciate you
please consider checking out the Patreon
if you want early access to upcoming episodes
additional interviews you won't get access to
unless you're on there
as well as genetic giveaways
and ad-free content
check it out friends
that's the Patreon, www.patreon.com
forward slash the podcast
all one word, we love and appreciate you
and there you have it my friends
part one of this two part hitter
from the man himself Snow High
come on back for the next one
and I'll see you there
I'll see you
