Hello and welcome to the next episode of the podcast, a cannabis podcast for budding enthusiasts.
This episode as always was brought to you by 420 Australia, your number one store for
420 lifestyle and apparel, as well as Organic Gardening Solutions, your premier organic
gardening store.
And finally, seeds here now, you know them, they're the best, guarantee on satisfaction,
not just germination, check it all out.
And this episode, we're joined by the man, the weed nerd himself, Subcool.
Chatting all things breeding and controversy.
Let's get into it.
Alrighty, so a big thank you and welcome to the infamous weed nerd himself, Subcool.
Thanks for joining us on the show.
Thank you very much.
So first question, we're going to do a little change of pace here.
I want to know, what are you smoking on right now?
I'm smoking cookies and cream, live resin, rosin that a friend of mine sent to me because
I'm getting the Cuban's cookies and cream cut next week.
So I'm beta testing this live rosin and it tastes like caramel and coffee with creamer
in it.
It's delicious.
Wow.
I certainly have never had anything that nice before.
Do you think that's kind of the future of concentrates is going in this super primo
fashion?
Yeah, I think so.
I mean, I was a big rosin head before the house burned down.
I had a Sasquatch rosin press and I learned so much about it and the flavors and everything
you can get are just amazing.
It takes some really high quality water hash and you press it and press all the contaminants
out of it.
And what you're left with is truly some of the smoothest, tastiest stuff in the world.
Now I prefer to smoke THC crystals, which are made with solvents and stuff, but you
can't beat the flavor of live resin pressed.
It's like I said, it's like eating caramel, but smoking it.
Nice.
And so are you a fan of the Sasquatch presses?
I've seen a few people with them.
Yeah, I am.
I'm more a fan of the people.
They were really nice to me and the rosin pressers are good.
There's so many people out there, but Sasquatch themselves made me a press, put my logo on
it, shipped it to me.
And then when my house burned down, they built me another one and they have it ready to ship
to my new house.
Pretty nice customer service.
Yeah, I can't argue with that.
So we'll jump back onto the regular first question now.
What was your first experience with cannabis?
This is going to draw out because it sounds like such bullshit, but it's the truth.
So when I was around nine years old, I had the opportunity to go to a concert with a
guy that had a roach.
Okay, seriously.
So I think it was Edgar Winner or something.
So we walked around the entire show, even though everybody was smoking cannabis everywhere
and we were too scared to smoke it because we were kids.
And so we went home to his house and I remember we stood on the toilet and turned the fan
on and we each got one hit and we blew it up into the thing.
And I will never forget what it tasted like.
It was to me the most incredible, interesting thing I'd ever done in my life.
So about a year and a half later, I had a best friend who had an older sister who I
used to look at her.
She was cute.
I used to have the thing for her.
Her boyfriend left roaches in the ashtray, really long ones.
He was a cannabis seller.
I mean, he was my hero.
He was sleeping with her and he had weed.
So I used to steal his joints, the roaches, not steal his weed, but take his lipstick
on them from her and we'd take them out back and smoke them.
And this was Colombian gold.
So it would make our ears ring.
And I have to continue that one thing.
So the first time I got high, I heard in my head, I mean really high, about 10 ish or
11.
I heard this.
And I heard it for years when I got high.
And I was 15 when I heard the Immigrant Song and I heard the sound again.
Why the hell did I hear the Immigrant Song when I got high, even though I didn't know
Led Zeppelin was?
Huh, there you go.
You reckon maybe you heard it when you were really young or not?
never exposed to it.
I don't know.
I think Led Zeppelin smoked some weed and heard it and that's why they wrote the song.
That's a good explanation.
So kind of from that point forward, how did you really get into cannabis?
I guess you obviously just progressively started to smoke more from that age.
At what point did you kind of become, did cannabis become really quite involved in your
life?
Well, I went to back up a little bit.
So I come from the South where cannabis was very prohibited and it was very expensive.
So at a fairly early age, I don't want to lie, 16, 17, I think I had a car.
I started buying weed from a guy and selling it.
So I was the weed guy, always.
I bought pounds of seeded crappy commercial weed and our profit margin back then was we
sold six ounces to make our money and then we kept six ounces of stash or whatever.
That's the way it always worked.
So that continued until the drug war kept in and cannabis went to $400 an ounce down
in Gainesville with Gainesville Green.
At that time I started growing.
I got some seeds from a bag and I put them out in my yard and I grew some tall male,
female plants and when they got about my height, I cut them down and smoked them.
Then I started reading Ed's book.
There weren't such things as the internet.
So I started reading books and it was a book called Sensimelia Tips and it had pictures
of pot plants on concrete blocks with fans and lights and it talked about females and
males and I got it.
I was like, okay, I got to kill the males and it talked about sexual maturity and I
was like, well, wait a minute, I just cut them down.
So the next year we actually grew really good cannabis outside.
I mean, we harvested at the end of the year, it had resin on it, it was really good and
we instantly became famous people in our circle because we had dank, seedless dank.
And it made me, people like me and I'm going to say some things during this interview so
people get to know me better.
I am a very serious inferiority complex.
I feel alone in the world.
I'm very gregarious and loud, but it's to hide a shyness that I have and cannabis made
me the fucking man.
I mean, I was the man, chicks like me, dudes like me, people like me.
So it helped me get over this thing I have where I just don't feel like I belong in the
world and I just ran with it.
I mean, I started growing indoors.
I was growing in Georgia by the time I was in my 30s.
I'll tell the story quick.
I went to Amsterdam to buy some seeds and the guy that I was living with decided to
rip all the pot plants off while I was gone and kind of set up a pot plant in the front
yard to get me busted.
So I came back to a police tape and that was my first bust.
I went down for five years for, they found the trailer where he moved everything.
So they got us for 362 plants.
He got the majority of the problems because I was out of town, but I got my five.
And then I moved to Florida because they banned me from Georgia and my son was in Georgia.
So I wanted to see him on the weekends.
So I illegally moved close where I could skip over the state line and see him.
And I started doing the one thing I know best.
I started growing weed in Gainesville.
One of my favorite stories before I took a pause on the story is, I'll never forget the
probation officer calling me in my grow room.
He goes, well, how's everything going?
I looked at my plants and I think everything is going fucking great, dude.
So that's how I got started.
I just grew weed and sold weed.
In Florida, I also got in trouble.
I got busted there for selling really good cannabis and they kind of found us, which
led to me leaving to Amsterdam.
I lived in Amsterdam for a couple of years with Gypsy Nirvana, hiding from the cops.
I came back in through Canada, lived in Canada for a while, finally got busted in Canada
and they extradited me to America where I came back in and did my time.
I'm clean, no probation, no felon, nothing.
I'm clean, I have felonies, but I don't have any probation, nothing on me.
And that is when I moved to the West Coast.
When I moved to the West Coast, I moved to Oregon where cannabis was not illegal.
And I stopped getting in trouble.
We definitely need to wind back there.
There's hours worth of stories to dig into.
So the first thing which caught my attention was all the way back at the start, you mentioned
Ed's book.
In those early days, who were some of the other people who you looked up to besides
Ed?
Because the thing that I seem to notice was besides Ed and maybe Neville, there wasn't
a lot of people you really could look up to.
There was no one, mate.
I mean, we hadn't heard of Jack, but me and Ed are friends.
If you guys don't know, Ed is really like calling Pop.
He calls me son.
He published my book.
He helped me get my book in the Jefferson Memorial Library, the Library of Congress.
I mean, the guy's an awesome guy.
But it's not like I believe everything Ed says.
The whole photos interrupt this thing, we used to argue.
But when I was growing up, there was one book.
It was the Marijuana Encyclopedias, it.
It sat on our toilet.
And when we went to the bathroom, we read it.
And it was Ed and Mel.
And we read it forwards and backwards and backwards and forwards.
And that's I mean, that and Sense Media Tips.
I mentioned it earlier.
I don't know if you remember Sense Media Tips.
That was the first cannabis magazine I ever saw because at the time, High Times had cocaine
and heroin and pills.
And it wasn't a cannabis cultivation magazine.
It was a drug magazine.
So yeah, there was no one else.
There was no internet and there were no books.
And believe me, in Georgia, you didn't even let anybody know you had that grow book.
Yeah.
Different times, wasn't it?
So with that being said, what type of strains were you growing?
Were there any breeders that you're aware of?
Or was everyone just kind of growing their own little thing they had?
Yeah, we would.
The very first named strain I grew was grape ape, but it's not the grape ape you would
know.
It was just a bag of weed we bought from Toby Isle in Georgia that was purple and it was
killer.
It had about 20 seeds in it.
So we grew it out.
I mean, now I wonder, was it feminized?
Was it a herm?
Was it one male?
How did they get them?
But we grew it out and it was killer.
And I mentioned it at the time and I'll take some heat for this.
Cannabis was $7,200 a pound in Georgia.
Just it is what it is.
If you wanted really good cannabis and they all called it Dro, hydro, even though we grow
in soil.
But that's really where it was at.
It was only when I ordered and I love telling the story.
I ordered them from Mark Emery.
I ordered Puna butter and I ordered something called Dominia.
And that was, I wish I could do years.
I'm not the guy that does it.
1986.
I don't know when the fuck it was, but it was, it was when you, when you bought seeds
from Mark and some girl sent them to you, you went like to some website and you send
him a money order.
And the Puna butter was $60 for 10 seeds.
And I grew it out and I didn't like it.
I was like, well, my grape eight was better.
So that's when I actually flew to Amsterdam for the first time and bought, uh, I got a
bunch of American growers that I know and we've got 3000 American dollars, which was
8,000 Gilder.
And I smuggled back about a thousand seeds for all the growers I know in the United States.
I put them in my belt buckle and we snuck them all out.
And from that, and this is going to sound so cocky from that overgrow was formed because
some of my friends got Northern lights and some of my guys got black dominance.
Some of my guys got white widow and some of my guys got Russian and we all started
working together and growing and working with the Canadians that also have genetics.
And that's how these things form.
I mean, Northern Lights 5, bam, right there in the channel is being mixed with white
widow and G13.
Some of those strains are still around today.
My favorite is a Mighty Might chemo widow.
It would blister you like it would make you not be able to speak.
It was so strong.
Wow.
And obviously that's not commonly spoken about at all.
I guess a lot of this stuff has fallen off.
It's fallen off and it's gotten mixed in with others.
And remember those stories I told.
So in Georgia, when they raided me, I lost 83 mothers.
I lost Dank Ass Bitch, a DAB, it's a strain that growers would know.
I lost Neboo's Russian.
I lost tons and tons of moms and then I lost another thousand seeds that can never be replaced.
And I would imagine that a lot of the core genetics that we have built and collected
over the years before the things changed, they got destroyed by the police.
Wow.
And so just to loop back on that trip to Amsterdam quickly, do you remember what brands you were
buying based off what you said?
It sounded like you were buying a lot of the seed bank and as well as maybe Super Sativa
Seed Club, you know, were those the people who were around at that time or was it a little
after that?
No, no, they were the greenhouse was there.
I was a big fan of Sirius Seeds, a white Russian AK-47, a huge fan.
And also Tony with Sargamantha who comes to my chat channel and hangs out, I'm blown away.
So he used to sell that Yum Bolt.
And we went to a place there called the Gray Area.
And the Gray Area is an Americanized coffee shop.
It's not Dutch.
They have soda pops and rock and roll and metal tables.
And the Keef they had there, the Cali Miss Keef was some of the best I've ever smoked
in my life.
So we went to buy the genetics we smoked at the coffee shop.
We were naive.
We're like, that's where the good shit is.
That's where the good seeds are.
So that first trip, we bought a lot of AK.
And by the way, that AK that I bought, that Cherry AK, still used to breed with today
by about four breeding companies.
Wow.
Yeah.
So are you of the opinion that the stock back then was generally of higher quality than
it is today?
Yeah, I don't want to start a war, but for sure, it's pretty common for them to lose
a mother and a father and just grow it out again and start an F2.
I mean, I can guarantee you that AK-47 we bought in 87 was not the AK-47 that I grew
out three years ago.
It was homogenized crap.
And I'm not talking talking back because it was tons.
I got three pounds off the back.
Giant plants, but it was homogenized.
It lacked character and what we call dank.
Yeah.
Okay.
So if we scoot a little forward, then you mentioned coming back, a lot of these genetics
giving birth to kind of overgrown.
Before that, was there many people bringing seeds back, do you think?
There were, but we weren't organized.
This is what Overgrow gave to us.
Overgrow gave us a platform to speak.
So I was speaking to Bog, and I was speaking to Soul, and I was speaking to Beak High.
And we started sharing notes.
Well, what are you growing?
Well, what do you breed?
Well, I make Killer Queen.
What do you make?
Well, I have a G13.
And that's when we started trading genetics and growing together.
So me and Soul and Sly used to talk a lot with the A13, the Cindy, and then Vic had
the Space Queen.
So if you wonder how I created Vortex, I knew those guys.
So they gave me their genetics.
I crossed them together.
And I get a lot of credit for the A13.
I crossed with the Vortex because it won the Cannabis Cup.
A guy grew out a five pack, renamed it God's Pussy and beat me.
But it's not rocket science.
I got the very best phenotype from Soul, which was one female A13 out of 500 seeds, the only
one that existed.
And then I crossed it, time Space Queen.
I'm sorry, but if you have really good shit and you mix it together, I don't think you
need to be super skilled.
And I take heat on that.
People are like, well, Sub's not a breeder.
Well, I don't know.
I made Jack the Ripper.
I had to make it somehow, and it started back then.
The exchange of knowledge through Overgrow changed the world.
It allowed me to talk to another grower.
How do you grow?
I grow in water.
What's your pH?
This.
What are you growing?
This.
That knowledge just super speeded cannabis growing in America.
We learned about lights.
We learned about CO2.
We learned about nutrients.
We learned about super soil through Vic.
Vic had a very basic recipe online called Vic's Super Soil, and I still have that copy.
I took the recipe and added about 25 units of things to it to make it better, in my opinion.
And people still use that super soil today.
Without Overgrow, I would have never talked to Vic.
Vic would have never gave me his recipe, and we would have never had super soil.
So it was the knowledge that Overgrow gave us.
It wasn't all the bullshit and the trolls and the karma liking system.
It was being able to PM Bog and say, bro, let me have a cut of your Bog bubble.
Sure, sub.
How about a cut of your Jax Cleaner?
Yeah, boo.
Let's make Jax Cleaner blueberry, which Bog still uses today to make Life Saver.
Yeah, that's interesting.
You just touched on so many questions.
I think we'll rewind back, try to quickly touch on, you referenced the God's Pussy.
That was funny.
I have a question I was going to ask later.
Basically, do you have any plans to maybe try to get that cut and breed with it?
Because my friends from Roundtable basically explained this cut to me, and they were saying
like, yeah, you're not going to believe it.
It's phenomenal.
And so immediately I was like, hmm, what's the go with that?
If you grow 100 seeds, Vortex seeds, you'll get 49 of those phenotypes.
There was 1% difference between my phenotype and his.
Mine tasted a little peachy.
His was a little more lemony.
And that year, the judges that were judging liked citrus.
They were stand even.
And that sounds cocky, but it's not.
I was looking for a male Vortex about six years ago, and this is documented on Roll
It Up.
So I started 20 seeds, and I got 19 damn females, not what I wanted.
And every single one of them was exactly the same.
If you go look at the thread, there's 19 plants.
We're just taking pictures of them over and over again.
They look exactly the same.
There's slight differences between peach, pear, lemon, that slight essence of cannabis
turps, but it's the most stable strain I've ever created.
I didn't do anything to it that crossed a male and a female plant.
Yeah.
Okay.
So another thing I just remembered that you spoke about was you referenced talking to
Sly.
Sly is someone who really had to get a lot of information about him.
What was your relationship with him like, and what was your impression of him?
Well, both Sly and Vic and me had a very unique way of learning.
We argued with each other.
If you had seen it, it was like, you dumb ass, you don't know what you're talking about.
But that exchange of information got us somewhere.
But Sly was the kinder.
He was the smarter.
He was the scientist.
Soul was definitely more the sales guy.
I'm not knocking Rick.
If he was sitting here right beside me, I'd say the same thing.
He was with his fingernail polish and his Cinderella slippers.
He's a good, good, good salesman and a very good representative of the company.
But Sly had the brains, man.
He knew about dominance and traits, and he knew how to work these trains together, and
he knew what would work.
And as importantly, he's brave enough to send us all clones.
So if you knew Vic high when I was 20-ish, if you asked Vic for a clone, he'd just send
you a cutout of Killer Queen.
And we didn't have clone shippers back then, dude.
It was a different game, but we got it done.
That's cool.
So something I did want to quickly mention was I think for a lot of people like myself,
you were the person who kind of got them into organics through making the Super Soil easy.
So obviously, a big thank you for that because I'm very passionate about organics now.
But something which it led me to do was to dive further into the Super Soil recipe.
And I believe I found a screenshot of a really old overgrowth thread where Vic actually says
that he found the recipe in an old book by like Forest Agronomist or something like that.
And he basically said that they would make this recipe, they would put the dry amendments
under big trees when they transplanted big trees into forests so that they'd grow into
the nutrient-dense stuff.
Anyway, I found it was interesting because what it essentially goes to show is it's just
continually built over time.
And I think that that's a bit of a...
People make the mistake of thinking that he fully made it and it's never been modified.
And the point that you brought up is really relevant that you added a lot to it.
And if you do compare his recipe to yours, you'll see that yours is a lot more kind of
holistic in all of the amendments, whereas his is a lot more bare bones and it's just
like manure and blood and bone and one or two other things really.
And it goes further.
I mean, kids take my Super Soil that are smarter than me and they adjust it, they measure it,
they take it to soil shops.
Build-a-soil has an entire fucking thread based on my Super Soil where one scientist
says, I'm an idiot and it doesn't work.
And another scientist explains why it does work.
And you can buy Super Soil from Build-a-Soil.
You can buy the dirt and a charge pack and you just mix the shit up and put worm castings
in it and you have it.
So the only thing I did with Super Soil was give people the idea to mix it up in your
backyard and play with it.
I mean, we've made hot batches, we've made cold batches.
Nats are part of Super Soil.
I'll go ahead and tell you now the newest thing we do is we put two inches of neem cake
on top of all the barrels after we make Super Soil.
It prevents the fungus gnats from getting down into the compost and the manure.
And then when you go to use it, you just scrape the neem cake off with your hands and throw
it away and the little bit extra that stays is good for the soil.
This is something brand new we figured out.
So Super Soil is not static and it's not for sale.
It's the way a guy grows pot.
So I mean, if somebody wants to give me shit about it, they can kiss my ass.
It's how I grow pot.
And Vic taught me to take dirt and mix it up in tubs.
And then the other thing that we do now is when we first made Super Soil, we used really
shitty ingredients.
Like I buy the most expensive ingredients now, organic down to earth, expensive soils,
nice crab meals, stuff that's made properly and not cheap.
And that's another reason Super Soil works well.
Just so you know, I mean, we have people here in Arizona that grow commercially in Super
Soil, buildings full of the stuff.
And I think, maybe I'm wrong, but I think the no till revolution kind of spurned from
this.
What do you do with all the Super Soil?
Well, we don't want to throw it away.
So guys started figuring out how to do no till and treat with teas and hell, geek Mike
up in Oregon takes a Super Soil and runs it through like a machine and shakes everything
out of it and rebuilds it.
Like he's got a factory to redo Super Soil so they don't throw it away.
So Vic taught us so much.
He taught us that you could grow dank without hydroponics.
And then a lot of us played with the soil until we got it where it is today.
Yeah, I think there's definitely some truth in that statement you made in regards to Super
Soil and the no till which has come after it.
Something I have seen raised a bit though is people do seem to feel as though Super
Soil is quite wasteful.
In that you do inevitably have to exchange the soil out after a run or two.
Would you ever consider doing more of a no till option?
I'm doing it right now.
I don't throw Super Soil out at all.
I haven't done Super Soil out in years.
We have 100 gallon pots in our pool.
We don't reuse it.
I mean, we don't throw it away.
We didn't throw 100 pounds of soil away.
You amend it, you put teas in it.
One problem indoors is a problem.
So outdoors, you can amend the pots in the middle of the season, cover them with straw
and you get a nice natural reamendment.
Indoors we don't have the same issue.
I mean, when we finish our giant plants indoors, we take a five gallon bucket that's got the
bottom cut off of it like a razor.
Cut it down into the pot and cut the root ball out.
But it is the same process.
You reamend, you use teas and you build a giant cover crop in between while your plants
are vegging, cover it with straw.
It's the same process.
You just have to do it faster.
Do we have small problems?
Yeah.
Indoors is not as easy as outdoors, but there are definitely growers now that grow in Super
Soil that have not changed their soil out in many years.
Yeah, totally.
And so if we just kind of jump back to what we were talking about earlier, you got back
and you had the seeds and overgrown just started out.
Is this when you would consider yourself to have truly kind of begun the breeders journey
or do you feel like you started a little before that?
No, that's where.
So I made Jack's Cleaner Blueberry and I made, excuse me, excuse me, excuse me, Jack's Cleaner
BX and I made Danny Boy.
And there was a site, a sister site to Overgrow called Cannabis World.
And on Cannabis World was the auctions.
And so we went to Seabay and you could put your seeds up.
And I remember the first pack of seeds I put up with Danny Boy was five dollars.
Stayed up for three days, no bids.
Put it back up, stayed up for two days and someone bought it for five dollars.
Within a year, people were bidding on the seeds upwards of 40 to 50 dollars.
Bog joined, soil was in.
And I got to tell you this crazy story about human nature.
So in the seed place, you could buy a pack of seeds for a price.
It's called instant purchase.
But then as a breeder, you could list a pack of seeds up there for less than let people
bid on it.
There's some bizarre human nature.
People would bid past the instant purchase price.
So there'd be a pack of Danny Boy sitting there for 40 dollars and three guys would
be bidding up the other pack to 90 dollars.
And as a businessman, I just fucking laughed.
I was like, if you want to pay me 40 more dollars for it so you guys can argue with
each other, great.
So an enormous amount of money was made on the Seabay, the people bidding against each
other.
And that's a form of trolls and haters already, already starting on the Internet.
People arguing with each other over a pack of seeds.
And as a seed seller, not a breeder, I laughed my ass off.
I was like, y'all are overpaying for the seeds?
Just part of the history of seeds.
Interesting.
And it seems as though so many kind of notable breeders did get their starting foot in these
forums.
Do you feel like there's any reason as to why we don't see the same popularity for forums
nowadays?
It seems to be quite contained like Instagram.
I think trolls are a big part of it.
I mean, there's this we're going to talk about this as well, because I mean, I will bring
it up.
I mean, when you said I was going to go on the show today, I had 150 comments.
That was the biggest piece of shit on the planet.
So that's the Internet.
You got to roll it up right now.
And it's like, hey, I grow good pot.
No, you don't.
Your mom sucks.
You suck dicks.
It's just it's exhausting.
On Instagram, the same thing occurs.
But you can block people.
You can ban them.
You can get rid of the comments on Roll It Up.
But if somebody's up your ass, there's nothing you can do.
I mean, if every time you post a picture, the guy calls you a dumbass.
So that's part of it.
That's part of the other thing is you just said it.
I carry Instagram in my phone, bro.
I ain't got to sit at my house and upload pictures.
I don't have to, you know, remember the old uploading a picture to overgrow would take
like five minutes.
Remember that shit?
Dial-ups and stuff.
I mean, nowadays, somebody sends me a picture.
I hit a button and I'm making an advertisement.
That's part of it.
The other part of it is I think there are too many forums.
I think it got fragmented.
When roll it, I mean, excuse me, when overgrow got started, that was it, bro.
We were all at one place, all of us.
Now there's Roll It Up, which is run by a bunch of kids.
There's no moderator.
There's Seabay.
There's IC Mag, which I've been banned for life because Gypsy doesn't like me.
I mean, I never even get go there.
It's funny.
One of his guys called me one day to advertise there.
I was like, dude, Gypsy won't even let me log in.
I'm not going to buy an ad.
And then there's thousands more.
There's CannaBase and this and this and this.
It's fragmented.
So instead of a hundred thousand growers all in one spot talking every day, it's spread
apart.
I could compare it to dating sites.
I'm not, you know, if there's one dating site, then you meet everybody.
But if there's a thousand, how the hell do you find everybody?
Everybody's on Instagram.
If you're in the pot business, you're on Instagram.
Yeah, that's the truth, isn't it?
So something we haven't been able to get any information from people, but you'll be the
perfect person.
What was it like to live with Gypsy?
What's he like as a guy?
Man, it's all going to sound bad.
I'll spend a few minutes on it, but it's all going to sound bad.
So I met him.
He's very nice.
I mean, over the internet, great.
I went over and I lived with him and his wife, Nikki.
That was kind of cool.
And in England, stayed in a little pub.
I liked it.
I thought English breakfast was intriguing.
Nikki was cool.
His crew was cool.
And then Gypsy got a business opportunity to go to Amsterdam.
So I went with him and we opened up his shop, 42 Zedike.
My pictures are literally still in the guy's shop because I had a laptop with all my photographs
on it and Gypsy didn't have photographs.
But the guy, this Gypsy's two people.
And we can talk about this with me too, because I've had my bout with this.
Gypsy was a fairly decent gentleman when he didn't drink.
But in the afternoon he would send me for two bottles of red wine and I would go get
his, I was his do boy.
Make no, that's not glamorize this shit.
I was Gypsy's bitch.
So I'd get on the bike and I'd ride up and get him a couple bottles of wine.
And then by eight o'clock he was screaming and holler at me.
Why are you on the fucking internet, mate?
What the fuck you thought?
So he's rude.
And people have seen Gypsy attack people online.
If you haven't, I mean, come on.
And that's what you get.
Gypsy in the morning was a fairly decent guy.
Bought you breakfast, take you around his car, show you some stuff.
When he drank, he was rude.
And I will address that as well.
There are people, one of the things that somebody said to me is that in public I was rude to
them.
Between the time I was diagnosed with a fucking progressive fatal illness and today, I went
through some shit.
And there was about a year, I will tell you right off, I was checked out of life.
I was drinking, I was taking drugs.
I was trying to escape a diagnosis of choking to death on my own.
It's not.
I got my shit together and I don't do drugs anymore.
I haven't had a drink or a pharmaceutical drug in over 450 days and I don't think I'll
ever do them again.
So the reason I bring that up is alcohol is a fucked up thing.
And then what I found in Gypsy was alcohol, not Gypsy.
And I didn't know that until I had my own bout with it.
So about three years ago, if you came in contact with me and I was rude as shit to you, I was
trying to kill myself because some doctor told me I was going to choke to death in a
hospital.
So I dealt with it emotionally and I plan to live my life every day the best I can until
that time comes instead of sitting around and worrying about it.
Yeah, I think that's a really good kind of message and I think a lot of people will be
happy to hear that.
Just to kind of, how did you wrap up the Amsterdam?
I think you said that you ended up going to Canada after that.
What was, what happened?
Oh no, let's, no mate, back up.
So my best, Gypsy had this great idea to turn this giant house where it had a table from
the Anne Frank house and this, excuse me, a chandelier from the Anne Frank house and
a table that came from an old hash baron.
So the house was a hash baron's house.
Fucking history mate, it was crazy.
Guy that owned it was worth $42 million, African guy, super nice people, drum.
So it was all a great thing.
Gypsy had the idea to set it up as a hotel and have a bunch of American stoners come
over and stay, party, smoke weed, pay Gypsy, stay in this awesome house that's in the red
light district.
I mean the whore houses across the street is fucking awesome.
So the first person I had bring over was my best friend, Danny boy.
And before I tell the story, I will tell you that Danny was almost 40.
He ate only meat.
He didn't eat vegetables.
He smoked four packs of cigarettes a day and he worked all night at a rich coast business.
He's fucking out of shape.
So he came over to Amsterdam and partied with me.
We were cannabis cup judges.
He was awesome.
He was a cannabis judge.
I mean a real one. We had the real shit, hash, weed, everything sitting there in the house
smoking it. So Danny, we smoked 20 something samples of weed, hash.
And Danny was, I'm going to just say it, Danny liked prostitutes.
He didn't he didn't have a way with women back at home.
In fact, I don't think the guy ever fell in love in his life.
It's such a sad story.
So he'd come to Amsterdam and spend his yearly income getting laid.
And the second night he came back, and the story's hard for me to tell, but the second
night he came back, he was sweaty and he was winded.
Well, of course. And he came in and he sat down and he was obviously, you know, I said,
are you OK, bud? He goes, oh, man, that was rough.
I said, OK, because I'm just my heart's my heart's pounding.
I'm you know, I just need to go lay down.
I said, well, do you want to go to a hospital?
He goes, well, do you know where hospital is?
I said, fuck no, it's two o'clock in the morning.
Amsterdam, I'm as stoned as you are.
So he's like, I'm just going to go lay down, bro.
So he went lay down in the next morning at breakfast.
He wasn't there. And I guess it was like seven thirty.
I was like, well, where the hell is he at?
I went upstairs and he was dead.
He was laying in Gypsy's fourth floor and he had died of a heart attack in his sleep.
So we had to carry his body down the steps.
First time I'd ever seen a dead person and especially my fucking best friend.
Oh, yeah. By the way, I performed CPR on him for about 30 minutes and because I thought
death rattle was life and not perform CPR on a dead guy.
That's always good for your brain.
So we get we get blown out.
I get blunt to the American embassy, get him home like I'm supposed to.
I do all the things a friend supposed to do.
And I come back and Gypsy's drinking.
So within a couple of hours, he's like, get your fucking shit, mate, and get out my
fucking house.
He didn't pay me and he threw me out.
So I had about 200 guilder and I called R.C.,
the owner of Overgrow.
And he said, fly to Canada, just get your ass to Montreal and I'll get you some money
and some weed. So I landed.
God, this story is so weird.
I landed and I took a cab to this high performance F1 club.
I mean, it's all these fancy models and Jackie Stewart likes.
I did not belong there, dude.
I was an American on the run with my ass kicked.
But there was R.C. and he picked me up and he took me to a little hotel called the same
overall little teeny little place.
And he gave me some weed, which R.C.
did not carry weed because he owned Overgrow.
And he gave me some money, 300 or 400 dollars.
And from there, I went into the middle of the country in Amsterdam to, I mean, excuse
me, to Winnipeg to a weed nerd's house.
Not at the time was not a weed nerd, just a friend.
And I started on a girl.
I was like, basically, can I come to your house and grow shitload of weed?
And he said, yeah. So that's how I got from Amsterdam to Canada was Danny Dines.
And that's why I named that stream Danny.
And so how do you think that's affected you in the long term, having to kind of been
there for Danny's death and the subsequent, you know, there's all.
It's obviously like a dramatic kind of exit in its own right.
And what pissed me off because I couldn't come back to the United States to watch him
get buried because I was a fugitive from the law for growing fucking plant.
So I had to deal with not going there.
I had to deal with people hating on me because I didn't love Danny.
He didn't go to the fucking funeral.
Can imagine how torturous that was.
I was stuck in Amsterdam on my best friend, you know, I mean, excuse me, stuck in
that. I was in Canada.
I could not come back in the country.
And I mean, I later actually went and saw Danny's gravestone and Danny's mother and
father were both friends of mine.
Danny's father has since died.
And I have to tell you, one of the things I'll get all fucking sad, but one of the
things I lost in the fire was I had a hand drawn picture of Danny and it burned up.
No, I can't get that back.
So I don't have a picture of Danny.
That's tough to hear.
Something I thought was always really inspiring, though, is that you did create that
strain in his honor.
Is that something you have a plan to maybe try to work with further?
Maybe bring it back?
I think I've heard you speak about it on the Weed Nerds episode, but I think you also
said that the stock's kind of gone as well.
Yeah, the taco mom was lost.
And then not only that, you know, Danny boy was very special to me, Danny, and so was
Danny boy. So the 500 and something seeds that I created, if you don't have a cut, you
don't get to see it either.
So if we just go back to the Canadian part of the story, you were at your friend's
house growing the weed there.
How did you manage?
Sweetly. OK, so what strains were you growing in Canada at the time?
A lot of the same stuff. AB High had given us AB and high and the dab, the blueberry,
cheese, G13, AK-47, all those.
And I can shorten the Canadian story simple because we don't need to tell a lot of
time. I lived in a Winnipeg.
It was 45 below, freezing as shit.
We moved into a house and we grew 10 pounds of dank in two months and we dropped it
onto the street. And the cops were like, where the fuck did this come from?
I met a kid named Miles.
Weed was twenty two hundred a pound in Canada.
I said, well, I don't sell my weed for twenty two hundred.
We're going to thirty two hundred.
He said, you'll never do it.
I harvested, showed it to him.
They said, yeah, we'll pay thirty two hundred for that.
And then within a month we got busted.
I mean, the cops knew what they knew that there was weed in the city and they just
chased it back to us. And never forget.
So in Florida, when I got outrated, they kicked my door down, held a machine gun to my
head, put the knee in my back, generally treated me like shit, stole everything from the
house, stole my CDs, just treated me like shit.
In Canada, they rang the doorbell.
Hey, Mike, how you doing?
Sit down. Don't be silly.
And I sat down and while they were busting us, they found the warrant.
So you'll love this one.
I love to tell the story.
Stayed in Canada for a long time in a place called the Headingley Hilton built in 1929.
I was a chef. I cooked.
It wasn't the worst gig you ever had for 12 months in jail.
I got high in jail.
I had food in jail.
You could have a blanket so you could beat off in jail.
A lot of things you can't do in America.
So it was like the worst experience of my life.
So then they deported me to America and at the border of Dakota and Winnipeg, they let
me out. Cavalier, North Dakota.
I stayed in this little box and the guard cooked macaroni and cheese and hamburger helper
and peas. That was supper.
That's how small this place was.
And they held me and they asked Florida to come get me and Florida didn't want me.
So they held me for 30 days and I had a law there that says if Florida doesn't come get
you in 30 days, they'll let you go.
So they let me go. So I moved in down in
to the city and went to work with a friend of mine named Squid.
I worked as a heating and air salesperson.
I made a lot of money.
I went to your house and gave you an estimate.
I was good at my job. And one night I went through a damn speed zone.
The guy picked me up, came to the car.
He goes, you know, you got a warrant. And I said, yep.
And I said, I got a warrant in Florida.
They're not going to come get me.
Well, this place was a little different.
They held you for nine months and they call Florida every day.
So in the 11th hour, the very 11th hour,
they came and got me. I started talking to Jill at the time.
Jill was writing me every day and we had started a relationship.
They got me at the last hour, 1159.
And there's something that this is part of the story.
There's something in America called Trans Corps.
Go look it up on the Internet.
Trans Corps prisoner services.
That's so beautiful.
We transport your prisoners in luxury.
Fuck you.
They strapped us together in a school bus and drove us
10,000 miles and fed us McDonald's.
And when you pass by the jail you're supposed to go to, you ride right by it
because they can keep you on the bus for 30 days
and they make a thousand dollars a day per prisoner.
And they keep it full and they drive it out around.
And there's hundreds of them in America right now.
It is the most egregious shit I've ever heard in my life.
It's called Trans Corps.
And I was shackled to another man for 17 days and I shit in a steel box
and I was fed McDonald's three times a day.
And I swear to God, that's a true story.
I'm not sure I've ever heard of that.
That's really kind of scary.
You know, it's how they transport a prisoner from one place to the other.
And the reason they treat you so shitty is because you're convicted.
You're not, you know, you're not like going to court.
You're on the run or you're moving.
And it's it's rough.
I was I was strapped to a guy that blew his dad away with a shotgun.
So it's pretty, pretty crazy to take a guy who grows pot
and has a loud mouth.
I mean, if I have a flaw, I have a loud mouth. That's it.
And and put him through the system.
And I learned so much shit.
I learned about guns and murder.
And I mean, I learned every criminal element you could ever learn in your life
in jail. And then anyway, so that was Florida.
They dragged me down to Florida and I get to Florida.
They just let me go.
They're like, well, we don't want you anymore.
Like, why the hell did you come get me?
Because they kept calling us.
So they gave me three years drug probation, which is you basically piss once a week.
You have to go every Wednesday and piss in a cup for three years.
And I did it. I quit smoking weed and I passed that test and I got off probation.
That's incredible.
I couldn't imagine even having to have like a year at three years.
So were you growing during that time as well and just abstaining?
You bet. No, you bet I was growing.
Fuck, I couldn't do that.
Remember the story, remember the story when the guy called me and he said, how are you doing?
How's it going? And I said, man, everything's going fucking great.
I was standing in the grow room, but I didn't smoke.
You fail a piss test on this kind of thing.
You go back to jail. So it's not like you don't get a wrist slap.
If you have two years and four months left and you piss dirty, you go back to jail.
It was pretty incentive, you know?
Yeah. Jail or not get high.
So I guess from a different angle, those were kind of financially profitable years
seeing as you were just just a marketer.
Yeah. Florida's, you know, Florida's was around seven thousand dollars a pound.
And I lived in Gainesville and we were just pumping it out to the college there.
And ounces were four hundred to four fifty, maybe five hundred on the weekend.
And I mean, it's the drug war created these prices.
I bought my first bag of weed for forty dollars.
So thank you, Nancy Reagan.
Appreciate that nice car I drove in that badass house.
It was really nice of you to give me a raise.
Yeah, there's a lot of parallels in Australia right now.
I think, you know, the prices are arguably even a little higher than what you're quoting.
They used to be. But yeah, very much the same thing.
You know, it's supply and demand to the largest extent.
Absolutely. So what type of strains were you growing in Florida and were you aware of any other kind of notable people in the Florida area doing their thing?
Like, I mean, did you think like, oh, there's definitely someone in the town over and they're putting out some good stuff?
You know, I've seen it. Yeah, it's great.
Thank you for the opening to this killer story.
So I met a dude named Tommy Holland.
He passed away last year, by the way.
Good guy. But excuse me.
I met him and he came into my house and he had a joint of this shit.
It was fluorescent green.
And I was Gainesville Green.
If you're from the South, you know what I'm talking about.
But it had a name.
But he goes, it's Mekinope Moonbeam.
I was like, what? He goes, we got the Mekinope Moonbeam and the Mekinope Madness.
Now, I find both of these strains a little leafy now as a grower and breeder.
But at the time, they were fucking Afghanis that finished at nine weeks and we were getting two and a half pounds of butt off of them.
And I mean, we were just crushing it.
We were using hydroform 1000s on light movers and in a bedroom.
I was getting four pounds every 60 days.
So, I mean, that's twenty eight thousand dollars every two months in a fucking two bedroom apartment.
So. That's you know, that's what we ground, we literally ground.
I had a little desk downstairs that I interneted and stuff.
And this part of the story always cracks me up.
So I was on the Internet called Merck Internet chat relay.
We talked. Same thing.
Trading clones, trading information.
I was in pot, weed, reefer and all the stuff.
And lots of friends that are on the Internet now or were in those IRC days.
It's a lot like Instagram.
I mean, to be honest with you, we're chatting and talking.
It's just got some more pictures.
But I was online and there's this, you'll love this.
We made a sound wave that said, I think I can recreate it.
It said, hello, this is sub cool or room with a bong hit.
And then I go forever.
And then I. So we used to play it.
It was a real bong hit that went on for a really long time and they used to play it.
So as I know, you got to do to play it is type wave sub slash in the text and it plays.
So I'm cuffed. I'm sitting on the couch.
My friends don't know I'm on the couch cuffed.
And so they keep playing the fucking wave while the cops run out.
So so the cop reached over and snatched the cord out of the wall.
And when you snatch a computer out on Merc, it does something called a K line in the text box.
This is K line.
And three of my friends swear to God said, I wonder if something got busted.
In the channel, they were like, I wonder if sub got busted.
And then I didn't come back for a month.
They go, that is kind of a funny one.
So from Florida, how did you then transition to the West Coast?
Well, once I got once I got out of Florida, I talked the guy into letting me come to Oregon to be with Jill.
I convinced him that I had a job and I didn't.
And I don't mean like at a fucking gas station.
I'm actually a trained engineer, heating and air professional.
I do blower door technology.
I understand refrigeration, gas, piping, electrical.
My dad taught me all that when I was young.
So I told the guys, I got a job with the train corporation making like eighty thousand dollars a year.
I can't get it here.
So he let me go out there and then I had three days to get the job.
So I opened up the book.
I went to every train dealer and I sold the fuck out of myself.
And one guy's wife said either this guy is full of shit or he really knows a lot about heating and air.
And and I really do.
So they gave me a job.
And that was you know, that was out there with Jill.
And I worked every day up in Lyons, Georgia, as I started literally framing in houses because he wasn't impressed when I had to have him call my probation officer.
By the way, after I got the job, hey, buddy, I need you to make a call for me.
So he put me to work roughing up houses, putting in ducks and shit.
But it just wasn't long.
He could tell I worked my ass off and I was a good guy.
So I became head of sales and I started growing cannabis in Oregon under the medical program in a home that me and Jill had.
We moved to the country to a bigger house and I filled the fucking upstairs with weed as it I grew weed.
I sold weed. I made seeds.
Part of the success of Subcool is the weed I grew.
I mean, we sold some seeds and shit.
But while Jill was raising kids and homeschooling and jamming and things that mom do, I grew reefer and I fucking sold reefer as much as I possibly could.
Because I want to put the kids to school.
I want a nice house.
I want to buy nice things for my family.
I wanted to have a retirement.
I pay taxes like any good American.
I voted. I will fucking tell you one thing right now about Subcool.
I pay my fucking taxes.
My accountant is L.H. Harris and I pay my taxes and I always have.
I think that's important.
So that's how basically we got started.
We worked there. We formed a company and we sold stuff on the Internet.
It wasn't long and I built the website.
I will tell you that I hand typed every fucking word, took every picture.
When people want to talk about claiming things, you know, in my organization, there's only one guy that wrote built that website.
There's only one guy that did the pollination.
Same thing with all the breeders.
When I went out and I found Jinx and Odie and all those guys, they're great people and they're great growers and everything.
But I had to teach them how to breed.
They weren't breeders.
Here you take a male, stick it in here.
You take this much time.
You want to stagger this male seven days.
You want to stagger this male nine days and taking nothing away from these guys.
Nothing. Some of the most talented people in the world I have worked with with giant egos.
But I took their seeds and I sent them overseas and I put them on catalogs and I put them on posters and I put them on high times magazines.
And we developed these strains.
So when people talk about, oh, so I didn't make it.
Well, bullshit.
I shipped it to fucking Amsterdam and I set up a store.
And I sold it.
And if you're one of my breeders that are out there talking shit about me that don't work for me anymore, there's a reason your shit's in Canada.
There's a reason your shit's in Israel.
And that's because I sent it there.
And I wanted to make that very clear.
So just to maybe clarify, why do you think Odie and Jinx, for example, because I think you mentioned those two specifically.
Why do you think they have just moved on to doing their own thing?
Or is there a reason why they've moved on?
I'm hard to work with.
I'm very type A. It's money.
So I'll give you the money.
So I used to pay these guys $2 for seeds and sell them for four.
When they got famous enough, they just sold them for four.
Sounds simple.
Don't need subcool no more.
Everybody knows who we are.
But it's the egos that problem.
And I'll tell you right now, Jinx is a great guy, great breeder.
And I hate it ever got like this.
The fact remains, if you work for Pepsi Cola and you develop a product and Pepsi Cola spends $50,000 developing your product.
It's Pepsi product.
It's simple patent and trademark law.
The only difference between now and then is if you do business with me now, you sign a contract and we agree on everything, including the divorce.
What happens if you don't pay the bills?
What happens if you don't provide the seeds?
What happens if your seeds harm Aphrodite?
Well, we have a contract.
And the only difference, I'm so sick of this.
The only difference was two guys broke as fuck, shook hands on a deal.
And then later down the road, there was a shitload of money involved and the handshake didn't meet anymore.
And if people don't understand that, I really don't care.
That is the real truth of the matter.
I busted my ass traveling around this country.
I wrote books and put magazines in it.
Thousands of posts.
Did not create these strains.
Not saying I did.
I marketed them.
That's it.
It's it's law.
If you create something as a company, it becomes your proprietary property.
And I've never done anything different.
I don't breathe with those strains, anything.
I simply want somebody to give me some simple credit and I'm going to go hard on this.
When Jinx walked on stage in one fucking cannabis cup with high nine pound hammer and he won it, all I wanted to say was, thanks, sub.
The fuck?
What was wrong with that?
But instead of that, we created a war and I lost a friend.
And now we all are this division of people.
We don't even dislike each other.
Awesome family, great people.
But that's what happened.
That's the story.
It was money.
$2 wasn't enough.
So let's sell it on the open market for $4.
And I don't flaw anybody.
I think everybody should get in business.
But if you do business with me now, you sign a contract.
Contracts are how we do business.
The reason we didn't sign contracts in the old days is because it was against the law.
That's that's the best I can say it.
I don't harm anybody.
But when you take and make a menu and you put nine strains on it and you create artwork and you ship thousands of packs of seeds and then you don't get credit for it, you're going to get mad.
And that's why a lot of people think I'm a dick.
All I want is credit for the work I did.
Does that sound like an asshole?
With that being said, we see a lot of the strains that were formally released under TGA now under their respective breeders individual line.
Is that because you guys have kind of come to an amicable conclusion in regards to that?
Or is that because the contracts ended?
Like?
No, I just don't do it.
I'm not going to make those strains.
I don't want to make any of them.
I don't.
There's nothing wrong with it.
I make my own strains.
And I'm not making or recreating anything made by anybody that's ever made with me.
It's not like that.
Now, in my new business, we process cannabis under my like anything that I've ever processed under my label.
I'll process into hash or flowers.
I'm not talking about breeding cannabis.
I mean, you can go out and buy 50 pounds of jelly bean and make hash out of it and sell jelly bean hash, can't you?
You can.
That's all I'm doing.
I prefer to work with strains that I worked with.
If my name was on a pack, then I prefer to sell that strain of dispensary.
It's just kind of common sense.
And I don't think anybody would deny that I helped develop this stuff.
But as far as recreating it, breeding it, I don't.
I don't.
That's not what I want.
I'm not trying to make money off of anybody.
All I want is one thing.
Yeah, man, the guy worked his ass off for us.
Thanks.
That's it.
Yeah, and I can understand that.
If there's a chat room somewhere, it's fucking melting down right now, just so you know.
Oh, it's just me and you.
But I was about to say, I think this is going to be great.
I think this is going to.
It is what it is.
I'm not going to.
You know, this morning I was mad and I wasn't going to come on, but I'm not a pussy.
And I'm not going to dodge all these questions.
I'm not.
You know, I went to the school of Dank and raised forty thousand dollars for Jinks's
organization. Then I went back and did it again.
I spent my money on the hotel bills.
I spent my money on the weed, the seeds and everything.
So if I'm an asshole, I'm an asshole, you know, but I'm pretty sure I was involved.
And I will take it even further.
Farmer John is one of my hashmakers here in Arizona.
And he was talking to somebody the other day.
Somebody was online saying, oh, and he said, you know what?
I was there. I fucking watched Sub teach these people.
I watched him take the fucking plant and put it in place A by plant B and show, teach.
He said he said it to me. He said, Sub, I was there.
That made me feel good.
You know, he wasn't trying to start an argument.
He's like, Sub, you did help these people.
And I was like, thank you, John.
Yeah, I can understand that.
So I think maybe a nice way to end up this general thread would be just to say that many of the breeders who were formerly under the label have gone on to obviously achieve success in their own right.
And that's got to make you proud seeing as you're involved in it.
But another thing is that a lot of the work does have remnants of TGA lines you created.
And so surely it must be rewarding twofold because, you know, you've helped them to achieve their own success.
And there's some of your own work embedded within theirs.
I'll tell you something right now, Quantum Kush by Homegrown Natural Wonders is the single most potent plant I've ever grown in my life.
And you should buy it from an Odie.
It is fucking knock your dick in the goddamn dirt potent.
Over 30 percent.
My time wreck male was used to breed it.
And there was some controversy on that.
Me and Dioxide grew out a 10 pack of plants.
And that is where the time wreck plant came from.
I showed Joel how to pick the last male plant that shows sex.
I showed him the difference between a cordage male plant and a sex plant, a excuse me, a drug recessive plant.
And that plant went around and is still used today.
And that's it. That's it. I don't want it.
Go buy a Quantum Kush.
It'll knock your fucking dick in the dirt.
Go buy Doctor Who.
It's awesome.
They both were created with a time wreck male.
That's it.
So this is going to sound like a weird question, but I heard this and I don't think there's any particular good spot to slot it in.
So I'm just going to slot it in right now.
I heard that some bikies came up to a TGA booth at one of the cups and said, stop using the Hells Angels name.
And is that true?
Is there any truth to that?
Not true.
Not true.
Have you heard that story?
I have heard that story.
That's not.
Do you have any idea where it maybe comes from?
Yeah.
Troll rumors.
It's not that Hells OG cut doesn't belong in the game.
That doesn't belong to Hells Angels.
They live right next door to me.
They don't give a shit about a cut.
Give me a break.
Yeah.
It's just the name Hells Apes named at Harborside.
I mean, it's not it's not nearly as deep as you think.
And I'll tell you something.
Blow your mind.
We lost the Hells OG cut last year at one of our breeding facilities.
So the 8000 Jesus OG seeds that exist today, that's it.
That's it.
Okay.
And so would you ever look to recreate it or are you of the opinion if something kind of leaves like that, you just want to move on?
Well, here's my smart ass answer.
I think as it dies off, we'll find a new OG male and we'll kill Jesus.
And then when we make a new one, we'll resurrect him.
But we'll see.
We'll see.
My new business is growing cannabis.
I don't need to make seeds.
We are now germinating 1000 Jesus OG seeds and finding the best two phenotypes.
Those phenotypes will be logged into Phylos, Kandor, testing labs, be listed, trademarked as our clone and protected.
And then that clone will be grown and sold in dispensaries and my company name will go on.
It'll be grown under something called the Dank Standard, which sets minimum for terpenes, cannabinoids and sets a standard for not having pesticides.
And we test everything three times.
And so for long, we hope that you'll be able to go to a dispensary and buy a cannabis product that's in a nitrogen filled box that was prepared by a professional that is the exact same cannabis that you will buy in Colorado.
Oregon, Washington and California, and the way we can do this is we are setting up these facilities in each state.
So I'm in Arizona now.
I'm a D.A.
I can sell to all 131 dispensaries and I can buy from 131 dispensaries.
I'm setting the same thing up in Nevada right now and also in northern California.
So we grow the cannabis in the facility there.
The seeds are put out there.
The clones are put out there and we're not crossing state lines.
We don't even change banks.
Money from Colorado stays in a Colorado bank and stays in a Colorado company.
This was all formed by my partner, T.J.
Will and three lawyers who came up with what they say is a landmark way of doing business.
Instead of growing cannabis in one area and shipping it to another, we're going to set a set of standards to produce it.
And I don't know if you're watching me, but we hit 96 percent THCA today with CBD-A.
I don't know what the hell it is.
So we are knocking the charts off.
With quality, this stuff was tested three times.
We spent $3,000 testing the cannabis flowers.
And then we're testing the extracts twice.
The reason I'm doing this is because Arizona specifically has no testing, no state testing, and people are smoking poo, stew and avid and all kind of shit.
And we go out and buy cannabis.
We test it.
We make sure that doesn't have mold and trash.
And that's the cannabis we use.
The time of selling cannabis with crap on it or grown in poorly has got to go.
This medicine, it's not medicine for everybody.
Some people like to get really fucking stoned.
But if you have an autoimmune system, you need to make sure there's not shit on your weed and you make sure there's not avid or SM-90.
And it's a set of standards that we are very proud to uphold.
And it is we think is the new future.
I do not see the seed business staying where it was in the past.
The home of the five dollar grams here.
So many people in the world used to grow cannabis because that's the only way to get it.
It ain't gonna be very long at all.
You're gonna be able to go to Walmart and buy weed.
You're gonna be able to go into a liquor store and buy weed.
And Americans generally like to smoke shitty pre-rolls, not good cannabis.
So the people who are going to grow cannabis are the people like us that have a very serious passion for it.
I think a huge market of people who used to grow recreational get weed.
We'll just buy it.
I mean, growing weed is the hard work.
It's a lot of dedication.
And if they can go buy weed, I think the seed business will fall off.
And there's another thing.
Clone business has taken off.
When I started doing this, you had to buy seed.
You can go buy a clone right now of all 40 of my strains in Sacramento.
You can drive to Alpine Alternative and buy the damn clone.
You can buy the clone that I selected.
You can go get my time wreck that I grow here.
So why you need to buy a pack of seeds?
So I see a shift.
That's why I'm growing flowers now.
Still a breeder.
Still, I made 12 new strains since my house burned down.
But in the old days, we were basically the only seed company other than some Europeans.
And there was Cali Connection.
Then there was DNA.
There's 12 new seed companies every day.
The market's thin.
Without a doubt.
Do you feel though that part of the drive people have to buy seeds is that there's almost a similarity between
gambling. It's a very small risk, but maybe it'll be a really big payoff.
And I think that plays into it.
Because I think the majority of people know that their chances of getting something phenomenal from a pack of seeds.
Obviously, it improves with breeder selection.
But for the most part, you can get clone only.
So it'll probably be better than what you get out of most packets.
I think that's part of it.
But there's an unknown.
And you guys are going to laugh.
Do you know where like I'm just going to throw a number out there and y'all can beat me up.
It's probably 30, 40% of the seeds are never grown out.
People collect seeds like baseball cards, bro.
Wow.
I got some 2003 Black Christian.
Well, grow it.
Fuck, they're probably bad by now, you know?
Yeah, that's my feeling.
No, it's huge.
I have guys that show me their collection on Instagram and I'm like, Jesus, dude, you own $10,000 worth of seeds.
Yeah.
Just got to hope they pop.
So with all the things you were just mentioning, it sounds very much like it's kind of the general industry is moving that way.
Something I wanted to mention, though, is that yourself and a few other companies do outsource some of their strain reproduction to other breeders.
This seems to be a growing trend.
Do you think that, do you agree with that?
Do you feel it's a growing trend?
And do you feel there are any downsides of this practice?
There are downsides.
Oh, man, that's a great question.
So that's one of the wonderful things that my track.
He don't even make his own sage.
Well, we have 48 strain and there's not possible to make 48 strains in one location.
A, B, we operate in several different locations, California, Arizona, so there's that.
And you take the simple fact that we like to keep one male in one location so that we mix it up.
And the last factor is talent.
So my breeders name is Badger.
He's probably one of the best growers I ever met.
You know, I got that way.
A fucking hand trained him for three years, taught him every single thing I know.
So now he lives in another place in a nice building and he does exactly what I taught him to do with the exact same clones.
So when he makes Jack the Ripper, he makes it just like he did when he was in my basement.
Nothing changes.
Why would I change that?
You with me?
Why would I take that incredible talent away?
He just created a strain called Queen Anne's Revenge that has more resonant than I've ever seen in my entire life.
He created it with passion.
It's not a job for this guy.
He's fucking Subcool's breeder.
And he happens to be my best friend and he named his fucking son Montgomery, which is my name.
So this isn't some shack in the middle of a fucking field somewhere.
This is my fucking brother.
So that makes it a little bit different than outsourcing your genetics.
Who else makes my genetics?
Friend of mine named Norstar.
I've known him for 25 years.
His house was the house I took a shower in after my house burned down.
His kids are my godchildren.
Again, outsource?
Yeah.
I talk to these people every single day and he has 75 mother plants that no one else has.
That's why we work with him.
Yeah.
Anyone who's seen Norstar's library or his Instagram feed in general, it's quite impressive.
To be able to work with Happy, are you kidding me?
To be able to call this guy up and say, man, why don't you cross A times B?
And he goes, sure, sir.
You got it, bro.
If we just go back to the storyline for a moment, let's go back to, I think, correct me if I'm wrong, I think it was shortly after you moved to Oregon.
Is this when you popped the packet of Space Queen?
Yeah.
So great.
That's great.
So, and by the way, everybody thinks we should stop calling it Space Bomb because nobody knows what it is.
It's simple.
Vic sent me a packet of Space Queen.
When I left the United States, I left all my seeds at Danny's house.
I didn't know where the hell I was going.
The pack of Space Queen was taped underneath the keyboard.
Now this gets creepy.
At Danny's wake, I had one of my friends go into his office and get all the seeds and send them back to me.
Danny would not have wanted them to be thrown away.
I cracked those seeds and from that we found Tiny Bomb, which is a female Space Queen plant.
We found C, which we call Cherry, which we have since gotten rid of.
Then we found The Dude, which is our Space Queen male.
We call him The Dude.
And he's made over 60% of all our crosses.
I've taken, all he does is cross this.
Yeah.
This is one plant out of a billion for real.
You could cross it with a turnip and it would get you high.
That's why we use him.
He also infuses, excuse me, infuses a cherry flavor.
So if you have a grape strain and you cross out, cross sometimes the strain, it becomes a grape cherry strain.
That's how we made Kuve.
We took a strain that tasted like chocolate and crossed it with Space Queen and it tastes like cherries and chocolate.
Kuve is means to combine two things together that are good to make one better.
And I would say that chocolate and cherries are better than each one alone.
So just to try to set the record straight, it's been alleged that the Space Queen was in fact a C99 back cross.
Is that the case?
All I can tell you is Vic sent me a pack of seeds that said Space Queen with an ink pen on them.
That's the story.
You'd have to ask Vic.
And so maybe a different way to approach this question and to kind of satisfy some people.
If you were to find out that it was say a C99 back cross, would you be able to cross it?
Would you want to say try to rectify the information sources out there?
No, I don't. I don't care.
And that was funny.
I've never even heard that.
You know, Vic sent me a pack of seeds in the mail and he said they were Space Queen.
So pretty sure that's what they were.
So I'm not aware of this.
Actually not aware of the C99.
That's a new one.
Okay.
So I guess while we're on that general topic, how do you feel about Phyllos and about the general kind of testing of plants, finding out their origins?
Is this a concept you're in favor of?
Or because I know that some people aren't in favor.
Where do you sit on that one?
We are mapping all of our mother plants.
Absolutely.
And you're indicating a problem that my ex actually talked about.
During all of the testing that we sent in to Phyllos, one time we actually made a mistake.
We did. And we sent the stem of the same fucking plant in each envelope.
I don't know if you've ever done a Phyllos test kit, but you have to take a stem and you cut a piece of it off and you wash it with alcohol three times.
And that's how you get it there.
The guy that did it for me made a mistake.
Simply had six bags and he just put one in there and they turned us into this huge thing.
And by the way, tried to destroy the reputation of my company, which is kind of cool being as the other person owns half of the company, but it didn't work because we have two strains that are pretty important.
And I love telling the story.
So one is called Cuve.
So that's Pinot Noir, time Space Queen, which has a cherry flavor.
And there's Tinto de Verano, which is Taste of Summer.
And it's Pinot times Jack the Ripper.
And it has a lemon taste and those strains are easy to detect.
And if you grow them out, they're there.
I got a friend named Eagle right now.
And it's grown out 45 of my strains.
I was talking to him last night.
I said, well, what do you think of this bullshit?
He goes, well, I got Cuve and it tastes like chocolate and cherries.
And I've worn the cup here.
And I've got your Tinto and it's lemon.
But even funnier is everything burned up in the damn fire anyway.
So now we're dead.
We're logging our new males other than dude.
So it is what it is.
I checked it again and it was right.
I've taken so much heat on this.
I've never actually told him.
So we made a mistake on the clipping that was sent in, but not the resulting clone because the clone gets tested all the time.
And when we test our strains that are made with the clones, they test right.
Go on Filos and look.
Go look at Jack the Ripper.
Go look at Jilly Bean.
Go look at all the strains.
They're right.
But people in the business wanted to turn this into this huge thing because, Hey, if you can make sub look like a dumbass, you can slow his business down and take his business.
It is what it is.
My friends and my fans that grow my genetics love them.
The shops here that grow Jesus and time wreck, they laugh at this shit.
They think it's the biggest internet joke in the world, but it is something I had to address.
And that's, that's the very bottom truth of it.
The space bomb we have Jill's got a copy of it.
I've got a copy of it.
Mendo dope just pill the cork will mail because I cork will mail burn up.
It's headed to filers right now to get tested.
Jack the Ripper was pulled by 25, um, from Badger.
So we've got three males headed to filers right now.
We're going to test three and catalog three males and chase them to the system.
And we're rebuilding from the fire.
So, you know, I think filers is a very important mechanism, but I think the other
problem with filers, if you actually go right now to the filers galaxy as a layman and try
to read it, you can't understand it because I can't understand it.
So I have to ask Nishan the owner and me and Nishan are friends and he's been on the
show and me and, um, filers and sub cool seeds are pretty tight.
So that's pretty much it.
We'll have all 30 of our moms and dads catalog by the end of the year, and they'll
get a hologram certification for our program.
And when we take a clone into a shop or something like that, we'll know exactly what it
is because it'll carry certification.
So the stuff from the old days, it won't be like that anymore because we have open
source breeding like we've never had because we can look at it.
You guys can go look at it.
So I think everybody needs to get involved and log their males.
And I got to go back.
God's pussy is logged into the filers for galaxy, by the way, and I can't change it
because I didn't enter it.
There you go.
So go look it up.
I may have misheard you, but I think you said that you weren't going to get space dude
tested. No, we hadn't.
It's in there. Space dude.
Oh, OK. Yes.
I was just going to say if so, why was that?
I was thinking maybe I was going to say, is it possible to maybe try to like propagate a
clone from just a cutting?
Because if so, I could understand why you'd not want to send your prize mail in.
Yeah, no, no, they can do that.
And here's another thing. It's kind of cool.
We know now that we can actually take a plant and bring it down to a cell cryo cloning,
and you can ship the cell.
I mean, we could talk about this for hours, but if you can take a plant down to a single
cell and put it in a cryo or share and ship it, you can ship a cell.
It ain't a plant. So we can move genetics nowadays.
I mean, you'd have to get a lawyer involved to talk about the rest of it.
But as far as the ability and a fucking heartbeat, you can ship a cell and a cell can be
propagated. So that's going to be the new a new thing of cannabis is coming pretty soon.
And that's cellular cloning.
The clone is going to be able to be moved around the world.
And we see this coming in the next five years.
Yeah. OK, so I did have another one or two questions on Space Queen.
I wanted to bash out before we move on.
One of the common sentiments I've heard is that some people feel the repetitiveness of
Space Queen across multiple different strains can kind of just ultimately lead to if you
were to, say, grow out a few packets of TGA, you might find those more Space Queen phenos
popping up repetitively, which is obviously to be expected.
Do you feel like that is a little bit of a detriment, like in that if I were to say grow
three or four packs of TGA, I could end up with, say, half of them being essentially
really similar? No, not even close.
You can go in any dispenser in America and look at all 40 of my strains.
They're not saying it's in a vortex is Apollo 13 times Space Queen.
It tastes like baby puke and peaches.
It's got a very pronounced, sick, sickly smell, but in a good way.
Jack the Ripper smells like lemons.
It's pure lemons.
Kuve is also these are all Space Queen crosses.
It smells like chocolate with cherries.
Every single one of them has a distinct profile, and that's because the mother plants are
so strong. I can differentiate.
I can take five jars and differentiate from them.
Now, do all of my strains have a fruity,
pungent, pukey smell?
Yeah, I like that shit.
I don't like fuel.
I don't like Goober's rag.
I mean, we have a Kim D Tom Jack Ripper, which is brutal.
I don't like it. I don't like grease.
That's a personal thing.
When I started breeding, this is what I wanted.
Grape, lemon, banana, lime, orange,
cherry and melon.
I wanted a rainbow and I fucking did it.
Yeah, undeniably some very tasty weed, which kind of brings us to another question.
I think this this one definitely depends on kind of the lens in which you view the
question. But another kind of sentiment you commonly hear from people is that TGA
strains, extremely tasty, but generally not the most potent.
Have you heard this sentence? And how would you respond to that?
I would respond to the Jesus I ran today for extract tested at 26 percent and dumped a
fucking pile of crystalline like you've never seen in your life.
So I call bullshit.
So what I was going to what I was thinking was in a way, though, I guess the other way to
view it is even if even if you did kind of think, oh, well, even if that's the case, there's a
certain niche because the follow up statement that people will say is a lot of people I
know really like the TGA strains because they're not just going to like make you totally
retarded and they've got a lot of flavor.
And, you know, it's a good often a good like this.
This might lay me a bit of heat, but it's like it's good weed to like get people into maybe
the more obnoxious stuff like the gassy stuff and all of that.
Do you feel like there is a market there to feel like someone who's looking for the most
tasty weed and, you know, that's their main criteria?
That's great. You were really good at this just so you know.
Yeah, I mean, there is a reason we have 48 strains on our menu and, you know, not everybody
wants to smoke Vortex and be scared shitless and puke on the ground like Matt Rize did when
he smoked a joint with me.
You can smoke a joint of chili bean and lay around and want to fuck.
You can smoke some Quirical and kind of lay around on the couch and just be mellow.
They're all different.
I mean, they're not just all cannabis.
We call it cannabis, but there's reasons.
Cheesequake is one of my favorites.
Cheesequake is in the 18 to 21 percent range according to how you grow it.
So that doesn't blister your forehead or make you scared.
But it's got a nice Danish taste.
It rolls around your tongue.
And the Merciam from the Quirical brings an overall calming to you.
So when you smoke it, you're relaxed, but you're not scared shitless and you can focus.
Like my Jax Cleaner 2, you couldn't type on Jax Cleaner 2 if you had to.
Your vision blurs.
You can't see very well and you can't focus.
But you take another strain of mine, like Third Dimension, which is done in like 49
days. It has a very coconut pineapple kind of flavor.
I can smoke that shit all day.
I wouldn't call it weak.
It's just a different way of a profile.
So what you say definitely has a lot of truth.
And, you know, I don't think cannabis is all about just getting blasted.
I mean, I get up in the morning, love to smoke some of the more sativa mixed hybrids.
Chili bean in the morning makes me laugh and giggle and shit.
But like if you smoke Vortex in the morning, you wouldn't want to get in your damn car.
You'd be going, why are they following me and shit?
So to me, cannabis is not just a medicine and a recreation, it's a sacrament.
So if I want to trip, then I'm going to take something that's like that.
But if I want to listen to, you know, Peter Frampton and lay around and make out, then
I'm going to pick another kind of weed.
So to me, cannabis is just all over the place.
And, you know, that's what we talk about.
We talk about the cannabis that actually makes you smarter.
Apollo. I'll never forget when I was making Apollo 13 BX.
I'd be online typing and I'd be staring at a cursor.
If you write, you know, that blinking cursor and I would say, I'm going to smoke a bowl.
And the next thing you would hear is typing.
It was literally I was like, wow, I can make one bowl of this Apollo 13 and start typing.
So I don't think you can categorize any cannabis as one thing.
Yeah, I think that's a really good answer.
So something I did want to ask you is what do you think outside of, say, Space Dude and Space
Queen would be a strain that you think really nicely embodies TGA seeds?
Quirkle was a project.
I mean, Quirkle's, you know, somebody called fake ass Urkel the other day.
Well, I mean, we know it's not we know it's Urkel because it's tested.
It's the same one that three of us use.
Joel didn't even get his from me.
They just happened to be the same plant.
But what I wanted when I made Quirkle was a breeding plant.
I wanted a way to a paintbrush of purple and grape.
Urkel's a female plant and I don't believe in feminizing.
So I was like, well, what can I do?
I was like, well, what about if I out cross or time Space Queen?
Cool. And then since Space Queen is cherry and not colored and Urkel is grape and
colored, as we look at the progeny, we can see the variance.
If it's really fucking purple and short, it's Urkel dominant.
If it's really limey green and cherry and tall, it's Space Queen dominant.
And you can see it.
You can also see the males.
And I'm not going to get into discussion on male selection because that's another
game. But you can see the Quirkle dominant males and you can see the Space Queen
dominant males. So if you want to breed something and you want to make it grape
like we make, we just took him and we made grape goo.
So we took an Afgooie and we crossed it times a purple Quirkle male.
The thing actually gets purple leaves.
It has a very great scent.
It's very Indica dominant and has a ton of myrcium in it.
So with that male, we can control the flow of the strain.
Do we want to taste grape?
Conversely, we also have a Quirkle male that is a cherry flavor and produces more
resin. It tends to make a strain less short.
It tends to leg out a little bit.
It has larger trichome heads and the trichomes themselves have a larger amount of
liquid in them.
So as a grower breeder, these are traits I can literally see.
So in order to make something, I had to create Quirkle.
So I had to make a seed that would grow a plant that was a male plant.
And that male plant would either give the attributes of purple, grape or cherry.
And that's how you control a breeding program.
I had to make Quirkle in order to make anything.
I couldn't make Cheesequake without making Quirkle.
And Cheesequake is grown by everybody.
It's big and chunky.
It's a fun strain to grow.
Mindo Dove loves growing it.
They got 12 pounds on their outdoor.
And all I did was create a male plant and then cross it times cheese.
And so using that formula, I can do it times everything.
Anything you have that you want me to turn purple and give it a great flavor, I can do
so. So I can take something that's lemon.
I can make grape lemons.
I can take something that's cherry and make grape cherry.
Or if I want to make it more cherry, I'd use the cherry male.
Did I lose you?
No, no, no, no.
I'm just trying to take it all in.
Yeah. So that's it's to me a male plant is a paintbrush.
OK, perfect. So one of the earliest kind of tips, I don't know if you'd call it a tip
on breeding, but I just I vividly remember it from the Weedin' It episode.
And I think you said it in a few.
You said something to the effect of you think that the male brings generally potency and
the female brings more of a structure.
I might be, you know, getting that vaguely wrong.
Opposite. Yeah.
Sorry, I might get something wrong.
Do you think that holds generally true?
Yeah, the male has the male, in my opinion, provides cordage and structure and also
provides pest resistance that nobody ever talks about.
The male plants there. I mean, cannabis is deplacious and the male plant and the female
plant are there for a reason.
And in my opinion, when we feminize a plant, man, I got lots of friends that do it.
We're we're presenting a slightly less quality version.
I think that nature would always make a better version than that.
That hybrid vigor is what I've always liked.
You don't get it when you feminize seeds.
So I just always believe that you have to work with the real male plant that has the
tin chrome. So the mix with the other tin on the female, that takes a deplacious train.
Those genes mix together and you get the hardiness from the male plant with the potency
of the female plant, with the pest resistance of the male plant, with the resin
production of the female plant.
It's a fucking puzzle and it's why it's called breeding.
And it ain't pollen shunking.
You got to know what you're doing and how you know what you're doing is you make 97
strains and that's how many I've made.
And so I think something which might jump to mind for people who are paying attention
is that the number you just quoted is obviously a lot more than what's been at market.
So obviously you've culled some that didn't make it.
What for you is the process of deciding whether a pack makes it to market?
For example, a sentiment that I really like was Bodhi said that he pops a 10 pack, just a
single 10 pack to kind of get a feel for what the customer would experience.
And if he's not happy with that, then he feels it's probably not good for market.
Where do you sit on this one?
Well, about 12 years ago, we saw a problem with people buying 10 packs of the shows for
$120.
So we created the five pack and the way we created the five pack is we grew out tons of
our strains, five seeds.
We wanted to make sure we got a keeper out of five seeds.
We did.
If the five pack theory didn't work, my ass wouldn't be living in this house I paid for
because I'm a profitable businessman.
That's a five pack sucked.
We wouldn't sell them.
And so, yes, Bodhi's right.
You have to have a customer get what he wants out of that pack.
If he doesn't get a representation out of it, then he's not going to be a happy
customer. And five's tough.
They don't get it, I'll usually replace them.
But it works all over the place.
I mean, it works. So testing's huge.
So if you don't know this, we grow all of our strains ourselves and then we send 1000
seeds into the Ethernet and we watch.
We watch Instagram.
We watch Facebook and we watch Roll It Up.
And they tell us that instantaneously you start hearing it.
It's like a rumble. It's really good.
It's like grapes. Stable, healed.
And if you hear the opposite, yeah, wasn't very good.
It looked very good, which has rarely happened in this.
You know, we go the other way. But you mentioned something else.
Culling. Culling happens a lot when you get busted.
I've been busted four times.
It happens. We lost Danny boy in a bus.
We lose things, which leads to most of breeders nowadays hold our clones.
So Duke Diamond with Dominion Seed Company.
I'm sorry, just left. So he has my Jax Cleaner.
Trichome Jungle Seeds in Europe.
He has my Jax Cleaner.
But fuck you talking about getting a clone somewhere.
That took a while. So these clones are alive and they'll be there for a while.
Next year, I'd like to take these clones and get them into Fino's Seed Bank and to
their cryo cellular thing so that when I pass on these clones or
these these genetics are available for life.
And me and Will are setting up a trust that lasts 500 years just so
that this stuff will live on.
Wow. So, I mean, you just referenced Trichome Jungle, a good friend of mine and
more so a man near and dear to my heart, Duke Diamond.
He actually told me that you were the one who put him in contact with
Soul and that kind of led to the resurrection of Brothers Grimm a few years ago.
Well, how did that all go about?
Let's just say the phone call from Subcool carries a lot of fucking weight.
That's it. Soul, this guy's a friend of mine, he needs a job.
I still do it. I still do it today.
I mean, love or hate me, if I call you on the phone and ask you a favor, you're
probably going to answer the phone.
And I'm probably going to have a good reason for calling you.
You're probably going to listen to me.
And that was Soul. This guy's awesome.
Duke Diamond. Great.
Let's go together. Tommy thanks me all the time.
Yeah, it certainly got them both launched again on their own respective platforms, which
I think is a good outcome nonetheless.
So something I just wanted to loop back on quickly, just as a bit of a pot
question, when Space Queen was first released, did it stand out to you?
Was it something which caught your eye or was it only really until you popped your pack
that you really kind of started to gain traction for you?
To this day, the space bomb male we pulled out of there is still Jill's favorite strain on
the planet. That says a lot.
I mean, thousands of seeds we cracked, that one female plant is still our favorite.
Yeah, it stood out. It still stands out.
I mean, a quarter pound of tiny bomb grown properly.
It's hard to believe it looks like pot.
I mean, it's got so much resin on it and smells so crazy.
I mean, it's like, wow, this smells like cherry candy and it's got sugar all over it and
it's not even hard to grow.
I mean, you're still getting super soil and you harvest it at eight weeks.
Duh. Like you top it, you harvest it, you get two pounds of light every time.
Yeah. And so I guess maybe what I'm kind of getting at is, do you think it had
much of a following before you popularized it?
I don't think so, because Vic was kind of a cult kind of thing.
I mean, Vic, you had to know Vic and Vic was an asshole.
And you know, Vic died last week.
Did you know that?
I saw that on Instagram.
That's really sad to hear.
There was this kid, I'm sorry, I'm going to derf us a little bit.
There's a kid, there's a guy that hangs around in one of my chats and he's pretty
intelligent. I got to know him very well.
And he said, Vic's my uncle.
And I said, you bullshit.
And he told me enough stuff to convince me that Vic was his uncle.
And he was going to say, I love this story.
So he told me that he told Vic this up, cool, said hi.
And he said he just started kicking and just all agitated and all pissed off.
But no, I don't think a lot of people knew Spaceman.
And I'll tell you this.
I don't think that that pack of seeds and that male is some magical ethos or
something. I think I worked hard.
I think I took the strain and I made a shitload of genetics and I ground my ass
out for seven days a week for years and years to where you actually heard about me
and invited me on the show.
And I think any business is like that.
It takes a person that works his ass off.
And that's why, you know, about Space Queen.
I don't think anybody else breeds with it.
And I mean, there's there's 50 threads right now on the Internet.
You can go sub cool, grow Space Queen, tiny bomb.
I used to sit and grow and write, sit and grow and write.
So just as a personal question, because I would very much say to people that if I had to
kind of attribute what my influences are for this show, I would say Adam Dunn show and the
Weed Nerd. So I've got to ask what kind of inspired you to start the show?
Obviously, you had the passion for it.
But what made you decide to go?
I'm going to actually turn this into a media format rather than just a written format.
Well, we're going to back up a little bit.
Remember that that thing that I talked about, so embarrassing that I don't feel I feel like
I belong. Well, talking to the camera made me feel like I belong.
And so I did the Weed Nerd camera.
I was we lived in Oregon.
I had a little office. I grew weed.
I didn't leave very often.
You know, Jill did her thing with the kids and I stayed out there locked in the garage and
I didn't have anything to do.
So I listen to music and I started the, you know, the recorded Weed Nerd and I had a lot
of fun with it. But the current Weed Nerd, which is the live show, was inspired by the
grow to roundtable, Crazy Dago.
After my house burned down, I was at his house.
He's let me stay at his house for a couple of weeks.
And on Friday night, he has a show.
And I was like, you do it live.
He's like, yes. You don't record it.
Yeah. Now, as a problem, the old show, I use music and a lot of the Weed Nerds can stick
up. There's certain bands like don't ever play Foo Fighters, but you can play Chili
Peppers. You can play K.
You just learn this. You can play them off of YouTube and they won't copyright it.
But if you play Foo Fighters off of YouTube on a YouTube video, they will ban your
account, which is what happened to me.
I was live streaming, playing the new Foo Fighters video on YouTube, off of YouTube,
and they crushed the stream and they killed my live stream for 90 days.
But having said that, Dago, Dago taught me about the live stream and Bubble Man.
Bubble Man's format is something that I watched and I think it's stiffer than mine.
I mean, I yell fuck at my fans.
I toss people out.
I'm the Howard Stern of my show.
He's much more structured and classy.
But I will tell you, for all the people that say I'm an asshole, my fans love it.
They pick on me and try to get me to throw them out.
They they try to get me to rant on.
They they ask me stupid questions.
So I'll yell and holler at them.
They go, oh, just fucking with you.
So it's a it's a show.
It's not reality.
I'm not I don't scream and yell fuck and relax all the time.
No, it's that's a show.
I've taken Bubble Man and Crazy Dago and Vader and Pergoli and Mouse and other people
like that and formed my own character.
And I will say it one more time.
I do it because I'm lonely.
I need human interaction.
It's a self-fulfilling thing.
And I have 200 people watching me and we're listening to music and we're talking.
I would rather do that than watch TV or read or just about anything.
And because of my position, it's kind of a job, too.
I teach people how to grow cannabis.
I give free seeds to any sick person that needs them.
No questions asked.
Raise money for people who are sick.
And that platform, which is the weed nerd, allows me to do it.
So I think some some of the critics and a point brought up in the thread is that it
seems to be unclear how much of the work was done by you and how much of the work was
done by Miss Jill. A lot of people seem to think she doesn't get enough share of the
credit. Do you think that's truthful?
And, you know, is there any do you want to kind of give her credit for some things and
like make it clear that that's what she did or was it all by you?
Where do you sit on that?
I will not speak about Jill.
I'm in the middle of a brutal divorce revolving around millions of dollars.
I won't speak about it.
All right. So.
Something I noticed myself was that Jilly Bean, Jilly Bean has kind of got a bit of a
cult following around it.
I think it's because both the orange and the mango of both the parents meld together
well. But at the same time, I think it's also because there's a little bit of, you know,
a shroud of mystery around Orange Velvet.
Are you willing to comment on Orange Velvet at all?
Like, do you do you think it is skunk?
And why do you think Jilly Bean is such a successful strain?
I will not comment on Jill or Jilly Bean in this interview.
Sorry. No worries.
One of the rumors that has been going around was that at some point, I believe, Jack's
cleaner male was supposedly lost and a space queen took its place.
Do you know?
Yeah, that's the phylo sample I told you about.
Ah, that's what happened.
So the current TGA setup appears to have Jill in Oregon, you in Arizona.
Is the plan to go forward with both of you contributing under the same TGA banner?
Mm hmm. Can't answer that question, buddy.
I can make a statement if you want to make me laugh.
Yeah, you can say whatever you want.
So I own Subcool Seeds and Subcool.com.
It is mine outright.
Me and Jill share ownership of TGA and I can't I don't know what will happen.
What I hope is that Jill will be incredibly successful and make Jilly Bean and make Agent
Orange and make tons of strains and help tons of people and be happy and find happiness
in life. That's what I want.
That's a good answer. So just before you expressed that you weren't particularly into the
idea of feminized seeds, I've got to imagine there's a pretty decent demand for some
fems from you. Would you ever consider it or are you just not looking to do it?
No, it's it would it's number one, I don't believe in it.
So I don't know if you know, there are companies that make 50 million dollars a year
selling seeds to Morocco, feminized seeds to make ash.
It's certainly on the table for me.
I've been offered it. I don't believe in it.
And I certainly don't believe in making a billion seeds to send over to Morocco to make
ash out of them because they don't care that they are mephrodite or not.
It's just not my game.
Two things happened in my breeding career and they would not have happened without Joel
of North Star Genetics.
And I have to make sure I give him credit.
And we created Deadlights.
So with Deadlights, it's 26, 27, 28 percent CBD.
I don't give a shit what anybody says about me at 56 years old, I offer a strain that is
above 27 percent CBD.
I'm good. Yeah, that's I didn't think I've ever heard of CBD that high, really.
A couple of years, we had to make penny wines, we had to get the ACDC, we had to back
cross, we had to test, we had to lose a penny wise male, we had to refire it.
A house burned down. I mean, it's work.
It's like I told you before, work is work.
Right now I have Deadlights and Deadlights test over and over above 20.
And you can literally go Google this shit or Instagram or whatever you surf it and
you'll find a right now lab reports above 27 percent.
I got one on my phone. I would say that is success.
I would say that prison terms and trolls and hates and divorce and everything that's
gone on, I created a strain that helps people heal.
That's what I do. That's my passion.
And the other thing we haven't talked about is charity.
I give away so much.
I mean, yeah, I have a nice car, nice things.
I have money. I work really hard seven days a week, 18 hours a day.
Last night I was up till 230 and I got up at 6 this morning.
Don't accuse me of not working.
But if you ask me for something, I will give it to you.
If you need something, I will give it to you.
It's that simple. If you ask me kindly, I would give any human being anything.
Kids, poor people.
I mean, we're turning the pool room into RSO.
If you didn't know, my giant pool full of weed, we're going to turn it into RSO and
give it the fuck away here in Arizona.
That's what we're doing.
That's really nice sentiment.
I'm sure a lot of people will benefit from that.
I've got to ask, though, what's with the pool?
Like, you know, beyond the obvious, like, is it just to prove a point at this point?
Yeah, I'm having a blast, dude.
I got a pool in my house with like 30 pounds of weed in it.
Do you? It's awesome.
Sadly, no. It's got a stereo.
We go hang out.
We we get our beach chairs and smoke bowls and we look at the weed and we teach people
how to grow weed. And I got a dab bar.
You can come over and get hot.
My dad bar and we can talk about bar.
I mean, seriously.
But the story is true.
When I moved in here, I have Alpha One, which is a progressive fatal lung disease.
I have the lungs of one hundred and five year old man.
I don't breathe at all.
I can't walk upstairs.
I can't carry bags of concrete.
I don't do a lot but talk and yell at people.
And point my finger at things nowadays.
And so that's just something I have to deal with, you know, of having Alpha.
So that is formed almost everything I do in life.
The not being able to get around and everything.
So that's kind of how I ended up where I'm at now.
So it's just something you deal with on a daily basis.
I mean, anyone who follows your stream would see, you know, you post regularly of the
infusions you have to have to keep on top of that.
Do you find that that's helping you?
Because I remember and maybe you can clarify this for me.
It's probably two or three years ago now, maybe a little less even.
I remember that you were saying that just even generally smoking, it was really quite
irritating for the lungs and stuff.
Whereas, you know, forgive me if I'm mistaken, I think I see you puffing every now and
again. Do you think things are a little better than what they were a while ago?
Like and is that due to the medication or?
No, it's a great it's a great story and leads me into I wanted to tell a story here.
So when I was diagnosed, they told me I should never smoke again because I had lung
disease and I quit smoking. And within a couple of weeks, I'm a very nervous person.
So I got some wine and I drank it and I don't like wine.
I tried. I had me a glass and a corkscrew and I bought wine.
I bought cheap wine, I bought expensive wine.
I fucking hated it. So I bought some beer one day and I liked beer and I drank beer
and then I drank alcohol, Ciroc specifically, a couple of fifths a day.
And I turned my life into a toilet.
And then one day I decided I said, well, fuck, I'm killing myself.
I should smoke weed again.
And so I started smoking weed, even though the doctors told me not to.
Now, I smoke only hash generally, teeny, teeny hits and a little bitty pipe.
I don't dab, overheat.
I have a specific way of smoking.
It's almost a vaporizing method I do with my pipe.
But within a couple of weeks of doing that, I was able to quit drinking and quit doing
drugs and I became my old self.
I felt normal again.
So I smoke hash in spite of the fact that I'm not supposed to.
Nobody with a lung disease should smoke anything.
But I am a miserable fuck when I don't smoke cannabis.
I am a hateful, mean asshole.
So I smoke cannabis and that's it.
That was it's been a year in my life off of cannabis and I was sick and it sucked.
Now, the reason I can do better now is I moved out of Northern California.
The weather in Northern California was crushing me on the humidity, all that.
It's dry here.
And I got lost because I'm a little high.
The pool.
So I drained the pool because Alpha One sucks and the moisture was making it hard
for me to breathe.
So I drained the pool.
So I was standing around the pool one day and somebody on Instagram said,
remember Cheech and Chong?
Well, of course I remember Cheech and Chong.
The Iguana Gun, I can recite the movie.
So somebody said, you should grow weed in the pool.
So I said, yeah, we should.
So we built a floor and we started and somebody said, 300 people comment.
Either I was a genius or I was the dumbest redneck in history.
So I took that as a challenge.
Can't grow weed in a pool.
So we're growing weed in a pool and we're sponsored by SmartPots and Hortilux and
Solatec and Method Seven and Hydrofarm.
And yeah, it's an amazing thing.
And guess what?
Everybody on the fucking planet knows Subcool's got a pool full of weed.
And that's another part of what we do.
This whole craziness, like, I'm going to tell you something about your thread today.
Okay.
That little thing you put up at your avatar.
What was it?
170 comments, right?
I think so.
Yeah.
Guess what, bro?
They're talking about me.
So it doesn't matter what they're saying.
They're talking about you.
It's business.
Yeah.
All publicity is good publicity.
Sorry.
So if you guys want to keep it up, when you log onto a thread and 160 times type my name, I probably sold a whole shit load of stuff today.
Thank you very much.
I appreciate the advertising.
It's kind of on that topic.
What's it like to have the TGA brand extending into the European market?
Do you find the demands are different or the same?
Because the thing that I've seemed to notice from my very limited interactions with the European market is they tend to be more focused on the Terps.
And so with that being said, I would imagine TGA does fairly well.
Yeah.
And I will say that, and God, I got out of habit.
I it's sub cool seeds.
I actually changed the name of the company and I own sub cool seeds.
That's just the thing.
So the sub cool strains are, yeah, there's, there's a reason your buddy with tricone jungle seeds grows some of my gear.
There's a reason.
Cause he likes the Terps.
There's a reason that some of the hash makers use my stuff.
Cause they like the weird comical up cherrygasm.
Do you know about cherrygasm?
I've heard of it.
I've heard of it.
Are you kidding me?
Fuck.
It makes white.
Rosin that crystallizes as it comes out and it'll turn in those little THCA crystals.
If you press it, right.
It tastes like cherry sap.
It it's this side of having an orgasm to take a hit of it.
That's why we call it cherrygasm.
I am not kidding.
I have friends that come in my house and they're just like, as a matter of fact, when I moved here, there was a guy that was making sugar wax.
I bought all he had at full retail.
I wasn't tested.
And I was like, can I taste that?
He's like, I said, Jesus Christ, man, that tastes like smoking candy.
Can I have more?
So it's just one strain cherrygasm.
And by the way, we lost cherrygasm in the fire.
Scotty 016 was nice enough to bring the cherry pie OG back to Joel.
He has the space dude mail.
We just released cherrygasm again.
Fuck you fire.
Ain't no fire going to take me out.
So one of the claims I've seen raised by critics is that, I mean, well, let me put it this way.
You've made it clear that certain strains were discontinued because the mothers were gone.
Is that the case that pretty much all the discontinued strains fall under that umbrella or were some of them pulled from the market because there were issues that weren't realized until after release?
No, I've never had an issue with the strain.
I've I've had strains that were better.
So like Pandora's box, we took Pandora's box off the menu because it's a back cross of JTR.
It's very similar to JTR.
I don't think bullshit yet.
If you grew JTR and you grew Pandora's box, you'd be like, man, these things are very similar.
That Pandora's box right there is a lot like that Jack the Ripper female.
And all it is is a more stabilized version.
So we took it off the menu.
Guess what?
We just brought it back on the menu.
You want to know why?
Because 10 times a week, somebody goes, bring that.
Here's some ones.
Jack's cleaner blueberry.
I tried for five years to make a blueberry flavored strain.
Every time I grew grow blueberry in super soil, it pushes it in hermaphrodites.
I used to think that blueberry was a hermaphrodite strain.
I've taken heat on it.
It's not.
It's a low feeding strain.
If you put it in super soil, push it all the time.
I didn't know that back then.
I only know that now.
So I kept working with it and I kept trying to create something.
And I thought I was creating herms because the fucking males kept messing up and the females kept messing up.
It's too strong.
So I spent five years trying to do one thing and it didn't work.
I took the space queen male cross at times, Jack's cleaner, and we made Jack the ripper.
And you can say what you want.
I mean, Jack the ripper test is 6% for THC V and you can't go in the shop here and not buy it.
I would say it was a successful cross.
Without a doubt.
So something I'm always interested in is deeply embedded within that cross is the Pluton genetics, which I remember you told the story.
And I think you said that your friend sent you some of the working parts.
So I don't think you actually work specifically with the Pluton.
But do you think that that comes through it all in the cross?
Or do you think it's more of a structural, like, you know, like it's embedded in there, but you don't see it particularly.
I think Jack's cleaner is heavy on Northern Lights.
So the story is my friend, Scoosh, who passed away two years ago, by the way, all my friends are dying because we're all old.
But Scoosh, excuse me, Scoosh sent me a 100 Scoosh, Scoosh, Scoosh, Scoosh seeds.
And that's what it is.
It's Northern Lights times Pluton.
It's that thing you see me type.
Northern Lights times Pluton times Haze.
That's what he sent me.
That's what he told me it was.
And so I grew them out and I got this amazing female plant called Cleaner.
I mean, it was the best female out of 100 seeds.
Some of the females out of that pack were shite.
I mean, they just were.
They weren't any good.
The one was exceptional.
And at the time, I had a major fascination for Jack Hare.
And I had grown out a pack of Jack Hare from Sensei seeds.
I picked the last female to excuse me, the last male to show sex.
And I pollinate it.
I made Jack's cleaner.
At the time, I was heavy into drugs, steroids, fast cars, women, cocaine.
And I lost the seeds.
I have no idea where they were.
But that Jack's cleaner female was giving us a couple of friends of mine.
And when I got my shit back together, it stayed around.
I passed it out to everybody.
I think you could get it just like soul passes out as a 13.
So people don't lose it.
So who do you think some of the breeders who
still around now, but maybe just largely go unnoticed by the masses?
I don't think there is such a thing.
And we're all players now.
Kyle Cushman has a giant contract.
Duke has a giant contract.
Soul has a giant contract with Cinderella.
He grows cannabis and sells it across the nation.
And I have a little statement.
So there was only one Snoop Dogg and there was only one Willie Nelson.
There's a bunch of pot growers.
And that's what you're going to see.
You're going to see people aligning themselves with someone.
I have four felonies and everybody knows who I am.
So it was really easy for these guys to come and pick me up.
And trust me, they know all this, this, this, this drama
that revolves around me and the divorce and Jill
and all the things that happened to me, and they fucking laugh.
They go, I must have heard some cool name 35 times today.
That's why they pick me.
Soul has the same power, Duke.
I mean, tell me you wouldn't want Duke Diamond breeding for you
and putting his name on some strain.
Of course you do.
But I think that's what you're going to see moving forward.
Anyone that has done anything of fame
is going to align themselves with a company or shop.
Hell, Kyle just got a massive contract with Hydro Farm.
So he's going to be the Hydro Farm spokesman.
The fuck does that have to do with growing pot?
Nothing. He likes Hydro Farm lights.
So he's going to tell people they're good lights.
I do the same thing every day.
I got a big sign hanging in my house.
So it's just a new the branding thing.
The lining thing, the outlaw days are gone.
They just are.
It is a time of paying taxes and businesses and working with other people.
We work with a greenhouse here.
We buy their cannabis and we sell our products at their store.
We've collaborated together.
We're putting all their bud tenders and our uniforms
and some of their people in their uniforms.
And it's the only way you can move forward in this industry is to work
with people that that you can get along with and, you know, pump it up.
So Saturday, we're going to drop our sauce for the first time.
Ninety six percent THC isolate with CBD, a whatever that is.
We got nine pound hammer, Jesus and girl time.
We pre-sold a couple of hundred units and we're going to show up at 11 o'clock
and I'm a sign books and pass out things and we'll be friendly.
You know, this is working.
It's a form of work that I enjoy.
We have like a Willy Wonka thing.
Everybody gets a box and whoever gets the special box gets a book.
Dank books are almost gone, by the way.
I have 12 left and that's the only ones left.
And then, you know, give some pipes away.
Just give some cool stuff away.
Give a fan the experience, because for as much hard
asked questions, if you have asked me today, when I go in public,
people still walk up to me and treat me with massive respect.
People shake my hand and they thank me for teaching them how to grow
and teaching them how to maybe buy a house or pay their taxes or do something right.
So I enjoy what I do very, very much.
And it's very rewarding to to have so many people, you know, look up to me.
I can't tell you how many people say, hey, man, you told me how to make super
soil and then you taught me how to clone and I own a seed company now.
It's so many people and I'm not trying to take extra credit.
If you catch me right now, tonight, after the show in my stream
and you ask me a question about growing, I won't answer it.
That's what I do.
And so I noticed in the past you had done some kind of seminar things,
you even referenced it in regards to the Jinx charity.
Do you plan to do any more of these going forward?
No, my health really I really shouldn't go around a ton of people.
I shouldn't travel.
If I get a cold, like if I get a cold or flu because I got on a plane or travel,
I have to go to the hospital.
So alpha is not a joke.
If you want to Google Alpha One, it's the progressive fatal lung disease.
And it's brutal.
So, yeah, getting a cold is not good for me.
Most people that have what I have die because they get a virus or a flu.
So I don't fly all over the place and I don't generally.
I didn't go to Cushtock this weekend.
I wanted to so bad.
I hope there are people listening that know about this.
They were like, sub said he was going to Cushtock and he fucking let us down.
Man, I wanted to go so bad.
I really did.
It's a fucking smoky ass building seven hours away.
Fucking hot as shit.
It would have been detrimental to my health.
There's no way I can stand in a hot ass, dusty building breathing smoke.
And so at the last minute, I bailed and people think I'm being wrong.
I'm sorry. I was I really I was like, oh, God, I want to go be sub cool.
Can I please go stand in public and pass out seeds
and have people shake my hand and pat me on the back?
But I made the choice not to.
High times in San Bernardino.
It's kind of the same thing.
So I've been invited to be a judge there and I've been invited to be a judge
at Chalice and I've been invited to speak at both places and we may do Chalice.
But on the 20th, me and Will have a grand opening.
We're dropping sauce in 12 dispensaries here in Arizona.
So I don't really have time to go talk.
And you can watch me talk 40 hours a week.
You just have to watch.
Turn the phone on. I'm talking.
So just if we live back on that point you made about how you guys market and stuff,
you would be a good person to ask this question to.
This is a hypothetical.
I'm not referring to anyone specific.
But do you think it's possible for a breeder in today's age
to produce quality work, but not be particularly present on social media?
Do you think it's going to work or it just won't be viable in this kind of scene?
You know, that's a really interesting question
because there are certainly breeders around that don't, you know, rip up social media.
But, you know, like my favorite, one of my favorite breeders right now is Bodie.
Have you seen his camera work on Instagram?
Yeah.
All the tobacco and stuff.
Well, the resin heads and stuff he does, he's just out of control.
And so he's there.
But I don't know.
How do you how do you sell your strains if you don't tell people about them?
How do you sell the donuts if you don't tell people you got good donuts?
I mean, I think there are people working.
Well, here's one.
Badger.
Badger is probably one of the best breeders in America today.
Do you even know who he is?
Yeah, I definitely know who he is.
Well, that's why he's coming up.
Is he on social media?
Yeah.
You kind of have to almost, if that makes any sense.
So I don't think you can.
I really don't.
Yeah.
Well, I mean, just most notably having had a chat with Gooey Breeder,
I kind of think of him in that regard.
I think he maybe limits himself a bit by being so absent, you know?
Yeah, he doesn't make any money.
I mean, I'm not dogging Gooey.
He's he's got money.
He's a very successful, wealthy person.
That's not that sounded wrong the way I said it.
But does he have 45 strains on the market, selling them in every dispensary
and every shop?
Does he have a strains and attitude?
And no, it's because nobody knows about him.
We know about me and you know about him because, you know, Joel
and we know his stuff is the bomb.
Oh, yeah.
You know, he's an eclectic kind of guy.
I've only met him twice and hell, I live down the street from him.
There you go.
Closer than you would have thought.
So good, good reference, by the way.
Gooey is a hell of a breeder that doesn't that people don't know.
That's a great reference.
So something I wanted to quickly bring up this this one, you may or may not
have heard of when I remember you first talking about SuperSoul.
I'm pretty sure the cook time has always been about three months, you know.
But I swear it's like a competition now and I hear people saying, you know, like
six weeks, eight weeks.
And I just feel like it's got to be somewhat detrimental to the plant.
Do you find that reducing that cook time is detrimental to the plant?
OK, so eight weeks is really good, six, eight weeks.
Yes, if it doesn't, if you don't break down, especially if they're using
if they're not, if they're using glacial rock dust, which some of the recipes
people still use that that does not break down.
If they're using Leonardite, it's a little slower.
There's a couple of things in the mix that takes a little longer.
We have something we do.
It's completely different here.
We keep six cans made.
So if we drop three cans, we keep six.
I can tell you that I happen to know that that Jill runs nine.
So we keep them full all the time.
And I would say most of our SuperSoul is approaching two months of age.
People think it goes bad.
Soil is not going to go bad.
But remember the gnat thing, if you leave it outside for too long
and it gets moist, you can make a breeding sanctuary for gnats.
Two inches of neem crake across the top will prevent that.
Good advice, good advice.
So one of the things I saw in that thread today, someone wanted to know,
how come you were banned from Breed Bay?
I don't actually know any of the context to this.
So it's just going to be totally all new to me.
Yeah, well, I mean, Pistols was my friend and we sold stuff
and he had kind of a beef with my ex.
I never really got along.
And in the end, he owed me ninety thousand dollars.
And he basically, you know, he's overseas, pay me drafts
and he let it get up and I was hitting him on it.
And then one more order and it got too high.
And I basically he said, fuck you, I'm not paying you.
And he banned me. I did.
Is that is that a common thing dealing with seed banks nowadays?
Oh, my God. Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes.
Here's another one. I love this one.
So logic. What is logic? Which one is logic?
God, it's one of these forums I get.
He had four twenty something.
I'm sorry. Anyway, he he he tried to get me,
but I tricked him into paying me by telling him I was going to send him
another order and didn't. He got two other people.
Everybody left his site.
His site still runs and he still does business with new people.
I guess he doesn't rip people off anymore.
It look when you're dealing with an email.
What are you going to do?
Sorry, bud. Fuck off.
What are you going to do?
You're going to scream and you're going to holler
and you'll start a war on the Internet
that turns into some big drama and nobody knows the truth.
But what do you do if me and you establish business
and I just tell you to fuck off?
You know, your name's Red Baron and my name's sub cool.
Sorry. I mean, logic.
Yeah. How the hell am I supposed to collect from some guy named logic?
So it's part of the business, which is why some of the people
that we work with, like Ed Borg of Delta Nine, a 22 year relationship.
Ham Depot, 19 year relationship,
attitude, 14 year relationship.
Work with people you trust.
It's interesting you mentioned attitude.
One of the other criticisms I've heard from people is that
I think it's probably true that at one point you were definitely
one of the main breeders on attitude.
It seems like you've done very well on that historically.
What I heard was that you had a lot of influence over attitude
and who got to vend on that side.
Is there any truth to that or do you want to comment on that at all?
No, it's not true at all.
I was there when there was only a few breeders.
And so I made a ton of fucking money.
I was the guy going to the Cannabis Cup.
There wasn't anybody else really. I like a couple of people.
And then they start picking people up.
You got to realize I was there before Big Buddha.
My first High Times Cup, I stood ass cheek to ass cheek
with Big Buddha at a three by three table, him behind me.
He's selling his cheese.
I'll sell and drag the ripper.
I mean, we all kind of started from the same roots, you know.
So, yeah.
What's it like to deal with these international banks now?
Do you still have these issues like what you mentioned with Logic
or is it a bit more business like nowadays?
No, we actually have.
I have a business in Amsterdam.
I own a business in Amsterdam.
I have a bank account there.
I have a facility there.
And so I own a business in Amsterdam.
So it's not it's not the same thing as it used to be.
So, I mean, Will can go there and visit Ed's office.
It's it's not smoke and mirrors anymore, if that makes any sense.
I mean, it's a business, you know.
And so, yeah, you open up a business, you do business,
you run the money through the banks.
I know this man's name, address, tax ID number.
I have a oh, by the way, there's another thing that you're lucky
I didn't make you sign an NDA and I'm laughing.
But me and Will have a stack of non-disclosure agreements sitting next to us.
If you come in my house and we're going to talk business,
you're going to sign that shit, because if you talk shit down the road,
I'm going to bust your ass.
It's another part of this business is people can't keep their fucking mouth shut.
Yeah, no, I can totally understand that.
And nowadays, the people that we're talking to come with NDAs
and now we're having an NDA dick.
I want you to sign my NDA.
And Will, by the way, one of the smartest contract people I've met in a lifestyle
where he read this one guy's thing, he goes, no.
I said, why aren't you signing?
Because his contract says if we have a dispute, we have to go to fucking New Jersey.
Oh, yeah, we're not signing that shit.
So then the guy bought it.
He goes, why won't you sign mine?
He goes, because we're not going to dispute the shit where you live.
And they were like, OK, so he signed ours.
So we have a better NDA.
So I got to give a little bit of credit to my friend
who I have actually forgotten his name, but he helped me with this one.
Basically, in one of the old weed nerd episodes,
apologies, you ask the fan for suggestions of a strain name.
And eventually the suggestion of electric watermelon hash plant came up.
But in then kind of the next episode, you said, oh, we can't use that
because that one's already in use.
However, a lot of people will point out that there's a few strains
from the TGA stables which have taken names of already existing strains
like Deep Purple from Jordan of the Islands,
as well as Strawberry Daiquiri from Shorefire Seeds.
Do you think that, you know, like you do try to avoid
this overlapping of the names being taken?
Was it something you're aware of?
Yeah. So in the old days, it was easy.
In the old days, you made up a name and it wasn't taken.
Simple. When I started doing this, there was no such thing as a name of cannabis.
It just wasn't.
So you name anything we want to.
We can name it Dump Truck Motherfucker.
It was cool.
But now the other day, this is a great example.
So Joel just released a strain to me called Great Goo.
So I typed the fucking thing into Google and it comes up all over the place.
So I changed the name of this tester to Af Groovy.
And Joel calls me, goes, hey, it's talking, it's Great Goo.
When I said, well, no, Great Goo is he goes, no,
Great Goo is just names and shit.
There's no verified genetic heritage and we're keeping the name.
Shit changes.
So, yes, I would rather not.
The other part of it's kind of I'm pretty sure my deep purple was before Jordan's.
I was aware of the strawberry daiquiri.
OK, so I grew the strawberry daiquiri out,
the plant out, and it has to be strawberry daiquiri.
It's it has to be.
It's Kyle Cushman's strawberry cough times the THC Jack the Ripper male.
And it tastes like a fucking strawberry daiquiri.
I didn't wasn't aware of it until I had already tested it under those names.
And when I looked it up, I said, well, you know what?
There are only so many names to go around.
So that one's going to be somebody else's strawberry daiquiri.
And this one's going to be sub cool strawberry daiquiri.
It was a decision because there are just only so many names left.
Every stoner on the planet has sat around smoking weed
and put cheese times butthole times Northern Lights.
There's just nothing left.
I mean, there's a strain called Thunderfuck.
There's a strain called Dogshit.
There's 12 strains with the watermelon name.
And so, yeah, I really at first really tried.
Now I don't give a shit.
OK, so one thing I definitely wanted to ask you before I forgot was
I noticed in one of your posts you said that the I can't pronounce it,
but you did it perfectly.
Is it the peanut noir or something along those lines?
I think you said it. Yeah, it's your favorite strain.
And I think it's from aficionado or at least this is what the post said.
Can you give us some information on it?
You know, like I couldn't find much at all. I'm really interested.
It's a clone only strain that Leo and Frenchie work with.
They have lost theirs.
The only copy of it was at my house two nights before the fire.
Frenchie was at my house the night making hash.
I said, Frenchie, take it.
He says, oh, it's so cool. I'm busy.
I'm going to do the dope salto mid-match.
I said, OK, Leo, there was next day.
Yeah, bro. What's up?
I said, man, take this clone.
He goes, man, I'm going to the bay.
I said, we'll swing back by and get he goes, OK.
And he didn't. And it burned up in the fucking fire.
So Leo says he has a line on it.
But right now we do not have a line on it, which means we can't make coup
and we can't make Tito.
And they're my two favorite strains.
I'm trying to call Leo as much as I can.
You also understand when I call Leo, he's busy shit.
He's got 300 acres and he's growing.
So while he loves me and cares about me and wants to help me, he's busy.
So I hadn't heard from him in four weeks.
Three days ago, he sent me a text that said, sub,
I have a line on the clone and I'll be contacting you.
I texted him back and he never even responded.
Busy is busy, you know?
Yeah, it's interesting where we speak about aficionado
because in the infamous thread we reference,
one of the very obscure points brought up was that someone felt
that TGA genetics were overpriced.
Forget that for just one moment.
I want you to consider that in contrast to aficionado.
You know, do you think that that statement holds any weight
when you've got people, admittedly...
You mean a $300 wooden box?
No, I don't think my seeds are overpriced.
I'm sorry. And I love Leo to death, but I sell seeds for $40
and that's a very reasonable price.
We pay $2 to manufacture them.
And what happens is Attitude turns around and sells them for $160.
That's not me.
Would you ever consider trying to impose some type of ceiling on your
prices where you say, look, I just don't ever want it going above this level?
I just feel it's a bit excessive at that point.
No, the industry did that.
Crockett was standing at a Cush talk this weekend,
himself selling 13 seeds for $50.
You're about to see the price of seeds take a shit.
Yeah, OK.
So do you think that's just going to drive out the small time producers?
Well, yeah, I mean, you got to keep up.
It's a...
Well, I mean, that shocked me.
He actually came over to our booth and talked to our people.
And I love Crockett.
All I'm saying was it's tough out there.
This man was standing there selling seeds.
That's it.
It's 13 seeds for $50.
That's a really good deal for Crockett seeds.
I've never seen it that cheap.
So in the old days, we'd go to an event, we'd make $200,000.
At Cush talk, we make $2,200.
You think I'm going back?
Wow. Yeah.
Plus, you can buy a pack of seeds on Instagram, like
the fucking Domino's pizza guy bringing you a pack of seeds nowadays.
It is become silly.
You can Uber fucking weed to your house.
So you don't really have to do the other things we used to do.
I mean, you can have somebody bring a pizza and a bag of pot to your house here.
So. Yeah.
So you could probably swing by and get your pack of seeds.
I had heard rumors that Agent Orange was possibly used in the creation of Tangi.
Had you heard anything along those lines?
No, I mean, I'll comment on that for sure.
So Eric 77 brought us California Orange.
California Orange is used by me to create things in the old days.
It's used by DNA to create things.
And Orange Velvet is California Orange.
It's all the same cut.
Our cut came from some people and it was called Melvin.
And we thought Melvin was a fucking stupid name.
And it smelled like oranges.
So it's Orange Velvet.
But they're all California Orange.
And they came from Eric 77 in Gainesville in 1979.
Yeah, I've heard that a lot of it is very much just Calio dominant expressions, isn't it?
Do you think that we'll see the orange trend come back or do you think it's kind of peaked and we won't see it again for a while?
I'm so over orange, I will never smoke it again.
So you won't see me making it.
That's a good answer. So what type of flavor profiles are you looking to move on to?
Chocolate, cherry, banana and watermelon.
Those are some pretty unique ones.
You're talking kind of individually or more blending them all together.
Just those remember that rainbow story?
Yeah. So I'm still on it.
So we got cherry and now we lost pinot, but we had chocolate.
Dude, I made chocolate weed.
Get the fuck out of here.
I made chocolate weed.
Ask any of my fans what kuve tastes like.
Tastes like chocolate.
That's just it's a flavor thing, man.
So, yeah, I tasted some Brandon with third gin.
I bought a gram of something from Organican last year called Melonz.
What does he eat? Melonz.
Dude, Jesus, I was licking the jar.
It was some of the best tasting terp I have ever had in my life.
And it was real.
So, yeah, I'm chasing that.
I know where the terp is.
The cherry terp, which is the Cherrygasm.
We really love it.
A new one we have is a Nepali queen.
And the Nepali has this really hashy, grapey, old school, like old dope.
You know, when you went bought a bag of dank when you were a kid,
that old, funky incense smell.
So that's the Nepali.
And that's one of Joel's, man.
It's old clone that we brought out.
A new and Lemon Stilton.
Are you kidding me?
He took JTR and he crossed it with a cheese.
So you get the THCV pain killing effect with the pain killing effect of cheese.
I don't know if you know this, but people who have rheumatoid arthritis swear by
cheese and I can't tell you why.
Scientifically, I don't know.
I know I know a bunch of old vets that are beat the shit in back and they love cheese.
And so when you mix it with that JTR, you get an additional pain killing effect.
THCV acts on the CB2 receptor.
The CB2 receptor is responsible for your autoimmune system.
So if you can stimulate the autoimmune system, you can help heal yourself.
And that's why THC is so important.
And it's very rare.
And since we discovered it and 5% in the Jack the Ripper, you see a lot of people
running Jack the Ripper looking for a male in the hundreds of seeds trying to
find that that rare JTR male.
Yeah, I can definitely agree on the stimulating the immune system idea.
I'm a big believer of that as well.
So I am interested to know, do you have any theories?
I think you may have said you do on where those watermelon turps lie because they seem
to be the most kind of the most, you know, they're just being exposed and I'm sure
they're amazing. I haven't yet been able to try them.
Where do you think they come from genetically?
I don't know, but there's a strand called goji and it tastes like watermelons and I
don't even know where it's at.
I've just this is Internet research, OK?
Yeah. And I got to go try to find goji.
I don't I don't even know what it is or anything about it, but I understand it has a
watermelon turp in it.
But I will have to say something else that's going to stagger you.
I'm not currently breeding.
I moved here. We have a very unique program here.
We have a numbers game.
So right now I'm at 24.
Tuesday we get a piece of card.
I get 36.
On Thursday I go to 48 and eventually we'll have 60 here.
But when we moved in, I can only have 12 plants, which is why I have fucking eight
giant plants in my pool.
It's really simple. I couldn't grow the number of plants that I would grow in the
pool. So we grew big fucking plants.
I would imagine unless the pool project is the most successful experiment in life,
those things will get torn down and we'll go back to the standard four 10 gallon pots
under a 1000 where we get almost three pounds.
But if you've seen the pool, we've employed these special cages called grow efficient
cages, steel frames, five by five.
And this gentleman says strain specific, we can get five pounds a piece and that would
be 40 units.
I'm skeptical, but if we get that, we may just continue growing the big trees indoors
because it's fucking fun.
So a lot of our viewers love to get the kind of growers tips from our guests.
A lot of our viewers also organic, which is going to work perfectly because you're
speaking to the choir.
What type of things do you like to supplement your super soil plants with?
You mentioned teas earlier.
What are some general tips you might have for us?
So last year we started making our own teas, which we had great results from.
It's kind of what we call a low till.
So you have a super soil with a lasagna tech.
Lasagna tech is crab meal and then alfalfa and different things in between with a cover
crop. But we have teamed up with the Dragonfly Earth Nutrient Company and I have to
tell the whole story. So in the old days they sent me some and I didn't take it serious.
I joked around, oh, hippie crap.
And I didn't take it serious.
I actually burned my plants because I didn't pay attention.
So when we had them on the show and they were such nice people, I'm like, well, these
people are really nice people.
I need to pay attention and stop being an asshat.
So I paid attention and I got to know their company and they sent us a large amount of
products. And so we're feeding the super soil.
Now, we've been in veg for, God, 14 weeks now.
So, yeah. And this is not your standard system.
So we've been using the luscious green and the flowers.
We also use the we did fuller last night, which leads me to a crazy thing.
And I'm going to get back to the tips, but check this out.
Did you know that if you use fuller spray that your micros testing in a lab are going to
test above 10,000 and based on new regulations in Washington, Oregon and Colorado, that
would fail the test for natural.
By the way, cannabis cannot be organic because organic is a word of the FDA.
It's a federal term.
So there is no such thing as organic cannabis.
There's natural cannabis.
And that's a real definition in there.
So we really like the idea of using beneficials.
But if you spray stuff on your plants in certain areas, you may not pass the lab test because
they can't differentiate between bad micros, which would be shit and good micros, which
would be like bacillus.
That's a really important point.
A lot of people in those areas may not be aware.
I guess maybe a question which immediately jumps to mind is, do you know if there would be a
rough cutoff time if you use the in veg, it'd be OK.
You just don't use it in flour or by a certain week of flour, stop using.
Or do you think it's just a bit unknown at this point?
I wish I knew. We just learned this.
I'm sounding awful smart because a lab scientist stood there and talked to me for about 40
minutes just three days ago where I wouldn't sound nearly as smart.
But what we found out is some really good cannabis that we looked at testing at 90,000
joules or whatever the hell it was.
And CFU's, thank you CFU's, I thought you'd be smarter than me.
And but it was good.
There's nothing wrong with it. But at 90,000 under these new regulations, it would
immediately be destroyed.
So they don't understand the difference between good beneficials and bad.
And I think it's one of the things that the weed nerd is, you know, I've been doing shows
on it. I've been teaching the growers.
One of the things I can use my platform is to send information out.
So I've already been teaching the world that they're trying to ban organic growing because
the simple solution to not testing above 10,000 is to grow with salts and cocoa.
And that's not the kind of cannabis I smoke.
I prefer not to smoke salts.
It's just all there is to it.
So I'm, you know, hugely passionate about organics, but a debate
I'm interested in is if you got the absolute highest quality produced
salt grown and the highest quality organic, do you think they're on par or do you think
there's still a better? Because I struggle with this personally.
I've, from my personal experience, I think the absolute best salt grown, it can be
close if not on par, you know, and that but I never see it.
You know, I see it like once, once a year at the Emerald Cup from one person.
Salt growing is not easy and not everybody does it right.
I can tell you that long ago, me and Jill did a side by side.
She did hydro and soil and she crushed me on the yield.
And we both agreed that the salt grown pot tasted better.
Both. I mean, it was not. It was like she got like eight ounces and I got like three
ounces because her plant oversized mine.
It was just really fun, cool experiment, a wonderful memory.
But in the end, I mean, her pot even looked better and had more resin on it.
But in the end, we smoked a bong hit the shit in the dirt, smoked better, turned white
and disappeared. That's why a lot of people grow soil.
Now, having said that, scientifically, there's no difference.
But we both know there's something symbiotic going on down there in the soil and the
roots. And there's some kind of harmony and some kind of hippie shit going on there.
And that's why so many people grow in soil.
Yeah, I totally agree.
And I don't get into a lot of hippie shit, but I get into a lot of hippie shit around
soil and the benefits of like just even interacting with it and stuff.
I think it's real. One of the last things I wanted to ask you about was the
Chernobyl line.
This and especially the Slimer clone has gained a lot of popularity.
Would you consider ever working with it more?
It's yeah, I mean, I actually have Slimer here and not only do I have Slimer here, we
talked about earlier, I have the genetic rights to sell it.
It was marketed under my own strength.
But the story of Slimer is hilarious.
A guy named Coma found the clone and started yelling Slimer, Slimer, Slimer.
I never even had the damn thing.
And it started showing up in clubs and everything.
And then somebody give it to me.
And then there's the golden ticket.
Man, these are just phenotypes.
I cannot buy into this bullshit.
I mean, there's one phenotype that runs around called Slimer.
I guarantee if you caught a 10 pack, you'd find another one.
Another 10 pack, you'd find another one.
It's just a genetic expression.
Yes, it happens to make a lot of resin, but all Chernobyl strains make a lot of resin.
I mean, it's a strain called blood wreck and it just piles it out.
And I'm happy to report that Badger has the blood wreck cut and the Jack the Ripper and
he's making Chernobyl right now.
So something that we really enjoy making is still around.
And what I would suggest is if you are a grower to grow out a 10 pack and find your
own Slimer versus something that somebody else selected, because we all have our own
taste and what someone likes, you may not.
So I've always been the grow it and select it guy to the point where even around here,
the shops that the people around here will not crack a pack of seeds.
They'll come to Sub's house and take some cuts.
Hey, Sub, will you take a cut for us?
Can we have one of your cuts?
I was like, crack a pack of seeds.
And I can crack up a 10 pack and find the best female in 50 days.
It's just laziness that people don't do it.
Having said that, I'll keep cracking seeds and finding those winners and putting them
out on the street, which is what Koma did.
And that's why you hear about these things.
There's other ones.
There's the watermelon Fino of Nine Pound Hammer.
There's the there's the marmalade Fino of Jilly Bean.
There's the rubber tire Fino of Agent Orange.
There's the God's Pussy Fino of Vortex.
There's the purple Quirkle.
They just the Internet tends to put labels on things and then people latch on to them.
It's great stories.
Yeah, OK, I certainly can echo that sentiment of, you know, popping more seeds and finding
your own one, because I can attest, you know, I found my own slimer and it's amazing.
It basically brings us to the last part of the interview, where we do the quickfire
questions. So first of all, what's your favorite strain right now?
God, that's hard.
I like it.
It's got it's got to be the Jesus, man.
I mean, it's just it dumps so many crystals and it does it so well.
It's got a great, inspiring high.
But that's an unfair question.
Yeah, my favorite strain today is Pineapple Express because John gave me three grams of
it. Crystals, it's just a list.
My favorite strain is cannabis, man.
Let me change that answer.
That's a good answer.
It really is. I just love the shit.
I love it all.
I really do.
So on the other end of the spectrum, what do you think is the worst strain, in your
opinion, that got traction with the masses?
Wow, that's a good one.
I like this one back here.
That's really hard.
You know, I'm going to take a lot of heat for it.
I have the hardest time finding a good blueberry.
I agree.
I've grown five packs of the damn stuff.
And I every time I say it, you know, DJ Sun, Ty Tax, man, I ain't like that, man.
I read DJ's book.
I love DJ's book.
I would love to grow a ten pack and get me a bomb ass blueberry.
Do you believe me?
I mean, come on, of course I do.
I just it hasn't happened in my life.
So that's that would be the one that, you know, I see it everywhere and I see people
with it. And for me, four packs, nothing, nothing.
So, yeah.
So if you could only smoke one land race for the rest of your life, what would it be?
Apollo 13.
No, sorry, it's got to be a land race.
Oh, a land race.
Yeah, it makes a little harder.
It's not my thing.
That's not really my thing.
I mean, I definitely like Joel's.
I mess this up every time I say it.
Well, Oaxacan, you know, O-A-X.
Yeah, I think that's how you say it.
It's Oaxacan, but it's OX-A-CAN.
Yeah.
So I like it, man.
We got a strain called Pina Rita that he made with that old school Colombian.
Jesus, man. Tastes like peanut butter.
I'm a hybrid guy. I want the juice.
I want the flavors and the turps.
I was never a Thai guy, was never a Jamaican guy, was never a lambs bread guy.
Designer weed may be my thing.
I don't know.
So lucky last, if you could go back to any point in history, you know, whether it be
just within your life or within any point in all of history and select any seeds, what
would you get?
I did.
I did it.
I mean, there's nothing I haven't worked with.
I know it's a cheeky answer.
There's nothing that I haven't asked for, gotten to work with in my life.
Nothing. The G13, Cali Miss, A13, C99, the Killer Queen, AK.
No, I'm happy.
I mean, I would like to have the Pino Norbach really fucking bad.
So if anybody has a line on it, I would really, really, really like to have it.
But I pretty much have access to anything I want.
And I maybe the original Northern Lights, you know, before it was adulterated.
So I could actually maybe see what it was like before it became five or whatever.
But even that one, but I mean, I smoked it and worked with it, you know.
So I guess I'm saying I'm really happy with my life.
It was a really good answer.
So I think that probably just about brings us to the end of it.
Thanks so much for stopping by and for dropping all the knowledge and for all the history.
Is there any comments or shout outs you wanted to make before we wrap it up?
Yeah, I got a couple of shout outs to make.
I'd like to give a shout out to all the people in my current crew.
I mean, Will, Victoria, I don't know what I would do without these people.
Will saved my life, came to my house, my house burnt down and physically put me in his car and brought me to his house and put me on his couch.
I would have nothing without that man.
Jen and Joel, North Shire Genetics.
I lost every fucking thing I own, every seed, every roach clip, everything I own.
And I went to Jen and Joel's after the fire and I acquired the genetics.
I alone. And if it wasn't for that, this company would be gone.
I owe them a debt I can never repay.
And that's that.
Fantastic. So again, thanks so much for coming and spending some time with us.
Awesome. This was fantastic.
Thank you for letting me address directly.
Just, you know, so much stuff that swirls around my life.
And last thing I say, I make many mistakes in my life.
My biggest one is I open my mouth when I shouldn't, but I'm a passionate person.
I love this plant. I love my culture and I love all of you.
So there you have it, folks.
A big thank you for Subcool for taking the time to come on the show again.
And a big thank you to all you guys for listening.
Big love to all our Patreon fans.
These guys are the lifeblood of the show.
If you haven't checked out the Patreon, be sure to go check it out.
There's going to be a whole bunch of new content going up there very soon,
as well as some prizes.
420 Australia, see it's here now.
OGS. Love you guys.
Check them out.
I'll see you.
