Hello and welcome to the next episode of the podcast, a cannabis podcast for budding enthusiasts.
As always, you're joined by your host, Heavy Daze here from the Upside Down Library.
And we want to give thanks to our amazing sponsors who helped make the show happen.
Seedtier now, your number one seed bank in the game.
All the hottest drops, the latest hits.
If it's fire breeding, they got it.
They offer a guarantee not only on germination but also satisfaction.
So if you're unhappy at the end of your growth, shoot them a message.
They'll sort you out.
What more could you want?
Likewise, huge shout out to our other fantastic sponsors, Coppet Biological Systems.
These guys have all the best predators, feeds, beneficial microbes to keep your garden happy
and healthy.
Got issues with mites?
Check out their Spidex Vital.
Got issue with aphids?
Check out the Aphi Params.
All of them are industry-leading predators, proof of predation technology, and will work
together to help ensure your next harvest is the best today.
Check out Coppet Biological Systems, guys.
They're my pick for all your beneficial predators, bugs, feeds, and more.
Likewise, huge shout out to our friends at Top Shelf Seed Bank in Australia.
If you're looking for seeds in Australia, check out Top Shelf Seed Bank, number one
in the game, customer service on point.
I stock my seeds there.
Check them out.
And last but not least, huge shout out to the Patreon gang.
You are the lifeblood of the show.
You help to ensure episodes keep happening.
Thank you so much for your ongoing support.
And I hope you enjoy getting access to early content, additional episodes, giveaways, discord,
so much more.
On this episode, we're joined by the Australian local legend, Wally Duck, who made up one
half of the Wizards of Oz, a breeder collaboration based out of Australia, as well as being a
mod on the IC Mag forums for years.
A very well-known figure in the Australian cannabis scene and worldwide for bringing
strains such as Z99, Duxfoot, Zoid Fuel Hybrids, and so many more.
We are incredibly grateful to have Wally on this episode to chat all things history, Australian
politics, law, equatorial sativas, and so much more.
Let's get into it.
Alrighty gang, we're back for another one.
And in this episode, we're joined by one of the true OGs from the Australian cannabis
scene, one half of the Wizard of Oz and a very highly requested guest indeed.
A big welcome to Wally Duck for coming on the show.
Thanks for joining us.
Yeah, thanks for having me on.
No worries, my friend.
The question we normally ask people to start off is, what have you been smoking on recently?
Nothing.
I gave up about two years ago and I share a lot of weed still, and I enjoy seeing people's
reactions to it, but I don't take it all myself anymore.
40 years of bonging took its toll.
Oh God, I love it.
That's some serious passion there.
It's interesting you bring that up because I think there's some people in the community
who would probably really struggle to identify with how that must feel like.
As you said, 40 years to be so involved and to give it up, did you find that really...
Is that the hardest thing you've ever had to do or is just one of those things that
you got on with and did?
Oh no, it was really hard after so long of doing something.
I was a wake and bake guy too.
I was up at 5.30 every morning having a few bongs, coughing my head off.
Hell yeah.
Well, you got me curious now.
What was the rocket fuel for the day?
I'm hoping it was some Sativa if it was early in the morning.
Oh, almost always Sativa.
That's my go-to for sure.
I love it.
Was there anything specific that was like the go-to morning smoke or it just sort of
varied with what was on offer in terms of harvest?
Yeah, exactly with the harvest.
But I tell you what I really like, I had some lye that I grew for a while before I stopped
and that was by far my favorite.
It wasn't like zero to 100 in three seconds.
It gently took you there and it let you down gently.
There was no lag afterwards.
You still got as high but it was easy on you and definitely the way to start the morning.
Wow, you caught me out.
I'm not familiar with Loud.
I've just quickly tapped away on Google.
Is it the one from Loud Seeds?
No, we got it from one of our friends from the forums.
He lives out in Udon Thani in Thailand beside Laos and he rated it as some of the best Sativa
he'd had. He sent me some seeds, I grew it and I grew a fair bit of it.
I kept it cutting and we just kept pumping it out for a while.
Amazing. And now I have to own up for being a real goose.
I thought you said Loud with like a D on the end.
You meant Lao, like yeah, the Southeast Asian variety.
Go, duh, sorry.
Of course. That's cool to hear.
Okay. And what was the variety like?
Was it like more like what people might think of like a typical Southeast Asian, like a Thai,
Cambodian sort of thing?
Or how would you describe it in like flavour and effect?
Oh, yeah, it reminded me a lot of Thai.
It just didn't seem as potent off the bat, you know what I mean?
It didn't smash you.
But like I said, it was a bit gentle on you and that's what I enjoyed about it.
I was getting older.
I didn't need that, you know, zero to 103 second kind of gear.
Oh, yeah, for sure.
Look, you know, no one needs to be smoking like A5 or C5 first thing in the morning.
I bet. That's cool.
That's cool. And something I've always been interested in is I've always heard speculations around the true lineage of Kali Mist.
And I've heard people even throw like Lao and Cambodian sort of names in the mix.
Have you ever had any experience with the infamous Kali Mist and any sort of ideas around what the genetics might be?
Oh, yeah, we tried it. We grew some here and I really liked it.
It was strong. Good weed.
The lineage, I have no idea, but it was familiar to me, that's for sure.
Quite likely did have some Southeast Asian in there.
Nice. OK.
I mean, before I forget, out of all the sort of Southeast Asian varieties you've tried, what are some of the most memorable ones to you?
I'd have to be Thai.
Yeah. I grew up on that.
That was the first weed I ever smoked and we smoked a fair bit of it.
And there was just Thai sticks when I started and that actually made me sick.
The first time I smoked bombs, I was throwing up.
Yeah. But I went back for more.
I love it. So, it's funny you mentioned that because before you even said it, I was sort of thinking to myself, you know, you hear these stories of people getting sick off the Thai sticks and some have even gone so far as to throw the idea out there that like maybe they had some sort of opium on them or, you know, whether it's wives tale or not.
Have you ever heard or thought anything about those rumors?
Yeah. Yeah. We've had big debates about that.
I don't think so.
I think for inexperienced people that are not used to that sort of way, it was really strong.
And yeah, I threw up a fair bit, but I went back again.
I love that. I love that.
Real men go back.
Okay, that's cool.
That's cool. And I mean, before I forget, I just wanted to ask you, I heard from someone, I can't remember who it was.
So, apologies whoever told me this, but they said that when you're dealing with people who have lots of pain, a lot of people think, oh, you know, give them an indica, that's pain killing.
But then they were like, that's actually not true.
You're probably actually better to give them like something really sativa because the way it like is stimulating and creative, it's actually better to be distracted from the pain than to sort of have something that's like an analgesic for the pain.
Have you ever thought anything along those lines?
Have you ever thought like maybe sativas are actually better for pain killing properties than people sort of let on or what's your thoughts?
Yeah, I don't know about pain killing part of it, but my mum, she had pretty severe lung problems and I used to give her hash a lot to make cups of tea with and coffee and she ended up vaping it too.
But it was mostly sativa because that's what I like.
And yeah, she said just the way it makes you feel the happiness, the euphoria, you know what I mean?
That's what was getting her along.
She said there was nothing else to live for apart from, you know, I'm being a bit happy.
I don't think indica would have done that for her.
It might have helped her with the pain.
But as far as, you know, your well-being, your sense of happiness, that sort of thing, I totally agree.
Sativa is great for that.
Yeah, yeah, that's cool to hear.
And, you know, thanks for sharing that sort of personal story.
Just to loop back a question, you mentioned, you know, the first thing you smoke was Thai.
The other question we normally ask people first is tell me about your first experience with cannabis, you know, like paint me a picture.
How did it go down?
Joints with my brother-in-law.
I was about 14 and I was just sitting here.
I, my sister said I wasn't allowed to smoke any weed till I was 16.
But my brother-in-law obviously had other ideas and he passed me the joint.
I smoked the whole thing.
It didn't even do anything to me.
And I smoked too.
And I was still sober, you know, and he said he wasn't going to give me any more.
He said, I better get up and go and do something, you know, to activate myself, get it going, you know.
I stepped into the kitchen, which was a step down and it hit me then.
And it was just I was in a different place altogether.
It was fantastic, actually.
I had the most delicious lamb roast I'd ever eaten that night.
Oh, my God.
Please, for all of our international listeners, I've been told on good authority, not many people eat lamb outside of Australia.
Eat some lamb. It's so bloody good.
Oh, you can't go wrong, can you?
It's my favourite meat.
You know, my partner will kill me because she swears up and down pork's better, but I'm like, nah, lamb for life.
Okay. And so at that time, was there still like commercial Thai stick import being brought in?
Yes. I think it kind of stopped not long after that.
But we had another lot up to about, I think it was like 84 or early 85.
We had some stuff they call golden Buddha, golden Thai.
And that was beautiful, lovely.
But I remember it clearly.
Super strong. I'd say it was stronger than the Thai sticks.
Yeah. Wow.
Yeah, that's seriously strong.
And I mean, there's been ongoing discussion for forever, but you've grown a lot of these sort of Southeast Asian varieties yourself.
Do you feel like you were ever able to replicate the flavour and effect you got from the import or like the terroir just really can't be replicated in that sense?
I lived in Melbourne back then, so we didn't have much chance of trying to replicate, you know, a tropical variety outdoors.
And we were growing outdoors.
So up here, though, up in Queensland, North Queensland, there was stuff that was very similar to those Thai sticks.
I had some a few years after I first tried weed that my mum sent me, actually.
And I remember riding my pushbike and I think it was the fastest I'd ever gotten from A to B.
Just imagine that little Wally duck just fanging it down the road.
That's awesome. Okay, cool, cool, cool.
Yeah, I mean, up north in like far north Queensland, do you feel like the conditions are similar enough that you can essentially replicate sort of, you know, those Thai varieties?
Oh, where I live is exactly the same latitude as where they grew a lot of that Thai stick.
It's like 17 degrees, which is the same as Udon Thani, which is where a lot of that stuff around those provinces came from.
So, yeah, you can definitely replicate it.
Down the road, there's a climate that's exactly the same as Thailand.
It's dry, a little bit arid, hot.
I think the average temperature is like about 29 all year.
Yeah, it's not like that where I live.
I get a bit too much coastal sort of influence where I am.
Sometimes it's good.
You know, sometimes we have a nice end to the monsoon season, but other times it keeps drizzling on and on.
And yeah, the wheat doesn't like it.
Interesting. And I mean, before we go too much into the Australian medicinal scene, out of curiosity, are there any operations up there that you're aware of taking advantage of these conditions?
No, there was a bit of hemp being grown, but it was pretty haphazard the way they were doing it.
So I don't know whether much was...
Well, it might have been just trial crops.
I don't know. I know they trialed some hemp up here.
I think it was just for fibre.
It did very well. But otherwise, no, I'm not aware of any wheat being grown up here for any legal stuff anyway.
Yeah, it's interesting because I think as much as it might be sort of left of field and maybe not marketably viable at the moment, there is a huge demand internationally for these Southeast Asian varieties grown in that actual sort of latitude as near as close to the actual
origin as you can get.
And I was thinking maybe that's the answer.
I mean, unless Thailand steamrolls ahead with all their sort of plans and actually starts exporting.
Yeah, they probably will.
They like a few dollars, those guys.
Yeah, I mean, I think you had mentioned to me in a prior conversation that you were keeping an eye on the Thai scene.
Do you have any predictions or hopes for how that turns out?
I'd love to see it return to what it was, but I think it's going to take a bit of searching for them to get that original stuff back again.
It's been over 40 years.
So, I don't hold out hope that they can find exactly the same stuff initially.
They're going to have to do a bit of selection.
Yeah, wow.
I mean, you just made me realise that, like, of course, the Thai government doesn't have really sick Thai seeds in a seed bank somewhere.
Like, yeah, you're right.
They're just going to go there and assume that what they've got is probably the real deal.
It makes me wonder, you know, do you think that those varieties were lost just like over the years and just non-selective breeding?
Or do you think it was more like the sort of strain hunters going in and giving out feminised seeds sort of thing that caused it to be lost?
No, I think it was just time.
I don't think that.
I've seen people on like Facebook, Thai people, they grow all sorts of different weed.
But I think they know to keep, you know what I mean, keep them separated a bit.
I know they probably crossed them and that, but they're not silly.
You know, they know that they've got something special in that stuff.
So, I think they do keep it separate.
But there's lots of different weed there.
But the bulk of it seems to be the stuff available on the street, for instance, is I think Lao.
Everyone seems to agree.
It's compressed brick sort of stuff.
And everyone seems to agree that it's likely from Lao.
It's quite, some of it's quite good.
Okay, yeah, I mean, it's interesting because when you talk to a lot of Australians, I guess, you know, the ones I'm talking to aren't necessarily super plugged into the cannabis scene.
But they smoke weed at least every now and again.
And my friends who have been over there would sort of say like, oh, you know, like you can score it at a pub or whatever, but it's not, it's nothing good.
I'm guessing that's not the stuff you're talking about.
I think it varies with quality.
Do you know what I mean?
Some is good.
So, we had some that was so sticky that when you poured it into the bowl or whatever, it still moved around by itself.
You've seen stuff do that before?
Yeah, well, like static or something.
Yeah, that's cool.
They call it dancing Thai, they called it.
And it was pretty potent stuff.
I don't think it compared with the Thai stick, but it was still quite good weed.
Yeah, well, okay.
And I mean, just as a purely hypothetical, if you had been contracted by the Thai government to go over there and to just get it all sorted for them, would you be like thinking, I need to go around to different farms and collect some different stock?
Or instead, would you be like, you know what, probably going to have better chance just asking some like old forum heads for like their Thai seed stock instead?
Probably some of the older seed, but it's probably growing in Laos as well.
It's only next door.
The seed would have absolutely ended up there too.
And they still grow plenty of weed there.
So, I think you can grow it in your backyard, like always have been able to in Laos.
It's been no restriction.
You can grow a few plants, no one cares.
So, yeah, that's cool.
And I mean, I'd heard some people say that like some of the parts of like that whole golden triangle in that area, because they like over the years were so heavily populated by like militia and stuff that they probably were less polluted the genetics, so to speak, that were there.
Because, you know, they were probably focusing on like, you know, opium and stuff.
But I'd always got told that they were still fucking with cannabis around those areas as well.
Do you know anything about that or not specifically?
No, not really.
I know that where I go, I visited on tiny quite a bit whenever I can.
And the people I hang out with, they don't like cannabis.
A lot of times they really frown upon it.
It's just like the the farmer types that, you know, that get into a bit of weed, the hard working guy.
You know, I mean, he finishes his day, he goes home, he relaxes with a few bongs.
And yeah, that's so interesting to hear, because I mean, not like it's a revolutionary statement, but yeah, like a lot of Asian cultures in general sort of view weed as like, you know, it makes you lazy.
It's not good. We don't like it.
Hmm. I think they think it's a bit low class to do that.
You know what I mean? You're just a low class farmer, you sort of work a guy.
And okay.
Yeah, that makes sense, doesn't it?
Hmm. That's the impression I get from the Thais I hang out with.
I talk to them about it and they say, no, you're not coming here and doing that.
Not around us.
Wow. Would you say that in general, they're sort of more into stimulants or just like alcohol or like nothing?
No, nothing. They're pretty straight.
Yeah.
Yeah. Okay.
Well, there you go. I mean, I guess it must be an interesting experience for you to go over there now when you're not smoking or consuming compared to back in the day, like you're probably seeing and doing different things.
Yeah, absolutely. I go there for the food.
You've eaten Thai food?
Yeah. Yeah.
I can only imagine how good the food you've had is.
Yeah. And the lifestyle, it's really nice.
I enjoy it there. It's a great place.
Even without weed.
Yeah. Yeah.
That's awesome to hear.
Okay, cool.
Well, let's get back on track because we had a nice little detour there.
Tell me a little bit about your first grow.
Do you remember the strain you were growing or do you remember like what sort of technology you were using?
Was it outdoor? Tell me a little bit about it.
Yeah, it was outdoor and it was just bag seed that my older brother-in-law had collected and it was late harvesting.
So, I guess it was probably more sativa.
Bit of purple stuff amongst it.
Bit of hermaphrodite and really tall.
They grew huge.
It would have been Ash Wednesday fires around Melbourne there.
It was just after that.
So, must have been 1984, I guess.
And it was long time harvesting.
It took forever.
Yeah. So, it wasn't really the correct stuff.
And it's not like we could pick and choose back then like we can now.
You know?
Yeah. Yeah.
Wow. Like the OG trim gel took forever.
I don't remember it back then.
We mustn't trim much of it like we do now.
That's for sure.
We must have been a bit lazy with it because I don't remember lots and lots of trimming then.
You know what?
I feel like maybe I was meant for back then because I feel like as time goes by, I trim less.
Like I'm just like, I'm smoking it, whatever.
I'll do it at the time.
Like, there you go.
Okay.
And then, so what was the progression then from like, you know, sort of first grow to like being really in the thick of it and being like, yeah, like I really like doing this?
Oh, I just did hobby growing because I liked smoking.
So it wasn't until probably the late 90s, early 2000s that I got fairly serious about it and started to grow a fair bit of weed.
Yeah.
And were you still down in Victoria or had you moved up north by then?
I was up north by then.
Yeah.
And I was always worried about the laws here.
The laws have always been so strict, you know, but I threw courts in the wind.
Tell me a bit about it because I'm sure there's a lot of people who aren't aware.
Like, what was the legal climate like, say, in the mid to late 90s for a cannabis grower?
I think it had improved at that point, but earlier on, I guess, probably in the 80s when Joe Bejolke-Peterson was the premier, they were giving you life in jail for production of cannabis.
It was really serious, you know.
I don't know why they did that.
But so you didn't want to get caught even with just a few ounces of weed.
You'd go to jail for a fair while.
And yeah, it did change.
And I think at some point, I know I got caught a number of times, in fact.
So I think eventually it actually lessened than, you know, it was less than down south.
And I don't know why, but the political party of the day, the laws changed, whatever.
But it's not so bad these days.
I've been caught a fair bit of weed and I'm still here.
That's good.
If you can make it through, we're all going to make it.
Okay. So at the time, let's say, like, let's start at like, you know, the late 80s, early 90s when it was like, you know, quite illegal.
I'm guessing you weren't looking online for friends.
You were like, I'm just keeping to myself and staying out of jail.
Or what was it like?
I never even came online until, it must have been early 2000, 2001, 2000, 2001, something like that.
And I found this, actually, a lady in Africa and she was selling weed online, which I never thought it'd happen.
You know, I didn't think we could buy it, you know.
But she said, look, it's so cheap, why not give it a go?
And you might get it.
I said, yeah, all right, I'll give it a go.
And it arrived.
And so I did a little bit of business with her.
I traded seeds with her and she sent me hash and weed and it all got here.
Yeah.
Oh, yeah. Was it good stuff?
Because, I mean, you know, outside of Durban, you don't really hear about a lot of South African weed.
I can't remember.
I think she was in Cape Town, maybe.
But and she had a variety of weed.
The weed, yeah, it was a bit average, but the stuff I grew from it was pretty nice.
I grew some decent, some Swazi.
It was beautiful.
Such a really nice high on it.
Euphoric and, you know, that feel good stuff, which is actually my go to.
I love that sort of stuff, you know.
Yeah. Wow.
Pure Swazi back in the day.
What a treat.
Damn, I'm jealous.
Okay.
So before, let's wind back to just before you got online, you know, let's say it's year 2000.
Did you know anyone else who was growing or you were really sort of like on your own, doing your own thing?
I was just locals.
There's always been a growing scene up here where I live.
It's been pretty popular for a long time.
So locals just sharing knowledge and sharing seeds.
And it was just bagsy too, mostly whatever we could get, you know, it was a bit of a hit and miss thing.
Yeah. Okay.
And I mean, out of curiosity, was there ever a sort of a definitive point where you feel like Indica's were introduced?
Because, you know, you hear the Californian guys talk about like, they were like, you know, it was all Mexican and Sativa.
And then the hippies brought the Afghanis in, in like the late seventies or something like that.
Do you ever remember that happening for far North Queensland?
No, I would have been down South, but when I was a young fella, I would have been, I don't know, about 15 or whatever.
I remember we grew that Sativa, like I said, and I hadn't seen any short, fast flowering sorts of stuff at that time.
But there was a news report from Mildura where they found a whole bunch of weed and the plants were three or four foot tall.
And just one huge bud, no branching.
I'd say that was Indica, at a guess.
Yeah.
Yeah. Wow.
And I guess you probably hadn't really seen anything like that.
No, I was really surprised actually.
But then we grew like after that, you know, bits and pieces and there was definitely hybrids amongst it.
It wasn't all Sativa.
I started growing indoors and we were successful.
And some, well, there was taller stuff, there was shorter stuff, you know, there was a variety.
And I'm certain that quite a bit of it would have been hybrid stuff, hybrids of those Indicas and the Sativas we had.
So, but I don't remember any specific point where that happened.
I was probably too young.
Yeah, sure.
Sure.
Sounds like you were sort of at that generation that bridged, you know, like the old and the new world sort of stuff, which is really cool to get your perspective on.
Out of curiosity, were you aware of any of the international seed banks?
You know, I'm sure like the seed bank and Sensi seeds and stuff in the mid-90s were doing their thing.
Did you know about them or you were like, just like, no, we just work with what we got?
Oh, yeah. We got skunk when I guess it was, would have been the 90s, early 90s.
And people started growing indoors.
There'd been a real drought between the imported stuff and, you know, Australia having to look after their own sales with weed.
And the price of weed went to like $750 an ounce at one point.
It was ridiculous.
And that was like probably for about a year before, you know, everyone got lights, I guess, and decided, shoot, we got to get our gear together here.
Yeah.
You know, so, and yeah, not long after that, that's when we saw our first skunks and Northern Lights.
I bought a fair bit of it because I'd had some Colombian prior to that, some Colombian gold.
And to be honest, the look of the skunk reminded me of that.
The high didn't, but the look of it, it was golden looking, you know, it was pretty nice looking stuff.
It stunk.
Was it that, you know, because there's obviously that never ending debate about roadkill skunk.
And I guess I'm wondering, do you remember there being like a particularly acrid skunkiness to it or was it more the sweet stuff that you hear about?
Well, I've never smelled a skunk, but that first stuff we got, it permeated.
It really, you couldn't keep it in your pocket, in the car, you couldn't take it anywhere.
It was strong smelling.
And I don't know whether it came from seeds from Neville.
I'm actually certain the first stuff we tried called, it was called Cal Skunk, California.
And that didn't come from any seed bank.
I'm pretty sure they had friends in California that they got to.
And that was a little bit different to be honest, but yeah, the smell.
And like I said, I don't know about roadkill skunk.
I'd have to smell it to know that, you know.
Yeah. Yeah.
Look, when I was in the States a few years ago, I managed to drive past the dead one and pull over and smell it.
And it's largely like just a really acrid, rotten garlic smell.
Like ammonia and garlic, like makes your nostrils flare.
You know, like sometimes how you'd smoke a strain, you'd exhale and it really coats your mouth and your nostrils flare.
And you get like a bit, almost like you got like something sour in your mouth.
Yeah. Yeah.
That's sort of what the skunk thing does.
But that's interesting to hear, you know, it sounds like you had some pretty OG stuff,
especially if you could really see that Columbian in it, which is neat, right?
What were your thoughts on the NL?
You know, we've had such a resurgence of NL over the past 15, 20 years.
Do you look back fondly on it or do you just think, oh, you know, it's just another one of the strains at the time?
Yeah. I didn't write it that.
I really liked the skunk, to be honest.
I didn't think the Northern Lights was as nice.
I bought a fair bit of it, but no, I didn't.
I preferred the skunk, to be honest.
Yeah.
It was novel for us just to have those sorts of things after what we had had, you know.
For sure. For sure.
So, continuing on, right, you've just come online.
What was the first thing that happened online?
Was it discovering one of the big forums and you're like, oh, wow, like there's this whole community
or was it more like you discovered some local people via some other means?
How did it all go down online?
I think I met a guy on, I think there's a forum called Sweet Leaf or something like that.
That's where I met that African lady and I had ducks with seeds and I wanted to know more about where they had come from
because I'd never seen cannabis like that before.
And that's the reason I went on the forums.
And then when a few of them saw it, they said they'd never seen it either, obviously.
So, one thing led to another and I was on Overgrow.
That's where I learned.
Let me pull you back before we jump into Overgrow because everyone's so fond about it.
We had a lot of viewers ask about your ducks foot and I guess, you know, you could boil it down to one or two sort of questions
everyone's asking in different forms.
But it was sort of like, you know, first off, how did you get access to the ducks foot originally?
A friend showed it to me.
He described it a couple of times to me, not very well.
He just said it was a strain with three-fingered leaves on it, which I've seen that before.
So, it really didn't take my attention very much.
But then when I saw it, I thought, whoa, it doesn't even look like cannabis, particularly the first stuff we grew.
It took him a fair bit to get it off the guy that had it.
I think the guy ran into trouble, had to give away a box of seedlings and that's how we ended up with some.
From that, we only had a few seeds and what we grew, we only ended up with one ducks foot plant.
And I think the other ones, the non-ducks foot ones, they'd already had some, they'd been crossed with that already, I'm pretty sure,
because we just crossed one of the males with the ducks foot and we ended up with more ducks foot and normal leafed cannabis.
And that's where it stemmed from initially.
I just thought it was so novel and I didn't want to lose it.
I just thought us silly Aussie backyard guys, we're going to probably lose it if we're not careful.
So, I'm best to try and spread it around so that that doesn't happen.
Yeah. Wow, a man for the people. I love it.
And I guess, as a follow-up to that, what percentage of those offspring were coming out with the ducks foot phenotype?
Oh, it's probably about 50%, close enough to. It took a few generations to get it completely all ducks foot.
And I neglected the other traits. I didn't know much about breeding cannabis at the time.
And I still regard myself as just a hobby breeder. I just do it for a bit of fun and to make ourselves some seeds.
There's no interest in selling seeds, to be honest. Just share a bit of cannabis, make ourselves some seeds.
And so, it took a few generations. By the time I made something that ended up on the market, I was a bit embarrassed, to be honest,
that I'd lost some of the important parts of it.
By that, do you mean like the flavor or the effect?
Exactly. The flavor, the buds looked better to me. Some people did say they got some stuff that was more similar to what we had started with.
But we saved a bunch of the seed or I got my friend to and I thought that was safe.
I'd asked him, make sure you keep that. And he had a stash in his freezer and ended up giving it away.
I couldn't believe it. When I thought, oh, look, I've probably messed this up a bit. I'll go back and get the originals and we'll try again.
No, they're gone.
Heartbreaking.
Yeah, I was pretty disappointed. He gave them to his ex-wife's boyfriend. Who does that?
The guy banging your wife, your ex-wife.
I need to have a bit.
Oh, God. Oh, wow. What a turn of events. Who would have thought? Okay. Well, interesting stuff.
So, in terms of the original, what sort of flavor and effect did it have?
It varied a little bit. It was kind of coffee, sometimes a little bit hashy.
It was a really strong aroma, like super strong. I would have rated it up there with skunk permeation.
You know what I mean? You can smell a plant from a long, long way away.
And I got some other web stuff from Hawaii. Hawaiian webbed indica as well.
I made a trade with a Hawaiian guy because it seemed like his stuff was lacking the traits that mine had and a bit vice versa.
So, we thought we'd trade and see what we come up with. He didn't say his stuff was indica, but it was.
It grew completely different than mine. It was no branching, small, fat-stemmed, pungent little plant and super potent.
And I made a cross with that and duck's foot and that smelled even stronger. That stuff was... You couldn't hide it. There was no chance.
I've heard of people getting busted with little tiny buds in their car because it just stunk.
Wow. That sounds really cool. And I mean, you gave me the perfect segue into the next question, which was that one of our listeners had asked,
do you know anything about whether the duck's foot originally comes from Hawaii? Because a lot of people have said that over the years.
Do you think that it comes from one spot or maybe different places simultaneously and it's just a common mutation?
I think it's just a common mutation and they're not necessarily related. I wasn't sure for a while, but I asked Sam about it too.
And he said he found some 20 years before I was doing it. When he started initially reversing cannabis, they found some web leaf stuff.
But he said he didn't really see a use for it. So, they never kept it. But I think it's just a trait in cannabis that can appear sometimes.
Sure. And I think that sometimes the duck's foot can get grouped into this category.
I'm not sure if you've been following closely, but there's two other well-known plants now that have these very altered phenotypical appearances,
being the Australian Bastard Cannabis, which you're probably very familiar with, as well as the Super Freak, which is a more new creation.
It's got a very hyper serrated leaf, which makes it look essentially like a fern.
And I guess I'm sort of interested because those two strains I just mentioned, ABC and Super Freak, they're not regarded as necessarily the be-alls in terms of smoke quality and effect.
It's more of like a tool to help try to hide the crop.
But what I've heard from you sounds like the duck's foot really did sort of stand on its own in terms of the effect and the flavour. Is that sort of your impression?
Oh, yeah. Particularly that hybrid we made, that was amazing stuff. The smell was so strong that pruning it would make you nauseous after a while.
You couldn't really trim a lot of it. It made you feel sick. It was like fumes coming off the stuff.
I'd still rate it as some of the strongest weed I've ever had. It was really, really potent stuff.
Wow. Did that one ever make it out into the masses at all?
No, I lost it through getting busted. I did try and back some up, but that was lost as well too. Some things are just not meant to be, I think.
Oh, no. Well, there you go. There you go. Okay.
I did try Australian Bastard Cannabis recently and that Freak stuff. I don't know. I didn't smoke any of the Bastard stuff, but my friends smoked the Freak and they said it was quite good.
It was just a little bit low-yielding, but an amazing-looking plant.
Yeah. Hey, I'd be curious to know, did you ever smoke it back in the day? Because people always used to say that back in the day it was like the worst high, gave you a headache. Did you ever experience that?
The Bastard Cannabis, you mean?
Yeah.
No, I never smoked any of it. They seemed to think it was hemp. By what people report, it sounds like it.
Yeah. I remember just reading the word Bindi or something like that and they would call it Bindi. I guess it was like the old equivalent of the Beasters, like the shitty Raigweed or whatever. But yeah, there you go. I guess I'm glad you haven't had to smoke that.
In the words of Skunk B.A., I've only got so many breaths in this life to fill my lungs with and I'm not going to waste it on some shit.
Okay. So, jumping back to the timeline, what was the first strain you ever bred and was it intentional or was it an accident?
We used to make seeds for ourselves out of the bag seed we got, if any of it was any good because we needed more seed every year.
You just filial breed it most times, like just pop the bag seed and breed the brothers to the sisters or are you sort of out crossing it to different stuff?
With whatever we had at the time. Yeah. And just a bit of, pardon the pun, but just pot luck, what we came up with.
You know what, this would be perfect because I was talking to a friend the other day and because he had just recently started taking clones of like everything and I was like, this is the way to do it, man. Like it's annoying and it takes space, but trust me, it's good to have the clone of it.
And I was sort of saying to him, you know, think of all these legendary clones throughout history, you know, whatever, you know, Chemdog, OG Kush, whatever you want to think of.
And I'd always say, think about how many Chemdogs have existed throughout history, but we're just never cloned or we're just, you know, haphazardly made through sort of, you know, breeding one thing to another.
And like, I guess what I'm sort of getting is, are there any plants you remember from your, like, you know, from the history where you're like, man, I remember this one plant we grew, it was so special. And like, you know, we didn't keep a clone, but like if I had it, it would stand up to modern elites.
Oh yeah, there was a few of them. I had some pretty cool African stuff from that seed that girl sent me. Some of them were, one was that it smelled so disgusting that I actually, I killed it. I couldn't even give it away. It was that disgusting, it smelled like a stink bug, you know, stink bugs?
Yeah, yeah.
I couldn't even give it away. So I thought I'd, I just chucked it in a box and threw it on top of the cupboard. And I thought one day when we're out of weed, we might want to smoke that. And months down the track, we got it out and it was actually quite good. The smell had dissipated. And I gave some to the guy that I'd offered it to him for nothing and he wouldn't take it. And he came back later.
Anyway, he said it was some of the best weed he'd had, he said to me. And I said, so you could have had the whole lot for nothing, but you wouldn't take it.
Now I'm going to keep it. I love it. Oh, that's brilliant. That's cool to hear. Yeah, I like that. I remember, because a lot of people might hear that and think, how could you like consider giving it away? It's still weed or whatever.
I remember one time I was at Bodie's house and he's like, oh, smell this. It's called arse. I'm like, really? And he's like, yeah, it's like American skunk selection, but like smell it. And it proper smelt like an arsehole. And I had some in this bong and I'm going to smoke it. And I'm like, hesitantly bringing it. And I'm like, am I about to like vomit? Because if this tastes like it smells, I'm going to vomit. And thank fuck it didn't translate the smell at all.
But I can only imagine what you went through. It would have been fun.
Definitely not licking your lips type of stuff.
That's it. That's it. Right. Okay. Well, I guess sort of at the point when the duck's foot that you said, you know, you felt like you'd lost some traits, but it was sort of going out to market. I think a lot of people still really viewed that as like a really worthwhile tool. People still looking for that seed stock.
Did you have any idea at the time that it was going to go on to become this sort of legendary stock that like people are hunting for like, you know, wild right now?
No, but I see a few people still sell it. I've seen it around. I see it on some Facebook pages and that sort of thing. So it's definitely still out there.
Yeah. I mean, that's what I think is really interesting is like people are really looking for it. Like it's sort of funny because it'll tie into when we talk about some of your strains later on with like the MBS and stuff.
But I feel like there's a similarity between your duck's foot and a lot of Tom Hill's lines. It's like, it's these old lines that people are really hunting for now because they're like, they recognize the value.
Some of these older lines have just inherently within them. But I guess you were sort of saying at the time you weren't really aware it was going to have this ripple effect it did.
No, like I said, I was just trying to save the stuff because I just thought there was some importance for that leaf and it might be useful to people, you know, trying to hide their plants and stuff like that.
And I'm sure it probably helped a few people probably grew stuff where they weren't able to before.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. Right. The camouflage aspects are undeniable.
Yeah.
Take me a little bit forward now. I mean, maybe it was happening at the time. How did you first meet Moon Unit and what sort of got you first thinking about the idea of, you know, the Wizards of Oz?
I was just on the forums on IC Mag and he posted some stuff. Zoid Fuel, I'm pretty sure it was. You've heard of Zoid Fuel?
Oh, yeah.
So I contacted him and with him being an Aussie, you know, I wanted to know more about it. It looked awesome. And so I got some seed out off of him and I grew some. It was amazing stuff.
I can't believe that just an average Aussie guy could make something so good out of a few land roses. That was an excellent effort. Not many of the people that breed cannabis actually do that. You know what I mean? They always start with someone else's stuff, whereas he made it himself.
Yeah. And with non-European or American genetics.
Yeah. It's just like Aussie bushweed, PNG gold and some of that Chinese indica stuff.
Incredible stuff. Okay. And so I guess you guys just sort of hit it off from there?
Yeah. And so, well, we decided we'd try and make a few things that people might like. And he did it all and it wasn't me. I just sent him some seeds and spoke with him on the phone and that sort of thing. So it was more his work than mine, you know.
Oh, look, I feel like you contributed pretty well. So that's great to hear. And how did you feel about it all? You know, when you were releasing the seeds, were you sort of thinking like, it's going pretty well, maybe we should keep doing this? Or like, yeah, what was your thoughts at the time?
Oh, we were pretty excited. We had a few dramas though. The MBS that had Hermes in it and we weren't able to shake them and it was lovely stuff. We gave it some medicinal patients back then because even though medicinal cannabis wasn't a big thing then, it was starting to take off and it gave you the munchies severely.
So this guy, he was dying of AIDS apparently and he'd lost the will to live. He wasn't eating anymore. You know, he was down to like 90 pounds or something like that. And one of the guys that we gave the stuff to, he gave him some MBS and he reported he put on like 30 pounds in two weeks. And like eight, 10 years later, he was still alive. He reckons it saved his life that week.
Hey, I believe you. That's incredible. And I mean, you know, without trying to get too sentimental, like gosh, that must make you feel like it's all sort of worth it, right?
Oh, absolutely. Yeah. Well, I said medicinal weed was new. I just thought that was a bit fancy for medicinal weed. It was just a way for us stoners to legitimize what we were doing.
Yeah, I get what you mean. Yeah. And that's the thing. What you sort of just touched on is a concept that I actually first heard from our buddy Todd. And he, I don't know if he coined the term, but I sort of looked into it afterwards. And he said this term hippie guilt. And it's like what you just touched on, like this guilt we feel around the fact that like we just like this plant.
And we, you know, as you said, you know, like we give it the name medicinal to sort of try to legitimize what we're doing. And it's like, the reason why we do that is because we inherently feel a bit guilty because we're made to feel that what we're doing is bad. And so if we can say it's medicinal, well now it's actually good. It's interesting. Did you ever feel like that? Did you ever feel like, because I certainly feel that way at times, like as in like, on the one hand, I know that clearly what I'm doing is fine. It's a plant. The laws are wrong.
They don't determine what's right or wrong ethically. And I know that growing a plant is not inherently wrong, but at the same time you do feel a bit bad because there's like this stigma in society and culturally it's not as accepted as we might like. How have you wrestled that sort of dynamic of, you know, being essentially a real famous guy in a scene that you can't tell any of your friends about for the most part?
Oh, no, I felt the same thing, but I tell you what, I read something recently or heard someone say that all cannabis use is medicinal. And when I thought about that, I thought, well, yeah, it is. Even if we just, you know, lifting your spirits, do you know what I mean? Like I said, my mother was doing, you know, that's medicinal. And so we're all using it for a medicinal reason.
And like I said, when I stopped smoking, the realization that I had been using it medicinally for a whole bunch of things that I didn't even know I had. So yeah, absolutely. All cannabis use is medicinal in my opinion too.
Yeah. Yeah. Look, I tend to agree, you know, like I think it's somewhat vogue for people to have reasons for why they're using cannabis. And like yourself at a certain point, I just tried to move away from that. And it's like, I'm not going to say I'm using it for X condition or Y condition. I'm just going to say I'm using it and it's just improving my quality of life. And that's all that needs to be said really.
Yeah. I agree. A hundred percent. A hundred percent. Yeah.
Yeah. Okay, cool. So just to jump back onto the topic, you know, you're talking about some of the work you did with Moon Unit and the MBS and stuff. How did those strains get received domestically? Did you feel like you were getting any traction within the Aussie community at all or it was mostly going to overseas people?
There was never really an official release of the seeds. We generally just shared them to be honest. So, and I do recall some American people came down to the Mardi Gras and someone shared it with them there and they reported it to be pretty well. They liked it. So it was well received and we smoked a lot of it.
That's always a good testament. So, I mean, was there like a somewhat active Australian scene or did you really feel like it was just the two of you out on an island doing your own thing? Like no one else was really on the same level, so to speak?
No, we even, I went to a Sydney Cannabis Cup at one point. There was, I think it was two years in a row. So I went to one of them, this redheaded guy, he was a crazy guy. And when I went to first visit him, was on our way to the Mardi Gras. And so the goal was to visit him and we're all going to hook up and then we go to the Mardi Gras from there.
And he wanted to enter a whole bunch of his stuff. He grew in this factory and I'd not long been busted. And so I was a little bit cautious. I didn't know that I was heading there to go and spend two nights in a cannabis factory.
But that's what I did. And he didn't end up going. We went to the, me and his friend Rodwell went to the Mardi Gras on our own and we entered his stuff. I entered some hash. There wasn't a section for hash. And I'm not sure, they said it spoiled it for some of the people because
they smoked the hash and then the rest of the weed didn't do anything for them. I didn't care if we won or not. It was just about entering. That's what that Mardi Gras is about. It's a celebration of cannabis. It's not to be taken seriously. We won, that's not what it's about. It was actually a really great weekend. We had a great time.
Cool. And did you bump into any other growers while you were in Nimbin, for example?
I'm sure I did. It's a bit of a blur though.
Okay. So I guess the picture I'm getting is that it wasn't like you bumped into another Wally Duck equivalent where you're like, Oh, hey, you're doing your own thing in the way that we are.
No, I did meet on the second time. I told a couple of American guys about it. And one of them met me there. He was like, he ended up being one of the IC tech guys. You know, he did the forums. And they thought it was great. They ended up coming and staying in Australia for at least six months.
Because it was a bit of an eye opener for them. They thought we had a great kind of lifestyle, a good outlook on life and that sort of thing.
Yeah, definitely. Any of our American listeners who are wondering if life in Australia would be good? The answer is yes.
I've invited heaps of people and they've all really enjoyed it. And some of them, particularly a Finnish guy said it spoiled them forever. They want to come back and they're not satisfied living in Finland anymore.
Yeah, look, I can't comment on Finland, but I can definitely say as much as I enjoy spending time in the States, I'm always very happy when I touch back down on Australian soil. I feel like when I see the Australian native plants, I'm like, yeah, I'm home. I feel good.
So moving the story along, was there a definitive moment where sort of you and Moon Unit sort of split ways or was it just sort of like a slow fizzle and you both just sort of went your different pathways in life? How did that progress?
Oh, we kept in touch, but he got busted and I haven't spoken. I think I might have spoken to him after that, but I don't know what happened. And I've got a phone number for him somewhere. I keep meaning to try it to see what he's doing, whether it works or not, I don't know.
But he's in New South Wales, so I gather that being busted there wasn't very good for him. I don't know whether he went to jail or what happened. And so, yeah, that was basically the end of that. I'd like to get in touch with him again. He's a good guy.
Yeah. I mean, not that I've looked particularly hard, but I guess it's probably safe to assume he dropped off after that for just obvious legal reasons.
I still speak to Kanga a little bit and I think he's lost interest in We after being in jail for a couple of years. It really tainted it for him. Yeah.
Yeah, I can imagine. I mean, while we're on the topic of Kanga, I'm guessing you were around when he was pretty active and during the time when he was busted?
Yes. Yeah, we were going to do a collaboration together, but yeah, that quickly ended.
Yeah. Wow. And I mean, did you have any thoughts? Because, you know, there's a lot of rumors around the Kanga bust and people link it to Gypsy Nirvana and various other people. Did you have any thoughts on how that went down or you just think it was probably just, you know, like a loose lips sort of thing?
Oh, I think someone found their plans. I think that's what happened. I don't know how, but that's what I seem to recall. I don't think he thinks anyone dogged him in either. I think it was just luck of the draw. Yeah, bad luck.
Yeah, sure. Sure. I mean, while we're on the topic of Kanga, you know, the strain that always gets referenced is the Malumbimbi Madness. I feel like it's one of those strains where it's just got, you know, so much mythology attributed to it and it's just so hard to find verifiable information about it. What are your thoughts on Malumbimbi Madness? Did you ever try it? Do you think it is as good as people sometimes make it out to be? Where do you stand?
I heard about that stuff when I was like 15 and a guy was, a brother-in-law's friend was heading up north from where we were in Melbourne to get some. I gave him $100. He said, yeah, get me some. And $100 for me when I was 15 was a fair bit of money. He didn't come back. It must have been pretty good weed.
But everyone seems to think that everything from Malumbimbi ended up being called or Nimbin the area ended being called that. Do you know what I mean? And would the real Malumbimbi Madness please stand up sort of scenario.
I had heard that as well. And the story made sense, right? Like as soon as the name came out, every dealer in Malumbs calling their weed Malumbimbi Madness. I guess from what you saw of what Kanga was doing, you must have sort of thought, oh, well, I guess given how much he's messing with it, like it must be pretty all right.
Yeah. And he sent some to Neville and Neville said to him that it was as good as the haze he had. So I gather it was pretty good gear. I didn't smoke any of Kanga's pot, but it seemed to have a pretty good reputation.
I've heard all these stories, but back in the day, like good weed was hard to find. So people probably remember things like, you know, really well as like, yo, that was the best way to had him forever, like sort of thing.
Yeah. Yeah. I'd agree with that nostalgia thing. People say that a lot of the weed we were getting was shit. And then suddenly we'd have something good and it would waste us, you know what I mean? Because our tolerance was down. We hadn't had anything good for a while. And I think there's a lot of truth to that.
Yeah, certainly. Well, I mean, while we're on the topic of Mullum Madness, I've always wondered myself, and maybe you can chime in to some degree, maybe not, all good if you can't. Do you think Mullum Bibby Madness is different to Old Mother Sativa? Because I feel like as much as people maybe try to talk about them as different, they maybe are just the same.
I don't know to comment on that really. I've seen both of them and they're obviously both Sativas, but relationship, I don't know. There seems to be rumours that Mullum Bibby was tied cross with Columbian.
I'd heard that.
Yeah. I don't know.
Yeah, interesting. Okay. Yeah, I definitely heard that. And I thought, because that's also one of the rumoured genetic combinations of Cali Mist. And so I was like, well, that would make sense because that was meant to be a really good Sativa. So it would make sense a similar genetic combination could make a good Sativa. But interesting, interesting stuff.
And I don't know if you know the answer to this, but when we were talking about the Zoid Fuel and the Aussie Bushweed, was that like Old Mother Sativa or like a different Aussie Bushweed?
It was just Sativa as far as I know. There was a fair bit of that around. Muren seemed to think that it was a bit, it must have been strong because he said it was a bit paranoid inducing, you know, a bit scary. And he said that's what he liked about the Chinese Indica that he added to it because he said that was like anti-anxiety sort of stuff.
And it leveled the high out a lot. And I tend to agree that Zoid Fuel was real, you know, feel good weed. And, you know, it gave you that nice buzzing in the head. Actually, I would write it similar to MDMA, actually. It was similar to that.
Yeah, like it was a really psychoactive.
And I don't know, just a buzz in the head and a euphoria, you know, I'd say it was quite similar to that sort of stuff.
Wow. That's a testament to the power of the old world strains, right?
Absolutely. That was strong. You know, people say, unless you were smoking stuff that was scary and paranoid, it wasn't that strong. I disagree. It can still be fun, you know, and happy and uplifting and be very, very strong, you know.
Yeah, certainly. Okay. And in terms of like the Z99 cross you guys made with your C99, can you tell us a little bit about that? Did you just send the seeds over to Moon Unit? Had that one go down?
Yeah, I sent some, I was F5 C99, I think, something like that. And then he just, he sent me back samples of different females that he'd used. And we must have had a similar taste in weed because we both selected the same one without talking to one another. Yeah.
It actually, it was similar to the Zoid fuel. It must have taken traits from that because it had that nice little buzzing sort of in your head type of high. And we still grow it. I've still got Z99. We still grow that stuff.
You read my mind because the next question was a question from one of the listeners who said, please pass on my thanks to Wally, huge fan of his work. He sent me some Z99 to test out years ago. And I got to be honest, I did a pretty pitiful job of doing it outdoors at the time, but I'm really curious to know if he has any more. Maybe I can do a better job this time around.
Sure. Yeah. I have a bunch of Z99 seeds and I still make seeds because there's still, people are still growing cannabis out there.
We got to use this opportunity now. If anyone was interested in getting some of your seeds, what's the best avenue for them to make contact?
Well, I haven't really sold any. I'm that guy that has trouble receiving funds. And that was my, always my problem. I don't know how, but, and I did, was going to do a collaboration with another Aussie guy recently, Mr. Dots. And he had the same trouble. How was he going to receive the funds without disclosing his address or, do you know what I mean? That sort of thing.
Interesting stuff. Interesting stuff. Maybe I'll put you in touch with some friends of mine who run a seed bank in Australia. They might be able to help you out.
There you go.
There you go. This chat just became worthwhile. Okay, cool, cool, cool. So in terms of your seeds, would you largely say that, you know, knowingly or unknowingly they're sort of bred for Aussie conditions? Because I know that like, you know, being Queensland native myself, a lot of Australians really struggle with the heat. You know, do you think these might be good candidates for people in those environments where like heat is a factor?
Yeah, sure. We're definitely testing that out by just growing them here ourselves. That's largely why we make them for our local friends to grow. Because, you know, there's never enough good weed around us there. And we've got a great climate. And when I didn't have any weed, I'd want to go and find some and it was always just shit.
So I thought, well, if I could make enough seed to share with the locals, then when I run out of weed, there's going to be something decent to farm, you know, around with any luck anyway. So that's what I've been doing. And I get a lot of people visiting me these days for that very thing. And we, you know, I do benefit from it.
That's great to hear. That's great to hear. You know what, it's so funny you mentioned that because I always said that was my initial motivation for making seeds as well was I just thought if there ever came a time where I wasn't able to grow for myself, I just want to be able to know that I could buy some decent quality off someone. And I think it does sort of help you get there, you know?
Absolutely. It's definitely a foot in the door. If you'd shared some seeds with someone and they've grown some good stuff, the chances of you being able to acquire some of them is pretty good, isn't it?
Yeah, that's it. It's like a business proposition. I love it. Okay. And out of curiosity, you know, because I think that Instagram and the internet in general has done a lot for the cannabis community undoubtedly.
And it feels like in Australia, there's a newly emerging sort of scene that's a bit more, how shall you say, online, not just in like the internet sense, but as in like we're coming online, we're all linking up like we're all nodes in a network and we're linking with each other.
And I feel like there is slowly beginning to emerge a clone sharing scene. And I don't think it's really there just yet, but I think in the next few years, we'll really see it come to fruition where, you know, because often people come on the show and they say, oh, you know, like what's, you know, UK has cheese. What does Australia have?
And I'm like, oh, there isn't really a one thing that Australia has that gets passed around per se. But I feel like in time that might happen as clones get traded. Have you noticed the development of like a sort of cannabis scene or a clone sharing scene per se?
I hope that's beginning. I've got to say, we're probably like the last cab off the rank using the internet for these sorts of things. A lot of Aussies are very paranoid people and they're shy away from technology. You know, I've got friends that don't even have phones and half of them don't know how to use them and they've never dared to go on a cannabis site.
It's a bit funny, given people like you and I, and we're out there on there and nothing much happens to us. And in fact, it increases our knowledge and our network basing and friends and it's been beneficial. And these guys are missing out on that.
Yeah, hugely, hugely. The amount of messages I've had over the years from people who are like, oh, you know, I want to grow, but I don't want to get busted. But I was sort of thinking if they were going to be busting someone, like they'd probably go for like a big fish. What's your secrets to not being busted? And I was just like, oh, just like don't sell hard drugs or like associate with people who do hard drugs. That's sort of my only rule. It's like if you do or sell hard drugs, I probably won't really want to hang out with you.
And that's always kept me really safe, you know, because I pretty much just hang around with other growers.
Yeah, that's a good rule.
Yeah, right. While we're on the topic, what's your thoughts on the Australian legal climate? You know, obviously in the past few years, we've seen the ACT legalized two plants per person per household with an upper limit of six plants per household. So, you know, three people pulling their plants together.
Do you feel like that's a step in the right direction or are you sort of thinking like, oh, you know, it's a band-aid for a bullet wound. What can you do with two plants?
Yeah, it might be a start. You know, they're not allowed to possess seeds though. Seeds are still illegal for them. They can have two plants, but where are they going to get the seeds?
That's a very good question.
Crazy, isn't it?
Yeah, well, you know, I got an uncle who lives in Canberra and it was when I was talking to him, he sort of painted how logistically challenging it is because I was like, oh, you know, I'll send you down this sick clone I've got. He's like, oh, nah. And I'm like, why? It's like, it's definitely better than whatever you got. And he's like, oh, yeah, but like, then I can't keep a clone of the current one I'm running. Like I can flower one out and keep one clone and that's all I can do.
And so I realised very quickly, I was like, you can't grow anything new because if you even pop one new seed, you can't keep a clone of the other thing you're running. And then so that's gone. And like, it really does paint you in a corner, doesn't it?
Yeah, if you're law abiding like that guy, I've never really been like that.
Oh, look, I only ever abide the law myself. I think that I'm maybe a couple of plants over the count at the moment. So I guess the question then needs to be asked, what to you would be an acceptable medical system? I know that in an ideal world, you know, we can grow as many plants as we want and we can go nuts and have fun.
What do you think would be like a realistic proposition that you would be able to get on board with while also recognising like, you know, like they're not going to give us infinite plants. Like what's a happy medium in your opinion?
Just what they did in Thailand recently is a bit of an example of what they, you know, six plants you can grow at home, treat yourself, you know. I think Australia is crazy where only the doctors are allowed to give you medicine because you have no idea because you're an idiot, you know. You have an idea, it's your body, you should be able to whack in at what you, as long as it's not harming you, you know what I mean?
And a bit of home remedy sort of stuff. Why not? What's wrong with that? You don't have to pay anyone to do that. Why should we have to go to a doctor and get a bloody script to get stuff, you know what I mean? When we know, we've studied it, we know what's wrong, we know how to treat it, we know where to get the stuff. Why can't we? That's what I'd like to be able to see people doing, you know what I mean? They're not idiots. They know what's good for them, a lot of people, you know. That's the sort of thing I'd like to see.
I'm worried that, to be honest with legality here, that we could end up in a situation where growing a few plants is worse than it is now, you know, because that could happen. It's a real, real issue where, you know, the government's mates are all making money selling pot, but you can't even grow a few yourself because you're in bloody big trouble, you know.
Yeah, I remembered when they legalised those two plants in ACT, I said to my buddies, I said, you watch, they're going to come out now and say, now that we've legalised it, anyone who's genuinely needing cannabis will do that. And anyone who grows more than that is a dirty criminal.
Exactly. Exactly. You know, you can't grow tobacco, obviously, because that's really frowned upon. And possession of large amounts of tobacco, that's a federal offence. You're in big trouble. You're in worse trouble than if they found you with a pound of weed, you know.
Yeah.
And that's what I'm worried about what might happen with weed in the future. If you, let's say you want to grow for everybody else, but you don't have a licence and you get caught doing it, then you're in big shit, you know.
Yeah, look, it would be super concerning if that happened, didn't it? Especially because, yeah, Australia's got such a hard on for like tightly regulated pharmaceutical dispensing. Like, I mean, on the one hand, it's good, I think that Australia has that grip on the pharmaceutical dispensing because it stops pharmaceutical industries from like bribing doctors and stuff like that.
But on the other hand, it gives that point you said where it's like there's so many checks and hurdles that you have to go to a doctor to grow a plant that you know is safe.
Yeah. We're so tight with some things. I understand that they want to do things properly, but when the rest of the world's done 350 studies and they come up with something and then we've got to do exactly the same study and we come up with the same thing, it's ridiculous, isn't it?
Yeah, yeah, gosh, I wish we could go back to like back in California when they had the 215 days. Like, I think that model is the dream, but sadly, I'm not convinced it'll ever happen in Australia. But like, yeah, where people can just like grow at their house and go to a dispensary and sell their product to a dispensary and then like what medical was for the longest time in sort of California, that would be the dream.
But yeah, who knows whether it'll actually happen. And I mean, on the tail end of the legality side, you mentioned earlier you got busted. Is there any chance you'd be willing to tell us a little bit about what happened or what sort of punishment you faced?
I broke that rule that you mentioned earlier. I didn't know that's what they were doing. But that led to me getting busted. And twice, quite a lot, quite large amounts both times. And I'm still in trouble.
So, even as far as like legal growing and that went, I probably wouldn't be able to do that for quite a while yet. I think they shut us down for quite a while, at least five years, maybe, might be 10 years, I don't know. But I mentioned that to someone the other day, who's got some legal stuff going on down south, and said that I probably wouldn't be even allowed into one of those facilities.
And he said, well, they're not guarding you on the way through the door. There's no one checking your ID or anything. Absolutely, you can go in. But yeah, I don't think I'll be a candidate to grow legally for quite some time.
Yeah, look, I was thinking about it myself, when you mentioned that to me, and I thought, maybe in the future, it'll become more possible. I've interacted with a few of the legal growers in Australia. And I know that the majority of them are being operated by people with virtually zero cannabis experience, but just have been able to get the financial backing.
And a lot of those companies are producing very lackluster results that even they themselves are acknowledging is not good. And so I think maybe in a few years, once they've lost enough money, they'll be like, maybe we should get someone in here who can actually grow weed.
Yeah, you'd think they would eventually come to that conclusion. It's frustrating, isn't it?
Yeah, look, and I'm talking about this for you, you know, like, I'm hoping that you get a call because it would be a shame for your talents to go to waste, like in that respect.
Yeah, I'd definitely do it. But there'd want to be some reasonable money in it though. Well, they make pretty good money. You've seen the price of medicinal weed, hey?
Oh, God, I remember when it first came out, and it was like 900 an ounce from the pharmacies. I think now you can get reasonably good quality for about 500 an ounce from the pharmacy, but you're sort of like, for a legal system, I was hoping the price point might have...
Especially since you can go down the road and get something better, cheaper, black market.
That's it. Okay, so the next question I had for you, and this was something I was really interested to ask you was, I'm always asking myself, more than anything, I would like to be regarded as someone who helped progress the Australian scene in some form or another.
And so I thought I should ask you that exact question. What to you, do you think is the most impactful thing the average person can do to help progress the scene? Do you think that maybe, for example, it's like getting online and networking and just like trying to like, you know, like build that network?
Or do you think like, for example, for a long time, I've always told people, just keep pheno hunting, trust me, like when you pheno hunt, you find new special plants, and it makes the scene interesting. Like, what do you think is the best thing someone can do?
That's not easy. Everyone's got different skills, don't they? So, they've got different stuff to use. Some people are way better at talking than others. Some people are just gardeners and they want to be left alone. Whatever they're good at, I guess.
That's a good answer. That's actually a lot more, you know, wide spectrum than I expected. And that's really good. So, I guess, maybe I can make it a bit more specific. For you, what do you think is the most impactful thing you did for the scene?
Just become involved, I think. I've shared a lot of seeds and connected people together, that sort of thing. All that helps.
Definitely. And I mean, as a curiosity, what's your thoughts on pheno hunting? Are you the sort of person who's like always keen to crack some new seeds or are you pretty content just running from clone? Where do you sit?
I think it's exciting cracking new stuff all the time, don't you?
Yeah. It's the spice of life.
I can see.
Yeah. And it's an interesting one because it then goes next into this conversation of like some people don't like the fact I say this, but in Australia, at least, I always say that I recommend people have a day job and don't grow for a living because I feel like whenever I meet someone who's like, oh, you know, I would really love to grow something new, but I've got this strain I grow and I have to yield 4p in order to pay the bills.
And, you know, etc, etc. And I'm like, oh, you sort of backed yourself into a corner with your hobby because it's no longer your hobby. It's now paying your bills and thus you don't have that freedom to maybe pop some zoid fuel or something new that maybe doesn't quite yield as much, but in the long term could be like really cool.
And I've always felt like that's been a good bit of advice because the people I know who do really good pheno hunting and really have fun with cannabis, it doesn't pay their bills for the most part. Like maybe it gives them a bit of pocket money, but like it's not the primary income source. What's your thoughts on that sentiment? Feel free to totally shoot it down if you don't agree.
No, maybe we need some guy that just does that, you know, and he gets some money out of it. Everyone pays him for his success, his additions to everything because he's doing a job too. So he's looking for something for all these guys that are doing the big jobs and he should be included as well. Maybe that's another job, you know, like paying breeders to find us better stuff, stuff like that.
So there's the pheno hunter guy and he should do well too.
I think the sentiment that whatever plants I found are sort of worth $5,000, like that was the opportunity cost for me to find those plants was like foregoing that crop. And a lot of people get really uptight when they hear that because they're like, oh, you're implying that a clone's worth $5,000. And I don't know if I'm saying a clone's worth $5,000 per se, but I'm definitely saying in that theoretical situation, someone foregoed a bunch of yield to find that new plant, which maybe wasn't optimized in the setup. Yeah. What's your thoughts about that?
Can't he get a percentage of what the guys that are growing it are making, you know, 5% or something? You know, cut him in on the deal?
Yeah. It seems like a reasonable sort of like middle ground, right?
I do that with the guys with seed. We have an arrangement. You know, some like to pay straight up front, some like to give a percentage of what they get or whatever. And it works as long as we're all getting something and we're all happy. That guy should be cut in as well.
Yeah, that's actually a really sort of even keeled middle ground. I like that. I like that. I hadn't thought about that too much. But yeah, that would be good. And I guess it inherently sort of promotes like unity and like collaboration just by virtue of how you're doing the transaction.
Exactly. We're all working together toward, you know, the guy at the end who's smoking his stuff saying, wow, I'm glad they chose this one. But then that goes back to your Fino hunter mate, doesn't it?
Yeah, definitely. And you know what you said is really true. You know, I've been thinking about this a lot recently and I've decided to give out some of my closer guarded clones because I thought it's all well and good for me to think this is the best shit on earth. But if I'm only cropping a couple of ounces of it every few months, like who's ever going to get to taste it?
Yeah, exactly. Yeah, I'm all about that too. We've got some cuttings years ago from overseas, which we never thought was possible. And at first I thought we should guard them tightly. Do you know what I mean? But eventually I thought, well, I'm going to lose them. Like I thought with the ducks foot. I'm going to lose this if I do do that.
If I share and let other people reap the rewards, the benefits or whatever, then when I lose mine, which I will, I can get it back off somebody. And that's exactly what happened. And that way we managed to keep one. I think it must have been at least six years ago that we got those cuttings. And the one I got, it's still running. And everyone's really happy and I can get it anytime.
Do you know what I mean? It'd be pretty selfish just to keep it to yourself. I've got it and you can't have it. Cannabis is supposed to be about sharing as far as I remember when I first started.
Yeah, definitely. I feel like I'm slowly treading the same path you did years ago. So that's cool to hear. I'd be interested to hear what's your thoughts on the Australian cannabis scene in general? I'm not sure if you're on Instagram much, but I guess from sort of what you see on the forums, I would largely describe the Australian cannabis scene as quite similar to the American in terms of like the trends, you know, like OG and cookies and all that.
It's sort of popular over here nowadays with the younger growers. What's your thoughts on the scene from what you see?
Yeah, I've seen that too. I not long ago on Instagram, it took me a minute to work out how to use the darn thing though. It wasn't like Facebook where you join a group and there it all is, you know. But yeah, they're like a bunch of kids with new toys, aren't they?
I've noted at the moment, they're all trying those new things and, you know, I've got Bruce Banner or I've got cookies or, and I think it's cool to see. But I'd like to see more of them growing some stuff from like Ace Seeds, for instance. Those sativers that those guys bring out, they're awesome. I love that sort of stuff. I'm so glad there's someone doing that, that there's a market that they can, you know, make some money out of and produce stuff like that.
Hell yeah. I remember when I spoke to him, he sold me Lewis, he sold me on the Cali China. I was like, send me some now.
Yeah, I'm with a few of those. I did grow some crosses a guy made with some of their stuff and it was awesome. I loved it. It's great to say that on and that there's enough people around, you know, growing that sort of stuff that it's becoming more popular, it even seems.
Yeah, hugely. I feel like Hayes, you know, someone said it the other day and it made sense, like they said, whether it's related or not, seems like since Neville's passing, the demand for Hayes is definitely feels more apparent.
Yeah, yeah. There's been a re-emergence lately, hasn't there? I think there's a lot of discussion on the forums where I go about it. So it's a little bit heated, mind you.
I love it. So when you talk to Australians about, you know what, I'm going to actually rephrase this. When you talk to internationals about Australian weed, a lot of them talk about, you know, Nimbin, the Emerald Triangle.
Do you think of Far Northern Rivers, New South Wales as the Emerald Triangle of Australia or do you feel like there's actually a lot of other areas that produce a lot and just don't really have the namesake? And I guess I will add the caveat that, you know, I haven't been to Nimbin in a number of years, but whenever I do go there, I'm largely unimpressed, slash disappointed, you know, where do you stand on it? And do you think Nimbin gets hyped?
Yeah, I do. I agree with you. I was pretty disappointed with the stuff they had. They need some more input, more seed, you know, better stuff. They've got a not bad climate there. And I'm sure they got a name for a reason initially, but yeah, I think those days are gone and they really need to step up a bit.
When I was a kid, up here where I live was pretty famous for the best weed in Australia. North Queensland heads, everyone loved them. If you had a bag of that, you'd sell out in minutes sort of thing, you know, it was pretty popular stuff and strong, you know, but I think because of the lack of imports, you know, when the import market died and no one bought it, you know, it was a bit of a shock.
No one could make any decent seed. They couldn't inbreed it well or whatever happened. The market kind of collapsed a bit and they ended up with a whole bunch of hemp it seemed like and maybe that's what's going on down in Nimbin too. They need new input, you know.
Yeah, well, that's interesting. And I definitely agree. They need some new seed. It's pretty stagnant.
Yeah, we used to have some friends around here locally that they grew some stuff from India and it was kind of like brown buds. It wasn't brown from being ruined. It was just brown. And they ran around there and they smoked out of a big chillum. It was bloody awesome actually. They put a lot of weed in that chillum. It must have been like 7g or something in there.
Wow.
It was like a ball of fire came out of the top of that thing when you popped on it. It was huge. And I was sitting on a chair. I had to go and sit against the wall because I felt like I was going to fall off my chair. I was that smashed, you know. And I asked them about seed and they said they had to go back to India every year because they tried making their own and they failed every time.
They said they couldn't do it and it was just better to go back to the source. And I guess inbreeding some of those things, just unless you're knowledgeable or whatever or you've got enough plants or it just doesn't seem to work very well. A lot of people, I guess.
Yeah, certainly. I think we might move on to some of the fan submitted questions at this point. So, from a fellow Aussie bin chicken, he asks, for the Z99, would you consider giving it a modern twist in like a sort of a hybrid reformed or would you just want to bring it back as you have it now?
I did. I did recreate it and I also gave it a modern twist and crossed it with East Coast Sour Diesel. So, Sour Z99. And that was pretty well received by the guys that have grown it.
Yeah, killer. That's like you're ahead of the game on that one.
I knew that question was coming.
No, that's like, that's the perfect cross as well. Like Sour to the Z99 is perfect.
Yeah, I did use that Sour a little bit. I had some Zammel too. You've heard of Zammel?
Yeah, the mythical LSD effect.
It was pretty good pot. I really liked it. And so, it had a really weird smell. It was kind of like tea tree oil, carotene, tea tree oil strong.
Wow.
Pretty robust sort of aroma. And I did the same. I crossed it with Sour Diesel because why not use that thing when you've got it. And it was super potent. It was a great cross. I crossed it again. So, I've got like a double Sour Zammel.
And I've had some guys send me pictures of these huge big collars they've grown with it. And so, they're reasonably happy too, it seems.
Hell yeah, that's a good answer to that question. So, the next question we got was from my buddy Goody Garden. And he wanted to know, as far as you know, is there any difference between Duxfoot and another strain that they call Mongi Madness?
I thought Mongi was ABC.
Maybe. I think I might have heard that term used as well. So, maybe it is ABC.
I think it's one of the guys. I think he said he originally was the guy that bounded off some old people, I seem to recall reading. And I think he did a bunch of crosses with it because I think he said it wasn't very potent.
But I recall him saying he did up the potency, whether that happened or not, I don't know. I wrote to him once because there seemed to be an interest in it and I wanted to get some to spread it around. But I think he was concerned with people making money out of something that he hadn't made anything out of or something.
I wouldn't have done that. I would have just given it away. I can understand where he was at. But why couldn't he just do it and make some money out of it? Do you know what I mean?
Yeah, exactly. I remember Mean Gene, a famous breeder who's been on the show said, just get one or two steps of a project under your belt and then you can let it go. And then if your fear of someone trying to rush to market happens, you're already one or two steps ahead of them.
Or do a deal with them. Talk to them and say, look, do you want to give us a little bit of something or another?
That's it. Colab is the way to go for sure.
People sell ducks foot and I don't have a foot in there at all. I don't care. I actually gave that stuff away. I never even made any money out of it. And I see people selling it, making money. Good on them. They're sharing something and they need something for the work they're doing. It puts food on their table, whatever. I'm okay with that.
Yeah, definitely.
But they could send me some money if they wanted to.
Of course. I love that. So the next question we got was from our Patreon listener, Felix. He says, it would be great to hear Wally talk a little bit about the grail haze. Yeah, let's start there. What's your thoughts on the grail haze?
What was that? Was that something that Neville was doing with Kangaroo?
Yeah, exactly.
Okay. Yeah. I don't know. I don't know what steps he ended up with. I think someone sells some of that seed still. And I'm sure it must be good. I tried some cross with, was it Mullum cross with Thai. And there's a dispute over what Thai it was. So I won't get into that.
But it was pretty good. It did remind me a lot of Thai. That golden Thai that I mentioned earlier, it reminded me of that. It was really nice. I liked it.
Yeah. Okay. That's interesting. I've seen that post Europhone too. I think it's its own kettle of fish, isn't it? With that Thai. But that's interesting. Okay. So the follow up part Felix asked was, what are your thoughts around why we're seeing the resurgence of interest in the long flowering sativas and the real trippy sort of weed?
People are finally coming to their senses.
It was just so hard to grow for everyone before. Maybe I've seen some LED grows recently with sativas. And I think they're getting a lot better. They're really starting to look a bit more like you'd see them in their home setting. And it's pretty promising, I think.
Maybe it's not far down the track and they'll be able to get the same thing indoors that you can if you grew them in a tropical place. One could only hope, hey?
Yeah, sure. And I agree. As someone who's growing some sativas under some LEDs at the moment, they're actually doing a really good job. We're going to have to talk later about that. Maybe we can do our own little collab.
I got these strains I'm running at the moment. They're called Azazel. And there's a lot of different genetics in there. It's made by a cool breeder called Always Be Flowering. But basically one half of it is Acid's genetics. Purple Haze. So it's Thai crossed to the Purple Haze. I think that's the mother. And then the father is like Granddaddy Perps, Chemdog.
So it's like new school meets old school, but they're very sativa leaning. And I'll get you some photos, but I'll also maybe we can talk about some seed stuff later. But we'll put that on the back burner for the moment.
The next question we got was someone who was wondering, it's a great question. Do you still hold any of what you would consider your original C99? Because they were sort of saying, you know, like there's so many different C99s on the market now, be it Brothers Grimm C99, the new Brothers Grimm C99. There's like a Fast Buds C9. You know, there's like a million C99s. Do you still have the one that you think is the original and what to you is the best one?
No, that's long gone. That was so many years ago. But I did get offered some recently by a guy and I think it was original Brothers Grimm stuff, maybe, you know, down the track a few generations. But I told him I'd take it because even though I thought that that stuff, that stuff that you built tolerance to it reasonably quickly, you know, was still delicious.
It was pretty nice. Especially that pineapple, like we spoke about earlier. But no, I don't have any C99. Z99.
I'm gonna have to send you some of the new C99 F2s because I got a bunch of them. My friend made them for me. I was interested to know, what day would you harvest C99? Because what I found to be the most interesting thing about the whole C99 story was when I went to, I actually spent some time in Colorado and went to the Brothers Grimm facility and they were kind enough to let me come there for a bit.
And the most interesting part about it all was Rick, Mr. Soul said, oh, you know, like we used to say, you know, day 49, day 49 and you could harvest it on day 49. But, you know, now that we understand how to grow weed a bit better, it's probably like 58 to 62. When did you harvest C99?
I was just thinking that as you were asking the question. Now, I think 60 days, but we used to harvest some at 49 days because it was ready enough. You know, although the high was better if you waited a little bit longer.
Yeah. And you know what, it's funny you say that because that's exactly what Mr. Soul said. He said, you know, like the smell and the flavor and the effect was there at 49, but at 60, it was like stronger, it lasted longer. So yeah, more enjoyable. It wasn't that you got a flavor at day 60 that wasn't there at 49. I think that's why people thought it was 49. But yeah, just the effect, the legs on it, it's just way better.
Yeah, no, I agree. I think a lot of people pull stuff early. Down in Adelaide, they grow a lot of stuff and they pull it at eight weeks. And one guy said they made a mistake once and it went 10 weeks. It was so much better, you know, but they can't afford to wait 10 weeks. So they were still always pulling it. I think it was Jack Harrah. It would have been Jack Harrah.
Nice.
Yeah, but they still didn't learn and then do 10 because two weeks is so valuable, they think. I'd make room for that extra two weeks. Be a bit more concerned about your consumers, I reckon.
Yeah, right. And I think I said this to someone the other night on Instagram. I said, I can't really think of one plant I absolutely love that finishes quicker than nine weeks.
No, some guy, one of the guys on the net said he wouldn't even smoke anything that ploughed under 10 weeks.
I love it. Puritan. That's awesome. That's awesome. Okay. So the next question we got was, I would love to know about some of Wally's favorite pure sativas or just narrow leaf drug types in general, particularly within the Southeast Asian, you know, any specific ties or I'll just sort of let you answer that so far. So yeah, like pure sativas, what's up there for you in terms of what you rate as high quality?
I like most of them to be honest. I don't know if I've grown, I have grown some pure Columbian and it was pretty nice, sort of a bit different to the Thai, even in its growth, it's got wider than it did tall, the Thais get quite tall.
But I think what you grow up with tends to be what you favor is, and that's what I found. So the Thai was typically my go to, but I'd happily try all the rest of them. No problem at all. I did like some of that Indian, like I said, that was pretty good.
I don't know what sort of Indian it was, but I think they were going to the Southern part of India. So it could have been similar to that Corella. Is it Corella? Yeah, it could have been similar to that. I don't know though. There's probably a fair bit of weed in India.
Yeah. Wow. That's really interesting to hear that. That sort of makes sense. Definitely. And you've stimulated this thought in my mind. Everyone says that the weed you grew up with is what's most memorable to you, but there's sadly a whole generation, maybe even two generations of young Australians who all the weed they know literally is like PGR riddled beasters equivalent.
What's your thoughts on that? A lot of people say, oh, it's Vietnamese gangs and you hear lines like that. Do you know what strains they're growing? Do you feel like there's any way we can change this at all within the Australian landscape or it's just going to be there?
I think legalisation is the only way they're going to change that. It's those Asian gangs. You see all the time a bigger and bigger bust of greenhouses. You'll have seen on the news. And I, we'd like to put a stop to this. Busting them hasn't stopped them, has it? Every other week there's another one, you know, and wouldn't they rather see the money go into Aussie pockets?
But yeah, with the PGR stuff, yeah, we did get some, we bought some weeds from Adelaide for a while. And some of it was that Jack Harrah, which we really quite liked, but then they grew this other stuff they called Himalayan Indica. And that was that, you've probably heard of it, large buds, really big orange hairs on it. It was disgusting. I hated it. It didn't get you high, it got you low. You know the stuff.
Yeah. Yeah. Just that strain they use in all the cash cropping facilities.
A lot of young people, they actually like that stuff. That's their interpretation of what weed is.
Yeah. That's all they've ever had.
How sad.
Yeah. And you know what? It's like that, that was what, so the day I decided to start growing weed was the day I had a weed sample that wasn't that bud. Because I, some, one of my buddies was like real technologically advanced. And in 2010, he, he gave me this bud and he said, oh, that's granddaddy purple. It's imported from California.
And I was like, oh yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I've smoked weed before, you know, like I've smoked Aussie weed and I tried it and it was just, it just changed my life. You know, like it opened my eyes. I was like, wow, you can grow weed like this?
Yeah. Right. Nice. Yeah. The boys around here, my son, I've got a son who's about 30 and their memories of the weed is the weed we used to grow. So I remember that diesel.
What a lucky boy.
When he was a teenager stealing my weed, I couldn't believe the hash and the weed he used to steal. And thinking about other people who had nothing and this boys, they're out there getting acid off a bear, you know, bear from the Grateful Dead, the manager. They're getting hit with acid.
I've heard the name. Yeah.
And they're getting weed and hash off me. I think, what an upbringing these guys are having, eh?
God, the stuff of legends. You know, it's funny. I was actually just talking to a mate the other day and I said, I think one of the purest acts of love you can do as a cannabis grower is to be able to leave your children astray.
Yeah. Why not?
Well, I always think about it. Like whenever I have a guest on the show and they're like, oh, you know, some seeds I got off my dad. I'm like, I wish I had some seeds I got off my dad.
Yeah. My son would say, well, give us a bag now. And I'll start with that.
That's good stuff. That's good stuff. So the next part of this person's question was, you know, they're asking about the, like the favorite sativas and narrow leaf drug types.
And they said, I'm probably going to butcher the pronunciation here. So just bear with me. But they basically say, do you have any details on the Hmong Hill Tribe Thai? Is it actually from Hmong or is it Hmong? I don't know how you pronounce it.
I've heard it's just actually a fancy name and it actually came from a guy called Prof 77 who lives in Thailand. Do you know, is it actually a land race or is it just from someone?
Yeah, it's absolutely from Prof 77. I went and visited him twice in central Thailand there. And I asked his wife recently, he died. And I asked his wife, but she didn't go into much detail.
She said that she got it off her father, that Thai, and their family grew weed. And that was basically what I got out of them. So I don't even know where the Hmong part of it came from.
They never said that to me. They may have said it to one of the guys they gave it to, which was Kanga's friend. And, but I never, I never heard Hmong mentioned, but that seed is, I've shared that with someone. I sent that to someone and they've done a remake of it and then shared it with other people.
So that's where that seed come from. I probably still got some of it somewhere. And yeah, it's originally from Prof 77. I'm glad to hear them mentioning the Prof 77. That's the important part that the guy that shared it gets a little bit of recognition. Do you know what I mean?
Yeah, definitely. Definitely. That's good to hear. Kudos to our listeners. You know, my listeners are only scholars and high quality intellectuals.
No, but that's good to hear, you know, shout out to our fellow historians. You've just made me wonder though, you know, when you mentioned you might have some seeds left, I've got to ask, because I love asking breeders this, out of all the seeds in your library, what are the ones like you're most excited about or feel are like the most rare seeds you have, so to speak?
I've still got some of those Lao seeds and a whole, I must have like about 10 different label Thai stuff. And they're all just getting older. I've got this, you know, several tens of seed. I'm worried that one of them, you know, I don't know how many of them can be struck. And am I just keeping them just for a memento? You know, we should be growing those things.
It's sad to see that happening.
Yeah, it doesn't take very long, does it? I remember like some of the first seeds I ever made five, six years ago are now starting to be like fully dead because I sadly wasn't keeping them in the fridge and stuff like that. And so, yeah, you get to a point where you're like, I sat on them to the point where it was deleterious.
Yeah, I see people with their collections and they're really proud of what they've got. But I don't know if they know whether they're going to ever grow the seeds that they've got. So like from, you know, 1908, I've got this stuff, you know, but is it ever going to grow?
That's it, right? It's like everyone's waiting for the fake embryonic seeds to develop or whatever. But, you know, we'll have to see whether that actually happens. So the next question we got was another landrace. I'm going to butcher it, but I'm hoping you are going to understand the question better than I do. I get the vibe you will. So they say, can you ask is Wally familiar with Campuchian landrace honey?
Oh, it's Cambodian Campuchia.
Yeah, I think it's that psychoactive honey, right?
Oh, okay. Yeah, I have heard of that. Yeah.
I don't know. Maybe I'm wrong. Maybe if you feel like you know what they're talking about, go for it.
I wish it was that stuff. Definitely try some. I wonder what those bees are eating.
Yeah, it's one of the flowers. I think there's like an atropine type drug in there. So you essentially get what we would call an anti-cholinergic reaction, which is, I got to admit, you know, I remember I spoke to a very senior ED doctor one day and he said the most insane hallucinations like I've ever seen a person having was from that ED.
Yeah, I think it's that anti-cholinergic sort of effect, not from like LSD. LSD makes you like trip a bit, but like an anti-cholinergic delirium, like people will like jump out windows chasing dragons like full on.
Wow.
So I think that's what the honey is.
Does that flower get you high or is it the bees in the honey?
Yeah, I believe in the same sense that like, you know, scopolamine from Datura and stuff like that. I think it's that same sort of vibe.
Yeah, okay. Interesting. Have you tried Datura?
I haven't. I got some seeds and I'm too scared to touch them.
Yeah, I've got a growing out the back here. We tried it when we were kids and it can be a little bit scary.
Yeah, well, I just remember the guy who gave me the seeds, Mr. Bob Hemphill, shout out, lovely guy. He was just like, oh, just make sure you're wearing gloves when you touch them because like even just touching the seeds, like you can get high off apparently like it just goes through your skin. I was like, oh.
Yeah, I remember in PNG when we were younger, they reckon that where the Datura grew around the houses there that you should probably rob those places because they sleep really deeply.
Yeah, okay. That makes sense. Because I guess over there in PNG, they're using it like, I don't want to say medicinally, but like they're purposefully ingesting it, right?
Yeah, I would say so. I don't know. I was just a kid.
Yeah, sure. Well, hey, tell us about your PNG adventures. We forgot to touch on that.
Yeah, we went there. My father got a job over there. I can't remember what it was. He was a seaman. So, it was like sea search and rescue, harbour master. He sold lighthouses at one point, which I don't know. You ever come across a lighthouse salesman?
It's a bit of a niche one.
Yeah, I spent a couple of years there. And in the darkest parts of my life, you know, when you're feeling really down, that's things I look back on because it was awesome. It was just so good. We used to every day after school, the school was across the road from the beach.
We'd wander off to the beach. It was low tide and we'd just spend hours walking amongst the coral looking for, we're actually looking for sharks, me and my friend. I don't think we ever found any, but plenty of octopuses and crabs and, you know, all the different shapes and colours of coral and it was beautiful.
But it's really sad to know that where we were, it was at Port Moresby and it's just not like that anymore. I've been told it's horrible. You wouldn't want to even swim in there, they say, you know. So, that was like 1974 to now, which is a fair while. But it's totally ruined, they reckon, which is a bit sad.
Yeah. Wow. Okay. And I mean, are you familiar with the geopolitical landscape there? Like I heard just, I mean, it sounds like you were sort of talking about like the waters and the general environment, but I've heard it maybe isn't even necessarily particularly safe at the moment. Do you keep tracks on that at all?
Yeah, I'm not sure how safe it ever was. I think it was always pretty dangerous. They used to walk around with those big bush knives, you know, those big bush knives.
Oh, yeah. Like a machete sort of thing.
Yeah. And they would use them. They're pretty brutal, you know. They're like children, you know what I mean, I think. So happy and happy-go-lucky, but you don't upset them because if they got angry, you know, they could be pretty dangerous people.
Yeah.
They had like a lot of scars on their arms and I was like, oh, what's that from? And they were like, oh, you know, like in my culture, like we often settle like family disputes with just like small knife fights. You reckon it's true as well?
Oh, they're pretty brutal sometimes and so strong. The injuries that I've seen them get inflicted by or with and they barely even notice it, you know. I'd be crying my eyes out or whatever, you know, at that point. But these guys, a big chunk of meat comes out of their leg and they're like, it's okay, I'm all right.
Jesus, wow. Yeah.
Tough people.
Yeah, yeah. Strong. Culturally, yeah. That's interesting. Yeah, the different cultural perceptions of pain, like in some cultures, like pain is like a good thing. It's like religious experience almost, but there you go. Okay, cool. Well, thanks for the experience on the PNG and it ties in well because one of our listeners wanted to know that they had read online a while ago, many years ago, that you were selling PNG and I think PNG has had a bit of a revival in terms of its popularity.
How would you describe that strain? Would you say like, you know, it's largely like the other sort of Southeast Asian varieties or what makes it unique for you?
It was one of my first indoor experiences and it was pretty awesome, actually. It was really fruity, sticky, top-class weed, PNG Gold it was. Delicious. I think that, you know, things that stick in your memory are the ones that are good. So I can still almost remember the smell of that stuff. It was delicious.
And I'd absolutely buy that stuff again, but I don't know. They don't have seed banks or do you know what I mean? They don't have ways of keeping stuff. To be able to get that stuff again from when I was 25 would be pretty hard pressed to get it, I should think.
Yeah, right. Sometimes you've made me realize that you don't think about the logistics of like, yeah, they don't have little baggies over there or anything like that. It all sort of plays into the picture, doesn't it?
Yeah, they're just growing what they can and, you know, remaking seeds. I did talk to a guy that studied PNG Cannabis, Ben Thomas, I think his name was. I spoke with him for a while. He thought I was like a qualified scientist or something. He wanted me to do a journey over there, funded by the government to go and study cannabis, which I said, absolutely, I'd love to do that.
But I'm not the guy you think, I'm just a bit of a stoner guy. But yeah, absolutely, I would love to. He put out a paper at some point, I put it online somewhere, I'm pretty sure. He thinks it was, they did some tests and it was one of the strongest sativers that came in at like 16% THC, which for a Landrace sativer, that is pretty high.
Wow, that's special. Okay. So I'm gonna have to go look for that paper after this chat. I'll have a read of it. But that's cool. Okay. So the next question we got was throughout your sort of growing journey, did you ever struggle with anxiety related to the law? Like, were you ever particularly concerned about the law coming and busting you or was it just something you were never particularly mindful of?
All the time. I was always worried about, I suffer anxiety. And like we talked about earlier, sometimes cannabis can help relieve that, but sometimes it exacerbates it too. So yeah, I used to have dreams that I was getting chased all the time by police. And sometimes it was crocodiles, but I still think it was police.
You know, just that idea in your head.
Oh, wow.
I've had plenty of that. I don't seem to have it so much anymore. I still dream a little bit about cannabis, but not about getting caught or chased or big fields of it anymore.
Right. There you go. Okay, cool, cool. And the final fan submitted question we got from our Patreon fans was, do you like ABC in terms of the effect? Do you think that ABC could ever be a viable commercial variety? Or do you think that its potential lies purely in the like discretionary slash camouflage sort of aspects?
I don't see why they couldn't do what they've done with Freak Show. I'm not even 100% sure Freak Show isn't related to ABC because we grew a few and some of them look very similar. The sort of leaf pattern that I had. There's no reason why you can't cross that to a really potent variety and make some F2s and then select some freaky looking leaf ones. Absolutely no reason why.
And then have your camouflage, you know, you take and eat it too basically. My friend wanted to make, I think he's halfway through making some freaky bastard ducks.
Oh, wow. The trifecta. That'll be cool. That'll be cool. Okay. Something for us to all keep our eyes out for. So we're now moving on to what we call the final five questions.
So first question, what is the best or single most memorable experience relating to cannabis you've ever had?
Oh, that isn't an easy one, is it? There's been so many. I've done it for so long that I couldn't really pinpoint one. I just used to love getting really high and, you know, forgetting my worries. Load off, load off your mind. You know what I mean?
I did have a bit of a, when I went to Thailand, the first time I actually might have been the second time I smoked weed there, but I had like a, I got freaked out a bit. I think it was a combination of jet lag and low tolerance.
I smoked this stuff and seriously, I was spiraling down this dark tunnel. So this isn't a good experience. It's actually a bad one. But I had to be really mindful that it was actually just cannabis and it's all right, Wally, you're going to come out of this okay.
That's how strong some cannabis can be. It's really mind altering some of it. I think that's one of the things that's missing in modern cannabis, actually, that aspect, you know, it's more about more body and that head, that trippy sort of, you know, hallucination sort of out of spiraling down dark tunnel stuff. It's missing these days. It can be a pretty wild ride.
Yeah. Yeah. It's been a minute.
I thought I was losing the plot and I kept having to say to myself, look, it's only pot. You're going to be okay.
I love it. I love it when you got to like back yourself off the ledge. Okay. So, on the other end of the spectrum, what's the least memorable or most disappointing strain you ever tried that maybe was hyped up, you know, like, I mean, hopefully it's not the answer, but I mean, earlier on, we spoke about the Northern Lights, you know, everyone raves, but you were like, oh, it wasn't really our thing.
What's something that for you was like, didn't really live up to the hype or was just flat out really disappointing?
I did a test grow once. I think it was Sensory Seeds. I can't remember. It was really in the early days when I first come online and got to know Gypsy and somehow I ended up with this test grow. I'm pretty sure it was Sensory Seeds. It was called Gorilla's Gusto. I think that's what it was. It was terrible. I couldn't.
And I even had like about five of them to choose from and I saw this just rubbish, you know, but I don't think it made a, I don't think that it released it. I'm sure other people must have found what I found. It was pretty disappointing. Yeah. I don't know how. I think someone had sent it to him and said, oh, this is the best stuff ever. You should try that. But their version of best stuff ever versus mine just wasn't the same at all.
Yeah. God, that's interesting. There you go. Seeing the downfall of Sensey in front of you. Let's do a desert island situation. So theoretically back when you were ingesting, I'm going to drop you off on a desert island with just three strains of cannabis for the rest of your life. What three are you going to take with you?
I'm pretty sure I'd take that Lao stuff that I was talking about earlier. And I guess I got to have a hybrid of that. I made some with mango haze, Lao cross with mango haze. Mango haze is one of my favourites actually. So probably take that with me too. And I guess there's days where you want to dribble on your shirt and lay on the couch a bit. So maybe take a bit of Indica. I don't know.
I've grown a lot of Indica. I've recently grown a bit of sour bubble of bogs though. Bog, sour bubble. Very Indica looking. I didn't smoke it because I'm not smoking anymore. But it's got to have like some of the largest leaf I've ever seen. It was like a big palm leaf and not very vigorous. Just grew small. When you flouted it didn't really stretch out or anything like that. I don't know how ratio of Indica it is, but it looked pretty bloody Indica to me.
Versus the type I was growing, you know, in hybrids.
I think it's a hundred percent Indica.
Okay, well there you go. Maybe something like that to dribble on your shirt a while and relax. You can't be euphoric all the time I guess.
That's cool. That's cool. Okay, so second last one. Who is the one person from all of history you'd love to sit down and pick their brains about cannabis, alive or dead?
I'd probably... I had met Sam already in an embarrassing situation to be honest for me. But I think he'd be the guy I'd want to talk to more.
I think I'd tend to agree with you on that one. I think our buddy Jingles has a lot of interesting info for us.
Absolutely.
So final question for our chat today. If you could go back in time to anywhere, any place to collect either some seeds or some clones, where would you go? You got a time machine, take you wherever you want.
Oh, I'd definitely go get some of that Thai.
Oh yeah, like some of that first import stick?
Yeah. And then I'd like to go into my own timeline and go and get some of that web hybrid stuff and the old ducks with that I had to. I really love that stuff.
Yeah, I can imagine. I can imagine.
Some of the stuff I had when I was younger too, you know, memories.
That's awesome to hear. That's so awesome to hear. Okay, well I think that pretty well brings us to the end of things. Were there any general comments or shout outs you'd like to make?
Just a general shout out to the community who I've been a part of for a long time. I've loved it. It's been great. There's some great people. You know, some of the people I've met through forums and that, they just give you a refreshed, you know, vision of how good people can be generous and kind and there's some bloody good people out there.
Yeah, I can definitely back that as well. You know, a lot of really good people looking to help each other out exist in the scene. So don't get bogged down thinking it's all profiteering.
No, I've got messages from people to just say, are you okay? How are you feeling? Are you good? You know what I mean? Fancy someone putting that a bit out of their day just to make sure you feel like that. That's pretty decent. There's some good people in the cannabis community, ain't there?
Yeah, yeah, definitely, definitely. Well, you know, thank you so much for coming on the show, Wally. You know, one half of the Wizard of Oz, just countless memorable strains brought to the scene and just, you know, likewise, a huge amount of work you've put into whether you knowingly or not helped progress the Australian scene. We're all very grateful and appreciate your time.
Oh, thank you. Thanks very much for talking to us.
And there you have it, my friends. What do you think? Huge shout out again to Wally for taking the time to stop by and share some of his knowledge. Likewise, huge shout out to you for making it to the end of the episode.
As always, huge love for our amazing sponsors who helped make the show happen. CTA Now, best seed bank in the industry, all the latest breeders. Did you check out the latest crickets and cicada drop? Go hit them up. Guarantee not just on germination, but satisfaction. Why would you go anywhere else? CTA Now. Thank you so much.
Likewise, your garden has to be pumped and happy, healthy, pathogen free in order to find the Keep Athena you're after. And in order to do that, we recommend you check out our buddies at Coppert Biological Systems. These guys help set the industry standard for what predator mites should be. Check out the Afi Par M for your aphid problems. Check out the Spidex Vital for any spider mite problems. I promise you, Coppert got your back. Check them out. Thank you so much.
Huge shout out to Top Shelf Seed Bank, number one seed bank in Oz, stocking all the hottest breeders internationally and domestically. If you're after my work or my buddy Feral Genetics' work, check out Top Shelf Seed Bank.
And last but not least, a huge shout out to the Patreon gang. You know we love you, the lifeblood of the show. People who support the Patreon truly help continue to make episodes happen, all while gaining access to unheard content, exclusive episodes, and giveaways. If you want to help support the show, please go check out www.patreon.com.au and consider signing up today.
I think that's just about it from me this time, gang. I'll have to catch you for the next one. Thanks for stopping by. We'll see you.
.
