Hello and welcome to the next episode of the podcast, a cannabis podcast for budding enthusiasts.
As always, this episode was brought to you by Seeds Here Now.
You know them, they're the best in the seed game, guaranteed not on germination but on
satisfaction as well.
As well as 420 Australia, your premier store for 420 lifestyle and apparel.
And finally, Organic Gardening Solutions, your one-stop shop for all those gardening
needs.
On this episode, we're joined by the one and only Odi of Homegrown Natural Wonders.
Talking all things homegrown natural wonders, breeding, time wreck males and more.
Let's get into it.
Alrighty, so a huge hello, thank you and welcome to Odi of Homegrown Natural Wonders.
Thanks so much for joining us today.
Well, hello there.
How are you doing today?
I'm doing good.
So, first question, what are you currently smoking on?
Right at the moment, I just loaded up a bowl of Dr. Who from Geek Farms.
The Mastercut, it's one of my faves to go to, it's very relaxing.
The Dr. Who is very high-immersing, so I find it really relaxing.
You just jumped straight to one of my questions.
So, one of the biggest things I wanted to ask you, I think a lot of people including
myself gained a lot of familiarity with your brand through the exposure that Geek Mike
gave you guys kind of with that Dr. Who cut.
So, the question is, how impactful has it been to have something like that happen to
your brand to kind of have a really good grower find this killer cut and run with it?
Well, pretty good.
Dr. Who is definitely one of our top sellers.
Yeah, everybody that grows it seems to like it.
There's quite a bit of it around.
But yeah, I'm a huge fan of Geek Farms.
We're obviously really good friends.
And yeah, I'm excited for all their success and future success as well as I know he is
for ours as well.
So, did the success of the Dr. Who kind of immediately make it a candidate in your mind
for like maybe a male in future breeding crosses or was it not the immediate thought?
No, it was definitely an immediate thought.
Actually, the one that came up the whole Dr. Who thing and did the original Dr. Who cross
was my son, Donovan.
Him and his brother, my oldest son, Ray, they got together and did this whole thing.
I planned out all kinds of plants that we had to make stuff multiple times before we
got to their end game of what they wanted it to be.
So, as we started cruising through that, yeah, we knew we'd always want a Dr. Who melon.
We picked one now.
Okay.
And so, what type of females do you think would pair well with Dr. Who?
So, actually, we just recently did a bunch of crosses with our Dr. Who melon.
Seventeen different strains, different moms we crossed it to.
We did SFV, Lemon G, just a whole splew of standard old goodies, old cuts and whatnots.
Most of them came out pretty well.
The Dr. Who male that we picked was chosen for specific structure and smell that it had.
And we're wanting to do the Dr. Who down to about an F5, F6 to get to where the actual
what the Dr. Who is going to be when it's completed.
You know, kind of like how the doctor regenerates all the time, right?
I like that.
So, he was picked for how close he was resembled the grape high cheek that we run.
Very sweet, very grapey, and it's very dominant in the crosses that we saw.
It was kind of interesting.
We even crossed him to a form cut cookies.
One of my friends asked me if I would do so.
There you go.
And so, just as a quick little side question, out of all the cookies, which one's your favorite?
Honestly, I'm not a big cookies fan.
I would not have, I've never grown cookies.
I would not have done the cross if my friend would not have asked me.
So, obviously, he's a pretty good, pretty close friend.
Yeah, there you go.
And so, just as another little cookies question, do you feel like at this point, it's kind
of been able to solidify itself as one of those elite clones or do you think it's still
just kind of like a hypey thing?
Well, you know, it's probably an elite clone.
Sure, it definitely is in certain circles, especially here in California.
You know, a lot of, there's a lot of places that are cookies, everybody likes the cookies.
And don't get me wrong, the cookie dough flavor is nice.
I only kind of wish that some of them produced better, the different cuts, right?
So automatically, you want to find a mill that's going to add your size and your weight
and, you know, try to keep the flavor.
But instead of hitting them, yeah, instead of, I'm just not a big fan of it.
It was, it was something that I was offered at a very early age when it came out and turned
it down and haven't grown it since.
I've never grown it actually.
There you go.
On that note, early age, let's take us back.
What was your first experience with cannabis?
Wow, seven, eight years old, probably.
Smoking cannabis with a cousin of mine, actually.
Our parents grew and it was all over and all around, you know, we're talking the 70s.
So it was at that point in time in the family, the family that I was in, and there was plenty
abundant and it wasn't like my parents didn't know that I was smoking, but my cousin and
I sure were taking some to smoke.
So yeah.
There you go.
And do you know what strains there were back then or it was just whatever?
Oh yeah, it was just whatever, you know, yeah, we had no clue.
We were never really in on those conversations really to know what was what.
We found the hash stash every now and again, you know, that was always nice.
But yeah, normally just buds here and there.
They were definitely nothing like what we smoke today, looking at least.
Yeah.
Okay.
And so what was the progression to you becoming a grower yourself?
I lived with my mom for a while and then her teenage years, she couldn't handle me anymore.
So she sent me to my father's at the age of 14, who was living in Northern Idaho and
growing a garage full of marijuana.
So he kind of handed me a book and said, get up in the attic and start doing this, start
doing that.
And that pretty much started me growing was when I was 14.
Nice and which book did he give you?
You know, right off the top of my head, I don't remember, but it's one of the old
classics.
It's an old classic.
Yeah.
I don't remember right at the moment.
Yeah.
Maybe like an RC Clark thing or something.
No, it was Frank, Mel Frank and Rosenthal.
I want to say it was Rosenthal, but Grower's Bible.
Yeah.
Okay.
Like a 1982 version or something like that.
I had a big old pot, had a big old bud, cold on the front page on the front cover.
And yeah, I had that book for a long time.
Cool.
Yeah.
That's a good, good mentor.
I actually re-found it at Powell's Books there in Portland and in the used book section and
bought it from my father so he could have it back.
That's neat.
Full circle.
So during those early days when you were growing, was there any notable strains that went around
in your area?
Or was it just really everything wasn't having names at that point?
Well, I was living in Northern Idaho at the point in time and skunk was king.
I mean, there were several really good strains, not really any names with much of them.
But yeah, I mean, I was still in junior high, so we weren't really that concerned with it.
We were more concerned that five bags later and you're still smelling it and pretty ridiculous
to walk anywhere with it.
Yeah.
So did you have any recollections of the roadkill skunk or what are your thoughts on it in general?
Skunk, I know I love skunk.
I've been searching for it ever since I've left Idaho.
The closest thing that I've seen is what Duke is putting out.
And I think that if anybody's going to find the old school roadkill, it's going to be him.
They have it.
And there's a lot of kind of discussion around the whole idea and something which I'm interested
in is the idea that maybe there was not necessarily one roadkill skunk, but it was more of kind
of like a profile which maybe popped up in one or two different strains.
Do you think there's any maybe credence to that or do you think, no, it was very much
just one clone?
Yeah, no, I would totally agree with that.
Myself, I kind of look back to the popular strains and go back a year or two and see
what war was happening.
And most likely that's where it came from is whatever region we were having a war in.
Yeah, okay, interesting.
So what are your thoughts on the land races in terms of like, would you consider working
them or no?
I have a good buddy too.
He's doing a bunch of work with some land races right now.
We've all donated a bunch of land race seed stock that we had so that he could start working
with that.
Yeah, you know.
So I think that the plant has used us to progress itself along, as most things do.
Right.
I mean, we take it everywhere.
We've given it life and existence and we've done a lot for the plant as far as the plant
also does a lot for us.
Don't get me wrong, the least bit.
But it's manipulated us to where we do all this crazy stuff for it.
And is it progression the way that it should be with us doing all the interbreeding and
crossbreeding and multi quad poly plot, you know, poly breeding and all that.
You know, I think that it's progressing away as long as what you're making is better than
what it was.
But to work with land races, a lot of random land races run really long.
And, you know, there's a reason why when you look at a picture of the buds and high times
from the 70s and you look at a picture of the buds from the high times now, it's a huge
difference.
Which would you rather, you know, it's which would you rather smoke?
First off, no, granted, land races are nice.
They're very unique highs, very unique flavors.
But nowadays, we're more about the strong potencies and maybe even stronger or more
isolated flavors.
But, yeah, to work with some land races, I have a few ideas in stock and we play with
them every now and again.
But that's that's a long project because you need to, you know, outclass land races
are strong. You see those for and IBLs are strong.
You see those for generations down the line, obviously.
But what characteristics are you looking for and what characteristics do you want to
to grab from it and get it to express?
Well, I guess it begs the question, right?
What would you like to bring to the game?
Because I think the modern criticism of cannabis is that there's this kind of same
same amongst everything.
And that there's also like this ceiling where you can only get so high, whereas a lot
of people would argue that with certain land races, you would just, you know, the more
you smoke, the further you would go.
Are those the type of things you would be looking to bring into modern crosses?
Yeah, no, absolutely.
You know, when people describe that and I remember, you know, I started smoking fairly
young. So I started smoking mid to late 70s.
Do I remember everything? No.
Do I know all the names? No.
But I do remember a lot of the effects and a lot of the ways that it made me feel.
And I'm able to use that to kind of guide me in what I what my memory is.
So if I can find the land races from back then that made me feel that way, absolutely.
I'd love to play with them because, yeah, they were.
You know, but then again, was it my age?
Was it because I had nothing else to compare it to?
You know, that all comes into a factor as well.
But yeah, I would like to definitely get there are some land races that I would like
to play with if I could find, you know, true seeds of.
And which ones are they?
More of your Afghanicas, more of your Hindu mountains areas, more Indica.
I'm more of an Indica guy.
I'm not much into the Sativas.
Yeah, okay.
You may or may not have heard about this.
It's kind of been on Instagram.
I got tagged in it a few times.
There's kind of been some talks about like the origins of the triangle Kush having coming
out recently.
And basically, you know, to cut a long story short, it's meant to be some old school
Kali strand called Emerald Triangle cross to Hindu Kush.
I don't suppose you've heard about this kind of little saga at all.
And if so, if not, what do you think about, you know, kind of that as a potential genetics?
Do you see any Hindu Kush in the triangle Kush?
Well, you know, I actually I have heard a little bit, read a little bit about that.
My kind of thoughts on that is that they're just now coming out with that information.
Mm hmm.
Right.
You know, all of a sudden you just woke up.
Oh, yeah.
We crossed that to this and created this.
Yeah.
You know, I don't know.
That's that's kind of hard to swallow.
The people that are saying it, though, you know, I know them and they have been
doing a lot of things.
You know, there's a lot of good strains that they've done.
So I don't know.
But having, you know, we just had chrome over at the garden here a couple of days
back, looking at some of their genetics that we just germinated over there.
And, you know, he's pretty infamous for the TK and a lot of the TK crosses and
stuff. So I didn't talk with him about it, but I do know what you're talking about.
And there's a couple of things that, you know, come to question in my head.
Yeah.
OK. So I think people are going to be wondering out of the Swamp Boys gear,
which ones did you decide to germ?
Oh, good golly. I don't have the list with me.
So we did two different germinations of seeds.
The first one was 6300 seeds.
The next one was 2800 seeds.
So it was several breeders and several strains.
Unfortunately, I could not rattle them off without having my list in front of me.
I could tell you some of the breeders, but I couldn't definitely tell you all the strains.
Yeah. I don't think anyone would expect you to remember with a list that big.
But the question which jumps to mind is how many seeds of each strain would you
like to run when you do a pheno hunt of that size?
At least 100.
Great answer.
You know, that way you're getting 50 to 60 females to look at.
Pretty harsh. You know, they fall over. We don't stick them up.
It's gladiator school when you're seedling.
We don't baby them in any way, shape or form and survival with it.
Out of all those seeds, we came back with 3700 females that we looked through
and have picked maybe 400 to bring back out to re-veg.
Wow. Yeah. Because that was going to be my next question.
When you do a pheno hunt of that size, how long does it take you to actually discern the winner?
Because as you just kind of implied, there's probably going to be a lot that are really
neck and neck at that end point. It's like, you've got to do them again and again type of thing.
Most definitely. There are several that are neck to neck.
You know, and that's the thing is you draw them out to almost completion before you want to
re-veg them or clone them and re-veg them or however.
So that you can see all of its final traits.
But yeah, it's really close on a lot of them.
One of them might have just a little bit better structure or, you know,
because it got bent here or something or restrained here, maybe it didn't perform as well as it could have.
And you think maybe it performed better next time.
So it's pretty much within three runs, we'll be down to maybe 1% of the 400.
So maybe 40 strains.
Wow. And how many end keepers would you ideally like to keep at the end of it all?
That's rough at that point. That's when you're getting down to the pretty nitty gritty.
You know, so I mean, because we've got a lot of Canerata, we've got a lot of Karma,
we've got a lot of Slump Boys, we've got Oni, we've got, I mean, you know,
a whole bunch of the great breeders out there that were privileged enough
to germinate a lot of seeds of.
And they are all just so fantastic. It's really hard to pick one, you know.
I would rather wind it down to maybe two or three per breeder than just two or three strains overall,
kind of a thing. Just because, you know, because a breeder is more of an artist.
And, you know, they painted this picture for you to kind of color in.
So I would definitely, I think I'm shooting for that wrap.
We haven't completely decided all that way yet. But yeah, that's kind of where I'm thinking.
And so the end goal of doing this big Fianna Hunt, besides obviously having the clone,
is it to kind of offer that to the market or more so as a breeding queen?
Oh no, it's for market. We're doing this at one of our clients' facility.
And yeah, it's totally for their market, for them to be able to bring to the market
and have variety and diversity.
Yeah, nice. That's a great answer. And so one of the things I'm thinking about
and I often hear is like a complex issue, so to speak, is the idea of how people want
more sativa being offered and more variety along those lines.
But there's a whole bunch of issues that come along with that in regards to price points,
flower times, all things like that. What's your stance? Do you feel like people are asking
for something but they're not willing to buy it on the other hand?
Like, you know, how do you feel about it all?
Oh yeah, no, absolutely. People talk about land races, but most land races,
most land race sativas are going to take you 16 to 20 something weeks to finish.
Unfortunately, on a production scale type of a model, that just really doesn't work
because there's nobody out there in the market that will pay two to three times the amount
for the same eighth. If you're already complaining about paying 30 or 40 dollars
for an eighth from the market, and now all of a sudden it's 60 to, you know,
120 dollars for that same eighth just because it's a land race or something to that effect,
at this point in time, the market is not there for it. It would be a little bit,
I think that it is possible in the future to definitely see a craft style market for it,
which is a big thing to come yet. I think the whole craft thing is going to stick around
for a while and, you know, the big scale people, it's hard for them to do craft.
Yeah, of course. And so in regards to the craft market,
do you think that that's going to, like, it's still kind of to emerge?
It just depends on where you're at.
Yeah.
Right. In Oregon, craft market is king. That's, I think, I feel that that's,
you know, and price point, I feel kind of proves that most pounds in Oregon are 12 to 1600
for indoor. If you are considered craft and you have the brand and you have the recognition
of said craft, you're still getting 24, 26 hundred dollars a pound.
It hasn't really changed that much. But if you don't have that brand and if you don't have
something special, yeah, you know, here in California, this market here is a lot different.
You know, a lot. It depends on where you're at. Some parts of it, they want fruit.
Some parts they want gas. The other parts they want cookies.
So you got to be able to appease all of those on a larger scale market.
But as far as craft for many of the large guys. Yeah.
Yeah. You'll probably see some coming.
But I think that it'll take a little bit for everybody to dial it in.
Yeah. So, I mean, perfect segue on that issue of craft cannabis.
How do you feel? I'm sure you've heard about it, about the infamous hundred dollar eights of Mac.
We spoke to a aficionado, Leo, not long ago, and he said he thinks that's the biggest thing
that's happened in the cannabis industry in a while.
And it's kind of maybe not getting the recognition it should.
What do you feel about the whole issue? And maybe as an extension of that,
how do you feel about kind of Mac, sorry, Caps, kind of general unhappiness with the pricing of it?
Well, you know, I look at it as anything else.
It's only worth as much as you get somebody to pay for it.
So if somebody is willing to pay it, then why not?
That's, you know, it's sad to look at it that way, but that's kind of where it's at.
I can go buy a $10,000 bottle of wine or I can go buy a $100 bottle of wine.
They're both probably going to get me just about as drunk.
Yeah. Okay. And so how do you feel about like the idea of you wouldn't want, say,
one of your strains reaching a certain price point with the implication being
it's kind of like price gouging at that point?
You know, that would be for the farm to decide at that point in time.
We don't really, you know, we're a seed company.
Once you buy the seeds, you do it the way you want.
You find something that people are willing to pay that much for it.
Once again, if you can get it, why wouldn't you?
I see, I can see both sides of it because, you know, it seems ridiculous, $100 an eighth.
But once again, you don't have to buy it.
Yeah. Yeah. I kind of feel the same in a lot of regards,
like in terms of that pure capital is to be on things.
Right. Right. You know, it works in every other market.
It's going to wind up being the same in this.
You know, look at how much we some Nikes go for. I mean.
Yeah. Or even just expensive cars.
Right. Exactly. You know, what is it, Mercedes or, you know,
a Mercedes or a Mercedes.
Volvo is the safest car out there, but not everybody drives one.
Yeah. Let's rewind back for a moment.
I would love to know what was your first breeding project
and how did you get into breeding in general?
Oh, good golly. So a friend of mine and I had a house in Colorado in the early 90s.
We've been growing hash plant and doing a lot of breeding.
And we've been doing a lot of breeding.
And we've been doing a lot of breeding.
I had a house in Colorado and the early 90s.
We've been growing hash plant and doing quite well with it.
Got ahold of some seeds out of California, of some California red hair.
And we popped the seeds, chose between a couple of different mouths
and use those to pollinate a couple of the hash plant.
And so did you end up growing at the offspring?
We did. We only wound up getting a couple of hundred seeds,
and we popped the majority of them but didn't necessarily really find anything all that great.
Okay, what do you think that is? Do you think that maybe is because like the genetics back
then just weren't as kind of refined as they are these days?
No, I would think they were more so refined. Now, they're a little bit more,
you know, for lack of a better word, bastardized out. But I think that it was a land race that we
hit it to and the land race was just so dominant that it overrode the hash plant. But the hash
plant, you know, back then it was a super fast plant. So we had a hash plant that we could take
a clone within a week, it had roots and it went right on the flood table. Six weeks in the flower,
chop it down, a week to dry. Once again, we're in Colorado. So in an eight-week cycle from clone
to done, we wanted to find something that would maybe, you know, add a little bit more to it.
But yeah, that wasn't the ticket. Interesting. And so when you say hash plant, is it just like,
it's just any old hash plant or is it like a specific one you're referring to?
It came to us as a hash plant, you know. Shortly after that is when the Arcata cut came to us,
the Arcata train wreck came to us a little while after that and we all grew that for a long time.
But yeah, the hash plant was what we all grew for quite a while, 92, 93-ish there in Denver.
Okay. And so I don't suppose it might have been the Skelly hash plant?
It's a very good possibility. I'm not exactly sure.
Interesting. I mean, I don't suppose you've tried Skelly more recently since she's kind
of made a re-emergence? I have not. So yeah, I wouldn't have any reference.
All right. We'll have to line that up.
Yeah, that would be great.
Cool. Yeah. That's insanely fast flowering time. In your opinion, you know, do you think it was
truly done that quickly or maybe you were cutting corners a little bit?
Yeah, it might have needed to go a little longer but we were doing flood tables and
pushing everything right along. You know, that was back in the day, simple salts in the tanks
and rip and let it go, you know. Yeah, it maybe needed to go seven or eight. I could totally see
that but yeah.
Okay. Cool. And so do you grow organically nowadays or are you still a soil guy or?
Oh no, it's all organics. We mix most of our soils. We use a few things out of a bottle but they all say
organics on them. You know, you can take that as far as you can throw it. We pay extra for water
obviously but you know. Yeah, so we try to stay pretty organic. We don't play with salts that much but yeah.
Cool. And do you feel like it's just kind of a personal preference thing or do you feel like it's just truly
like, you know, a superior option like?
Yeah, no. I think, you know, if you want mass, you're going to do salts. If you want flavor, you're going to do
organics.
Okay, interesting. We've heard some guests in the past argue that if you kind of, you know, really on
point, so to speak, you can get the yields to be quite on par with the hydro guys. Do you feel like that's
maybe a little bit stretching the truth or that that is accurate?
You know, I don't know. You know, I'll refer back to Geek Farms. They do about two and a half to three a
light with that Dr. Who and that's all organic soil that they create themselves.
Yeah, sounds like it's matching it.
I mean, so you know, I have plenty of friends that just smash, do fantastic on organic soils. I just
think that with a good cocoa and salt system, you can feed 15-20 times a day, you're going to crush.
That's there's no, you know, the more food you can get it to uptake, the bigger it's going to get. It's
basic physics.
Yeah, for sure. So on the issue of growing, Grow Lights, what are your preferred brand? You know, it
seems like there's new technologies ever constantly emerging. What are you currently using?
Yeah, we jumped on that Govita train in the very beginning, kind of been riding it ever since. I'm a
big fan of the Govitas.
Cool, cool. And so like just the 1000 double ends or which ones you rocking?
Yeah, we run the 1000 double ends because we bought them way back in the beginning before they had
the 750s.
Would you use the 750s if you could?
Absolutely. Before we went to the Govita 1000s, we went we ran 600s due to the fact that instead of
6000s, I would stuff in 10 or 11 or 12 600s to get to the same point, pretty much was power. So
therefore, you just have more points of light and they run a lot cooler. So you can run the plants a
lot closer, or run them a lot closer to the plants.
And so just to kind of this idea put forward by DJ Short is that like metal halides brings more
flavor, HPS brings more yield, or maybe it wasn't DJ Short specifically, but he's the one who I
remembered bringing it up initially. Do you agree with that? And if so, what type of system do you
use like a mixed, a pure? How do you do it?
You know, so what I've learned from doing different mixed spectrum rooms is that a 50-50 is
usually pretty good. You know, but you'll get certain strains that under the blue light, they'll
show different colors to wear under the halogen, they won't. So now you got a bud that's half say,
pink hair and the other half of its white hair, because it's getting the metal halide or it's
getting the HPS, right? The metal halide though, does blue light promotes vegetative growth. So
you wind up getting a leafier, more open product, I feel. So, you know, a 50-50 mix, but now with
the ceramics and all that stuff, I haven't played with ceramics that much. But I see a lot of people
throwing those in nowadays as well, instead of the metal halides. So I think I don't know that
flavor-wise on the blue is probably so, just because it's more of the cool color. It's more
of a promoting vegetative growth, but I don't know for sure.
Yeah. Okay. So if we kind of just jump back to that initial story where you had the hash plant and
you did the pollination, at that time, were there any kind of breeders you were looking up to or was
everyone just kind of self-sufficient and keeping to themselves?
Yeah, pretty self-sufficient, keeping to themselves. High Times Cups had just kind of
started over in Amsterdam, right? So, you know, the big guys at that point obviously were Greenhouse
and Adam Dunn was doing quite well back then. You know, Syntheseeds, there's a few different seed
companies you could get, but everybody was too scared to order them, especially out of the back
of High Times or Column. You know, I mean, that was still back, we would get stuff at the
growth store and then go camping for a three-day weekend before we went anywhere kind of thing,
you know, borrow somebody's car, meet them at a campsite to grab your nutrients and all that
stuff that you needed for the next month. It was still pretty harsh in the early 90s, late 80s.
So it was definitely a little bit more to yourself.
Okay. And so, did you go to like, you know, those extra efforts to try to throw the, you know,
cops off your trail or did you kind of always view it as a bit of paranoia?
Oh no, definitely. I didn't mind spending time in the mountains. So, that was a bonus anyways,
right? An excuse to go fishing for the weekend. You know, yeah, it was just the way that I was
raised because my father even was the same way. I mean, anytime he would order stuff,
we lived in Northern Idaho, so the panhandle. So, we would go over to Spokane to buy all of
our nutrients or anything like that. We'd only go to garden stores, you know, a long ways away.
And yeah, it was just, it was such a paranoid type time for sure.
And so, what was the first cup you ended up going to yourself?
First cup, actually the first competition I went to was the ONCA's, Oregon Medicinal
Cannabis Awards. And actually, we wound up taking first place at the Mad Scientist.
Okay. So, that was obviously a bit more recently.
Yeah, that was 2011. I never went to Amsterdam. I've never been to Amsterdam. So, yeah, my first
cup was here. So, that was it. It was a small local state thing. First High Times Cup was the
first one that was here in LA. Interesting. And did you ever have, you know, a lot to do with the
following cups after that in California and whatnot? Did the High Times Circuit quite a bit.
Did a couple of the other ones. But yeah, no, mainly just the High Times.
And do you feel like they kind of helped the scene develop over the years or maybe not as
much as other avenues like say forums or things like that?
I think the forums did a lot. They had their place. Unfortunately, once again, I'm not a
computer guy. I wasn't on the forums. So, I don't know much about the forum life. But I meet a lot
of people now that that's all they're about is forum this and, you know, I was so and so on this
forum. And there's a lot of great people that were on those forums. As far as High Times, I think it
allowed an avenue for people to come and, yeah, see everything that they were reading about and
hearing about in the beginning. Towards the end, they've changed a bit. But yeah.
Yeah. Okay. And so, how do you feel about things nowadays? I mean, Emerald Cup has been a hot
Emerald Cup has been a hot topic in the sense that last year, I remember being at the Cup,
people were almost predicting like, you know, it was the last one that'll ever happen and it was
all doom and gloom. What's your forecast for Cups going forward and specifically the Emerald Cup
this year? So, yeah, I've been doing Emerald Cup for a long time. I'm good friends with a lot of
those folks. And we'll be there again this year. But yes, it won't be like it was last year. Last
year was the last Cup of the free will of where you could freely bust out and do pretty much kind
of what you wanted. That's not happening anymore. Now it's all regulated. If you're not licensed,
if you're not from a nursery, there's all kinds of things that you have to be even to be able to
get the booth. So, I think it's going to be a little different. But there's, you know, once
again, there's always loopholes around everything. As I just mentioned, we will most likely we will
be there. I do believe that we were talking with Jinx Proof about sharing a booth with him actually.
That was going to be my question. Will you have your own booth or just be represented with CT&L?
I haven't spoken with James. But most likely CT&L does a fantastic showing at those.
We normally like to have our own booths. Just that way we get a little bit of time to talk
to the people that are, you know, supporting us. And but, you know, then again, it's sometimes
nice just to let James and his crew do their job and just go and have fun and enjoy yourself.
So, that's kind of where we're at now. But Jinx Proof just hit me up here in the last week
and was talking to me about this. So, that's kind of a new development that
we're in talks about right at the moment. Yeah, okay. I remember last year, I cruised
past your booth a few times and every time you're locked in a conversation. Is that what it feels
like to you? Yeah, that is why I love doing them. So, that I can get locked into conversations with
the supporters because it's great to hear what they think or what they're doing or how it's going
and, you know, just hear their stories of how your strains did for them for the following the prior
year or the future of. So, yeah, you know, that's the thing. That's why it's kind of nice to do your
booth. That way people can come and talk to you. And how often is it that someone will come by the
booth and bring you a sample of your work and you're like really blown away by it?
Quite often. Most shows actually. Unfortunately, I've slowed down on doing shows. I think Emerald
Cup is the only one we're pretty much doing this year. But yeah, now there's some amazing
growers out there and, you know, I would like to think that we're providing them with some
fantastic genetics to grow. So, it's really nice to get something back that just is like, wow,
that's fantastic. Yeah, I mean, on the topic of providing genetics, how do you feel when people
want to breed with your work? Do you feel like you're all cool with it, you know, just like
maybe give me a little hello, how you doing or what's your stance on it? Absolutely. If it's
something that I don't want the public to have and or work with, I wouldn't release it. I have
lots of those things. But there's, you know, so it's more of an honor and a privilege for somebody
to use your genetics in something because it takes a lot of time to do to create genetics and test
them out and, you know, and have a vision of where you're wanting to go with it. And if that works in
somebody else's head and it's one of our genetics, that's awesome. But yeah, always, you know,
head nods great. Cool, cool. And so, if we kind of jump back to the Emerald Cup for just one last
second, do you ever get a chance to cruise around with the intention of trying to find like eye off
what the next kind of trend is or like find some new hot breeders or do you find it's just too
chaotic to really be able to do that? Yeah, you know, it's pretty chaotic.
There's definitely a lot of new good new breeders out there. Always has, always will be.
Yeah, it's kind of chaotic. You know, we create so much that for us to pop somebody else's genetics
at this point, except for at a client's facility, becomes rough.
Yeah, okay. So, I'm going to put you in the grill for a second. Whether you've got to do it
imaginatively because you're not able to in real life or whether it is the real life answer,
let's just say for your personal grow, you're going to pop a pack of seeds, you know, just one
pack. What's it going to be? Quantum.
Ha ha, easy choice. Yeah. I pop quantum everywhere I go.
So, like do you like to find new keepers of things or do you like to hold on to old keepers?
You know, if there are strains that we created, yeah, in and out. You know, if we find something
that's special, we'll have it tested and if our thoughts are right, that it is special,
then we may hold on to it for future progress. But, you know, I think it's a good idea to
hold on to it for future progress. But most of the time, yeah, we've got a whole bunch of moms
in the library already. We don't need to keep a bunch of stuff we make in seed form.
Yeah, I mean, that's a good answer if you've got that much confidence in the seed stock.
Is it true, I might be wrong, but I think I'm right,
that Geek Mike actually found that cut out of just a single five seeds?
Yeah, yeah, that's true. I gave him a five pack. He wound up getting five females and that wasn't
even the best female out of the five pack. The best, yeah, the best, he said the best one didn't
clump. Jeez. Yeah, so yeah, you know, he got fairly lucky. Not everybody has that, you know,
gets that luck. Unfortunately, that tells me that somebody out there got a five pack of males.
Yeah, yeah, you know, it's probably a breeder and they were probably stoked.
Right.
All right. So, I just wanted to loop back. A while back, you mentioned that like, you know,
Sensei were the people advertising in high times and stuff like that. I'm always interested to know,
what's your opinions on Sensei in regards to like, when and why do you think they went to shit?
They, you know, so they crossed bred out too much, right? I think and they just got,
they also subbed everything out to people in Spain or somewhere else to make their seeds, right?
Yeah, you can go to Spain, they're sitting on five gallon buckets full of seeds,
they'll sell you all day long. Just big old totes. You can buy them by the tens of thousands.
Are they really what they are or are they just a bunch of shit?
Are they really what they are or are they something different, you know? It's hard to say.
And I think that's kind of what crushed them a little bit was once they went to that model,
they kind of lost control of what they were actually getting back in seed form.
Yeah, definitely. I think I saw a post a few months back. I wish I remember who it was because
if you're not familiar with this post, it would totally allow us to go look at it. But basically,
someone in the community posted that they had a plant they were calling Cush 4 and they were
saying that it was one of the supposed parents of the original Hindu Cush offered by Sensi.
And it just got me thinking like, do you think it's even possible that like a parent that like
Sensi was breeding with, do you think like realistically it's possible that a parent
like that is even around anymore? Or is not the whole implied point of the last question that
like those parents are gone? Yeah, those parents are gone. I think there was a couple of raids
in between those. And I think that a lot of them got kept down by little boys in blue kind of thing.
So, you know, a lot of people that all of a sudden reappear and say, Oh, I still have this.
Do you really? You know, we'll never really known because everybody's opinion is always
changing and you always have new reference points. So, is it the same? Is it not? Hard to say.
Yeah, interesting. So, if we kind of fast forward to today's scene, I feel like it's
categorized predominantly by like a terpene or like a flavor emphasis in this modern era.
Would you agree? Or do you feel like it's still predominantly a potency emphasis?
Within connoisseurs, it's definitely terpenes. Within the market cells, it's potency.
Okay. So, like with that being said, how do you feel CBD is going to work considering that,
you know, there is this emphasis on potency and CBD strains generally speaking,
kind of lacking in that. Do you feel like CBD is on the way out, so to speak?
I think CBD is on its way out, but not because of that reason.
I have some friends that do some fantastic CBD work. They're all the way up to 25, 26,
25 to 26% CBD with no THC and in flavors of all the rainbow, skunks, fruits, lemons, oranges,
whatever you want. But there's other things on the horizon that I feel that are going to interrupt
the CBD program. Would you care to shine a little light on those things?
Absolutely. Recently here in America, CBD was taken off of scheduling and now has received
a FDA approval for a specific pharmaceutical company. And they're going to now they can sell
you CBD derived from plants, prescription wise through your doctor. They're still talking about
it and if insurance will cover it or not, but most likely it will. And they're going to gouge people.
And yeah, but now it's going to be legal and controlled by them.
Wow. Okay. And so you think that, yeah, just controlling interests will try to implement
some legal changes so that it's just not being produced outside of them?
Absolutely. What I would be concerned with is if all of a sudden they came back and made it
a schedule two, which schedule twos can only be made by pharmaceutical companies,
that would take care of right there.
Interesting. And do you feel like that would just also be a stepping stone to then do the
same with THC afterwards?
No. I don't think it's going to happen with THC. Too many people like smoking the flowers
and the concentrates just freshly derived. But most CBD is taken in pill form, tincture form.
So it's a little bit different.
Yeah. I guess it kind of lends itself to the pharmaceutical model a little more.
Right. Absolutely. Because it's an isolated molecule, right? The bad part is that
we've known for a while that you need CBD along with THC. So they're still going to be
depriving their patients of what they truly need.
Yeah. And we all know the same is true for the opposite end of the spectrum with the
whole drobinol thing and the pure THC. That was no good either.
Right. Absolutely not.
Interesting. So I mean, if we're on the topic of interesting cannabinoid profiles, I had a
nice little question for this one. You've worked with some CBD lines before. Notably,
the one that caught my eye was the Kanasu. And the thing which I noticed about this is
you crossed it with a THC male. So you're going to end up with a hybrid type of end product,
where it's some THC, some CBD. Obviously, there'd be some variation. Do you find that these lines
in general fare well in the market? Or they're just really not received to the same degree that,
say, a regular THC line is?
Absolutely. They're not as marketable as a regular THC strain is, even though the one
you're talking about is our Kanarec, Kanasi by Tynarec. And it tests 2 to 1 to 1 to 2,
CBD being first. But it added a whole lot of structure and bigger buds to the plant.
Kanasu itself was pretty larvy and laid out. It didn't really stand up and grew fairly ugly and
really small buds. So we hit it with our Tynarec male that increases bud sizes, adds strength
within stem, and potency. So we really didn't know what to expect there. But it wound up turning out
all right. We hit anywhere from 13%, 14% CBD to half that in THC or vice versa. That in THC with
4% or 5% CBD.
So when you talk to your customers who grow out these crosses, generally speaking,
what do you find is their preference in regards to the Keeper phenos? Are they the more THC-dominant
phenos or the more CBD-dominant phenos?
Most of them are more CBD-dominant. And CBD is a unique cannabinoid that matures early.
So if it has too much THC, just pull it a little bit earlier. And it'll still be higher CBD with
lower THC. So I explain that to them when they're looking for the right ratio.
Of what's going to work best for them.
Okay. And so do you find that one thing I've heard is this complaint of a lot of CBD strains
or the pure ones at least having this common denominator terpene profile, which some would
describe as cherry. Have you found that yourself?
Absolutely. The older CBDs, when you extract them, they all taste like cherry.
And that's how it's always well known that you were hitting CBD. Nowadays, I would,
but they're all hybrids. We've hit them with other things and then out-crossed them back
just to pull certain terpene profiles to get to the flower where people hopefully
would want to smoke the flower. Yeah. Okay. And so this idea I've
been kicking around for a while, I don't think it's right or wrong. It's just an interesting idea
is like embedding kind of a little bit of CBD in the back of what we would regard as regular
strains. So there are a lot of strains out there which do this where, maybe there's like two,
two and a half, 3% CBD, it's just kind of like hiding in the background, but enough to actually
do something. And the idea is like, you can subconsciously get some of those benefits into
people without them knowing. And then hopefully eventually people start to give it a bit more
credence. What do you think about that idea? Do you think like it could ever possibly work
or there's just maybe some issues with it? Yeah, no, it could possibly work. Obviously,
I definitely agree the more cannabinoids and terpenes you have, the more effective all the
medicine is. It really just comes down to what works best for you. That's the great thing about
cannabis is it's so diverse that you'll eventually you'll find one. But you know,
I don't know how, I don't know if that's enough to get people to want to try CBD more or not.
Okay. So do you think that some of these more rare terpene profiles are the way of the future?
I remember reading in some of your strains, you're getting CBG and CBC showing up, you know,
some of these more kind of exotic ones. Do you think that that is the way of the future? Or it's
just kind of like a cool tibet that's probably going to go by and we won't talk too much about
it? Yeah, no, I think that rare cannabinoids is definitely going to be a big thing coming up.
One that we're working with is THCV and the CBC are quantum cush. We find good amounts of that,
both of those in it. What I consider good amounts is 2% plus. The highest we've seen so far is 3%,
we see a lot below 2%. In between that 2 to 3% we see quite a bit as far as THCV. CBC,
1%, 1.5% is pretty much the highest that I've seen. But with the new technologies we have,
it makes it a lot easier to know if it's transferring in the process the way we want
it to or if it's not. Yeah, okay. So, I think some of this curiosity stemmed initially from reading
some of the information around TARDIS, specifically where it said there's been some, you know,
research indicating that some of the profile of the cannabinoids has got tumor fighting properties.
Was this like something you guys looked into a lot or is it just kind of like a peripheral thing
you noted? Just kind of more of a peripheral thing we noted. I was fortunate enough to work
with a really good lab in Oregon for a long time and they worked with me and educated me a lot
on what we had and kind of explained to us, you know, how special some of our crosses were.
So, the witch intrigued us to figure out, well, what's bringing those to the table?
So, it's intrigued us to more testing and more learning. And so, you know, I followed them a lot.
I have several years worth of lab results on a lot of our strains, full terpene profiles and full
cannabinoid profiles, all from the same lab. And it definitely has helped a lot. I think now
if we can find a genome, I mean, one that works well, that could even help even more.
How do you feel about Phyllis?
You know, so Phyllis, I've been involved with them for a long time. Sunny Chiba and I
worked on the seed laws in Oregon when we went recreational and we met,
we were introduced to Phyllis at that point in time. So, I've dealt with Malgaly for quite some
time. I have several of our strains in there. They wanted us to put in specific phenotypes
and I'm like, no, I'm going to put in moms and dads. That way, any of our crosses can be traced
right back to the mom and dad. So, that's what we did. So, all our males and most of our breeding
moms are in the Phyllis library. And we did that a while ago. As I said, we've been talking with
them and whatnot quite a bit. So, yeah, you know, I don't know. The information that they give you
is kind of not really clear. Yeah, okay. So, a common feedback I've heard is that there is this
kind of, there's a degree of hard to operate within the universe and how to like actually
understand things. Do you feel like that is something they should really be focusing on
trying to improve or do you think that it's just like a learning curve people need to adapt to?
Well, so what they're doing is they're doing a short path. So, from my understanding,
I'm not a big science guy. I'm not good with big words, but they're doing a short path technique,
which is just breaking it down pretty basically. And there's a long path technique,
which I know there's a company out of Colorado working with. They've ran a few of our strains.
They actually were the ones that informed me that in our quantum cush, we have Russian ruderelia,
Russian hemp, sorry, Russian hemp, which provided apparently in this specific phenome,
russet mite resistance. They found this plant that didn't seem to have hardly any russet mites on it
when everything else was infected really bad. Turned out to be a quantum cush. So, they went
ahead and ran a long path on it and found out that it had Russian hemp in its lineage. So,
that was kind of the conclusion that they came to. But I think that there's definitely one
certain way since they could get us the information that we need.
And I just don't know that Phylos is doing that for us.
Yeah. So, a lot of people are kind of a bit skeptical of the idea that by getting your
samples done at Phylos, they're now kind of in the open domain. You don't have to worry about
things in a legal sense as much. Do you believe that is the case? Because I find it still hard
to get a clear answer on this. Well, so, there's some people out there already that they did some
utility patents and they got them. And they cover such a wide array of cannabinoid and terpene
profile that it covers a lot. So, to protect us from people patenting plants, first off,
it's kind of hard to patent a plant because there's so much variety in it. Even in IBLs,
when I pop seeds of IBLs, there's still varieties in it. So, there's an issue there. But with
CRISPR systems coming and stuff like that, it's possible to do it all. But will it protect us
in the future? I hope so, kind of. But does that include like offspring from said
what's in the galaxy or is that, you know, does all of a sudden offspring now become open
when you shouldn't have made that without this to begin with? I don't know how all that works.
Yeah, okay. Let's just loop back for one second. You mentioned the Russian hemp. Does that not
kind of have something to be said for the ruterilis genetics and how sometimes they just
brush to the side? Yeah, you know, I think obviously everything has a good purpose to it.
And it will, as a land race, will create resistance to whatever the pest is and continue to survive.
It's a weed. We do still have to remember that. And it's definitely adapts very quickly. So,
I think that there's most likely some traits there that are good.
I just know that on actual ruterilis coming up, it's very, it's like headache pot from my
understanding. Yeah, well, I mean, have you heard of any of the more modern companies doing it? I
mean, some of them are certainly getting really good reviews. Oh, yeah, no. I hope I say this
right, but Mephisto Genetics, they kill it. There's definitely a few companies out there.
The auto flower game is doing fantastic. A lot of people still, it's a huge market.
A lot of people, that's what they prefer. Yeah, definitely. So, in terms of photo period,
we'll jump off the autos for a sec. I want to know, what do you think is the absolute
longest photo period strain that would be commercially viable?
You know, I think if you're commercially, if you're pushing 11 or 12 weeks,
you're kind of there. Is that more what you're asking is what flower time or?
Yeah, yeah, definitely. Yeah, I think that, you know, and that's where you come into
the market, you know. So, a company that can put out strains in an eight-week cycle is going to get
six cycles per year, right? So, and a company that's doing them every 12 weeks is only going
to get three and a half cycles a year. So, somewhere it has to equal out to pay all the
bills because no matter what, you ain't growing it for free and you're paying a lot.
So, if the market will allow it, I can see it going longer,
but it really kind of depends on what the market demands.
And so, what do you predict to be the next big thing the market demands?
Yeah, that is changing so rapidly right now. That's a loaded question. There's,
it's really hard to say, you know. It's so, I hate to say it, but more or less unstable
of what, how things are going and what's going to happen next. And, you know, here in California,
medical goes away in January. They lose their 215. So,
how is that going to affect the market? We don't know yet. It's hard to say. It's kind of hard to
predict that. I think that eight, nine weeks is kind of where the market's going to have to stay
to be competitive, at least on a large scale.
So, do you think then that if something, as in maybe a strain, would come in and be that next
game changer slash paradigm shift, it would essentially be confined to those flowering times?
Yeah, I don't know. You know, there's always a new hype strain.
Who's going to have the next best biggest thing? Hard to say. It could be anybody.
So, do you feel like the market is still dominated by numbers in regards to percentages? Or do you
think that that's kind of fallen off a bit? Yeah, no, it's definitely still by percentages
all day long. People walk in and what's the strongest? Every shop owner I know will tell you
that. So, I've spoken to a few breeders in the past and they said if they make some stuff,
generally, even if they love it, if it's not tested above, say, 20, 22%, they're just not
even going to consider it for release. Do you sit in the same boat? Do you think that's going to be
the case? Do you sit in the same boat? Yeah, no, and that's where the market is. Absolutely,
100%. If you're pushing strains out that are below 20%, they're going to sit on the shelf for a
while. That's going to be all concentrates. Yeah, interesting. And so, are these the type
of things that are in the forefront of your mind as a breeder? Or are you more considering
other attributes like flavor and things like that? Yeah, I don't concern myself with all that. I've
always been about more medicinal effect and flavors, kind of what we like, what everybody
else likes. What we like really doesn't matter as much, but what everybody else likes. Yeah,
it's kind of where we go. The hype thing is cool and all, but yeah, we don't do a lot of work with
a lot of the new hype strains or anything to that effect just because of that. We're really not into
that hype thing. Yeah, okay. So, what does it take for you to bring a new clone into the library
then? Normally, it has to be an old cut that I've been looking for. At this point in time,
I've got pretty much what I want to play with and now it's just reworking itself upon itself.
So, it begs the question, are there any old school cuts you would love to get,
but you just don't think they're around anymore?
Yeah, obviously the roadkill or whatever, as we discussed before, whatever that may have been.
Yeah, I'm privileged enough to where most of the breeders, I can ask them and get access to pretty
much whatever I want. So, having that accessibility frees it up a little bit to allow us to
play a little bit more. Like I said, we have a lot of classes that we've done and have not released
just because we felt they were really good, too good, that we didn't want to release them
or obviously they weren't good enough. But yeah, access to cuts for us is pretty easy,
fortunately enough. So, I'd have to say not really. Yeah, okay. Sounds like you're a very lucky man.
Yeah, I definitely consider myself that to be, absolutely.
So, my last little question in regards to testing and things around that nature is,
have you ever considered or do you currently engage in some of those kits which are now offered by
the labs in regards to early cannabinoid profile testing and early sex testing and things like
that or are you just old school? Definitely don't do the sex testing. I'm super old
school with that. The plant's going to tell you in a few weeks. Just chill. And as far as
cannabinoid ratios and stuff like that, that's more for CBD guys. As I mentioned before, my
buddy, too, and then my other friend, Adam Jocks, they both use those and it allows them to cruise
through their stock really fast. But they're popping thousands of seeds. So, I can see where
that's helpful. We're doing thousands of seeds as well but I'm fairly old school with that. I like
to see what it does. Yeah, okay, cool. So, I mean, you mentioned CRISPR and CRISPR is some
cool technology, you know, kind of can hint to the past of some things but one thing it's not
going to tell us is who picked that time wreck, man. Was it you or Sub cool? But before we get
into it, let's go back. How did you first meet Sub? You knew it was coming. Let's get into it.
Yeah, I knew it was coming. So, actually, I originally first met Dioxide. He was manager
at a grocery store where I lived. The first time that I met Sub cool, Dioxide brought him out to
my house to see my Oregon diesel in my backyard that was done in September, first week of September.
That was the first time he was ever at my house. I had never heard of TGA before Dioxide or any of
that. But Dioxide, throughout the time that I've met Dioxide and before the Sub came out, had given
me a lot of packs to pop and we popped them all. So, when they came out, we had a room full of all
their genetics in full flower. Yeah, and that was the first time that I met him. So, after that,
they, Dioxide kind of talked to me and we talked for a while about him, about us producing seeds
on a larger scale and then distributing them for us. And we're like, sounds like it could be fun.
Sure, let's check it out. So, that's kind of how that history went. One of the tester strains that
we did back then for them was Dioxide's creation of Time Rack. So, even before I was obviously a
tester, so we popped some. My son Donovan found a male that he liked a lot. The branching came up
within a couple inches from the top, including the bottom branches. All the branches have beautiful
structure, great smell. We talked with Dioxide if we could use it for some crosses. Mush mouth
described to him what he wanted to do and the line that he wanted to go through. And Dioxide's like,
absolutely not a problem. So, that's kind of where we started with the Dr. Who and the Quantum
and the Mickey. The JTR male actually came to us through Dioxide as well. And that was to do some
crosses. We had the Medicine Woman, which was a strain created by a gentleman there in Oregon
for his wife's fibromyalgia and he wanted us to cross the Jack the Ripper to the Medicine Woman.
So, that was Nurse Jackie. That was one of our first releases as well. But yeah, throughout that
time, we started doing cups, started working with sudden move to California by that point in time.
I never really hung out with him or talked with him much other than on the phone or whatever. My
main person with TGA was Dioxide. Helped him with the soil company and a lot of that kind of stuff.
But, you know, worked a lot of the cups. My sons and I ran the booth for several years. Set up,
we would bring in a crew, we would set up the booth and tear down the booth and run the booth
and all that good stuff. Those were back in the good old days when Heroes of the Farm joined in
and he was making stuff with Dioxide as well. And that was the Heroes of the Farm collab thing.
So, once that got going, then Pat's like, hey, do you mind if I use the Time Wreck Mill to do
some crosses? I'm like, yeah, sure, no problem. So, we worked out a collaboration and all that
kind of stuff and he went ahead and used the Time Wreck Mill and that's the locomotion and
a few of those other ones, right? That's our Time Wreck Mill. Yeah, so as far as the mill,
the Time Wreck Mill, yeah, no, it was not found by Sub, it was found by my son Donovan
and it was while it was in testing mode. We got permission, we talked to Dioxide about it
beforehand and yeah, everything was good, gravy and all that. I know now that Sub likes to claim
that he gave it to me and that he found it and all that good stuff. But yeah, that's far from
the truth, unfortunately. Why do you think he wants to take credit for it?
I'm not really quite sure. I would think, as I explained earlier with people using our genetics
for making stuff, I feel privileged and honored about it. If they mention it's cool, if they
don't, cool, either way, they paid the money for the seed that I was offering. They bought their
goods. I think right now, the biggest issue is that he has got himself into some places where
he went bragging that they were all his and he owned all this and he owned all that when he
doesn't. He never grew that Time Wreck Mill. He's never seen, grown any of the stuff that we make.
Same with Heroes of the Farm, same with Kings Proof. There's been several,
I hang out now with Sonny Chiba. Sonny Chiba was the original person that helped Miss Jill
bring Sub Cool to the West Coast. He's the one that created Dope Purple Doja, Black Cherry,
Black Cherry Soda, Lemon Freeze. This whole list goes on. Does he get credit for them? Very rarely.
Now that Miss Jill and Sub are separated, Miss Jill has actually come out and explained a lot
of the truths. I really appreciate that and I love her for that. At one point in time, she was
part of the issue, but she's changed and has come full circle as far as I'm concerned, as far as
that goes. I would give Sub more credit because he is a great man. He has done a lot for the community
and he did definitely help us in marketing and whatnot to that effect.
But that was part of the agreement. That was part of the distribution agreement. That's why we put
their names on the back of our covers. We all had the little TGA little circle on the very back of
our covers up in the top corner. All of our names are on the front. They're all of our strengths.
So why he sits there and says that he claims the creation of all them and this and that,
I really don't know. It's the same that he tells people that he taught me how to grow.
Yeah, my father heard that and was kind of like, really? So he was around when you were 14?
It's like, no, he wasn't. You know that. But at any rate, people believe what they want to believe
and I'm okay with that. I don't try to defend it. I don't come out and talk a bunch of trash
or anything like that about Subpool and I won't. We had some issues and yeah, that was it.
So what was it ultimately which catalyzed the decision for you to part ways?
So what it came down to is they brought in another group that was starting to run the
cup. They were extremely rude to me and my children, me and my boys that have been running
the shows for years. And the next show coming up was the Denver show and I asked him, I was like,
so I think for the Denver show, I'd just rather do my own booth. And he free-for-all,
freaked out. I was like, well, this is what it comes down to. You have our seeds being sold all
over the place and other booths throughout the show. I don't see why it's a big deal that I have
our own booth and we sell our own seeds. He couldn't see it and I said, okay, well, that's it.
We're done. That was pretty much it. Yeah, I mean, it seems pretty simple.
I mean, we all have the same agreement. So he wrote the farm and bring a set amount of seeds,
I bring a set amount of seeds, James bring a set amount of seeds. We would sell all the seeds.
We'd split everything equally, pay all the help and go our separate ways after each show,
after everything was covered. I've heard ridiculous things come from him as far as like,
I paid him $40,000 a show to do this and he never paid me that. We never made that. We had one show
in LA one year or San Bernardino one year where we did over $40,000, only one. And yeah, I didn't
give it all, far from it. But I mean, I could sit here and go on about a whole bunch of different
stories. But what it comes down to is we definitely just didn't see eye to eye on where I wanted to go
and what I wanted to do. And she was unmoving, unwilling to move and compromise. Yeah, it's
interesting you made that comment about Sonny Chiba's work. A sentiment we've heard in the past
is that some of the best work to ever come out of TGA was from the Canadian crew. Do you kind of
echo that sentiment? Yeah, I don't know what work came out of the Canadian crew because that was all
in Oregon. Yeah, I think they're pretty much just referring to Sonny Chiba. Sonny Chiba was Oregon.
Oh, there you go. So, yeah, it wasn't Canadian at all. He was there in Portland, Oregon.
There you go. And a final little thing I wanted to quickly ask you about this.
Dioxide's an interesting character to me. This is going to sound like a weird question, but I had to
ask it because I had always- I'm familiar with him through his involvement with the Chernobyl.
And I love it, you know, it's super energetic, really gorgeous high. I love it. I've got a really
nice keeper I found. And I can't remember who told me, but someone was like, oh, man, you should
meet Dioxide. Like, he's like real high energy. Like, he makes weed like his personality. Do you
find that to be true or is that just some random story I got told? Yeah, you know, he's pretty
hyped up most of the time. He's pretty kickback though. He's fairly level-headed. As far as I am
concerned, he definitely made the best strains that TGA offered as far as the TGA company. Him
and Sub as partners. You know, he's the one that found the JTR male. He made- I watched him go
through a three-year search of cushes before he decided to use the Hell's OG to make the Jesus.
You know, so I mean, he was definitely really into what he was doing and he was really good at it.
But yeah, as soon as- it wasn't long after him and Sub split up, Sub and I split up as well.
Yeah, okay. So, do you feel like it's a bit of a weird situation given that you do use that
Jack the Ripper male or you think like not really? Actually, we don't use it anymore. We haven't used
it for years. We were the ones that gave it back to- so, after Dioxide did all the breeding,
Dioxide did all the breeding. So, after Dioxide and Sub separated, Sub did not have the JTR male.
So, he had to hound me for it and hound me for it and I kept telling Dioxide, I'm like, hey man,
he's bugging me again for that JTR male. Dioxide finally tells me, he's like, hey, I put you in a
really bad situation here. Go ahead and give it to him. So, it was at that point in time that I took
the JTR male back to Sub. We bred with it one more time after that and that was it.
I knew that our separations were coming and that was their male that they had picked from their
company. So, yeah, I didn't want to use it. That was theirs. I get that. The time rack, yeah,
no. We found that. We take claim to it. It is ours. It was made by Dioxide. Yeah, for sure.
So, final little question on the whole saga. I've asked this to some other people because this seems
to be- I'm not going to say a common occurrence but it's not, you know, you guys certainly aren't
the only example. But, you know, do you feel like kind of in a sense you would like things to be,
you know, cool given that, you know, some of that work is embedded within your own work even if it's
not a direct descendant. It's kind of almost like a little bit of a tipping of the hat given that
it is embedded in there. How do you feel about that? I would not have- I don't have a problem
giving Dioxide credit any day. Yeah, cool, cool. Easy answer.
Yeah, no, absolutely easy. All Sub is is a salesman. He doesn't breed and, yeah, that's all
there is to it. He did at one point in time but once he got to Diox- once Dioxide came in, that
was it. After Dioxide left, he talked to me about doing all his breeding and that didn't happen. So,
he went to Joel, North Star Genetics, which is who makes it all now. And I've been to Joel's place,
so I know what kind of breeding he does there. And when people sat there for the last three years
after I left and come up to me and say, hey, the seeds that I bought from TGA last year weren't
what I had got the year before. What happened? I couldn't answer even though I know what happened,
but I still wouldn't answer. And is that to do with like the issue that Miss Jill was pointing
out with males being lost and replaced? Yeah, no, we learned about the males being lost same
time they did. They ran them through Phylos. Yeah, okay. When I spoke to Sub about that, he said that
what had happened was the person who had sent the cuttings in made a mistake and took five
cuttings of the same plant. It seemed like an interesting answer though, maybe a little hard
to swallow. What did you think? Absolutely not. No, yeah, that just goes to show the kind of
how he does everything. He relies upon everybody else to do everything.
So, when something goes wrong, it's a blame on somebody else. It's never a fault that he ever
made. Yeah, okay. I had a good friend send me this question to ask you. So, hopefully, you're
going to have more idea about it than what I do because I had no idea what this means at the
moment. But he said the time wreck he got from Dioxide, was it a female except only one branch
that hermied? So, yeah, absolutely. So, yeah, some of the genetics that could put out of there
have hermaphrodision results. So, more or less, if just one branch did it though, I would look
more towards a light leak of some sort around that branch. But it is definitely possible. They
have some stuff that the JTR male, the space dude, which if you ever get Sunny on here,
maybe he'll explain to you about the space dude story. But it's a super cross of multiple things.
And if you continue to cross it, it's super unstable. So, it creates unstable genetics.
Yeah, okay. And so, I think he had a bit of a follow up and he says,
do you think that this accounts for the occurrence of hermaphrodisms in nature?
I don't. I think it more so comes from stressing of meshed together genetics.
Yeah. Okay. I think I kind of get what he's getting at now, given your answers.
Some stress in the plant out to where it's getting the signal that it's going to die.
Cannabis is fortunate enough to be able to produce both male and female sex organisms
and reproduce itself. So, when it hits a point to where either a light leak or the gases are off,
or it's something that it doesn't like or something that stresses it, it's going to
cause a hermaphrodite, which is produced in both parts so that it can pollinate and produce seeds.
To continue to live. Once again, it is a weed.
Yeah. Okay. So, on the topic of producing seeds, are there any little extra perks or
little kind of icing on the cake you like to give to your female plants when you're creating seeds?
Not really.
So, you just kind of treat it like it's a fancy crop except the fact it's not?
Well, yeah, I will. It's different feeding, right? I don't want to deprive it of nitrogens
because it's no different than a female that gets pregnant. They need prenatals. They need
different nutrients than what you're given a regular flowering plant, at least in my opinion.
And that's personal, you know? There's probably going to be a bunch of people say,
oh, you're just crazy. Possibly, I could be. But it works for me and I'm happy with it that way.
Cool. And have you ever noticed a difference in the end outcome of a seed based on the
different medium or nutrients it's being fed or do you think overall it's same, same?
We've pretty much used the exact same soils and the exact same nutrients for the last 10 years,
12 years. So, most of our breeding has been done on the same regimens.
Yeah, okay. I mean, maybe to play devil's advocate, I don't suppose you've ever seen
a bit of a questionable grow or maybe a better way to phrase it is you pop some seeds and got
some funky germination ratios or some bad germination ratings and then maybe you went
and saw the grower and you weren't too impressed by their setup and you're like, this is maybe why.
Yeah, no, absolutely. We germ test, germination test all of our seeds. We make our seeds fresh
every year. We don't like them to sit. We do small batch and that's the reason why because
fresh seeds are way better than five-year-old seeds. They're going to have a better germination
rate. So, you know, we don't really seem to have problems with it. So, when people call me or
contact me with that issue, I have a set of questions that I run through with them and
normally it's something on their end and we usually send them back out of pack and
the next round they usually don't have the same problems.
Yeah, okay. That's a good little answer. So, going back to a bit earlier, you mentioned the medicine
woman. That was an interesting one I wanted to ask you about but thankfully you filled us in on the
backstory but I also had written down Sweet Irish Cush. This is another one where you use it. There's
not a whole hell of a lot of a backstory on it. Would you mind filling us in a little more about it?
Yeah. So, Sweet Irish Cush was created by my friend that I was living with in the 90s when we did the
Ash Point Cross. He continued to do more breeding throughout his time but Sweet Irish Cush was one
that he created and he's a hydro guy. Colorado has a lot of hydro, especially back in 90s, 2000s.
So, it's a fairly quick strain. It's a 92. It's an O. So, from him, it's an OG by
Sweet Leaf. So, that's the cross. When we put it through Phylos, it came back 50% OG and
you know, a few other things here and there but yeah, it's 50% OG. So, but it's an old one because
he created it in late 90s, 96, 97, I believe. Something like that and I've had it. I brought
it to Oregon with me and I brought it back up 04, 05. And so, how does she compare to say,
your more typical OGs like say, maybe the SFV which you mentioned at the start?
You know, Sweet Irish Cush is one of my favorites. I really like that a lot. It has a fantastic high.
It tests 25, 27% pretty consistently. It's a fast strain. Once again, he was into the fast
strains for the hydro systems. We did lab tests on her. Six weeks, seven weeks, eight weeks,
nine weeks and ten weeks. Six week was our highest THC and degraded from there on down.
But it was fast. It's fast in veg. It's fast in flour and it's kind of ugly to grow. It's
all over the place. So, it's kind of like a typical older OG where it's floppy and skinny
branch. But it produces fairly well for as fast as it is. Interesting and what's kind of the flavor
profile? Just straight OG? No, it's more of a really sweet OG to be honest. It's really sweet
with a bit of a funk to it. Yeah. Okay. So, the other strain, I mean, there's a few I want to
ask you about but one which really caught my eye, Oregon Blues and the part about it which
caught my eye specifically was how it uses what you say is the in-house IBL Jamaican blueberry
sativa. What is that? Because when I first read it, I was thinking, is he kind of talking about
like a Dutch acclimatized Jamaican type of thing or just straight land race? It's straight IBL from
a plantation in Jamaica in the Blue Mountains. They've been growing it there for generations.
A friend of mine brought me back seeds and anything that it touches, it passes strong
blueberries to. The bad part about it is it's an IBL and it's very dominant. So, you see a lot of
it for generations out. So, we're still playing with it a little bit. But yeah, that is the,
so the Blue Mountain Kush is that was the one you asked about, right? Yeah.
The Oregon Blues. Oregon Blues is the Oregon Diesel by the Jamaican.
That you either get, so we have some, a few phenotypes we found that are really like,
I want to say cat pissy, you know, very ammonia. But then a lot of really blueberry, you know. So,
that one was, it was definitely different. It's not one that we put out to market because we
didn't feel that it was up to par as of that, you know, at this point. But yeah.
Okay. So, what to you would be the ideal mating partner for the Jamaican?
I don't know yet. Whatever it is, it's going to be a few crosses out just because as I say,
the Jamaican is super strong and it's not necessarily, it's what you would think of
when you think of a land race. It's very airy. It's very loose buds. It's very stretchy. It's,
you know, it has a few different characteristics that don't necessarily make it very viable
in a market that we have today. Okay. And so, the next question that stimulated in my mind was this
idea of different blueberry origins because I remember when I was looking up some information
on the infamous Vic High, he claimed he had blueberry that was of different origin to DJ
Short. And I guess that was the first place I started to think like, was there multiple sources
of blueberry or did it all come from DJ Short? What's your feelings on it? You know, from talking
so I'm friends with DJ. He's one of my favorite people to sit down and talk with. Actually,
one of the old guys that I really enjoy talking with. But yeah, Vic High from my understanding
took his blueberry and said he was going to make it better. So yeah, I would almost have to say it
was probably more so from DJ than I would Vic. But I wasn't around back then. So, who knows for sure,
right? You'd have to get both of them in to find out, you know, who was first and where did you
source it from? Kind of a thing. But according to DJ, it's a Jamaican thing. So... Yeah, okay.
There you go. So, it also brings up this next question in my mind and you kind of referenced
it at the very start of extremely isolated flavors. Part of the reason why I think tangy
and blueberry and a few other notable ones have got such traction is because they're such dead
ringers for this isolated specific profile. Do you think that that is maybe something you could
aim for as a breeder if you were like, well, if I can, you know, if I've got a strain and it kind
of smells like raspberries and I can refine it to the point where it's just bang on raspberries,
like that would just be a market winner? Or do you think that it's just that would be an
oversimplification of things? You know, I think it almost but it's kind of an oversimplification,
but I think we need the variety and being humans as we are, we all want different. So,
just a little bit different or a lot different is definitely dependent upon the person. But, yeah.
You know, not everybody can get the right fruit combinations. And once again, it's what pairs up
together, what lines up together. You know, I've smelled several different strains that smell a lot
like our grape high chief, you know, of our Dr. Who. But once you get into smoking them and you
look at the bud structure, there's quite a bit of difference. So, you know, I don't know. That's,
I guess, you know, it'd be nice to find the ultimate one, but I don't know if it truly exists.
What's the flavour profile that you wish you had in cannabis form?
You know, we have flavours from dirt to watermelon, to rotten fruit, to ripe fruit, to
suli to cat piss. I like them all. Kind of just depends on what kind of mood I'm in or
what I'm getting ready to do or who I'm getting ready to go hang out with.
We've always been a group that we like to grow a lot of different things.
Yeah, perfect segue. What type of weed is your favourite weed?
Flowers. Any and all. You know, obviously, right at the moment, I have some,
two different kinds of Dr. Who in my stash. I've got some Scooby Snacks, some Dog Walker,
some Gorilla Glue, some, you know, some, you know, some, you know,
some, some, some, some, some, some, some, some, some, some, some, some, some, some, some, some,
banner number five, Bruce banner number five. I mean, right at the moment, I've got a whole
slew of flavours and, you know, it just depends on what the day is and what kind of mood I'm in
is what flavour I grab. Damn, you do have everything in that bag.
Yeah, no, I make sure that I have choices. I like choices.
I got to, I got to take a guess here. Do you have also Dosey Doe?
I do not. I have some SFV and I have some Chem 4 though.
Oh, how do you feel about Chem 4? We were getting around to the Chem Dog topic.
Yeah, Chem's nice. All the Chem Dog lines are really nice. We,
we have a Chem 91 that is the other Chem 91. I don't know if you know that story or not, but
there's another Chem 91 that goes around, Swerve worked with it.
We've been growing it for the past 10, 11 years, maybe more.
You know, that's a weird one. Every time we try to do any work with it, there's,
there hasn't been much that has came out that I was happy with. But we did, we hit it with the
Mel Doctor Who, and I actually found several that I liked. So there's potential there. But there's
still a lot more testing to go on with that one. But yeah, no, the Chem lines are fantastic.
They're very potent. They don't always cross very well, though, I don't think.
Yeah, I can, I can attest to how they're potent. And I think that part of the potency comes from
the fact that they are kind of like a bit of a winning lottery ticket. And it's kind of like the
cookies, you know, like, not everything's going to come out exactly as good as the parent because it
is the anomaly in itself. With that being said, which of all the Chem cuts is your favorite?
I don't know, I like the 91.
Yeah.
The real 91. I like the real 91 and the other 91. So I like both the 91s quite a bit. They have
more of the fuel-y flavor for me or the Chem-y funk, right? The 4 is great for production,
because it gets nice and big, but I don't think it's as flavor, the flavor isn't as strong.
It's a little mute on it. But if you're looking for weight, that's where you want to go.
If you're going for your head and for a stronger flavor, the 91 is where it's at.
I think you're the first person ever to have not mentioned the Chem-D.
Yeah, you know, Chem-D, yeah, it's good. But I think that the 91 is the best out of the bunch.
Chem's sister is super hard to find and try to get to smoke any of. So I haven't smoked any of that.
But I've smoked Chem-D, Chem-4 and the 91 and out of them, I like the 91 the best.
Yeah, well, I mean, depending on which Chem-D you smoke, you might have smoked the sister.
That's very true. That's very, very true.
But that's interesting you say that, because I think at the end of the day, 91 rules for sure.
Yeah, yeah.
Alrighty, so with that being said, final question on the Chem-D. No one really knows,
what do you think the genetics behind it? We hear a lot of speculation of Northern Lights
and Hash Plant and just things of that general nature. What do you think?
Yeah, I definitely could see it being an Afghani of some sort, just because of structure and growth.
It's hard to say. Speculation is a killer. You can speculate on a lot of things and
most of the time, neither one's right. So, I don't know. It's hard to say what the...
If they can figure out the whole genealogy thing, maybe we'll know someday.
Yeah, okay. So on the topic of cannabis that you like,
what are you? More of an indica or a sativa guy overall?
Definitely indica.
Interesting. The reason why I asked that was kind of like a bit of a setup to this question is
because when I was looking at a lot of your offerings, I think more of them lean towards
the sativa side of things. Were you aware of this? Yes, I am very aware of that. But a lot of people
like those fast sativas. They like... Just because we breathe them doesn't mean that I smoke them.
You know, obviously I've tested them. And once again, it comes back to what I said. It doesn't
really necessarily matter what I like. What matters is what everybody else likes. So,
you know, obviously I got to like it in the beginning to create it. But if I create it and
put it out and nobody likes it, then obviously it's just something that I like. If I create it
and put it out and everybody's like, wow, that's fucking awesome. Then I know that, hey, okay,
well, we might have something here. So, then you expand your tester group a little bit larger and
a little bit larger. You know, back in the old days, the way we did it was we filled a jar,
filled jars, multiple jars. And the first jar empty, that was a win.
Yeah, that's a good way of sorting the cream from the milk.
Yeah, yeah.
So, with that being said, do you ever get people asking you to put out more indica dome crosses?
And if you were to do so, what would be some of the parents you would look to use straight away?
Yeah, you know, we're already working. We're already doing a mad scientist back cross. We
just did the mad scientist back cross. Just ran the first set of those. Those are really nice,
short, sweaty plants. You know, we're more into where we work in our lives, more than, you know,
stepping out of what we did. A lot of the moms that we use in our crosses
were stuff, the crosses that we made. So, at this point in time, we're still working with our lines
to get them to where we want them. And then maybe looking for a few others to play with and
tinker with a little bit. But it's got to be pretty special for us to want to work with it.
Yeah, okay. And so, overall, do you like kind of creating 50-50s or do you like more doing them
leaning one side to all the other? 50-50s are ideal, you know, because so sativas,
you get a little bit of that stretch. Indicas will bring them in your stiffer, stronger stems
and tighter internodals. Sometimes you need to stretch them out. So, you hit them with a heavy
sativa mill. Sometimes you need to make them stronger and shorter. So, you hit them more
with an indica mill. That's more the diversity that I like to look at is which direction are
we trying to take the mom in? Are we trying to stretch it, make it more bigger buds or are we
trying to make it shorter or maybe a little bit faster? Yeah, kind of goes from there. And that's
why we're trying to- we've got several males that we've spent the last few years picking out.
We just haven't gotten around to working with them yet.
So, what are some of these strains that you've got these males from? And the question I guess
absolutely love, what are some of the characteristics or traits you look for when selecting a male?
Selecting a male, definitely a uniformity, size of flower pod, you know, size of
the flower cluster at the end of the cycle, coloring potencies. Yeah, just depends on if
we're, you know, are we looking for a male that's going to even out branches, make more so for,
you know, multi-head type crop? Are we looking for something that's going to be more just
two or three kind of top, you know, two to four tops or whatever? It's going to go more straight
up. Just depends on what we're really looking for is where we're wanting to go is what we look for
in the male. Right at the moment, we just- we've had a- like I said, it took us three years to
find our Dr. Who male and we actually found it in a friend's garden. It wasn't even a seed that
we popped. It took us four years before we found a quantum male that we liked. We're getting ready
to start playing with him. Now, with him, we're going to bring in a different- a few other OGs
and hit him with just because the sweet Irish push lineage there and just kind of see where
that goes. Mainly with the quantum male, we're wanting to more isolate into the THCV and the CVC
and a few other of the, you know, the finer cannabinoids that we're now discovering or
figuring out what uses they actually have. Yeah, okay. And one of the things we've heard
of in recent episodes in terms of like the cutting edge things people do with males is
reversing males and being able to express the male as if it was a female and you can't smoke it
because you spray it with some pretty toxic chemicals, but you can certainly get a possible
indication of the terpene profile and things like that. Is this something you've ever thought about
or even potentially engaged in? I know about the practice. Personally, I wouldn't do it because of
like you just said, you have to spray with some pretty harsh chemicals. I don't like bringing
those anywhere around my garden, especially for something like that. A male will produce its own
smell at the end of its flower cycle and throughout its flower cycle. A lot of people, you know,
it's a cool thing to look at and it looks cool in a picture and all that, but you can't smoke it.
So, you know, and it's not fully expressed. So, I don't know. I haven't done it due to the fact,
as I said, I don't like the chemicals that you have to use to do it. And I just don't foresee,
you know, I think you see a lot of the same stuff if you just let the male flower out to full cycle.
Yeah. Okay. So, I mean, very much in that topic, how do you feel about resinous males? Do you feel
like it's a positive indicator for the male's potential to pass on good traits?
Yes. Once again, it's male dependent due to the fact that some will and some won't.
Not everything transfers. It's still a 50-50 mix, right? So, just because it transfers with this
female, it may not transfer with that other female. So, once again, it's going to be strain
dependent and male dependent upon, you know, whether or not a resinous male is going to make
a non-so-resinous female more resinous. You got a 50-50 chance.
Yeah. Okay. So, how do you feel about the idea of breeding with hermaphrodite-prone females?
Is it kind of like a challenge you're willing to take up or do you feel like you may be setting
yourself up for more trouble down the line? Yeah. If it's something that's already prone
for hermaphrodite, yes, absolutely. It's all you're doing is passing along that genetic.
Now, if you have steady females and you lightly them, you stress them in a way to where they
produce flowers, I feel that's a little bit different because they're tried and true females
that you've ran flower that didn't herm or didn't produce any bananas or anything to that effect
until they were stressed to a point where they thought they were going to die and wanted to live.
How do you feel about feminized seeds in general?
It really depends on how you go about doing them. If you're doing it with a chemical spray
on females that don't show any hermaphrodite signs beforehand, absolutely. That's the
proper way to do it. If you have a plant that's hermaphrodite and it seeds out your room,
yeah, you're not a breeder. Yeah. It's interesting because some of the earliest breeding programs I
heard about were apparently more a result of the later of what you said than the earlier ones.
I believe I heard from a credible source that some of the original OG Kush fem seed releases
from Oregon Kid were not an intentionally feminized project but more of a potential
hermaphrodite type of thing. Yeah, I can totally see that. It happens a lot. I mean,
anytime you find a bag seed, there was hermaphrodite somewhere, right? So, when you
think about it on that logic, the chem line we were just talking about, those are all bag seed.
They're all from hermaphrodite crosses. Gorilla glue, hermaphrodite cross. Cookies, hermaphrodite
cross. A lot of the great strains that are out there, the popular strains that are out there
were hermaphrodite crosses. So, is it a good thing or is it a bad thing? Well,
from what I see, it could be either or. So, how would you feel about the argument which
some people put forward in which I'll admit I'm starting to buy into myself that
arguably the most memorable and influential strains of all cannabis history were
bag seed hermaphrodite? Yeah, I would, you know, they were marked. They're all good strains,
absolutely. I would have to agree with that. They're accidental crosses that nobody intended
to do. Yeah, it certainly says something for our legacy as breeders. Yeah, right?
Absolutely, it does. So, on the topic of being a breeder, this is one I definitely wanted to run
by you and people are probably scratching their heads why I haven't done it so far.
Someone in your camp clearly has to be a Doctor Who fan given all the strain names, right? So,
the question is, who's the big Doctor Who fan? Who initiated the idea? More importantly,
do you think that there was kind of this advantageous marketing side of things given
that there was this kind of household recognizable name involved?
Originally, it absolutely was. My father, I grew up watching Doctor Who with my father.
My sons grew up watching Doctor Who with their grandfather, my father. And then we just saw it,
it was a very memorable point in time. We all would get together on a Sunday and watch Doctor
Who on PBS. And it was just something that they were really into. It was originally the kids
came up pretty much with the idea and we kind of just ran with it. Now, though, that we've
found a Doctor Who male, now it's who's Valley Who or who's cookies or, you know, we're calling
everything who's this or who's that kind of thing. Who's boss or frost boss cross.
Yeah, we have a whole bunch of those.
And so, how much effort do you put into the consideration of marketing when naming a strain?
Do you just think, no, I'm naming a strain what I want to name it? Or do you sometimes think to
yourself, oh, but I also need to ensure that it does have some sort of commercial viability?
Right. You know, it helps to have a catchy name for sure. There's some names out there that are
really long that just don't roll off the tongue so well. But, you know, normally when we do a name,
we try to include both parents. But a lot of them, we, you know, obviously some of them we haven't,
but there is somewhat of a reference, you know, because I mean, so Doctor Who is a cross of
a mad scientist. To a time wreck. Kind of self-explanatory when you look at it from that
point of view, right? The TARDIS is a time wreck. It's an Oregon diesel by a time wreck.
I thought that we kind of thought that was, you know, pretty viable as well there, too.
And now with the who's this and who's that, the kids don't necessarily like it. I think it's
funny as can be. Is it marketable? We'll see. I don't know. We haven't released any of it. We
haven't taken any flowers to market yet or anything like that. And it's just what I'm
calling them right now so we can kind of keep track of them. But yeah, marketability in a strain name
is great. Seeing as how we're in our own industry, trademark infringement, you know, stuff like that
kind of goes away a little bit right there. We actually have all of our strain names and our
names, company names, all that stuff trademarked for use in the cannabis industry. Have had for a
few years at this point, you know, and actually the funny story was we got two days. We got,
we received our okay for trademark within the cannabis industry for Doctor Who. Two days later,
the OLCC, which is the who runs the cannabis in Oregon, came out with a list of the hundred
strains that you can use the name of. And of course, Doctor Who is one of them. So we have
trademarks within state given us to the by the state. But then again, we have this independent
group telling us we can't use it. So, you know, I kind of found that to be weird, but it is what
it is. So what do you ultimately call it? Just depends. Geek Farms calls it the doctor.
Doghouse grows our grape Hi-Chew cat and they call that grape who.
Okay. Yeah. So they do skirt around it a bit. Absolutely. Everybody knows what it is.
You just can't have it on the label at the store. Yeah. Yeah. No, I understand. So
next thing I wanted to kind of ask you, what do you feel generally speaking? Because I mean,
I think a big component of what you've been saying today is that individualization is a huge part of
stuff. But just generally speaking, what do you think is the best type of weed for anxiety? And
what do you think is the best type of weed for depression in terms of the characteristics you
might be looking for either to embody? So for, I prefer high mercy for anxieties. I suffer from
anxiety quite a bit. I find Indica's are a lot better for that and for anxieties and relaxation.
If you're depressed though, a good sativa, you know, to get you uplifting and feeling good. And
sativa make you feel really creative and wanting to go do stuff. And I would explain to people,
it's not necessarily that you want to go do stuff. You just feel good. You know,
you don't feel your pains. You're not, you have a better outlook on it because you're not in pain.
You're not in distress. You're not, you know, depressed. You want, you actually are looking
at life a lot differently. Yeah. Okay. So if someone was looking to take up growing to kind
of help with an issue like what we just mentioned or something kind of similar, do you think they
should consider CBD as like one of the first things they should grow? Or do you think that
just regular strains is probably a better first port of call? Once again, it would,
excuse me, once again, it really depended upon what the issue was that they were trying to
address. What I would tell somebody with PTSD would be mercy with pains with same thing.
Or CBDs somebody that's has cancer or has arthritis or fibromyalgia or, you know,
body aches, pains, joints, so on and stuff like that. CBD is wonderful. Obviously it's fantastic
for seizures, epilepsy. We're finding great works in it and also in autism. You know, so
you really have to curtail around each individual patient at that point in time.
Yeah. Well, I mean, it brings us to kind of the master question of it all in that
to what degree do you think that cannabinoid therapy as a general term needs to be individualized?
And I guess maybe a specific way of phrasing that is, you know, like people will hear that a certain
strain is good for something. Maybe let's just say depression. Do you think that someone with
depression should look and try to get those ones that are well-known or at the end of the day,
you're still going to have to do some individual searching for what just kind of clicks with you?
Yeah, no, I would definitely start with popular strains that are known for and see if those work
for you. And then if those don't work for you or parts of it works and parts of it doesn't,
you know, like the onset is great, but then towards the end, you're too couch locked or
whatever, you know, maybe you need to move more towards instead of a 70-30 indica sativa, maybe
you need to go to a 60-40 or something to that effect. Get a little more sativa in there so
the lag down isn't so bad. But yeah, I would definitely start out with known
strains, genetics that help the symptoms that you're suffering from and kind of go from there.
Once again, it's so personalized and individualized that, you know, at least on a medical side,
I think that it's almost overwhelming, I would believe for the patient.
And so, what do you think are some medicinal strains that commonly get overlooked from your
offerings? Well, we just did some CBD crosses. We acquired a Mel Harley suit from Levi, which was
O.G. Ringo's son, who is O.G. Ringo's son. And we did a bunch, we did a few crosses to our normal
setup of moms and they all turned out pretty much two to ones, which is fantastic.
I'm definitely getting rave reviews from them, from a lot of our patients that that's the ratio
that they're looking for. We're getting upwards of 14 to 18% CBD with half that in THC.
Just depends on what flavors you're looking for, what terpene profiles you're looking for,
you know, those are really good.
Most of them, you know, so our
Sonic Screwdriver is really good. We get a, we find we get a lot of people that it helps with
opiates quite a bit. There's a couple cannabinoids in there, CB10, CB9, that are like a opiate
molecule, but they're laid back over upon themselves. So, we're wondering if maybe it's
working as an opiate blocker or similar enough to where it allows you, the person to get off opiates
to where it stimulates the same receptors there as, but obviously a lot healthier for you.
Yeah. Okay. So, one of the last questions I wanted to quickly ask you about a random strain,
orange cream soda. It's another parent, haven't come across, it's not in many other crosses.
What's the backstory on that one?
Orange cream soda. So, we had gotten a clone from a gentleman, some seeds from a gentleman
he created called Daddy's Girl. It was sour diesel by MK Ultra, and it was a fantastic strain.
And then we crossed it with a New York diesel and the progeny from that, it was the only orange
flavored one out of them. They all kind of had like the soda creamy flavor to them, but that one
just was nice and orangey. So, yeah, it's not one that's very potent. It's definitely a daytime
smoker for a light smoker. It doesn't get you too hyper, it doesn't get you too low, but it's
nice and mellow and keeps you pretty pain-free and works quite well and has just this fantastic
orange cream soda smell and flavor to it.
Fantastic. So, can we expect to see it pop up again in the future?
Oh, yeah. Yeah, we just crossed it to the Doctor Who and we're going to probably,
we'll wind up being doing, we're crossing her to our Quantum Kush mill as well.
Nice, nice. And when can we expect to be able to maybe get that? Is there still some testing to come?
Yeah, oh yeah. We're slow when it comes to that. You know, we release maybe one or two
strains a year. I like to grow that strain multiple times and the reason being is normally,
I just pop a five pack at a time. The reason being is because that's what most people buy.
So, I want to see what somebody's getting in a five pack. So, I'll pop, I don't know,
eight, nine, ten, five packs and see what I see, you know. So, realistically,
40 to 50 seeds at a time pretty much just to see what I see and that takes a while.
And we send them out all over the country for testing as well and then we send them off to
our larger operations where they can run 100 to 500 at a time kind of thing just to see how they
do all across. So, our testing is pretty tight and we got to see something we really like kind
of thing. Yeah, of course. So, brings up an interesting point in my mind of pricing seeds.
Given you only do, you know, one or two projects a year, it must make pricing hard for you because,
you know, there's a lot of work going into it but I noticed, you know, you guys are certainly no
aficionado seeds in regards to your pricing. How do you feel about the whole topic and do
you struggle sometimes to kind of, you know, feel a price, reach a price that maybe you feel
comfortable with in all regards? You know, so, I remember when I had to buy seeds and how much
they were and how hard it was for me to come up with the money to buy those. So, when we decided
to come do the seed company thing, I was like, you know, we need to keep it low to where anybody can
buy them. We're doing this for the patients. We really got into it for helping in patients.
Patients can't afford $500 10-packs. They're doing good to afford $100 10-pack. So, I really see that
and I don't want people to be denied good medicine because they can't afford it. You see that in real
life bad enough as it is. Once again, if you can get somebody to pay $1,000 for a 10-pack, $800
for a 10-pack, why wouldn't you? You know, I've never attempted it. I don't know that I would.
But then again, you know, if somebody will pay it, why not? If the market will allow it.
Yeah, definitely. So, what type of new or just special offerings do you have coming up and do
you have anything, you know, I guess special in regards to say, going to be released at events,
but maybe not online or anything like that? Yeah, actually, probably our next one is going
to be our Mad Scientist back cross. It will be our next release. We're really liking how it's
turning out. It's definitely showing what we want to see. It's cut genotypes down to two.
Got short and you got tall. So, a couple more back crosses and we'll have the Mad Scientist
where we want it. But you know, it definitely has some very beautiful things going on. So,
I think that we may release that. We may have a few special things with this down in Emerald Cup.
As I said before, that's the only cup we're doing this year. So, yeah, you know, there's definitely
stuff that we do small batches of that, you know, maybe I'll bring some with me just to
see if anybody wants any. But the next big release will most likely be our Mad Scientist back cross.
Okay. And you got any idea on an ETA of that?
You know, we might do a small release at Emerald Cup, but we'll see. We're still,
we're waiting on some COAs right at the moment. But everything else in Grow Rooms and grows here
and grows there has come back very positive. Also, we did a Medicine Time, which is Medicine
Aluminum by Time Rec. So, that we're liking a lot of people are liking it as well. So,
that might come out as well at the same time. We try to do two at a time.
Possibly Emerald Cup as far as like one C tier now or something like that, I'll get it.
Maybe in the spring. Yeah. Cool. Okay. So, onto our last one or two questions before we've got
our few little quickfire ones. It's probably a bit of a large question. So, you know, feel free
to think about it for a minute. But what type of a legacy do you kind of want to leave on the
industry or specifically that like, you know, homegrown natural wonders would leave?
Haven't really thought about a legacy. Not quite done yet. You know, I think legacy is
not really decided until you're done doing your work. And with the group that I've joined up with
now, the Dutch Consulting Company, we're pretty far from being done. So, yeah.
That's interesting. I noticed that. I guess the obvious thing to state is that
it's not exclusively Dutch.
No, it's not exclusively Dutch. But there are a couple of Dutch members. So, yeah. You know,
we're a consulting company and working with Jord is just phenomenal.
He's definitely on another level when it comes to growers, for sure. The scale that he's done for a
long time is just amazing. And the way that he breaks everything down and makes, it's pretty
cool. I'm really happy working with this company. And yeah, we're just getting started. So,
I don't think our legacy will be for a little bit, but, you know, we are part of the pioneers
in this industry. So, hopefully that'll be the legacy that we helped make sure that everybody
got a fair, you know, safe access to medicine or just recreational marijuana, whatever you want to
look at it as. But yeah. Yeah, good answer. Good answer. So, we'll move on to our last little
quickfire questions. So, what is the best cannabis you've ever smoked in your life?
Oh, good golly. You know, I don't know. That's a really tough question because,
you know, you can have a bed of the most flavorful that you've smoked and, you know,
the different specific high that you've had. But if I was to kind of look at an all around combined,
well, I'd have to go back to the mid 80s and back to the old school roadkill sconk. I mean,
you know, granted, it could have been my point of references from back then,
but my father was a grower. So, I was growing a bunch of different pot. And when that came to
town, it was just, yeah, we weren't growing anything like that. That's for sure. Kind of
wish we would have been. But yeah, I'd have to say the 80s roadkills, 80s sconk or Afghanis or
whatever they were. Yeah. Okay. So, kind of a flip side question. What is, in your opinion,
the worst strain to have gained a heap of momentum? Purple punch.
I feel like there's not enough punch.
Yeah, definitely not. It's purple, but there ain't no punch.
I guess maybe it's good marketing.
No, completely. Symbiotic is really good about marketing and hiking up strains.
When you actually do a lab test on it or whatever, you come to find out that,
oh, that's all lipids that's shining there in the picture. It's not cannabinoids or anything
to that effect. So, right. It's all lipids and waxes. And that's the problem with a lot of those
strains like that. They look great in a picture and they can get hyped up all you want. But when
it comes right down to smoking them and doing COAs and doing extractions, well, if you de-wax
your extractions, yeah, your returns on those strains are super low because it's all waxes
and all fatties and lipids. Wow. There you go. All right. Onward. So,
Desert Island, top three you're going to take with you.
Seeds or flowers?
It's a good question, right? You've got an infinite supply of flour. No explanation how,
but it just it is.
Just you got to figure out the run out point. So, wow. That's a rough one. You know, I probably
sound, you know, wow, only three, huh?
At least only give people two.
What a nice guy. He went up to three. That's nice.
You know, I probably have to throw some Dr. Who in there. The Kin.
That's hard for the last one. Yeah. I can see why it was only two. The third one's kind of rough.
Yeah, I get you. I probably want something a little bit more uplifting, so I'd probably go
with, I don't know, maybe like an old super silver haze or something to that effect.
Yeah, that's a solid pick. All right. So, what is a cut that you used to have,
but you've lost and you wish you had it back?
Yeah, that Daddy's girl was pretty nice. And that was that.
MK Ultra. That was pretty nice. I kind of wish I had that one still.
There's too many. You know, and that's why you just cruise through them, hoping that you'll
find one that will replace that in some kind of a way. Yeah.
We've always been fairly fortunate about keeping backups and, you know, giving to tight circles,
so we haven't really lost a whole lot. That hash plant back in the 90s, that would have been
fantastic nowadays. But yeah, I don't know. I don't know. I don't know.
I don't know. I don't know. I don't know.
Fantastic nowadays. Yeah, those would probably be my main two.
Nice answers. So, lucky last question. If you could go back in time, anywhere,
any place, presumably to collect some landrace seeds, where and when and what variety?
Wow. So probably, yeah, the Afghani, the Afghani mountains, the Hindu Kush mountains,
the Silk Trail, I guess is what they call it a lot. I think that that's where a lot of the really
good stuff comes from. But then again, you got the chocolate ties, you've got, you know,
the whole continent over there. Can we count that as this one place?
Just broader Asia.
Just a broad, broad, broad spectrum of it. Yeah, you know, it's, that's a really good question.
I've never really thought about that one much. If I could go back in time, where would I go and
what seeds would I want? But yeah, Africa, Africa, I don't know. I don't know.
But yeah, Africa, Afghanistan and the Hindu mountains pretty, pretty much I'm thinking.
Yeah, good. Two very good and popular answers.
So, bringing us to the end of things, do you have any shout outs or comments you'd like to make?
Obviously, a shout out to Dutch Consulting Company
for providing me with part of the happiest I've been working in a long, long time.
Obviously, a shout out to my sons, because without them, we wouldn't be doing what we do.
And of course, their mom, my wife, who has put up with a lot. Other than that,
shout out to all my friends. They all know who they are. Thanks for all the support for over
the years. But yeah.
Fantastic. Great answer. So, thank you so much for coming on the show, Odi,
and setting some things straight and dropping some awesome history.
Absolutely. Anytime. It was a pleasure. I know we've been working on this for a minute.
As you said, we spoke last year at the ML Cup and discussed it then. Here we are almost a year
later and finally talking. So, it's been great being on here. Thanks for asking us to be on.
Allowing us to maybe hopefully clear up some things.
Yeah, no problem. I can't wait to smoke some Dr. Who with you again soon.
Absolutely. I'm assuming you will be at the Emerald Cup this year?
I will. I'll come swing by for sure.
Absolutely. Please do. Most definitely.
So, there you have it, folks. A big, big thank you to Odi for taking the time to drop by.
And a huge thank you to you guys for sticking around until the end.
As always, Seeds here now. Organic Gardening Solutions. 420 Australia. You know them,
you love them. Go show them some love. If you want to get access to a little bit more content,
help support the show, make sure to go check out the Patreon page.
They're the MVPs. Let's hang out at Emerald Cup, gang. See you.
