Hello and welcome to the next episode of The Podcast, a cannabis podcast for budding enthusiasts.
This episode as always was brought to you by our amazing sponsors.
Seeds here now, best in the business, guarantee not just on germination but satisfaction as
well.
Check them out.
They're the only way you would suss anything else.
As well as Radio Ridge Nursery.
If you're looking for the best clones in the game, clean, ready to go, breeder cuts, exclusives,
do I need to say anymore?
Really?
I mean, come on.
All the best breeders work with these guys.
Why aren't you?
And finally, a shout out to our friends at Dragonfly Earth Medicine and Organic Gardening
Solutions.
You guys are amazing.
We love you lots and lots and lots.
Also a quick shout out to our Patreon gang as always, lifeblood of the show.
We appreciate you guys more than we can ever say.
On this episode, we're joined by Mr. Wonka himself, James Bean of Seeds here now to talk
all things seeds, industry and predictions for the future.
So without further ado, let's get into it.
Alrighty, it's that time again, my friends, a big thank you and a big welcome to the one
and only true Mr. Wonka.
Thank you so very much, James Bean for joining us today.
How are you doing?
I'm doing good, my friend.
How are you doing?
I'm doing good.
I'm doing good.
It's good to be alive.
We're good to be in the industry.
Amen to that.
Let's start off with our normal first question these days.
What are you currently smoking on?
Well, earlier I was smoking, I'll admit it, I was smoking some of the Caca Kush, the brown
frown as it were.
I found some brown frown.
But I ran myself out of cannabis and so I've been smoking on some dry sift I got from Exotic,
the Strawberries and Cream F2 Dry Sift.
Wow, and you're just dabbing that one or putting it on top of cone?
Oh, no, I don't have anything.
I ran myself out.
I did put some, I didn't want to put it on the Caca Kush because that wouldn't even help
it.
But I've just been dabbing it.
Yeah, okay, so you can't even elevate the trash with the gold.
I don't think so.
I think it tarnishes the gold.
Yeah, right.
Why would you want to ruin it?
Yeah, so.
Cool.
I've seen that one pop up a fair bit.
What's it taste like?
What's the high like?
Strawberries and cream or Caca Kush?
Oh, God.
Caca Kush gives you a fucking headache.
You know, you miss a seat or something.
Strawberries and cream.
Strawberries and cream.
It's really nice.
It is tasty.
Like, you can definitely taste the sweetness of the strawberries in it, which is pretty
odd.
But Exotic's been working on it for a minute, so I know he's real proud of it and he's just
been bonkers over it.
So that was nice.
Now, if you give to me a couple of sifts.
That's the nice thing about Mike is that before his line will drop, he will, Mike from Exotic
Genetics, but he will give like when I meet up with him a month beforehand or whatever,
I'll get like flowers and I'll get dry sift of the product that he drops in a month, which
means to me, it tells me right off the bat, boom, this guy's already grown all this out.
He's already happy with it.
He's already seen it all flower.
And this is, you know, he's giving me the flower as he's releasing the seeds.
And so, you know, that's a credit to his part.
He definitely tests all this stuff before he runs it.
Yeah, of course.
And Mike's also one of those guys I've noticed who is always continually pushing forward
with projects.
And that's something I like a lot, you know, like he doesn't let things get stagnant and
start to just sit there and redo the same releases again and again.
No, he's always moving, always moving a couple of head.
Wait a minute.
Check.
Pause.
Definitely leaving this in.
Sorry.
I love that.
No, that's good.
So, I was just saying, yeah, like Mike's always moving forward.
Do you feel like that's a trait like a lot of successful breeders embody or is it possible
to just kind of make your releases a bit more slow and spaced out?
It really depends on the breeder, to be honest, because I mean, there's Mike who definitely
works on stuff for a while.
And the nice thing is I was part of the IMLF was 360 when I was in Washington.
And I would get their tests and I would see everybody was running.
I'd be like, man, why are you running a citrus thing?
You know, six months later, it comes out with Citrique.
But he was just sitting in samples trying to get, you know, turps and profiles and whatnot.
So he was on top of it.
But but then at the same time, there's there's like there's Odie Diesel from Homegrown Natural
Wonders who doesn't have a lot of releases.
But when he does, it's it's trite and true.
Like Odie will walk around with 10 jars with him trying to figure out which one is his
best, his best one.
He'll sample it with everybody that he knows.
And then, you know, when he figured out which one he likes, boom, that's the keeper.
And then that's the one he'll release.
But so I think that's a credit to both of those guys.
When I talk to people that work with Mike or have worked with Mike in the past, I always
one thing that comes up with him is he's got the eye like he can in a room full of full
of room full of bitches, in a room full of girls.
He can pick out the fiery one.
So, yeah, that is a skill in itself.
Either that or in a room full of dicks, you can pick out the best one, too.
So either way you look at it, I guess.
Another very admirable breed of trait.
So just in general, what's new in the world of James Bean?
Oh, a lot and not a lot.
Just getting ready to go to Portland tomorrow while we're doing the Indo Expo.
So it's always a fun show.
Don is broadcasting from there tonight.
Tomorrow will be on the floor, hit the floor.
I fly out tomorrow morning.
It'll be a cool weekend show.
Then going back to Medford to run down my office and then I'll come back to San Diego.
I am so.
And then, of course, we've got upcoming shows.
We've got the Miami show coming up.
The big the big industry show, September 23rd down in Miami.
So that'll be pretty awesome.
It's a big retail show.
Yeah. What what's the Florida St.
What's the Florida St.
Like?
Oh, Canada.
And back back when they had a couple of years ago when they went and passed laws in Florida, just because cannabis didn't pass because it has this this crazy percentage that it needs in order to pass.
I think it's two thirds majority.
But just because cannabis didn't pass, CBD did pass.
And so they've been growing it.
But they their first restrictions were very weird.
Like you had to the place that your facility had to have been in operation for like 40 years.
And it had to have shown that it would, you know, it could produce at least 400,000 plants or something.
And it had to have been owned by the same person for the past 40 years.
And so that that kind of bias and horrible as it even is, I mean, that gives a certain amount of people a certain shot at it.
Yeah, it seems very limiting.
I mean, do you feel like there will be a more full scale rollout of legalization eventually down there?
I think there has to be like that.
That weird law is just too weird and too selective of a very short minority of people.
And so it's not it's not right.
So there has to be that when you go down to like Key West two years ago, I went from coast to coast.
I drove from coast to coast.
I started Key West. But when you go down there, there's there's hot T-shirts everywhere.
And all the vendors are selling, you know, get high, get this.
There was one smoke shop, but just T-shirts everywhere.
And the culture was there.
So I don't think I don't see why not.
They have also the tourism boom in Florida.
You can everybody that gets on and off those cruise ships is a customer, so to say.
Yeah, of course.
And I mean, on that same train of thought, what state do you think will be the next to fall and to kind of open the floodgates for it all?
I don't really know.
There's so many that are just there.
Now that the sessions are out, they're not really they're not really passing anything.
But I because, you know, I think a couple of months ago, one state just went and did their own bill and acted their own stuff and got and got got with the times.
And so I'm not really sure.
I know it's not going to be Idaho.
Sadly, no.
Sadly, no. I think Idaho has some of the best climate to grow that our cannabis in.
But just not the right people.
Not the right people at all.
Like they made a law against ever making a law positive about cannabis.
Yeah, right.
It's not backwards.
They are. We got there surrounded by legal states.
So, OK, I mean, when Utah passes ahead of them.
Yeah, that's a bit weird, isn't it?
But I mean, they do their own thing.
So just to kind of jump back on track, let's dig back into the past for a minute.
I'm not sure I asked you this in our first interview, so I want to bring it up now.
What was your first experience with cannabis?
I thought we did.
So I was basically
hustling QP's a shake
and the joints that I bring this maybe a place of education daily.
So I would just sell them off.
And I was actually hustling them off before I even started smoking.
I didn't smoke until like my senior year of high school.
So but it was just with some friends, I'm sure, in the back of a blazer.
Didn't have any bong waters.
He used iced tea, you know, that kind of thing.
Yeah, it was fun.
Did it at lunchtime and got really stoned.
Of course, we were we had Biesters, which I come to now know as M39.
But back then it was Biesters.
All smelled like hay.
I was like, oh, they must grow this in a hay field.
As I got educated, I was like, oh, no, that's just mold you're smelling.
And what was the experience like?
Did you get high on your first time?
Uh, they say the shorter memory goes.
And so I don't really remember.
There you go.
Must have been pretty good right now.
Yeah, yeah.
I continued down the path.
So that was good.
Very good.
Very good.
And so what was the progression next from just, you know, getting some stuff to some mates at school?
How did you then progress to become the giant of the seed world we know you to be now?
And so let's let's let's pause on that on that note.
Pause. But keep rolling, if you will.
Who is James Bean?
So I am a nobody.
Like I am flattered that that you even you have me on your show twice now.
I'm a sponsor, so I guess that helps.
But to have me on your show and care of my opinions on things, I think that's awesome.
I was lucky enough to get to find you early.
The questions I thought you asked were on point.
I was like, I explained to you, I was like, he doesn't know things or he's fucking got huge balls, but he just he asked questions that you shouldn't ask.
And so, you know, and so I appreciate that about you because you're getting, you know, let's get to the bottom of shit here when you're precise about it.
But I lost my train of thought.
We were going with that. Oh, who am I?
Who am I? So I'm a nobody.
I mean, I'm a broker.
I mean, it's nice to have to hear all this and see all this.
But I think what people sometimes misinterpret is that I have anything to do with the seed production.
I don't I don't at all.
I'm a broker who helps breeders get their get their genetics out.
I've got great customer service.
I've got a great ethic.
I've got great ethical tendencies, I guess you want to say morals.
And so if I if I satisfaction guarantee, if you ever buy anything, you're unhappy with it for whatever reason.
You know, King Kong comes out of the sky and breaks your fucking plans.
You think it's my fault?
You know, call us up.
We'll talk to you about it.
Send your free five back.
And we want everybody to be satisfied.
We have sixteen hundred five star reviews on our website, at least.
We've got, like I said, outstanding customer service.
But I never want anybody to go to Facebook and start ratting or say anything or say that this we did them wrong.
Or I never want anybody to have the ability to say that I didn't I didn't do it right.
I didn't take care of them.
So and then on behalf of the breeders, it's always it's never it's never a good question to ask a customer, you know, how did you get it?
You germinate those.
And as it is, we sell souvenir packs.
And so we don't speak to germination anyways.
So if you're unsatisfied with your packs, get on with us.
We'll make sure you're happy.
Yeah, really, really solid sentiment.
And I mean, who on earth would go to Facebook and start trashing you before they contact you?
It never ceases to exist.
It's like they think they're going to get more that way or if they think they are squeaky wheel.
I'm sure what they think, but they should know by now.
I mean, I think any company, you don't just when you're pissed off at Sears and Roebuck or you go buy a Bose system at Sears and it doesn't work, you bring it back.
You don't go start trashing Sears.
You know, I mean, yeah, but in this industry, it's a little different.
Yeah, I sold him back to the army now and they're upset about it.
It's like, no, no, I didn't.
I didn't make shit of those.
I said, I'll fix it.
I'll replace it. Make sure you're happy.
Maybe put you in with a different breeder.
But it's not my fault.
Don't you can yell at me all you want.
You can yell at my customer service, but we didn't.
We didn't breed them.
We're simply going to just stand by them.
Yeah, solid ethos, solid ethos.
So, I mean, to jump back to that question, what was the progression from Mr.
Wonka to where you are now?
Oh, yeah, so they go back, back on course.
So I was a DJ for 15 years, 95 through 2010.
I played records and vinyl kind of back in the day when it was cool.
It was kind of an underground thing.
And I was known for notorious for for for weed.
And so when I flew around, I always had to have like, you know, a quarter
or an eighth waiting for me at the where I was flying or whoever picked me up
from the airport, need to make sure there was trapped with weed when I got there.
I just came, you know, I'd smoke on stage.
We were world record.
So that was all fun and dandy.
In 2010, I the scene kind of changed and it went to Mr.
Rags, if you will.
You could buy your little rave gear in the stores.
You could, you know, the thing that was underground and kind of cool, kind of got
blown out of proportion and everybody and their fucking brother was in it now.
And so it wasn't cool to me anymore.
One of my friends that I had gone to had started DJing with back in Boise, Idaho.
He was now he'd already come to Portland.
He'd always stop and talk with him and he'd be sending me Facebook stuff about
how he was in Breeder, Breeder Diaries and he was doing all this and that.
And of course, I had an ego.
I was like, you know, this guy doesn't know more than me.
Sure you do. Sure you do.
I met up with him at a show that I played here and he busted out some cannabis and
it was fucking phenomenal.
Got me super stoned.
It was, you know, he dropped the knowledge and schooled me.
And I was like, damn, that's that's amazing.
What can I do to, you know, DJ scenes killing it for me?
What can I do to get in the green scene?
He's like, well, I'm Breeder.
You could you could sell a shit for me.
I said, well, that works.
So I, you know, with a napkin, I bought Washington's
the right to Washington State's phone from him.
Started WAC Bank out of my just doing trade shows,
Hemp Fest and whatnot was my first show.
And then that progressed to my friend Hoffa pushing me to get a website
and we'd have a web platform to a Shopify site to my original manager,
rebuilding a WordPress site to another site, to another site,
which brings us to our latest site.
So I've learned that with websites,
it's best to have a team
to do these things that way when you call somebody is not at their cousin's birthday
this weekend or doesn't have family in town or, you know, when you
when the website goes down, which, you know, I want to thank all of our customers
for that that stuck with us.
The website shit's been a pain in the ass.
I'll be honest with you guys. I appreciate you sticking around.
We're doing a killer sale right now.
So just kind of a way to say thanks for sticking in there with us
because these last four months we've gone through four different websites
being shut down, targeted.
So I went with the firm, forked over a lot of dough.
The new website will not get jinxed myself,
but by September 1st should be up and functioning.
Since the last time I talked to you, I might have mentioned a forum.
Well, that that little dream of mine came true.
Yes, I got my form up.
So it's got it's got a chat room on the top where you guys can chat back and forth.
On the bottom, it's got
three pages where you can go into each breeder's page.
Each breeder has their own fact section, their own strange section,
their own general section where they can announce their giveaways.
So you can go in there and ask a breeder, get one on one contact with them.
It's also, you know, set up on our server so it'll never go down
and never be, you know, taken out or subpoenaed.
So.
There you go.
And I mean, you guys have gone through an unfortunate amount
of kind of attacks on the site.
Why do you think that is?
You know, why do you think you because I don't hear other C-Banks
complaining about their websites being taken down and stuff like that.
Do you think it's just like you're an easy target because you guys are so far
the biggest?
I don't know.
You know, I never wanted to be the big guy.
Kind of just, you know, with, I don't know, dope, dope
terminology or thinking, you know, you never want to be the bright,
shiny guy on the corner.
You kind of just keep to yourself and don't show you got a lot of shit
and then you won't be having a problem.
And so when people reference us as one of the biggest,
it kind of still shocks me and, you know, wonders me.
But I'm not sure.
All I know is that we've been attacked a couple of times and there's,
you know, one time on 420, we got 17000 comments per hour or something
that said, fuck you, 420, fuck you.
I told you I'd fuck with me.
Fuck you.
I told you not to fuck with me.
Like in code, like just 17000 times.
And so, you know, two years ago we were we were ready.
We were prepared for the 420 attack this time and we had people on standby.
We had 420 cyber on standby to watch everything.
And we got attacked again.
They're attacking us from, of course, Russian sites using TOR and ADN.
And so there's not, you know, I'm told there's nothing you can do
besides defend against it, yada yada.
But it's been a pain in the ass.
Yeah, wow.
Do you think that this type of practice is going to become more and more common?
I don't know.
I don't know.
That's the thing.
I don't know who's doing it.
Our customers, you know, obviously don't have an issue to be upset with me.
If you have an issue, let me know.
I'll take care of it.
Some ex-breeders, I don't know if they have an issue with it.
I'm not sure.
Once again, I'm just the face, if you will, of a much bigger company.
I have a team that works for me.
There's 13 people that work full time that I employ.
Along with 40 breeders that I represent.
And so it's when people attack my website because they dislike me, it's like,
hey, you know, you're also fucking with 40 dudes, webs, you know, incomes,
13 families.
So if you've got an issue with me, just take it up with me.
But I'm not really sure, like I said, what it is or why.
I wish I knew.
Yeah, understandably frustrating.
Well, why don't we move on to some more kind of brighter pastures?
Well, let's chat about the newest breeder on the block.
I've seen about two days ago, a very big name brand joined the Seeds Here Now
roster.
You want to tell us a little bit more about that?
Yeah, yeah.
My guy Jackson Zentner, aka Meme Gene, aka Freeborn Selections.
The guy is, I think I've said in the past, pops more beans than I think anybody
else does.
I think he probably pops a five gallon bucket full of beans looking for
He really works his plants, his lines.
I've been working with him for about two and a half, three years now, trying to
get him on board.
I remember him calling me and asking, we talked for an hour about his launch,
his release.
And I've been wanting his root beer for about two years.
But yeah, we got SkyColor Kush and we got Pina Colada.
So we're happy to start with those two.
Of course, we'll get more as time goes.
But yeah, Jackson was a big pickup.
He's a really solid guy.
I like, I really like his stuff.
I'm definitely a guy who knows about the plant, loves the plant.
A hundred percent.
You know, he's one of those names that frequently gets mentioned alongside the
likes of Duke Diamond and many other in that tier one category.
I guess my first question is, how quickly do you expect that drop to sell out?
Because I can only imagine you've got, what, seconds when it goes live?
Yeah, it should hopefully go pretty fast.
We're in the middle of summer.
And so, you know, we're going to be in the middle of summer.
Yeah, it should hopefully go pretty fast.
We're in the middle of summer.
And so a lot of people have already got their strains in the ground or whatnot.
That and we only had a two-day advertisement on it.
But it should go.
It should go pretty quick.
I could pull up the numbers on it.
But yeah, it should go.
Like I said, Jackson's an outstanding guy.
We're happy to work with him.
Of course, of course.
So do you want to maybe let a little cat get out of the bag and tell us maybe some
breeders you're considering adding to the roster?
Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, we've already talked to them all.
So it's not secret on their behalf.
But of course, until we have anything solid, it's all just fictitious.
And then my making shit up in case anything goes south.
But we're happy to add Amuerta.
He's coming up.
He's a really nice guy out of Canada.
Super, super nice guy.
Has some really nice plants.
I met up with Cannibalist.
I believe you had him.
Did you interview him?
True?
Yeah.
We're looking to get him on the show in the near future.
A lot of people have had really good things to say about him, especially Leo.
Yep.
Yeah.
That guy.
So Cornbread Ricky from Swamp Boys.
I did a post about a month ago asking for maybe there's banks I was sleeping on or people
they had wanted to add.
And so Cornbread Ricky posted up when Cannibalist.
A lot of people want it.
Cannibalist probably got the most tags out of it.
And then Cornbread Ricky underneath it posted up saying, hey, go grab this guy.
And so that was enough for me to go, OK, who's this dude?
And so I called him up, talked to him.
He's in Spain.
But awesome guy.
Has some serious fucking history.
Knows a lot about Sacred Seabank, about Neville, about the Grateful Heads, about
Oh, what's his name?
Oh, controversy.
80, 2007.
Res.
Res.
Res.
He either, I mean, yeah, as stories, he has some great stories about Connoisseur.
And so, yeah, we're excited to get True on.
He's a really good dude.
And, you know, the guy's cool.
Yeah, he's got some, I think he'd be great for your show.
Yeah.
I enjoy talking to him.
Definitely.
He's got a lot of history, doesn't he?
Because he messaged me just having a chat about Res one day.
And as you kind of referenced, I was very surprised by how, I think he even mentioned
he used to work with Res.
So, like, I mean, how's that for inside knowledge?
Right.
No, he used to work with him, knows him very, very well.
Used to work for Connoisseur, used to be Connoisseur, that guy.
You know, I'll let him tell the stories.
But, you know, yeah, he got busted once for exporting marijuana because he was going to
a high times cup.
And so, he thinks the people that he asked how to smuggle it out would rat it on him.
So, his entry got flagged.
And so, he did jail time for him.
I was like, damn.
Wow.
Yeah.
But cool, very cool guy.
I'm excited to get him on.
Yeah.
There you go.
Well, that's something cool to look forward to.
I guess we should maybe do something a little controversial.
So, on the opposite end of the new breeders you're considering, who's a breeder who you
think has fallen off?
Well, what kind of question is that?
You can choose to deny.
I don't mind.
All the banks I no longer carry.
No.
I don't know.
Yeah.
Just because I can't take shots fired, shots fired at Brothers Grimm, you know.
Oh, that's a hot one.
I love that.
Rick was nice enough and did us all a favor and said, you know, I will have new packaging.
So, all the old packaging is stuff that is older stock and all the new packaging is the
newer stock.
And I said, oh, thanks Rick.
So, all the older shit Tommy made and all the newer shit you made.
Yeah.
It's been interesting to see the slowdown in the number of offerings from Brothers Grimm
since Duke's departure.
Duke was the heart and soul.
Oh, damn.
Shots fired again.
The heart and soul of that thing.
But Duke's just a fucking, yeah.
But Duke's an animal, dude.
I mean, that guy's just, I'm really glad to call it that I can call him a friend.
And he's mentioned before, if there's ever an earthquake out here, he's going to get
in his truck and come out here and save us all.
And I believe that he'd fucking try.
So, he's just a good dude.
Just him and that massive Swiss Army knife just comes and saves everyone.
Yeah.
That and fuck, I can't tell stories, but yeah.
Don't ever play paintball with him.
Put it that way.
Don't ever play paintball with the fuck fucker.
Because yeah, he will clear the field of like 10 people.
The guy is outstanding.
Yeah, I can imagine.
Right.
That's brilliant.
It was a shock.
I was like, what the fuck?
Well, I mean, you know, just continuing on from that topic, how we were just kind of
discussing Brothers Grimm.
How do you think a breeder can continue to stay relevant in what is essentially an ever
changing market?
I think maybe on this one, the swamp boys get undervalued or get, what I say, number
one or doodle out.
But they just like Chrome said, they just do what the fuck they're doing.
Like, they don't care what anybody else is doing.
They don't want to do what anybody else is doing.
Like, leave them alone.
Stay away from that shit.
And so they just do their own fucking thing and they just care about their own shit.
And a lot.
I mean, this year I've seen that Lemon Royale, man.
That thing really killed it for me last year in Boston.
And just about every other time I've seen it or had the chance to be around it.
It's something phenomenal.
It's massive and stinky.
But I really like those guys.
Those guys are back in Florida now.
I think they, you know, they say best in order for you to stay current, you just have to
you have to do what you do.
Like, don't try to copy people because by the time you get to where they're at, it's
gone and they're already the next thing.
Yeah, right.
I've actually noticed that about them.
They're very much, you know, like the silent grind is just every so often you see a new
release and the genetics are always like, you know, make your pupils dilate like, whoa,
like, and yeah, sometimes they don't get enough credit.
But thankfully, they do have a really, really passionate fan base behind them.
Yep, for sure.
Well, I mean, let's talk about it because what's interesting is when you mentioned the
Lemon Royale, the first thing that jumped to mind was I had seen a buddy at TK Origins
posting about he was growing it out and he was very impressed by it.
TK Origins.
So, I guess I could get some knowledge here from you.
So, have we decided that's the guy who did the cushions?
Because in my Instagram swipings, I had seen somebody asked on a Josh D. O. G. pick who
did the real thing and Josh did it.
And first time I'd seen Josh post, no, at TK Origins did or something like that to that
effect, to which surprised me because I've never seen that from Josh before.
But I know Josh.
And so, have they come back to decide that's the guy?
Yeah, like from what I can gather, the central people in the story seem to be reasonably
happy that it's probably the case.
Everyone has expressed a small amount of like, well, you know, it's hard to say 100% for
sure type thing.
But on the whole, it seems as though like the main players are able to trace the connections
back.
And from what I've been told, he grew the weed and, you know, the seeds were formed
in his room, but he wasn't really aware of them as far as I know.
And just the pounds went out, got sold, people found the seeds and he was really none the
wiser.
And do you have this on a show that could go back and listen to it on or is this just
from your basic knowledge?
I think we briefly touched on it in the Matt Riott episode and I'm hoping to have Cornbread
on next episode in fact.
So I'm hoping to be able to iron it out.
But I did talk to Josh in real life at the Emerald Cup and he just basically said everything
I said.
Awesome.
So is this guy, is that the Dreadlock guy or no, no relation?
See, that's what I'm trying to figure out.
I don't think the TK Origins guy is the Dreadlock guy, but he is like a super surfy dude from
Florida.
But I feel like maybe someone got sold the bud from the Dreadlock guy maybe.
Right.
Yep.
That's the story.
And on that, one of the guys we've added in the last two years is Katsu Blibbert.
Ooh, tell me more.
So Katsu Blibbert is known for his proliferation of the Katsu Bubba Cut, if you will.
Which, so he bought it, as you get him on the show, he can tell stories better than
I do, but he bought it in 2001 where he said he had more dollars than he had cents.
So he bought it off the forums from some guy, Green Crack Man or something.
And he paid a couple hundred bucks for it and he got it.
It was like a half a tree.
He said he got it, no healthy thing.
And then like the day later, the guy called him and said, hey, oh, by the way, you can't
sell it.
You can't give it away.
Don't do anything with it.
And Katsu was like, that's kind of fucked up.
You didn't tell me that part of it when I spent the money.
And so he was like, you know what, fuck this guy.
And so he just started, he was like made it his duty just to send that Bubba Cut out to
anybody and everybody.
Like if you hit him up on the forums, he'd send you that fucking cut.
So if you're some guy in Nebraska who's growing like your fucking ditch weed seeds,
because that's what you had.
And you can meet the guy and you're looking for information on the forums and you're
surfing, you come across this Katsu guy, his handle, and he agrees to send you this cut.
And the only restriction is that you have to give it to five other people.
Well, you're now the fucking king of Nebraska.
You've got the best fucking chronic in there.
You've, even if you're a city grower, you start with good genetics, you're going to
have a good output.
And so you're now growing the best thing in town.
Everybody's calling you, you're making money all because this guy you met on the
forums has just sent you this cut.
And since then, all these people that he sent cuts to have returned the favor and
sent cuts back to him.
And so he has this reverse genetic library that's quite extensive.
East Coast sour diesel, the Chaco's that came from him.
He's, he can tell you the story on the bubbles, but there's the same cut.
And I believe that the whole pre 98 story was, that's the only one that Oregon kid
knew that he could, that for sure was before 98 that he had the longest.
And the other ones were most likely, but that one cut was the most likely the one
he's had since 98.
They knew he had longer than 98.
But that's what, that's what Katsu got.
It was fun to, when I got Katsu on the phone, I said, I said, kind of like,
let's talk, that's three way the shit.
Cause like, yeah, he's like, that'd be awesome.
So I got Bubba on the phone and that was, you know, the shit coffee book, coffee
book tables are made out of, but they were just talking to each other on how, you
know, how cats, you really like the plant and he was explaining it to it and he
wondered what the cross of it was.
And, you know, Bubba came out, you know, it was like, Oh, before you, you know,
before he even said, uh, uh, Katsu would guess, he was like, I think it's a
Northern lights.
And Bubba was like, yeah, it was one line stuff.
But, but, but, but, but, but, but, but, but, but, but, but, but, but, but, but, but,
but yeah, very interesting.
And, and, and that guy's a head, so he's got like bandaid Hayes.
He's got a bunch of old, a bunch of, a bunch of really old, great cuts.
He's going to start releasing in S ones.
Um, his, his scrum that he just crossed with the Bubba, um, he's got a Bubba
sister across with, uh, Bubba across with Kim sis.
And so, um, a lot of really good stuff coming out of, he came to me from Matt
riot as well.
So there you go.
I guess Matt, Matt coming out with a good pig.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Matt, you know, I definitely respect what Matt has to say.
And when you interviewed him, I thought he did a great interview.
I called him up and I was like, dude, great fucking show.
I said, you came, you came across like an asshole, but a guy that I like and
the guy that we, you know, we work with, but, um, you know, sometimes your
point of views are a little fucking dickish and how you say them, but, but
he's a, he's a, he's a purveyor of the plant, you know, and he wants the
truth. And I think one of the best things he said was, you know, people tell
lies, plants don't.
Yeah.
That's some wise words.
I was like, Oh snap.
Yeah.
I love it.
Having just discussed the Katsu Bluebird and how they're now part of the
catalog.
It begs the question, have you ever considered having cookie fam on the
CETNR catalog?
I'm just kidding, but seriously.
So I had the opportunity to have cookie fam last year.
What?
Oh yeah.
Oh yeah.
I turned them, I turned them down.
I dodged, I dodged three bullets last year.
So cookie fam was one of them.
Um, and that offer might've came through a BZ or those guys that BZ could
have come in with them, but they had a really weird setup.
They wanted to, they had a really weird setup.
They wanted to charge 400 and sell it for 500 and let everybody steal them
off you and auction off for 800.
And they were like a 30 something pack.
And my deal was that I couldn't, you know, just tell me you didn't do
cookies cause I know you didn't.
And just tell me who's doing this.
Cause if you did it, I don't want it, but tell me who's doing the, don't
stop the candy rain.
Cause people are crying and they're crying and they're upset.
So yeah, I dodged that bullet, but no, I can't.
Uh, and so, and so I'll, I'll leave my words, but, um, cookie fam, as I
know, it has gone out and done good things as, as far as I know, uh, maybe
public, maybe not, but JVC is going to start breeding for them.
Um, you know, there, uh, it'll be a collab as far as the sharing of the
company goes, JVC gets, you know, uh, he gets to bring his collection out
and start working on projects for them.
Um, they get to push their media and use their, you know, their social
plugins, if you will, to push the strains.
But, um, I think Beasy's a fucking excellent breeder.
Uh, I think that guy is really cool.
Like he went through, he went through and took care of all the candy rain
bullshit just because he didn't want people to get, feel like they got
ripped off.
So he paid his assistant to like go through their DMS and get everybody's
fucking names and numbers and mailed everybody like the placement back.
So he has shit just so they weren't upset.
Cause I guess all came down, I guess Jigga, he was not to be found.
Yeah.
Okay.
That that's interesting.
Cause I hadn't heard that part about, uh, J Beasy making it right by
people.
So that's, that's quite nice to hear.
Yeah.
And like I asked Beasy, I said, I said, you should at least stick a, stick
a sticker in there and say, Hey, you know, just if you weren't happy with
those, my name is B, you know, I'm Beasy and this is my gear.
He was like, no, man, I just, I just put the seeds in the package, got
them out.
I was like, damn, I would at least fucking advertise myself on it.
You know, I just, I just, I just, I just, I just, I just, I just, I just
was like, that wasn't the point.
I just want to make it right with people.
So he's a really, uh, really, really see, I say they're really good guys,
but they are to me like they're nice guys.
When I talk to them, of course, they're going to be nice.
I fucking pay them.
I mean, I get that part, but he's a really nice guy.
Like he's, he's, he's a family dude.
And when I call him, he's, he's cool.
I've met his dad.
Uh, we haven't played ping pong yet, but we're going to, I'm going to
take that old man out.
Uh, he's a, he's a really cool guy.
Um, and so there was, you know, there was, yeah, there's just dramas.
Oh, everybody's, everybody's got their egos in the shit.
That's the problem.
There's drama with everything.
It's hard to stay.
It's hard to stay fucking Sweden, you know?
Yeah.
It's so, it's so interesting.
You phrase it like that, because what I've noticed is that everyone I know
who has interacted with J B's, he says he's lovely and yet he does seem
to get quite a bit of hype.
And the only reason I can kind of attribute it to is because he is quite
quiet, you know, he's not, he's not, he's not, he's not, he's not,
he's not quite quiet.
You know what I mean?
Like he doesn't, he doesn't like project a lot of stuff out there.
He just kind of does his thing.
And I think because there isn't exactly this huge vocal presence around him,
people are just happy to hate on him in a way.
And that could be, but he's, you know, he's going to be, um, of,
of the guys I know, like, I don't know.
I think, I think BZ would be like the most gangster as motherfucker that
would stab me in a parking lot.
Like, so he's not, he's not gonna go out there and toot his own fucking horn
and be like, Hey, look at me.
Dot, dot, dot, dot.
Like he can post pictures all day.
And if you're fucking to talk some shit, he might just block it.
Cause he doesn't give a fuck, but he's just kind of like a gangster.
He doesn't, you know, you don't,
you never met a gangster that told you they were a gangster.
And so he's just quiet.
He doesn't need to, you know, say, look at me, do my shit.
He's let his work speak for him.
And how he got started going is, uh, he was picking up packs from,
from his, from his guys there in LA.
And they were, they were charging him more.
They'd taken a percentage of all of his packs.
And he was like, that's fucked up.
They couldn't get it.
They wouldn't sell him any cuts.
And so he got pissed off and flew to Amsterdam,
came back with some beans, uh, started growing his own stuff,
breed his own stuff.
And they started, he reversed it.
He started charging his homeboys, started taking a tax on their shit,
started selling it to them, wouldn't sell them cuts.
And so, uh, that's how he came up.
But he's been in the, he's been breeding for a minute since 2003.
He's been in it longer than I'd get him credit for.
And the catalog, you know, he's a, he's a super East LA gas type of dude.
So he's got the gassy nastiness, um,
but people are into the Cushmans and stuff right now, but yeah,
nice guy and guys winning KKF fours coming on the line.
And yeah,
I think what's interesting about his work is I've always noticed that he was
working on that high octane cube in the background and no one ever really
seemed to pay too much attention to it.
And now that he's got it all solid and I think it's at the BX three or maybe
even further. And he's now using that male in other strains.
And that's really like you said,
adding that gassiness to now the Cushmans and the various other crosses.
Yeah. No, and it goes, and it goes back to BZ. Like I said,
he's keep her secret or secret or circle small, you know, uh,
he's not that guy to get caught in any drama or talk that bad about anybody.
Like he's, like I said, he's not the guy to talk bad or do anything.
He's, he's, he's about it. You know? So, um,
but he's got, you know, work, have it, the,
the numbers that some of these guys are now able to run, you know, if,
if these guys were talented, if they were, you know, say they were,
if they were smaller, they were using, you know,
back in the day when they started,
they were using a tent or they had a garage or something.
Now the ability for them to run Fino hunts of the thousands is fucking
phenomenal. Like just, just that, that shared ability.
And then to be able to go and select through them,
seeing the true structure of the planet,
to be able to go walk through a room, like walk through exotics room and like,
see when he's running out, cause he see pops everything. So, um,
to run through the Finos and see it all, you know, being of the same or alike is,
is, it's pretty quite cool. Um, but back in the day, you know,
these guys with limited numbers,
they didn't have that ability to run so many strains and kill so many strains,
you know, like it just didn't happen.
Yeah. And I, that's really opened the floodgates, hasn't it?
And yeah. And I think it's made the guys that are really good, even better.
Cause you know, if they were good, like I said, that's where I was getting,
if they were good with one tent, fuck, give them a whole room.
And now look at what they look, what they can do. And so, and it goes back to,
you know, Mike having that eye, like we talked about earlier, you know,
all the guys that work with exotic, you know,
you can pick a bitch out of a room or a sausage party. But, uh,
but, uh, that, that, that ability is just to notice those,
those traits I think is, uh, is really quite phenomenal. And then, you know,
on the, on the large scale, it makes it better. And cause they can,
they can test your gear more like exotic say, you know, he pops,
I think two packs or three packs of each was gear, uh, to,
to run it before he sells it, make sure it's good.
But just to be able to walk through those rooms and see them and to know that
they're all solid is, is pretty cool. And back in the day,
you just didn't have that ability.
Yeah. Well, I mean, while we're on the topic of cookies peripherally,
let's quickly wrap this one up. Cause I love always asking this,
what do you think will be the new cookie cross? You know, like, I mean,
what's going to be the new big hype strain post a child thing.
Gelato is, is this year's thing. I believe, um,
that's where everybody's crossing everything with now is gelato. Um,
you know, it's, it's weird. Um, I know things, uh,
you talk about, sorry, I was going to say,
you're talking about runs in your life up.
No, no. Runs, runs in your life. What's that? I've heard this runs thing.
Dude. It's like the shit is me. I love it.
It's just about how like runs is like a gelato cross or a gelato S one.
And it's just like all the fuck boys are on it. They, they love it, man.
They want that runs.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's a lot of that's, that's this year's fucking cross to sell.
If you've got a gelato, then it's going to sell out and be the, the shit, uh,
whether or not they fucking grow it or not, you know, I don't know, but you know,
it's, it's, it also, it all depends on, on the breeders. Like I know Duke,
you know, he's giving me some shit that whenever that guy wants to release it,
he's going to own it, but he doesn't, you know, he's sitting on,
he doesn't want to release it. And like, like some of the stuff he's got is phenomenal.
Um, his, his, uh, uh, Schmuckers is quite phenomenal.
When are we going to see more Schmuckers, you know,
cause sometimes you, you do see it pop its head up here and there.
And I just think maybe the problem is people don't know what they're missing out
on.
Yeah. I don't know. Um, whenever people want it to be out in the market,
I don't know. I, I, I know, like I said,
Duke's got it to me a couple of times and he's got some else called Sally's
beauty salon,
which is he tries to just make the guest a strain.
It was just fucking sending me shit, but, uh, he's definitely sitting on some shit,
but I think, you know, there's some people that are,
they're sitting on stuff too, you know,
like not everybody believes that this is a cool and fair market.
So they're not, not everybody's coming off their shit. So to say,
I know that people have stuff that I've tested and tried. It's like, Oh,
when's that going to see the light of day? And they're like, it's not,
I'm not giving this shit out. But you know, I still, uh, the thing that was,
that's, that sits in my nose the most is probably from Indo expo this year,
Denver, uh, Denver. And, uh, right at the end of the show,
this guy came up and he had fucking, uh, like he was too,
it was two people away from me. And as soon as he popped the jar,
it was fucking maple syrup, like all day long,
like pancakes and fucking maple syrup. No question. And like,
and so Brooks was there, Jason Brooks,
he was like, Jason popped the lid. He's like, dude, pancakes. I was like,
yes. And so it was maple syrup all day long. And that,
that guy had some really, really nice thing of that. So if that ever sees,
you know, you can, I was like, dude,
you can make an entire line around this thing. Wow.
And, uh, do you know what strain it was? Nope.
Just something he made. Yep. I know how to get ahold of him,
but it wasn't even something he made. He was popping beans for a guy. Wow.
So, but it was just, it was so uniquely fucking shit,
dead on maple syrup that was, you know, it was like, okay,
don't lose that plant. So yeah. Okay. Well, I mean,
you've just spurred a thought in my mind.
I've been seeing our friend obsolete post a lot about this pretzels thing.
Can you give us the inside scoop? Uh, yes, I can. Uh,
hashtag pretzel fam. That's what I've seen. That's what I got.
That's all covered in India shit. I can't, uh, I can't do that. Uh,
I will say that, um, I just had some new hats printed up with his logos on him.
So we've got that done.
I'm glad to see him come back out in the game and, uh, get back on the,
on the DMs or get, get back on Instagram. Um,
hopefully he's not answering his fucking DM. So guys don't DM him. But yeah,
that's what I see. A lot of my breeders, a lot of my breeders, like the,
they're there for their public, but at the same time,
sometimes the public can drive them fucking crazy. Like I know Duke told me that
he was, he spends, you know, Duke will answer every fucking DM he gets.
And sometimes he says it takes three hours and sometimes people just ask the
same thing over and over again. And so, uh, you know,
maybe just a food for thought if you're talking to breeders and they get short
chambered with you, you know, read maybe sometimes, but I know that's what,
that's what drove obsolete into being obsolete was two years ago.
He was just like, you're kidding me. He's like, fuck it. Fuck Facebook.
Fuck Instagram. I'm done spending six hours. My DM and DMs,
and it just got off of it. Uh, and unfortunately his sales declined.
He became, you know, uh, obsolete if you will. And so, which was,
which was, which is weird to see. It was weird for him to be like the,
the tester if you will. But yeah, he was,
he was gearing from solid gold to just being stagnant because there wasn't
anything, it wasn't anything pushing it. People don't see pictures.
It wasn't out there in the current runs and people were using this stuff like,
like, uh, um, I don't know.
I want to believe that part of the Mac is there's an obsolete in there.
Maybe his orange Congolese or his orange cookies.
Yeah. So.
Interesting. It's not the first time we've heard that sentiment and it's,
it's even more fitting that you bring up the orange cookies because I have
noticed, and I'm sure many others have,
that our buddies over at jungle boys are going to start to be breeding soon.
Is that something you've been keeping an eye on?
No, not at all. No way. That's not, that's not, see, uh, I don't know.
Buyer beware. Just.
Oh, you want to explain?
Oh, I, you sell weed.
So just because you sell weed now all of a sudden you're a breeder,
like you know what, what to look for and you know how to breed,
you know about recessive shit in your mind. I mean, I don't know. I like,
I like people to stay in their own lanes. And I, I think that, uh, like,
like I've always told my guys,
have they ever seen me fucking making seeds or become a breeder?
Take your shit and run. Like I should,
I think that just adds CD to a CD business. Um,
and some of these guys that are starting to breed that used to run seed banks,
I think is fucking, I'm like, I can't make this shit up. You guys are perfect.
Thank you.
You're just driving traffic to me because I think it's,
it's just shady when people make their own, you know,
their seed bank and they make seeds. But, uh,
for them to be, so that's facts are facts.
They got famous off through other people's weed,
can I run out of weed through obsolete weed through other people's shit.
And so they should just keep getting famous off other people's weed.
Uh, try to take all the credit.
Like there's enough food on the table for everybody to eat.
Why can't we all just drive the same fucking cars that we used to?
Yeah. Understandable. Understandable.
And since kind of like, it's kind of like, you know, cookie fam,
like all the people that bought into the candy rain shit. Sorry,
but if you didn't know that they didn't make the cookies,
then you haven't been doing your research. They can claim it,
but they didn't do it. Cause if you did it, you can do it again.
Or more so you have a male and that's not,
and that's not to say that that fucking love childs are bad because you know,
six of the top 10 or love childs, it was never meant to be.
There were accidents that happened,
but for you to claim it more start a company behind that rep when it was just
mother nature fucking taking care of the job, um,
is something you shouldn't do. Like you shouldn't,
you should leave that up to breeders who go for things for a reason.
So like I always say, you know, what,
what proves it in my eyes or at least for my bank is that, um,
when people claim strains is if you did it, you can do it again.
You have the pieces to make it or you have the male. And if you don't,
then it was luck.
Yeah. I can, I can get down with that idea.
So our, so our, so that's like, uh,
of the 45 or 50 banks that I now represent on the, on the site there, um,
not one of them uses the same male, all different males.
Yeah. Right. Cause that used to be a common thing in the Amsterdam days.
Right? Like they'd share males between each other.
Right. And that's, and that's the thing we all share bitches.
We all share clones around. Unfortunately, sadly,
as it may sound as harsh as it may be, you know,
you all pass the girls around, but nobody shares Dick.
And so nobody wants to hold onto your mail for you in case it might go into
flower and fuck up his room just because you want to have your backup mail
somewhere. That's why you always hear people losing their males. But, uh,
yeah, that's, that's the only way for me to separate it.
Cause nobody passes around there. It's not people pass around males.
It's people that pass around there, you know,
the pass around clone only or female plants or they're using female plants.
And that's fine, but it's the males that are unique to me. And so like,
if you take, we've been using exotic a lot just because he's got, you know,
he just, he just cleaned up. I want the last cups.
You got four cups or six cups and four of them. He didn't even go for,
he could come to me and he used one of his males.
Like I'm not gonna want to represent that because that would be taking, you
know, a selection of his library of food off his plate. You know?
So I wouldn't want to represent that, that, that, that stock.
But if you came to me and he took like exotics male and crushed it with, uh,
with Crocketts tangy and he came up with, you know, exotic tangy,
then that's something different. Cause now you've done homework and you've,
you've done some work. Um,
you found a male that was uniquely yours and now you want to breed with it.
So that I can support and I will rep, but, uh, stuff that, you know,
you didn't do or use another people's stock,
basically his stuff and his stuff just to breed and make something right now.
We're not, we're not, uh, we're not representing.
And that's not to say that those people that are doing that are bad. You know,
like if you start with good and cross it with good,
you're going to come out with pretty good. I mean,
me and me and X were talking to one of the shows and, um, about how, you know,
people will come up to his booth and they have better Finos or a found better
Finos than what he currently has. And as we discussed, I was like, that's,
that's part of the game. Like if you,
or you're breeding to enhance the strength to make it better.
And so you don't want people to come up to you there, you know,
saying that they can't get your shit or making, you know,
that your strain is the best or that your Fino is the best.
Cause that means you're just fucking putting the strain out the same. If you're,
if you're making the strain better, you're strengthening,
you're sending out better genetics than what you started with.
And that's what you want people to come back with this shit that you have.
That's better than what you have. So that's just a testament to, you know,
breeders when people come up to their booth and bring them shit that they grew
is better than they started with.
Yeah, of course. Right. Me to exceed the parents,
a bit of a common idea we hear, but I would love to quickly ask,
just to wrap up our last point about the cookies and the jungle boys quickly.
Do you,
do you have a little guilty pleasure strain that comes from one of those crews?
I have a feeling everyone does.
Um, no, I can't. Jungle. Like I said, jungle boys didn't really,
they haven't done anything. They, they grow good flower. That's nice.
But the genetics still belong to the individual breeders that they used.
And so I don't know that they've got anything that I didn't like cookies who
doesn't, you know, who hasn't liked cookies when it first came out, I made,
I made us ton of money selling fucking cookie clones.
And I think I even had bookies. I didn't have the real cookies.
I had the bookies. I got bookied the fortune, the fortune cookie,
the fake cookie. But, uh, that's how I started with a bunch of those.
But, um, everybody likes that, but that's worn out. So I don't, I don't know.
I've always, I can't say that I do.
The I've always just,
I've always just been a hater on them because I couldn't,
I can't get past the part that, you know,
I think that St. George did it. So that dog don't hunt.
And when, when's he going to pop his head out?
I don't know, man. Um, he's one of those, like we talked about earlier,
there's stuff that's out there. That's really,
people are just I think they're sit on cause they're still, you know,
they don't, they don't believe in the legal market or believe that, you know,
they want to see what plays out and how people, you know,
let's say that Phylos does get away with what they're doing.
Or let's say that Phylos comes out next week and has this crazy breeding
project where they are able to, you know, a plant replicator gun,
pew pew. You know what I mean?
Well now they're fucking,
they're putting out your shit that you had just because other people,
you know, submitted it.
So if it never got submitted in the first place and they would never know
about it, they would never be able to fucking put the plant ray gun.
And so there's people out there that are sitting on things that never want
them in the plant ray gun.
That way they're never able to have pieces to remake it or put it back
together again, if you will.
Yeah. Okay.
So the next thing I wanted to chat about is kind of something I've been
thinking about myself.
When will Seeds here now be shipping to Australia and or other banned
countries, if at all?
Why you gotta go there, dog?
You're not banned country.
We've tried your, your, your,
we may have attempted your wonderful country and they may have stopped it
in customs a couple of times, sent it back.
I'm not sure where we were with our last,
our last game that we played.
We'll have to talk and see off the air over that, where that went with,
but it's really frustrating.
And this can get us into a different whole nother path of, of talks,
but it's really fucking frustrating right now with the,
with the fact that the farm bill passed in 12 of 18,
which came out and said that, you know, anything, any, any material,
any matter, anything,
anything with less than 0.3% THC is,
is his hemp. Anything above is cannabis,
THC. And so banking should be fucking legal
to Australia. So that fact that it's,
so there's nothing illegal with shipping seeds.
If I was to smash up a hundred or a size full ship, smash up a thousand,
but let's say they were to, you know, as far as shipping goes, there's,
they won't come back and test. I believe at the THC mark,
these are still, you know, undermined items.
And so I don't know why,
when the government's are all going to snap up to it or get through with it
and decide that this is a miracle plan. And, and, and furthermore,
I mean, I can't just get on my soapbox here and build it.
I'll come back down off of here in a minute. But furthermore,
I think that the fucking citizens of the United States should be pissed off.
Like, I want to start seeing some, like,
aren't we upset there the government that they're just now allowing the shit
to be legalized and we're fucking thankful for them to legalize again.
Fuck you. Like you guys have known this shit since 37.
You guys have done this. You fucking, you may have had the cure for cancer.
You may have had the cure for autism or at least made life more pleasurable or
enjoyable for those with those ailments through the use of this product.
But you fucking banded in 37 and fuck you get out of, get out of there.
And I don't know why, you know, I wish the,
the people of the States would be because,
because we pushed that on everybody else's bullshit.
Like we were the ones that drove the, drove the war hammer,
the hardest as far as it will, as far as the other nations that it goes.
And, and ban what is now coming to fruition to be a very helpful plant that a
lot of us, you know, grew up with, the got shunned for, or, you know,
got family or dramatized or fucked over with because we were, you know,
smoking or self-medicating with, with our alternative medicine.
It's like, no, no, fuck you. Like this is the original, that's the alternative.
Your little chemical pill shit is the alternative.
Like this is the, this is the original medicine.
And so I think that, you know, people, the States, you know,
are getting pissed off that we're just now allowing us to, to, to use this stuff.
But it's, it's funny that that's, that's what I've seen too.
I started to see, I started to see him spinning it as far as CBD is now coming
from hemp and media. And so it's not like, Oh, this is, this is weed,
patent marijuana. No, this CBD comes from hemp. It's like, no bitch.
It's the same thing. Like it's not, you don't,
nobody went back and fucking told mother nature that we decided in 37,
one was hemp and one was CBD and one was cannabis.
Like we didn't tell mother nature the fucking terms of a plant that goes back
as cannabis sativa L if I'm not mistaken. Genius. And so,
but I started to see the media like trying to cover their fucking asses by
saying that this is, you know, from a drive from hemp plants and only from
implants, you know, or, and not giving, not giving the full plant,
the full attention it's due. So.
Yeah, no, I agree. And I often wonder, for example,
if people will look back in the future and think this was like a,
almost a hundred year version of like alcohol prohibition where like looking
back there, like, why, like, why did they ban it? That's such a stupid move.
Like, yeah, no, I think for sure. Like I said, we're so, you know,
America, the only country that fucking banned the cure for cancer.
So, you know, and, and I definitely think we'll look back and especially when,
I mean, we're still just at the, at the forefront of this shit.
When you're talking about medical, medical ailments and different,
the ability to use isolates and distillates and separate things and put
things together and, you know, dial in exact combos for people,
which I think will all fortunately and unfortunately be part of the future.
Like in the future, like I've seen it happen to them in some of these places.
I don't think I feel very good about it, but they'll,
they'll have pens that are just like relax, calm, sleep.
I think we've all seen those.
Focus. Like, fuck you. You can't. I mean, I get it.
You're putting them all together, but I don't know. I want this.
I want fucking, I want alien orange cookies. Like, give me that.
I want shirtless. Give me that. So.
Yeah. Okay. Well, I mean, onto a bit of a different topic,
but one I did want to bring up with you again, we spoke,
which we did speak about in our first conversation.
Do you think you might ever get around to,
I know there's a lot of other things going on, but I know you're a big fan of
Amazon, but do you think you ever might get around to working on that breeder
catalog or is logistically, it's just a bit hard.
I was looking at some print on demand services the other day.
Cause I was, I went back and listened to our last show, but yeah, I think,
I think I would like to, because I can at least do it with the brands that we
have that are solid and have the, you know, the basic, the building blocks.
And that's where I think a lot of the breeders have been doing is that they,
they get the basic building blocks,
the strains that they're notorious for, and then they kind of build off those.
And so we could definitely do probably a catalog.
I can maybe, I'm always wanting to do like a calendar,
like a one year calendar with different strains of the month as it pictures.
And it's just all, all cookies, right?
All cookies, cookie fam and jungle boys.
Yeah. Just, just doing like a slab squat on like 10 of the 12 months.
Yo, yo, yo, yo, yo.
And the last two months we'll get our Mendo Dope in.
Drive by, drive by. Oh yeah. No, those guys. Oh wow.
You've heard, I'm sure you've, oh, so that's another ad addition.
So we also have added Miss Jill since the last time we talked.
Yeah. Tell me about it.
Well, the same reason that I wouldn't take other people, I was like,
when she came to me, I was like, no, no, no.
And she came to me in an odd fashion.
So let's say that like Odie and Sonny Chiba were first like, Hey,
you should have Jill. I was like, from you two,
like you guys would be the first ones to fucking hate her.
Like, you know, I've heard very many things come out of your mouth about her,
but as they tell it, she's a much different person.
She's different than she was when she was with sub cool.
And so I said, I told her, I said, well,
that still doesn't change the fact that you probably learned everything from
sub cool. And I don't, you know,
I don't know that I want that kind of breeding practices.
I want to support that. And so, and she let me know that, you know,
one of the things about her strains,
her releases is that they're not being bred by her.
She's a, she's in a collab with a breeder.
I forget his name off the top of my head.
I think it's Moser.
Moser, right. But he's taking, so it's not her that's doing the breeding.
And she's quick to say that, but it's her strains and it's her, you know,
picking them and whatnot and working through. And so I think that's,
so that's why I said, okay, you know, that, that I can represent.
Cause I don't want to play off that, you know,
you're this breeder now because that's not what's going on.
And if you are, I don't want to represent it because you'd suck at it because
you learn from, from suck, suck, learn, suck. And so no,
but she said, you know, she's working with another guy. I was like, well,
cool. That, that I think is that I can work with.
So yeah,
and she's got a whole jelly line.
She's coming up with chili, chili beans and whatnot,
oranges and flavors.
Yeah. I'm glad things worked out for her. And you know,
and I know people are quick to hate on sub, but I,
I think it's kind of sad to see what's happened to him. You know,
like I think subs in a bit of a bad place at the moment.
Yeah. Um,
I think that we put ourselves in certain positions by our certain actions and
whatnot, but, uh, I hear seven, seven is different from what I'm told now.
I've never been a fan of the guy, uh, who will put back on exotic again.
But if someone would have watched the way you talk to people,
fucking exotic would have been breeding for him. Like that's who exotic,
those are the videos that that guy that he watched.
And for as much as I dislike sub cool for, you know, I, I,
I get what he's saying, but he tries to take,
he tries to do what I don't want to do.
Like take credit for their strains or for them being,
in positions to win things or to get notoriety because he was the broker for
everything. He wants credit for doing it.
And I get it from being from a broker side where we're distribution and we,
we, we push certain strains and we can, you know, we can do these and do those.
Um, but the credit still lies on the breeder. Like I don't,
I don't have nothing to do with it besides, you know,
get it to the customer or making a suggestion to the customer,
relaying the information you give me to them. But,
and that's where me and somebody, you know,
differ on thoughts of opinion is he wants,
he wants credit for distribution and you know, I think that, that it is,
and it's not a hard pill to swallow,
but I think our credit comes from when I get paid. Like that's my, I'm a,
I'm a broker. I move, I move gear. Um, if I don't have a,
I don't have feminized strains, whether I like him or not,
my customers want them. Um, if I need them, I'll find them.
And I'll find breeders are there. They have them. And again, good ones. Um,
if I'm, if I want autos, I'm not a fan autos,
but if you need autos because of where you're at, you're fucking in Washington.
That's the only way you're going to get an outdoor crop that are, you're in,
I mean, excuse me, you're in Alaska.
And that's the only way to get an outdoor crop.
And then I might've say that, that, you know,
I don't want you to go to my competition and buy the shitty seats.
Let me see, let me sign, find some good ones and see who we can go with.
And, uh, I, I, I called it two years ago. Um, as far as my Festo goes,
those guys fucking continue to hit it out of the park.
They've had some situations as of late. I was talking to Mitch recently,
but, uh, their gear is still, it's still top of my charts.
I don't know that. Have you found many other auto,
auto film guys that are working lines like they did or they like, like they do?
I don't want to sell anyone short, but nah, they're in a league of their own.
My Fisto.
Yeah. So just wish they could scale, but yeah.
Yeah. They put in the work, right?
Yeah. Lots of, they do lots of works on those. That's the thing.
You don't just take a plant and flip it over overnight and make it an auto femme.
Like there's some breeding and some,
some shit that's got to go on with inbreeding of photos and non photos.
Um, and you're breeding habits like four times, three times each way.
So yeah, they, when they realized how much work they do,
as opposed to other people don't do, they were a little perturbed.
Yeah. Yeah. I can imagine. Right.
So it's been a minute since we last spoke and we haven't,
I haven't really touched on it much on the show because a lot of other people
such as Sungrown Meds have done a really good job about it. But, um,
the Phylos controversy, you know, like I wanted to ask,
how can anyone feel confident about getting any form of genetic mapping done
nowadays? Like,
do you just have to accept if you want to get some genetic mapping done that
shit's going to get sold one day?
I think that's what, that's what people have come, you know,
we, we called it a long time ago. Uh, we, um,
we were with them for, uh,
for a minute until they couldn't explain their business model to me.
I talked to Ralph and the guys, they, you know, uh, you,
you don't have this, this, uh, facility, these machines,
these technicians for fucking $7 a test. Like that's,
that's not going to reach your overhead. What's like, what's the end game?
What are you doing with the rest of that fucking of that?
I don't know. I don't know. I don't know.
The end game, what are you doing with the rest of that fucking of that, uh,
that sequence? Um, and they, and they didn't have an ad, an answer. And so,
uh, they came out and told LeBlanc, Jerry LeBlanc on his show,
that they would never do breeding.
Nishan came out and said that Jerry has it as an untapped, you know,
Nishan said they'd never do breeding. So that's kind of, it's just,
it's really bad. It's what everybody thought was going on, was going on.
Like we all thought that that was the, the, the ability or, you know,
at least to give them a further heads up and start on a project.
And kind of, that's what happened. Um,
done had them on the day after that or two days after that story broke,
done had them on the show so they could, uh,
damage control, damage control. And it was fucking worse.
Like I don't know if you're listening or not,
but they didn't do themselves any favors.
Like if I was a PR guy out there, I'd be calling filers right now. I'd be like,
Hey, you guys need a PR guy. Cause they were like,
he was just lighting himself up left and right. He was like, we never,
never planned to be breeders, but we're just like,
we kind of had to be breeders. It's like, Oh no.
And then, and then he just kept saying like, we'll never sell you information.
We'll never sell it. And I just thought like, we'll never will,
but we never will. But the company we sell our ass to fucking drill,
like they won't sell you information, but whatever they sell out to,
they will. And I've heard, and I don't know if it's true or not,
but I've heard that they've, uh, they've, they've been offered money.
They've tried to sell, but they only have the short code read.
They didn't do the long code.
That's why they can't tell the difference between cookies and okay. GB.
Yeah. That's an interesting one.
How things that are clearly different sometimes shop is the exact same thing.
And of course you could argue there's some close relation,
but that does seem like a short siding in the technology, right?
Right. That's just,
and I believe that comes from reading just the short code on the sequence.
If they'd have pulled the long code,
which is more expensive and more extensive process,
when they were doing these tests,
then they would have had valuable data.
So say, cause that's what it all comes down to is data. Um,
and they don't have that or the data they have is incomplete.
So they can't tell the difference right now between, you know,
on the phylos chart, as far as, you know, cookies and KGB,
because they're so the short code shows them, you know, same, same, same,
but the long code would read them different. So, well, I don't know what truth,
like I said, there is to that. That's just what I've heard.
Of course, everything I say, no, it's true on here. I'm just a fucking liar.
And you know, I just, it's all hearsay.
Yeah. This is all just for entertainment purposes. Yeah.
Always, always.
So the next thing I wanted to bring up much more lighthearted point than the
past little bit of discussion,
but what is with breeders and their obsession with breeding pit bulls?
We've got you, Elena, Bob Hemphill and JJ that that's just off the top of my
head. You know, there's, there's a trend here. What's going on?
I don't know. And JJ's pit bulls, this, and I'm not a breeder.
I've just recently got a mail that Elena has bred from Greenfire.
And he's just a little awesome stud boy.
And he's in a surgery set for a couple of shows, but I, I think it's so, so,
so, but nonetheless, Elena is still a breeder of dogs. JJ still with, with,
with, with pets. Myko tech also does dogs.
But I think it's just breeders and breeding.
So I hate to bring up his attic again, cause he's kind of like fucking,
I don't know. Just fucking be his biggest fan boy this time.
But I talked to him. I know him. He's my guy. He's breeding chickens.
Okay. So he's got, he's got fucking,
he wants black chickens that lay green eggs. Right now for,
if we think about exotic and extents, he goes to in his, in his cannabis breeding.
Well, what does that mean? He's going to,
what extents is he going to in his chicken breeding? Well,
that means he's fucking sourcing eggs from Canada, bringing them through customs,
hatching them, incubating them. And then, so he has different fucking ones.
Cause they're because chickens like fucking cannabis oil are all gonna be
different. And so he hatches them from fucking eggs.
They get different ones. And then when everyone's don't make the cut, he sits,
he says, he says, Oh, cause there's his one. I was like, Oh dude,
that's the winner for sure. He was like, Nope,
that one's ended up in the fucking frying pan. I was like, no. So,
but he made like the fucking W of chicken huts. If you look at his Instagram,
it's like these chicken huts are all fucking piped and plumbed and all fucking
marble. I'm like, God damn. It was, it was, it was a tangent he went off on,
but I think it's just breeders breeding. I mean, we look at archive.
He was started with orchids. So my guy, I'm where to,
who I'm bringing on, he fucking does pythons. Huh?
So yeah, very unusual.
And big pythons and he's fucking smart about it too. But the same,
the same things are characteristics for color. He can use them.
And it was the same as in cannabis. But once again,
I'll let him explain all that. Cause it was, it blew my mind,
but I don't like snakes. They're fucking none of the less big ones.
I want to fucking squeeze you to death. I mean, I like, I don't even like hugs.
But yeah. Yeah. Snakes, man.
Just to breed snakes now he's doing cannabis.
There you go. What a crossover.
And you brought up a good little talking point.
Myko Tech just released that GG4 IBL. Tell me a little bit about that.
So my PR, I'm not allowed to mention that strain by its name.
Oh yeah. Cause of like lawsuit bullshit.
I don't know, but we just try to avoid the drama.
Yeah. Somebody else put one out now who I guess, you know,
it wasn't necessarily Josie approved,
but did his own fucking work and he's smart and got it back to an IBL and has,
you know, documentation of the fucking thing.
And so Josie was even sent Josie a pack, but he's cool.
So yeah, myko tech put it out. They flew. Those were gone day one.
I'm glad to have tech back. That guy is a, is a, once again, a breeders breeder.
If you follow him online, you see he controls the penis envy, if you will.
And he's all around good guy. I, I, I, I like him.
And it's rough. That gets us into a different subject, but
in my mind, but I, I like him. I'm glad, I'm glad we got him back.
We're working together again. He is a, he is a really good breeder.
It's just the whole politics of fucking seeds is bullshit.
You know, it's just bullshit.
Speaking of which I need to come and visit you. I need to come down.
I need to come down under.
Oh, my, my, we got a prawn on the shrimp. In fact, on the Barbie.
You got me shrimp on the Bobby.
Yeah, man.
Hey, all right. That's not a knife. This is a knife.
You'll lose track of how many times people call you a cunt in an endearing way.
All right. I'll come back calling people cunts.
Dude. Yeah. You, I, when I come to the States, I have to like watch myself
because people just use it as like a substitute for friend.
Oh yeah. That's not what they call here. Like girls don't see, I don't know.
Most women do not appreciate the C word.
Yeah. No, I got it. I got a female friend and we probably call each other that word every day.
Oh, well, yeah. I've just got to know that no, not a lot of females enjoy that word.
If you want slapping time, that's when you bring out that word.
Yeah. Right. That's the difference. We traded, we traded guns for the use of the word cunt.
Cunt. Yeah. Legal use. Fair enough.
Yeah. You know, it was an all right trade, you know, retrospectively.
Anyway, let's get back into this. Yeah.
Yeah, I thought we were already back in this bitch.
Oh yeah, we were. I'll cut that bit out. We're good.
So, yeah, just, I mean, going on that last point, right.
It seems like there's a lot of people in the community who really kind of only see things in black and white,
no shades of gray type thing. And as a businessman, you seem well aware
that you can't allow yourself to fall into this pit for yourself.
And we can see the proof of that by virtue of the fact that there are breeders who you yourself admit
you didn't once get along with and are now part of the CT&L lineup.
So, what would your advice be to people out there who have these longstanding grudges
and like won't go near a certain person because of like something which may even not be related to them.
Like maybe it happened to a friend or whatever and it just happened ages ago.
What would be your advice? You know, like, do you feel like people need to take a step back
and trust people a bit more?
So, you fucking, I see you wrote that one sitting on the toilet, huh?
That was a good one. Look at that one. Good lordy.
I think everybody does in general.
Like a lot of people just because our general mentality, I think some of us have maybe seen this as a green rush,
unfortunately, and it looked short term and been like, hey, let's get what I can get while I'm getting it.
And that's good enough.
No, you're missing out on the picture. Like, look at the long term of this.
This is an actual industry and a business now and you can't treat shit like you used to be able to.
Like, if you, for instance, you had a situation with somebody in the past and you didn't like somebody,
you could relatively meet them at the airport and duke it out and then one person would win
and one person would get their ass kicked and no matter whose side won,
it would be over and it wouldn't continue to fucking haunt the channels of Facebook or Instagram or any of that shit.
It would be over and two guys would fucking figure it out.
But now with everybody in everybody's business, shit just gets overblown and quickly.
And I think before we overblow things, you know, try to reach out to that person and ask them themselves.
And I don't know, I think I was, of course, I think I was on the right side of things because I judge myself well.
But recently somebody posted that they had a difference with our company.
They didn't like me, they didn't like my company.
And somebody else posted another comment on there.
And I went back to the original two people.
I said, hey, I said, before I say anything online or before I ask you about anything about YouTube,
is there something I did to you wrong or is there something in some way that I fucking wronged you for you to say this to me?
Because, you know, those people shied me with it.
Like, hey, you know about this.
So I reached out to them and sent them direct messages instead of just putting them up on blast.
And the one guy came back to me and he said, I don't know.
I said, I didn't post that.
He said, my web guy went through the stuff, he hasn't posted.
He's like, I can't get into my Instagram account.
I can't get into this other thing.
But he's like, I'm sorry, I didn't post that.
I said, well, it's not a lot of the shit adds up.
You know, it's kind of hard to believe that shit.
But if you're telling me you didn't post it, everything I know about you is that we don't have a fucking issue.
Then, yeah, just do me a favor, say something that you didn't mean to post it.
Or you just take it down and say you didn't post it.
We're cool.
But, you know, even, you know, each breeder has their, say, 10 fanboys that will fucking take a bullet for him, if you will.
You know what I mean?
And so, you know, their opinion matters.
And when they say something negative about me or the company, not only does it hurt the rest of the breeders, but it's not good.
And those guys are going to take it to heart, their fans.
And so I asked him to just try.
Do me a favor, just bring me to your attraction.
And he was like, he said, cool, no problem.
And he took care of that.
And that was said and done with.
Which I thought was handled the way it could have, should have been.
But that's weird.
You know, if you look at that more in depth, which I seem to do.
But that means that somebody had to hack his account to say shit about me to make it look like I was mad at him.
And that'll make them two fucking piss off each other.
Like, what kind of weird bullshit is that?
In this world.
Like, there's a guy who hacks somebody else's account just to talk shit about me to make me not happy with that guy.
Yeah.
But that, in fact, is what allegedly happened.
Because I have no reason not to believe this other guy.
But so I didn't, you know, I didn't let it blow out to me.
I just said, reached out to the guy and said, hey, do you ever take it down and say you didn't say it?
And we're cool. And he did it. And it was awesome.
You know, that was a nice guy.
I didn't have an issue with him to start with.
I'm having an issue with him now.
Yeah, it's a weird gray area.
Because we're not, like I said, we're not in the time of day where you could just kick somebody's door in or go meet him at the airport.
And we're not still at the day where we can file contracts and fucking sue people yet.
Because then, you know, that's still frowned upon because it's legal whatsoever.
How can you sue somebody for violating a contract?
Well, it's either that or kick in their fucking front door.
And I can't do that because you guys are calling me an asshole.
And my lawyer says I'd never win that case.
And so it's a real conundrum of what to do.
And I don't know that kicking in anybody's fucking front door is the right answer to anything.
You know, if we could sit down and smoke a bowl with them and figure shit out, it'd probably be a lot better world.
But that'd be too fucking easy and that wouldn't be drama.
And we need drama to sell shit.
And so let's stir the pot a little bit.
I don't know how that got me on to thinking about this.
But one of the coolest moments I had this past year was being able to go see The Grateful Dead with Kim Dogg at Foxboro.
The same place that he saw his first show.
I went and saw. I've never seen Grateful Dead before.
I've never, I never got it.
I was never one of the deadheads.
Didn't really get it.
Knew they were acid, knew they were parking a lot.
Knew, of course, the Kim story.
I was in charge, one of the drummers for Grateful Dead.
And I'd say one of the drummers, if you're not familiar with The Grateful Dead, if you are as a band, like I was, cool.
But here's the little thing about them, everybody else says I didn't know.
They have two fucking drum kits up there.
There's two guys playing the drums.
And they're each, as I put it to Kim Dogg and he said I said it correctly.
He said, he's like, yeah, that's how you would think of it.
But one drummer will finish the other drummer's sentence.
Like when they're, like if there were, like if there were, if there were to be speech and the drums were talking,
like one drummer would finish the other guy's sentence,
but the other guy would do other things in the middle of the other guy's sentence.
And so it was pretty fucking cool to see both guys going off on all the songs just playing together.
I just know bands that have one drum kit or one drummer.
So to see a pair of them was pretty awesome.
So we met with Mickey Hart.
Mickey Hart's one of the drummers.
He's like 73.
The guy's a fucking animal.
He played something called The Beam, which was super cool.
We talked in his RV.
They had like 10 or 12 ProVost RVs out there, which are like the half million dollar ones.
But they're just starting their tour.
And Mickey and Kim Dogg had done a strain together, or had done a collab or release together.
Mickey has a brand of boots called Mindful Mindset.
That's managed by his wonderful daughter, Raya, like the ray of sunshine.
But they got together and the guy who runs the LA store, Kim Dogg's friend,
hooked him up with IC Collective, hooked up Mickey with Kim 91,
and they put that in joints that were three-tenths of a gram.
You got 10 three-tenths of a gram joints.
Very specific.
Yeah, so if you think about three-tenths of a gram.
It's not a lot.
It's like a fucking pinner, right?
It's like this little joint.
I'm like, oh man.
It comes in this cute little tin, and it's cool.
But it's like this little pinner.
And Mickey's like, yeah, we're looking about getting the big ones.
I was like, oh, geez.
But you know, you got to think in today's market,
some guy that's smoking for the first time, which obviously Mickey is not that fucking guy.
I'll tell you a story about that shit.
But for somebody who maybe smoking the first time, a tenth of a gram might get them,
or three-tenths of a gram might get them high.
But yeah, they were little pin joints.
But you need to get Mickey on and interview him just as far as music goes,
if you can ever score that one.
So he told me, basically, he gave me his history of weed,
which is fucking phenomenal.
And I'll relay it to you as best as I can.
But he says in 64, 65, 66, they'd have the bricks.
They'd call them bricks because they came in these little bricks.
They were hard and square, like bricks.
And we'd throw the money down, and they'd throw the weed up.
And we'd smoke it, lots of seeds and stuff.
And then he'd say, I remember the other stuff coming around in the 70s that had less seeds and stems.
So that was good.
And then he was like, I can remember, I think it was 73, maybe.
He's like, first time we experienced the indica.
He's like, these guys came up and said, man, we got some weed that'll really knock you on your ass.
And he said, oh, we're the fucking dead man.
What do you think you got?
And he was like, so we smoked this stuff.
Like an hour later, he's like, we're just looking at each other on the couch.
We're like, hey, you want to go play?
He's like, no, you want to go play?
He's like, no, we didn't want to get up, man.
We just didn't want to play.
And the people, he's like, they're yelling out there.
They get all pissed off at us because we don't want to fucking move.
He's like, and that was the first time we experienced the indica.
And then he went through how he was growing stuff.
And how he had some couple grows that were unsuccessful, but he tried.
And just like the history of cannabis and that band have definitely got a fucking tie together.
It was really cool just to see him and Kim Dogg kind of talk about the history of themselves together and whatnot.
But even Mickey, where he's at, Mickey didn't realize that there was more than one Kim 91.
He's like, there's, I was like, you know, you can do different releases of different brands.
Cause you know, me, the marketing guy, I'm like, you know, you can do a Kim Sish.
You can do a fucking, you know, a Kim D.
And he's like, what do you mean?
And I'm like, there's different Finos.
Like, what do you mean?
I'm like, okay.
Yeah.
Wow.
That's incredible story.
Yeah.
I remember you posted that up and I was a bit intrigued as to what actually went down, but cool.
Never, never would I have thought he had such interesting stories, but I mean, I guess also it should be expected.
Yeah.
And, and, and definitely fucking bucket list type of shit.
Like I couldn't be more humbled that, that Kim Dogg asked me to go, that he's, you know, I, I consider that guy a friend.
He's, he blew me a wonk a pipe that he made for me.
The guy's really, really nice.
I like those guys a lot.
Him and Kim's wife are some good people.
Yeah.
Certainly I can attest to that.
I mean, you know, I've met his wife once and she was lovely as well.
Yeah, she's great.
And so for them to ask me and, and then to have like, not just the experience of it, like four tickets, but Mickey Harf to his credit, his, his fucking production manager was the most,
the most fucking on the ball guy, shit man ever.
Like this guy had fucking 15 iron to the fire and he's just fired in all directions.
Boom, boom, boom, boom.
And it's just nice as he could fucking be just a really excellent road guy.
But he was in his Mickey's personal manager, but the guy was fucking on the, on the ball.
He, he got us hooked up with a suite.
So it was stocked.
It wasn't, you know, it wasn't, it was stock of popcorn, water, drinks and stuff.
And then he hooked us up with backstage tickets.
So we got, we got backstage and we were like, you know, pretty much like the only pair that were back there while Mickey, I'm not familiar with that, with the show, but I guess they call it drums in space.
That's like a break for the, for the, for the band.
And then Mickey and the other drummer and the all my brother come up and they do like this fucking awesome thing of drums and bells and shit.
And it was, it was really just really cool to see it from firsthand.
Cause I'm used to, you know, making music production on the dance music side, which is, you know, if you want a fucking symbol or if you want a high hat, you just add a new bar and you just cut and paste a little high hat right there.
And then they're cool.
In the sixties, if you needed a fucking cowbell every 12 beats, well, you need a guy to fucking hit the cowbell every 12 beats.
You know what I mean?
Like you couldn't just fucking cut and paste that guy in.
You needed a dude over there just being, you know, knock on this other, you know, this opposite rhythm that you're doing and hitting the cowbell weirdly.
And so just to witness that shit.
And then he played, like I said, this beam thing, which earlier he had talked to us about, man, just, I don't know.
Yeah.
Sending, sonically sending images through your mind to you by the use of, of, of scanning through drones.
Like suddenly sending new drones into your mind and getting you to like, remember a fucking feeling about a product.
And you think it's, it's crazy.
But then I wouldn't do it.
I look him up and I'm like, do my research on the guy.
And Mickey Hart is like, he's not just a fucking grateful dead drowner.
Right.
But he's like this accomplished fucking world musician.
Like he's got all these fucking scholars and credits for the world beat doing this, you know, South Africa's shit doing this European shit.
It's like, wow, this guy is seriously into the sound of percussion and bass and fucking beats.
And what if that's true?
Like as smart as this fucking guy is like, what if he can sonically send me shit in my mind, like images that make me recall a fucking flavor.
Like fuck.
So he was playing it.
Like I got him on camera.
He's looking at me.
I'm like, dude, you're beaming people on here.
He's like, I asked him, I said, you're gonna play the beat tonight.
You got to send some drones.
He's like, we'll take it out for a spin.
Oh shit.
That's interesting.
You're like so talented in so many different ways, but just one particular really weird kook.
Yeah, but I don't know.
I don't think it's for kook.
I think I'd be able to send people sonic messages through the fucking sound waves and make them recall a strain.
Like that's basically what it was is that I can, by scanning a barcode, I can send you sound drones that make you trigger that thought.
Yeah, it's pretty wild stuff.
It's out there, but as accomplished as he is, you know, you look at all his fucking credits.
You're like, well, maybe he's onto something here.
You know, it's weird.
It's weird until it's fucking not, you know?
Yeah.
Well, maybe we should depart back to the realm of regular cannabis.
Sorry.
I took a done detour.
That was a good little detour.
That was a good little detour.
Something I didn't ask you when I should have.
How do you feel about last year's Emerald Cup?
You know, it was a little different, wasn't it?
Oh, man.
So last year, Emerald Cup was, there's a few situations that we had to overcome that made the show a little more difficult than average, than usual.
We played by the book.
I thought it was a little early for California.
I've seen the sale, but we played by the book anyways.
And paid out an enormous amount of taxes, 28.13 percent, which made me take a huge loss on shit because I only, we didn't do the math right.
And so, yeah, we paid a total of all those 28.13 percent taxes to all of the city's taxes and the state taxes.
So that was a chunk of money.
It didn't go as smoothly last year as we would have liked at all.
We appreciate all the customers that did wait in line, but after I heard what had happened on Saturday, it was a little rough.
And we weren't able to basically, we were almost so mobbed with people.
And I didn't even come to them the night before, the day, two days before.
I said, okay, so what kind of, I'm thinking like aircraft lines, like those zigzag Zs, kind of stack people in.
Like, what do you have planned for crowd control?
And, you know, she had, I had found out earlier that week that we were right next to fucking Capulator and Mike and Exotic.
And I'm like, you know, we're fucked.
Like, I've got 10 banks here in my five booths and those guys is overflow.
We're fucked.
And sure enough, we were fucked.
So it was a big shit show.
The lines didn't get made properly.
People were getting in line just to get in line, I was told.
So, once again, I didn't see any of the music, none of the bands.
I didn't get to talk to a lot of people.
It wasn't as good as it was being recreational.
Recreational fucked it up.
And I'll always say that.
I'm not a fan of recreational.
People say, oh my God, how can you not be a fan of recreational?
You're the devil.
No, I'm a fan of decriminalization, not recreation.
Because that recreation allows fucking big pharma in.
Decriminalization would have kept it fucking mama pop.
But, too late now, motherfuckers.
Yeah, right.
Organ's sitting on six years of fucking weed right now.
We haven't even fucking come to crop yet and they're sitting on six years supply.
What do you do with a six year supply?
Because you don't leave it on the fucking shelves, that's for sure.
You got to blast that shit in oil.
Because six years from now, that weed's going to be brown frowned.
Oh man, it'll make some very top shelf cuts, I'm sure.
Yeah, exactly.
And to that, kooky Organ, but they also passed legislation to try to export weed.
And what, did it pass?
No, they've got it written, they're trying.
It says they can export it to different states.
Well, that's what the brokers, that'll probably be bad for them.
So yeah, do that.
Yeah, because Organ, they have the demand of 300,000 and the supply for 3 million.
Like LA has the supply for 300,000 and the demand of 3 million.
And so the logistics are reversed.
Jesus, yeah.
It sounds like if you knew what you were doing and you set up an op in LA,
why would it not work?
Pretty much what I've come to see or what I've come to hear is that it seems to,
LA, it's just anywhere you can buy weed easiest is pretty much where it's been.
I don't know, like the California market came and went very fucking quick.
Like it just, you knew it would, I think, I didn't think it'd go this quick,
but it came and went and I avoided it like the fucking plague.
So cool.
It's a mess.
Like a lot of, you know, it saddens me because a lot of good people are going to lose good money
because they're going to get fucking swallowed or because the price is going to get too low
or they can't afford, like it just doesn't make money to continue to produce it.
Like 600 a pound, you know, fucking, they can't do that.
You know, buck 50 a gram.
I can be able to take that shit, buck a gram.
And so, so a lot of good people are going to lose money on farms because I think that,
you know, because the guys that are doing it big are doing it a hundred million style.
You know, you're talking 10 greenhouses all fucking online with custom controls
and virtual integration and they're just going to be able to slaughter through weed
to where mom and pop who thought they had the money to do it,
they're going to try their fucking damnedest, but when the price gets too low to produce it,
they're not.
Yeah.
That's a bummer.
Definitely, definitely.
I'm a fucking bummer today. Damn it.
No, no, no, no. It's all interesting.
And I mean, it kind of plays into the next question in the way that like, you know,
the mom and pops are being forced out in a sense, but like recently we saw,
and you almost referenced it earlier, like Seth Rogen has brought out that whole houseplant line
and it kind of seems inevitable that more and more celebrities will embrace cannabis
and try to carve their own little spot in the industry.
Do you think there'll come a time when they kind of get it right?
Or do you feel like, kind of like a lot of parts of the cannabis community,
you've got to kind of have paid your dues before you can do that type of thing?
Well, I never think they'll get it right unless they're doing it for the right reasons.
At least I never, I never hope people get it right unless you're doing it for the right reasons.
But I don't think that, you know, Joe Blow off the street, who's been,
not to say Joe Blow because his name's Joe Rogen,
not to say that the guy doesn't know his cannabis,
but he may not be as schooled in the knowledge of fucking cannabis
as somebody else is who's been in the industry a little bit longer.
You know, as I'm sure that person's not as fucking schooled as schooled in fight technique
or as in talking about stuff or in interviewing people.
And so, once again, stay in your own fucking lane.
I think if you want to get behind a product and brand it,
or, you know, do something for that, then, you know,
you got to pay the person to play the game.
But if it's, if you're just going to get into something just to make money off of it,
then you're kind of, I don't know, I don't, you want to, yes,
things have to be made for a profit, but people did this shit when it wasn't profitable.
And that's what we have to remember is that there will come a time when the shit's so low,
we kind of forget what people went through to fucking get us where we are today.
And that goes to kind of, I don't know, talking about people,
you don't want to make sure customers buy that, you know.
So with the new website launch, we're going to put up a lot of photos,
which include me and all the breeders.
Something that stands out between me and just about every other bank is that
I personally know every single breeder on my bank.
I've talked with them, I have their cell phone numbers,
I can call them on Sunday, they'd fucking answer the phone.
They call me on Sunday, I'd answer the phone.
I have a good relationship with all my guys.
That's fucking hard to do when you look at them, you say, all of them?
I say, yeah, all of them. I've met all my guys.
I'm going to have to look and re-sit that statement since I've added,
I'm right there, I haven't met him yet, and I haven't met Pioneer Valley.
But other than that, I've met just all my guys,
which gets me back to none of my 40 guys use the same mail.
So it's important to support and fund the guys who did it
when they shouldn't have been doing it, if you know what I mean.
Like who took the risks and who risked fucking jail time
and their families and their freedom basically to, yes, to profit,
but as well to fucking push the plant and the breed and continue doing it.
Yeah, of course, you need to reward the people who took the risk
and the old days.
But a lot of it's easy though, right now, you can just go and buy
anybody's cross, anybody's thing. And I think, you know, especially,
hopefully all the breeders will pick up licensing deals
and they'll be with branded cannabis. But, you know,
with all the states coming off weird, if you don't, you're going to go to,
you know, Missouri and they're going to get cookies and cream off the shelf.
And it's not going to be the same that it tasted like in fucking Washington,
or it's not going to be the same as it tasted like in California.
And that's unfortunate, but they're going to be able to say it's cookies
and cream because they got a tin pack and they popped it.
But it's not really the true representation of what, you know,
exotic may want them to fucking, you know, use as cookies and cream
or say that is this is cookies and cream.
Because by giving something bad a good name doesn't change the fact
that it's bad. You know, this just means more people are going to say,
yeah, I had that and it was bad. So, uh, uh, that's, that's,
that's rough. That's the futures talk kind of stuff.
But, um, you know, I see that being a thing that when you want to go
to a different state, you want to have the same thing that you smoked
or that you're, you're used to. You're not, you're not smoking
or something that, and this goes back to crap King,
which I'll just beat on him some more like we did last year or last time.
But, um, when you buy a fucking blueberry, you want to be DJ shorts,
blueberry. Like I, I just, I'm going to, I'm not a mind reader,
but when people ask me for blueberry, I'm nine tenths out of the time.
Pretty sure that they don't want fucking crap Kings blueberry.
They want the blueberry that came from DJ short that tastes like
blueberries, not just the one that comes in a different package that says
blueberry on it. Yeah. So, so it's, it's kind of marketing, you know,
like all of our stuff generally, what says on the package is what it is.
Like that's, you can't, can't think the funk as was told to me once.
So I think it's important that people when they buy their,
when they buy a product or buy a flower that they support, you know,
breeders and brands and licensing deals. Yeah. A hundred percent.
Something I wanted to run by you though, we've seen it happen, you know,
sporadically,
but do you think that we will see pollen being sold going forward?
And how do you think that'll change the landscape of things if it happens?
Um, I, so my, uh,
I still do a guy now, James Kerr, who's in Canada and he does pollen already.
So, um, I think that's going to be a big thing.
He sends out pollen crosses stuff. And, uh, you know, I, for the,
your, your interview with Breeder Steve was really good. I like,
I like Breeder Steve that I love his, his, his premise where just says, you
know, just fucking plant a seed, just as long as it's a seed, just fucking
plant it. I don't care where you got it. Just plant it in the ground,
get it wet, fucking make it explode, like get a seed.
And so I think that that is, is, is really good. And so, um,
so I think that's going to be a big thing.
I think that's going to be a big thing.
And so I think that that is, is, is really good. And so, um,
so for the home breeder who wants to do stuff, great, you know,
buy some pollen and fucking breed with it. But, um, you know,
you get your own male, make your own fucking pollen. I mean,
it's not that big of a deal as far as people selling their pollen.
Like I know that when collab, certain clubs have happened,
that there's the amount of pollen that has been given is, is very,
is weighed, you know, it's very scrutinized because with pollen,
you can do anything with it.
And so when people are giving it up their pollen to make a collab,
let's, you know, like, there's not a lot going there.
Cause the breeder doesn't, cause once again,
the only thing that separates all 40 guys is their males.
And so if you have my pollen, then you can, you can do what I did.
You don't need my shit anymore if you have a male.
So, so I don't know. And I don't think,
I don't see the breeders giving up pollen to their shit.
I know DJ shorts talked about it.
I know Dunn's talked about putting them in different packages,
but as, as, as highly guarded as the males are that I, I mean,
as, as that's the only thing that makes people unique.
Cause we all start with the same gorilla blue forecut.
The cut you have is most likely the cut I have if they're legit cuts,
because it's all just a branch of a branch of a branch.
And I always have a fucking unique seed or different pheno.
It's the same fucking thing, just cloned.
And so I don't know.
I don't know if it's the same thing, just cloned.
And so what makes it different is the male that we use with it.
And even though I may have a same male, that's the same strain,
it's genetically not the same male.
Like if my wife and me had a kid and I died, I got hit by a bus.
My wife and my brother couldn't make another kid that was as good looking
as my current kids. You know what I mean?
Like, it's just, it's just genetically not possible.
It's you'll get close to kind of like most likely of,
but it's not genetically possible to duplicate without the same male.
And so that is what makes people different.
I don't see it happening on a, at least by breeders.
I'm not selling you the thing that I'm doing,
because then you can fucking do it yourself. You don't need me.
I think you just take it across with everything.
No.
Yeah. Well, just to jump back to a point you spoke about earlier
in regards to the forums you've got going,
we've seen a few forums pop up recently, Capulator having...
Copy my shit. I have the idea and they fucking copy it within a day.
That's it. So like, why do you think we're seeing these forums pop up?
What do you think it is about the forum that people are missing?
And why don't you see it taking off more quickly?
I think the forums are coming back up because Mark Zuckerberg fucking hates cannabis.
And we're going through the genocide right now of cannabis.
And so if Instagram and Facebook can delete all these videos
and take down all these pictures and accounts,
then we'll basically delete the history of the people who did it
to get where we are today.
And 10 years from now, you won't be able to Google a girl video
or you won't be able to find out any of this information
because YouTube fucking took down the channel
or blocked the account or erased all the shit.
Because most of us don't print out our pictures on Instagram.
We don't have fucking copies.
And so when Instagram deletes the account,
that's everybody's history and on it goes.
But, and so I think that they're just...
Because we've been shut down 17 times.
Jesus.
And our Instagram sucks right now.
Shout out to my Instagram guy.
Love you, buddy.
But it sucks because we've got fucking handcuffs on us.
Like we can't do nothing.
We get told if there's a price anywhere in the picture,
we get fucking flagged.
If we do any type of video, we get flagged.
Like I put up videos now
and they're fucking seriously flagged within like five seconds.
It's up and it's automatically boom.
Community standards.
I'm like, how did you even already...
So my account must be being watched.
But yeah, our current Instagram account has like six items on it
because we don't keep anything on it.
That way they can't go back for history and shut us down.
And so, you know, there's no way to like,
document your online presence if you're not using like an Instagram account
and fucking save your history.
And so I think that on the forms that people like myself and Cap have,
that, you know, I own the hard, the servers that they're on.
I have the servers backed up.
And so where I always have that history,
I'm not going to delete accounts.
Yeah.
Okay.
So it's like a preservation thing.
So you don't just lose everything.
Yeah.
I think that's what people are looking at, you know,
kind of get back to the forms of the days where they could grow, you know.
And also maybe the novelty of, you know, yeah, yeah, I can,
it's California, I can grow weed now,
but I don't know how to fucking grow weed.
You know, like how do I grow weed?
And so I think people are also looking to reach out and find that
and not get the trolls that are on Instagram or the drama that's on Instagram,
but still seek the knowledge of how do I grow this out?
And so I think that's what people are looking for.
They still seek the knowledge of how do I grow this out?
And from a grower's perspective,
or from a British perspective,
how do I put my information out there and make sure that it's not going to get
taken down or make sure that it's not, you know,
all these conversations and all these grow tips I've been giving people
aren't just going to be fucking deleted one day because somebody was pissed off
at me.
Yeah. Well, I mean,
I think we're going to see more of the forum rise anyway,
because it's, you can't track a story on Instagram over a long period of time.
Like that's, that's what a thread does perfectly on a forum.
Yeah. I think we just have to get them. So, you know,
it's going to have a good web app and I think forums could definitely work,
but people have to be able to scroll from their phone.
Yeah. It has to be more accessible because forums were so cumbersome on a phone.
Yeah.
Yeah. Interesting. Okay. Well,
have you or have you yet to see something that's truly kind of unique
and just truly coming out of left of field, you know, like what's,
what have we got to get excited about that's not recycled?
Um, well, everything that my new guys have, they're putting out,
it's all new and fucking exciting. What kind of questions are killing me here?
Uh, everybody's new releases are all going to be new and not recycled and
fucking great. Um, uh, I mean, before,
well before on that note, I would just like to say that, you know,
my name is James B and I'm a broker for the following brands,
aficionado archive, best coast, big Island bog seeds,
Kenner auto coastal seed, Crockett family, dirty water,
organic DJ short seeds, dominion seed, exotic genetics, free word selections,
grandpa, bud seeds, green fire genetics, green light genetics,
green team genetics, grace calls, seeds, homegrown natural wonders,
humble seed company, Irish genetics, karma genetics, catsuit seeds,
the final labs, loud seeds, like a dog seed, man farmer,
genetics, massive seeds, Mephisto, micro tech, Miss Jill obsolete,
Pacific Northwest roots, relentless riot, Sage master selects second generation
genetics, sea junkie, serious seeds, snow high, soul fire, swamp boys,
swamp donkey, Jade seeds, the seed company, thud pug, thunder fudge,
top dog, and last but not least, utopia farms.
So I missed them all and thank you very much.
And please don't blow up a phone.
She didn't mention you on the phone and the show.
So you're so popular.
Like if I don't, if I didn't mention on the show,
a lot of my guys are giving me shit last year.
They were like, Oh, he didn't say anything about me.
I was like, Oh, I was thinking about you.
So yeah, so now I said them all.
So this is the equivalent of like mom saying I love all my children equally.
All my children equally.
Cause I do.
That's the thing about us.
When you go to another breeder at his booth,
he's going to want to sell you his stuff.
If he's any good, you know, and he can't play him.
He'll sell you his seeds.
If you come to me at a booth and I don't have all my guns
because I don't sell like, so one of my things is if I,
I won't sell seeds at the same show that my breeders do.
And so if my breeders taking money out of his pocket,
he's there at a booth, I'll pull his genetics off my table
and refer people to him.
And so like at the Emerald Cup, if you come up to me and say,
you want the best land race fucking sativa that I have.
Well, I know that I'd love to sell you something that I have on the table,
but actually if I, if I point out to you to go to walk down
a snow highs fucking booth and tell him that you want a Jamaican,
you want the Jamaican, you got 17 weeks, weeks to waste.
Then, you know, there you go.
And so I'm not biased on any particular one.
Like we are, see, since you're not as here to make sure you find
a strain that works for you.
Like I'm not here to push one brand or the other.
If you want, that's, that's nice thing about us.
If you want something gassy, I got fucking 40 brands to pick from.
Let's find a gassy thing.
I'm not just, we're not here to push one brand or the other.
Let's find a gassy thing.
I'm not just, we're not just focused on one,
one specific goal or one, one type of thought thinking, you know,
like the nice thing about all these, all these breeders,
they all, they all breed for different reasons.
They're all breeders because they're fucking crazy,
but they all look for different things when they breed.
You know, maybe it's, maybe it's short as a flower.
Maybe it's, you know, tri-prong production or maybe it's fucking
squash sauce, you know, who the fuck knows,
but they all breed for different reasons.
That's what makes it all unique.
And, and, and, and special in their own unique way.
So that's, that's really cool.
Got fucking stone again.
I forgot what we were talking about, but yeah.
All the, all the different brands are cool.
And it's, and I think it's fun to, you know, I used to get orders.
I'd see like a pack of exotic and then a pack of snow high.
I'm like, man, that's, that's different.
Like the guy who's buying exotic, which is pretty much, you know,
dense nugs, frosty fucking, you know, sunshine.
Or, and, and grabs a package snow high, which will be like a land race.
I'll go pool gold.
I'm like, man, that's, that's different.
Like that's very opposite, opposite ends of the spectrum.
But at the same time, it was that other Google goal is fun to run.
Like some bodies gear.
So that stuff, it may not be good on a, on a giant scale or on a,
on a big scale, but if you like growing plants and,
and are excited just to see different things and what mother nature can
do and just love the fucking stuff, you know,
the stuff that you can plant different breeders have different plants.
And so, you know, with the use land races,
those grow distinctively different than something that's been seriously worked.
And by growing them out, you'd be like, oh yeah,
I can see where that would need to be worked.
Like, that's why you cross it with that.
Cause it's a bitch nuts. I don't like it by itself.
You know, you'd want to cross it to make this.
Or I see why that person bred with it.
Cause he wanted to make it, you know, this.
And so I think it's fun to grow.
If you like genetics and just like growing, grow different people's seeds.
You could just stuck on one breeder.
Yeah. I a hundred percent agree.
That's a great, great message.
I think that we are basically onto the tail end of things now.
So we're going to start to do some of our more quick fire answers before we get
to the last final, but how can a new breeder go about trying to get your attention?
What are some of the things they should be doing to be ticking the boxes?
Um, they should be, uh, and, and for,
for first of all, for once, once again, I'm a nobody.
I just run a bank and I had an idea like in 2010 where I could help my friend and
have taken certain steps and certain risks and rewards and have done certain
things to, to, um, be a broker for certain cannabis breeders.
And so I do nothing more than I'm just a broker.
But, uh, so, um, I do try to keep things in line though.
So to add, to add you to our phone, to our, our, our seed bank, of course,
first and foremost, generally we need, it's nice to be a good customer service.
If you're a dick, then if you don't like you, that's, that's, that's, you know,
we don't want to bring on those customers.
That said, some guys you may have had on the show are a dick and they're not the
best customer service guys, but we still support them.
So, um, but you want to have generally, you want your customer base to like you
because that's who, that's who at the end of the day buys your packs.
These guys that you work with.
Um, you want to be using your own mail.
Like even if so-and-so gave you permission to use his shit, well,
now you're just giving credit to two different guys.
And if they wanted to make that cross in my eyes, they could have made that cross,
but they didn't want to.
And if they do, then let them make money off of it.
So find your own mail as, as, as minimal or as weird as it may seem.
That's at least showed the industry, the people that are buying,
that you have something that's unique to you and that you've done something
on the, on the breeding side of it.
You've looked into it some, somewhat.
Um, so that's, that's first and foremost.
Uh, and you know, I don't think it's good to copy other people's shit.
I don't think it's cool to, you know, copy this with that and just call it this.
You know, I think you should have the genetic thing and, and have a, as,
as, as well, as much as you know, at the time that this was real,
that you breed with it and make it, make it so.
I think to mislead people is wrong.
Yeah, definitely.
So, so pretty much that you just gotta be, uh, you know, most likely,
I don't know if you're trying to get my attention, it's too late.
No, but I, I, I'm not really, I mean, but that being said, when I,
when I went looking for new banks, I got, you know, five that were suggested
to us that were really good guys.
I just been sleeping on.
So I don't, I don't know everybody and it's not, it's not the,
it's not the golden ticket to be on the bank.
You know what I mean?
You still, all my guys in the bank still promote their gear.
You still have to have to promote your seed and your stuff and build your
clientele base and interact with your clients.
I mean, that's, that's a big thing.
I think if, you know, people buy gear, they want to interact with a breeder.
They want to talk to the guy who did the thing or get his,
his, his insight onto it.
Um, and I think if breeders would interact with them,
with their clientele base more, they'd maybe have more sales and be,
you know, more successful in certain areas.
Yeah, definitely.
Definitely a bit of good, uh, PR doesn't, doesn't hurt at all.
So I think now we're onto our super cool,
quick last one. So let's bang out these ones yet.
What's the most memorable Australian you've ever smoked?
Sure.
Sorry. Say that one again.
Sure. Bulls.
Oh, what's that?
Sherbert and fruity pebbles.
Oh, is that?
Yeah.
Yeah. There's a green Fino and there's a purple Fino and it's still alive.
And yeah, it was fucking amazing.
It really was because like the first two people,
like one of them was the guy at the gas store.
Like you didn't even know his name.
And I mean, he was just the guy at the gas store, but he would,
he'd always, you know, hit me up for herb.
Um, so I just, I just like popped the case on it.
And he was like cereal.
Like what's that cereal?
Fruity pebbles. And I was like, Oh shit.
And the second guy did the same thing.
And I was like, Oh man, you know,
if you really know you got something when you tell,
when they tell you what it's, what it's called before,
you even have to tell them like fruity pebbles.
You're like, yep, that's fucking it.
So
lovely.
So on the opposite end of the spectrum,
what is the worst strain you've ever smoked?
Since we're on a fucking hate project,
Candy Rain.
Oh, you smoked it.
We got some in Massachusetts.
Some people brought some to Mike's booth.
And it was like, I took photos of it next to everything else.
And it was just sad.
And I don't think it was, you know,
it wasn't the grower because grower had brought other things
in with him as well, but it was just sad.
Yeah, bummer.
All right.
So I was like, dude, I'm impressed.
You got one to go.
Like I heard it was two out of 35.
Yeah.
The numbers don't lie.
So if you're on a desert Island and you could only take
three strains with you, what three?
Uh,
three strains.
We've played this game before.
I think I have to be all witty.
And I should have said like, you know, I'm a breeder.
I'm not, I'm not a wonder guy.
So it's supposed to be like land racing shit, like Northern
lights and Hayes.
And because I can make everything else from it, but I
can't because I'm not a breeder.
So I'd say that I'd say the witty thing, the way I could
make everything else from it.
But I don't know the witty thing.
I'd probably take shirrels with me.
I'd probably say, uh, uh, morning, uh, uh, uh,
Steve is Steve a star.
The, uh, star plant.
Um, I'd probably do.
I don't know.
Uh, I know for a third one,
thin men.
No, never, never, never, never, never.
Probably probably can be just because, uh, it's,
it's very potent.
She does hit the spot.
Knocks me the fuck out.
Good.
Alrighty.
Now I know that you used to be a grower as you revealed in
our last discussion.
So I wanna know what is the one clone that you used
And you just miss not having that weed around anymore.
So I miss not having my weed around anymore, period.
Like when you're growing, you fucking like when trim jail happens and you got to do trimming
and you hate life, you're like, God, why?
But you say like, I'll never miss this.
But like, there's times I miss trim jail.
And I miss just going out in the plants, just sitting out there with the fans on and with
the tables going and just sitting out there and just thinking like I miss I really do
miss that and people people to probably take that for granted.
Like, oh, I go fucking water my plants.
But I think there's really something between, you know, plants and humans.
I think every kid like in school, I think they should fucking grow plants just to get
that responsibility and that knowledge that if you don't come home and there's not if
you don't water this thing, it's going to fucking die.
And so I think there's that kind of snobbish is really cool between plants and humans.
But I miss that clone would be probably the Romulan.
I had a Romulan way back when I was DJing and I had it and deep water culture.
And then I flew out to do a gig over New Year's and I had to put chains on to get out of
Tahoe. And I came back.
The tree had fallen over my front yard and shut the power off.
Of course, if you're in deep water culture, even fucking Tahoe and the tree fell over
because it was covered in snow.
Well, all your fucking water froze.
So all those plants died.
Cold, cold death.
I was able to salvage nothing.
Pumps turned off. Plants died.
It was ugly. That's when I said, OK, you're gonna be a DJ or you're gonna be fucking weed
grower. What are you doing?
And I was going to go to Seattle and open up a weed or a
grow store, a garden center, as I was supposed to be called.
Yeah. There you go.
You made the right choice by the looks.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
DJ scene was getting played out.
It's all fake and not cool.
Kind of like cannabis right now.
It's getting played out. Fucking people would kill me here.
But it's me and Duke.
Now, me and Duke have alluded to this.
This is just a little extra juicy gossip at the end.
But we have a strain that we're going to release next year.
MJ BizCon. Now, this.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Now, you kind of get mad if you put it out there, but it's the it's the pre 37
Dust Bowl.
The shit's fucking drought resistant, mold, mildew resistant,
like you have to fucking water this shit.
It was so strong in 32.
That's why they made it illegal in 37.
And that shit's been gone like off the face of the map.
Now all we have is this new watered down shit.
But like if you get that pre 32 before they made it illegal.
Oh, man. And Duke's got a line on it.
So we're going to sell this bitch next year.
MJ BizCon. Put on some suits, shiny shoes,
shiny shoes, sell it.
So I know people have talked, have heard me talk in the past about the 32 Dust Bowl.
So it's out of the wagon now.
God, I think that might be the perfect note to end it on.
Thanks. It's all just bullshit, really.
With that being said, do you have any shout out to comments you'd like to make?
Oh, yeah, of course. I got.
Let's go through all my readers again, OK?
This is where you cut and paste, insert that part.
I'd like to thank all of them for working with us and trusting with us.
Please know and trust that if your breeders fucking with us, then they trust us.
They know that we're selling their gear.
I work with all these guys. You can ask them about us.
They wouldn't be working with me if it wasn't if it wasn't good for them.
It wasn't good for me.
And so I wouldn't be a good guy if I didn't have all their trust.
And I do so that I'd like to shout out my office team,
everyone from my mom who works customer service lines to bear to rebel,
to Dusty, of course, to Heather, to Rob, my sales guys, my trade show team.
All those guys that go to work every day and manage the office
and get all the boxes out where they need to be.
I'd like to thank my legal team for fucking with the bullshit,
keep people off my ass, keeping the haters away with the hater aid.
I'd like to thank Trump for fucking up the world.
Not political, though, of course.
But thank you for having me on because really, I'm just like I said,
people give me more credit than I have.
And maybe I just need to give myself more credit.
But I just started this to help a buddy in 2010 and just proceeded to do it.
And I was thinking about earlier this morning, too,
as much as I dislike this other person I started for,
and I will not give him any name mention, therefore not giving him anything.
But I learned things from him that I continue to use this day
as far as what I think is good and bad.
And where last time I was on the show, me and Matt Riott weren't friends,
so to say. Now you see he's on my bank and he talks good about me
and I talk good about Matt Riott.
The guy's passionate about what he does.
Doesn't mean everybody fucking agrees with him.
Doesn't mean everybody likes him.
But is he passionate about what he feels and is he, you know, put down work?
Yes, sir. So my original greeter.
So the guy who I first started with for three years, four years.
So I don't want to give his name any credit.
I did. I did, like I said, learn things I used to this day
that that helped me in my in my ethics as far as business goes, as far as,
you know, can't use other people's stuff and you can't rename things.
And there's not, you know, he taught me a lot of those things that I still use,
that I still consider holy, if you will, although he turned out to be unholy
and a dick.
His his methods, once again, like all breeders,
his methods and trying to relay his message were not the greatest,
but he meant right.
And so, you know, you can take something from any from everybody,
even people you don't like and people you use down the road that you hate,
but you can still learn something from everybody.
Most definitely. I agree wholeheartedly.
Well, with that, we might wrap it up.
So thank you so much again for taking some time out of your busy schedule
to come chat with us, Mr. Bean.
No problem. Thank you very much.
And I appreciate you and your time.
And like I said, you do a heck of a job and appreciate you being diligent
and always having a show up.
And I'm sure that your followers and fans do as well.
So thank you. And nice job last year at Thermal Company.
So a big, big, big thank you to Mr. Bean for taking the time to join us today,
as well as dropping all the knowledge bombs and inside scoops.
A big shout out, as always, to the Patreon gang.
If you guys are looking for more content, go check it out.
We've got extra interviews on there.
And finally, a big shout out to our sponsors, as always.
Seeds here now. Best in the business.
Radio Ridge Nursery. Need I say any more?
You looking for that nookies cut from Swamp Boy?
Or maybe even a special Bodhi Keeper cut.
Hit them up.
And as always, Organic Gardening Solutions, Dragonfly Earth Medicine.
We love you guys.
I will see everyone next episode.
Thanks so much for hanging around.
I'll see you.
