Hello and welcome to the next episode of the podcast, a cannabis podcast for potting enthusiasts.
This episode as always was brought to us by our regular sponsors, 420 Australia and OGS.
This episode is a little different than normal.
We'll be going over some details for the next gen Canada Cup, as well as some Australia
related issues in general.
My apologies to our international friends if this episode is not as interesting to them.
So stay tuned and I hope you enjoy.
Cool.
Well, let's talk about, to get it out of the way, let's talk about what inspired the next
gen Canada Cup and kind of how long it's been in the works.
So in terms of how long it's been in the works, we've been thinking about it for probably
about the best part of six months.
The reason was simple.
It all started with the idea of like, well, how can we progress the scene from our end,
at least as growers?
The idea was simple.
It was like the biggest problem I have is like, I see lots of people putting like their
hard resources and time into growing things and they're just not growing good genetics
in my opinion.
And so, you know, you could really just not have to put any more effort in and just get
a substantially better product just by changing the genetics, you know?
So I try to stress that to people, but people often get very kind of attached to their choice
in genetics.
And I understand why it's because like, you know, before you ever buy seeds, you do a
little bit of research and you kind of decide the ones you want.
You're like, yeah, that's the right choice.
And so for someone to come along and be like, no, that's wrong.
I understand you're going to get defensive at that.
Yeah, for sure.
There's a bit of ego there.
Yeah.
So like, so what we thought was, well, like, how can we get just genetics into the hands
of people and not be like ramming it down their throats?
And so we thought, yeah, well, like we want to have a cup, but like truth be told, if
there weren't any prizes, it just wouldn't be worth doing because like, I really don't
care to know who grows the best weed in Australia.
Like that's really like a peripheral part of it to me.
The major part of it to me is, yeah, like the prizes afterwards and being able to grow
the community.
And so we thought, yeah, the prizes as well as just the cup itself.
So we basically decided, yeah, we need to get some prizes sorted, which we've been in
the process of doing for a while now.
And thankfully we've had a lot of support from a lot of like international breeders
as well as even some Australian people kicking in some prizes, which will be cool.
And yeah, basically we want to be able to reward the people who enter, but more importantly,
we wanted an avenue to be able to let everyone get involved, you know, like just even the
casual punter.
So that was why we thought the majority of the prizes will be auctioned off and just
anyone can bid on those.
So even if you haven't entered a sample, you might be thinking about getting into it.
We're going to provide an opportunity to get some really good quality genetics and they'll
be domestic.
So it'll already be here.
So like you don't have to worry about postage or anything like that, which is another big
thing about why people don't order tons of seeds because, you know, it's kind of like
running the gauntlet each time you have to go through customers.
So overall we think it's going to be an awesome opportunity.
And hey, even if like you're just a smoker, there'll be half Aussies of each entry up
for auctions.
Those top entries like, you know, say one through to five will be by definition really
frigging good smoke.
So lots of people will be trying to get those.
So there seems like there's something for everyone and we're trying to make it that
way, as well as making it overall a charity, which each year we'll pick a cause and that
just sweetened the deal even more.
Yeah.
And I think that's a great idea.
I mean, I know there's been some mixed reactions from the community in like where the charity
chosen this year.
And look, I can understand how it might rub some people the wrong way.
But ultimately, I think like if if you're going to put on a cup of any sort, you kind
of can model it any way you want to and people will choose to enter it or not.
And what you do at the end of the day, you put it all in your own pocket, you put it
all into a project, you put it all into whatever is kind of ultimately that person's
decision.
Yeah.
I mean, the idea of saying that like someone is more worthy of charity than someone else
doesn't really suit me.
Yeah.
Not what charity is about.
Yeah.
That's not what it's about.
It's about helping out.
And the other thing is, you know, there'll always be someone who will believe that someone
else is a better cause, you know.
So we don't even want to get into that.
And we already just said that there was some serious logistical reasons as to why we picked
Mad Farmer because he really kindly offered to throw in a ton of prizes to the point where
basically most people who enter will get a prize regardless of where they place.
And so just that in itself made the cup feasibly, sorry, excuse me, feasibly possible.
Yeah.
And look, it's a sad thing that you kind of even have to justify it, but I just wanted
to bring it up so that it could be out there for everyone to know that it's, there's
no, you know, it's a good thing.
Yeah.
And I mean, we could run the cup with no charity component, but like, and that's kind of the
undertone people take with that.
It's like, well, would you rather we don't do this?
Yeah.
So honestly, that only popped up for like a day or two after the initial announcement.
And then very quickly people kind of understood that like, yeah, charity is charity.
Like you can't, helping someone is helping someone at the end of the day.
Exactly.
Awesome.
And do you want to give a quick breakdown?
Because I know you're going to have a, you're going to have two, you're going to have concentrates
and you're going to have flowers.
So give a breakdown of how you would submit an entry and where to get in touch and all
that kind of stuff.
Yeah.
So hopefully by the end of this week we will have a set date for when entries can be accepted.
Yep.
The rules state that the judges can only test one sample per day and I'm not sure if other
comps have that rule, but we feel that's like one of the most important rules there is.
Yeah.
I've spoken to people who've judged it, you know, cannabis events around the world and
stuff like that.
And I know that is a big problem in factoring the scoring.
It's like once you've tried one or two strains within a day, by the time you get to five
or six, how can you, what real determinations can you be making apart from perhaps taste?
So yeah, I think that's a really cool thing that you guys are doing there.
Yeah.
And so as a result of that, when we kind of got an indication that there was a lot of
people interested, we knew that we had to pull the entry day back because there'll only
be, you know, so many days in between when entries need to be accepted before we announced
the results.
So as a result of that, there'll only be so many applicants.
At the moment, I think we've got like room for 25 or 30 in each category, which to be
honest, we've received indication that like we could get to those numbers.
So if there's even more people kind of sitting on the fence, then who knows, they may either
miss out or we might have to pull the entry day a little bit back more.
But we don't really want to do that because the whole idea was that where it's set now,
I mean, one, you know, it's like, you know, kind of the stone of pop culture.
It's on 710.
More so than that, it was like about six months from when we announced it.
So it was like, you've still got time to pop whatever you want, you know, so like no one
can complain that they weren't given enough notice basically.
So yeah, if we keep pulling the day back further and further, then that wouldn't be the case.
So we're not going to do that.
Yeah, the rules will be in terms of the categories, there'll be two categories, as you said, flour
and concentrate.
We could potentially split it further this year, but into say Indica and Sativa categories
and possibly solventless versus solvent based.
However, we'd have to then double the prizes as we would now have, you know, instead of
just two first places, two second places, two third places, etc.
We'd now have four of each.
And we would also further have to double the amount of time taken to test or get more judges
on board, which would result in people having to submit more weed at the entry.
And we just didn't want to have to go down all that route.
So for this year, we're just keeping it restricted in a sense.
And the reason for that is because, and this is kind of the big announcement, which I don't
know if I've really told everyone, is that the whole point of this is because next year
we're going to have a physical event.
We would have liked to have had a physical event this year, but given that it's the first
year, there'd be no guarantee that people would make the effort to come from places
far and wide.
Like you might get a local turnout.
So the idea was let's do it online for the first year, make it really successful and
then ensure that people will make the effort to come to a physical event next year, which
we've already secured.
Yeah, that's awesome.
Cool.
Yeah, well, I look forward to hearing more and more about that.
Yeah.
And so basically, just to summarize, we want the people who are submitting it to be the
people who have produced the flower or made the concentrate.
And if you're not the grower of the material for the concentrate, we want you to be able
to give us all the same details we would require if you were.
So you basically need to know the person and be able to get this information off them.
And there's a few basic bits of information we want to know.
We want to know the genetics, whether it's being grown organically or synthetically.
And finally, a few other little bits of information just relating to the grower and identification
and stuff like that.
Basically, the way you will enter is really simple.
You let us know that you want to enter and you go to the GoFundMe, which will be set
up very soon.
That will not be in our control.
That'll be in Mad Farmer's control.
So we won't see any of the money from this ever.
And so once you pay that, it's visible on the site, but he'll also let us know and we'll
send out a package to the contestant filled with both instructions as well as Mylar bags.
And it'll tell you how much to put in each bag, how to zip it all up as well as a return
bag and an address.
And so basically, it's pretty easy to submit your sample.
There's an instruction sheet literally.
And so yeah, you just go from there, you submit it in and we have a final date for receiving
it.
And so this was a point I wanted to stress.
That date is not the date you have to get it in the mailbox.
That's the date we have to receive it by because that's when testing starts.
And what's that date again?
I believe the date is the 10th of September.
Awesome.
Yeah.
So that leaves room for about between 25 and 28 contestants, I think.
The other big thing to note is because it's online this year, it was really paramount
that the judging be 100% transparent.
Otherwise, there's just no point even entering if you don't have faith in the judging.
And so essentially, all entries will be uploaded, high quality photos along with the scorecards.
And so you can literally cross compare.
If you think something's got awesome bag appeal and then you get the scorecard and it's marked
one, it'll be obvious to see that something dodgy is going on.
So it's 100% transparent.
Yeah.
I like the fact that you guys are doing that.
I actually wrote notes about that because I don't know that many other events do that
either.
So it'd be great also for an international standpoint for people to be able to see everything
that went in and what's happening down here.
Yeah.
Well, it's funny you mentioned that.
We've contacted a few of the international cannabis publications without naming names
and at least one of them has expressed some interest in possibly documenting it.
And I think that it might go ahead, but most certainly next year, there'll be some international
presence there, which will kind of beef the status of the event up, I think.
That's awesome.
Yeah.
I mean, we're hoping that next year will be really something special.
And I think that this year will really pave the way for that.
Yeah.
Excellent, man.
Well, my hat goes off to you guys and I'm sure it's been a lot of hard work and some
stressful moments as well.
So yeah, anything we can do as you get closer to it to help you promote it and share it
around, keep in touch because we really like the idea of what you're doing.
And hopefully it inspires some other events as well of the same nature.
It'd be great to see like, because the edible scene is getting really big here too, man.
Yeah, that's actually a good point.
We're strongly considering having an edible section because we've had a lot of interest
and in adding an edible section, it would just be one extra section.
So we can accommodate that in regards to prizes and judges, not a problem.
So yeah, that's looking very popular.
If I had to be honest, waiting on like one more person to message me and say they're
going to enter an edibles entry and then they'll officially announce it because...
That's great.
Or maybe this will be the tipping point on the podcast.
Yeah, you heard it guys.
I dropped the hint.
Send me the DM.
Now when you're not organizing Australia's Cannabis Cup, you are also growing some amazing
cannabis of your own.
And alongside doing that, hosting the podcast which is probably my other favorite Australian
cannabis podcast.
Oh, thank you, sir.
So what inspired you starting the podcast?
I mean, we talked a little bit about it at the start of the show, like recognizing that
there was kind of a more of a receptive community for it.
But what was the inspiration in really getting the show going?
Because I know at the start, we talked about it and about even possibly working together.
And ultimately, I think it's great that we didn't and that we went our separate ways.
Yeah, I mean, I just quickly referenced that point.
Yeah, I had no idea how the show would turn out at that time.
And I think I agree.
I mean, what I was thinking at the time was that it would be like really short, like soundbite
short even.
Yeah.
I was thinking like maybe it could even like slide in as a little segment on your show.
Yeah.
Yeah, that totally changed.
And I don't even know why, really.
I think I just started writing questions for it.
And I realized like I've got a lot more questions here than what you could fit into a soundbite.
Yeah.
Yeah, well, it just becomes pretty organic, doesn't it sometimes?
Yeah.
I'll admit a lot of pretty much 95% of the questions I ask, I've pre-written.
And that's because I don't know, I get so wrapped up in the story as I'm listening to
it, I almost struggle to kind of like view it critically and be like, oh, but what happened
there?
Like you didn't really wrap up that little bit.
Like for me, I'm just listening to the story.
It's like, oh, the story goes on.
But yeah, I definitely put a lot of effort into it before each interview because I've
done one of the interviews.
I won't say which one.
And it wasn't a bad interview or anything.
I thought I'd written like lots of questions and we just blasted through them.
And then I felt like we didn't have enough material and we ended up, we did, it was fine.
But I just felt like we didn't at the time and I just felt so nervous and I was just
like, fuck, I never want to be in this position again.
Like I'm always going to try to have excessive questions.
But at the same time, I put a lot of pressure on myself to try to write good questions.
Like I don't want to ask anything which has already been asked or like you could just
easily Google and so forth.
So yeah, I don't know.
So with that in mind, it takes time because after like say 30 or 45 minutes of trying
to think of like some interesting questions, they just all become shit ones.
Yeah.
Well, I mean, you had a really strong online presence via your Heavy Days account.
So I mean, we talked a little bit before about the people that go down the Warren halls and
how important they are for the culture and for getting expanded.
You know, by that getting geeky and really going down and the guests that you've kind
of chosen and highlighted for the way have been a really great reflection of those people
that go down the Warren halls or on the other scale, people who go down the Warren hall
tend to find these guests of yours somewhere along the way as well.
Yeah, I think the reason for that is because, yeah, I'm down that hole and I'm getting people
who I want to talk to mostly.
That's the thing.
I've got like just this long list of people I want to interview and most of them have
already said yes.
So that's great.
And so just as a little side note, anyone who ever messages me and is like, hey, you
know, I can get this person on the show.
Thank you so much.
It's not that like I don't want to interview them.
I just got such a big list already.
Yeah.
And that's just because, yeah, like I want to and that really helps with writing the
questions because I've had a lot of people request someone and I tried to start writing
questions for it.
That's usually what I do before I even message them and ask them because it's like I want
to know I've got some stuff to ask them basically.
And some ones where like it was just one where a lot of people asked for it.
I just, yeah, I was really struggling to write questions because, yeah, I just kind
of read all the history and just try to be really critical of it and I'm just like, what
happened there?
You know, so if you're not interested in it, it's hard to get involved.
For sure.
So last year we almost crossed paths.
We almost did this in the flesh.
You managed to be in Cali for the Cannabis Cup down in, where were you again?
You're out.
Sonoma.
Yeah, Sonoma County.
Sonoma, yep.
Yeah.
So did you get to record any stuff down there and live and in the flesh?
I did.
I've been so lazy editing it all.
Hey, a lot of it, a lot of this stuff, so I recorded like two interviews.
One of them's online.
I recorded the Mr. Soul one in flesh.
It's online.
I recorded like, I'll say like half of one with my boy from Dynasty, but we were like
just so, we went out the night before and we were just so tired.
So we had to like wrap up halfway through and we still got to finish that off.
And then I got a lot of footage, but like, I don't know, it's hard.
I've got to, I guess I just got to get everything on YouTube because yeah, like obviously SoundCloud
doesn't support any footage.
And so I guess my motivation to get all that finished up is just being put to the side
for the moment.
Yeah.
Now your heavy days page is probably one of the better known pages as far as Australian
breeders go.
The photos you show up are absolute weed porn.
So, I mean, and you obviously a big proponent of growing organic cannabis as well.
For a first time grower, somebody who might be listening, thinking about setting something
up at home, what would be a reasonable place to kind of think about getting started?
I mean, I've had a lot of people ask me about seed banks and reliable sources on sourcing
genetics and making sure that you start with something good to begin with.
Yeah, that's it, hey.
And that ties into what I was talking about earlier where it's like for no extra effort,
you'll get a way better product just for the genetics.
Yeah.
It's because it's really simple.
In biology, this is actually a biology equation.
And it basically says that the end product of whatever we're talking about in a genetic
sense is the result of three variables, genetics, environment, and then other factors which
are usually combinations of synergistic things between the two as well as just other random
environmental factors that happen.
So more or less, they have a sign that the genetic part gets approximately 40%, the environmental
part gets approximately 40%, and then the other factors get approximately 20%.
So what that means is like literally a minimum of 40% of the end result of your growth is
determined by the genetics.
In my opinion, it's a lot more than that.
But at the bare minimum, you should try to consider that.
If you're only running mediocre genetics, maybe they're only running at say half their
capacity like 20% instead of 40%.
And so like, yeah, it really adds up and it's literally no more effort at the end of it.
So if you're a home grower, you're looking to maybe get your own medicine, where would
you recommend one like in terms of the soil composition, if you're going inside, if you
don't have the opportunity to grow it outdoors?
Are there some sort of bare minimums that you need to start with?
Well, I mean, for organic, that was what got me so into it.
The Rev is an online figure who writes for The Skunk Magazine and he's a really kind
of charismatic presenter and he's very passionate about organics.
And he was the one who got me into it.
And there was this video he had on YouTube and it was amazing.
It was actually a seminar he gave at the Emerald Cup.
I think it was 2005.
But for whatever reason, it's been taken down unfortunately and it doesn't seem to be anywhere
else.
But long story short, in that video, he basically highlights the point that like the reason
why organics is so good is because there's so many different ways to make it work.
Whereas with synthetics, there's kind of like more of a recipe which is like more of a one
way works only mindset.
So, his whole philosophy was like just give it a go.
Literally, just get yourself some good compost, get yourself some good potting mix, potting
soil, grow a plant in it, just give it water.
That's all it really needs.
Your product is going to be pretty good.
You're not going to get a whole ton of it, but it's going to be pretty good.
And that's something which I really liked about organics.
Even if you like fucked up a bit, it more so just affected the yield, not the quality.
So it was like first time around, you'd get really good stuff and it's like, fuck, this
is great.
I need to try to work on getting some more.
And like for me, that's not a problem.
But I think that that's a good starting spot for a lot of people because I started out
being a bottled nutrient grower and I got reasonable yields, but it was pretty shitty.
And then like the first time I grew organics, it was like a game changer in terms of the
quality.
Like it was full on.
So it's yeah, like I'm really passionate about it.
And I guess if someone wanted to get into it, as I said, honestly, if you just like
putting your toe in the water, like just go get some good compost, go get some good potting
mix, put compost on the bottom half of the pot, put the potting mix on the top half and
start growing your plant and just get some water.
Like literally that's all you need.
And you know, obviously have like lights and shit like that, but that's really it.
And you know, and if you want to go really down the wormhole, you can then start to look
at more advanced stuff like this stuff I use.
It's like I kind of get given it real cheap by my friends over at OGS who they do like
a real good job.
But again, like if you're just thinking about it, like don't bother with that.
It's not worth it.
Like it's just get your toe in.
You know what I mean?
It's like there's no point buying a high end camera just to see if you're into photography.
Well, it's kind of like a little bit like we were talking before, you know, like give
people a little taste first, like have a taste, start with just water and then, you know,
you'll be encouraged next time around to start tweaking a few variables and start making
your yield a little bit more productive and you'll start to geek out a little bit on it.
Yeah, exactly.
And I mean, to me, people who are really passionate about organics, the yield tends to not be
their concern.
You know, they're interested in producing clean, good quality medicine.
If yields are a major concern of yours, I would never even recommend really looking
into organics unless you're committed to really learn it because you can still get just as
good of a yield but you've, you know, it's still got a learning curve.
Yeah, for sure.
I mean, I spent harvest last year at a pure organics cannabis farm in California and,
you know, when you've got the opportunity and the means to do it, you can do it on a
huge scale and your yield can be phenomenal.
Yeah, that's it.
And that's like, that's a thing which a lot of people don't think like because the Hydro
Mags have kind of always said that for a long time being like, it might be better quality
but we can grow lots more of it.
And so, for the business-minded person, that sounded really appealing.
But I mean, that's not even the case anymore and more so like if you are really business-minded
in that sense like, you know what I mean, like you should probably talk to someone else
because that's not what I'm about.
You know, in the world of fruit and veg and everything else, organic fetches a premium.
So why shouldn't it in the world of cannabis as well?
Yeah, I mean, that's certainly the case.
Like I know people on both ends of the spectrum where there's, I know people who grow organically
and as a result, they're able to charge more.
And I know people who grow organically and they still give it for the same price.
And I think that those, the customers of those later people like they've got good and they
don't know what's up.
Yeah, I mean, that goes back a lot to what you're doing with the cup as well.
But also what we talked about before about the depth of knowledge really starting to
expand in the Australian community where, you know, the more technical terms around
cannabis were not really discussed, let alone strains even, you know, growing up and hearing
about strains, it was virtually unheard of.
And now it's quite prevalent throughout the community.
It's really an interesting topic because that same point was kind of echoed by a lot of
the people I've interviewed, you know, like in the past, people didn't really seem to
care so much about the strain names or like trying to get like lots of information about
them.
Like it was just more like, how does it make me feel?
Like that's all I really care about.
And then as a result of that, there was a lot of like misnaming of stuff because yeah,
people didn't care about the name.
So you might have had some real good stuff and you found some seeds in it and like, boy,
it would be great to know what this stuff actually was.
And you bought the seeds and maybe you use them, but like now you just got to name them
something because you don't really know.
So I mean, yeah, that's like a bit of a problem.
But yeah, it's really interesting how the names have become more popular.
And my theory around it, at least in relation to myself, is the more strains that come out,
the more, you know, there's more kind of like little micro domains that you can become
expert in.
You know, like you might be like, well, I really like indicas and particularly I like
Afghanis.
So I'm going to be like, try to collect all the Afghanis I can and I'll try to become
like really good at picking up those elements when I smoke other strains or whatever, you
know.
So it's like there's all these little areas where you can, you know, become like a little
even micro connoisseur amongst flavors, so to speak.
Yeah, all different dishes for people.
Yeah, exactly.
Whereas before it was like, maybe you were just known as the dude who smoked a lot of
good weed or something.
You know what I mean?
Like it was hard to define yourself.
Yeah, for sure.
Hard to carve your identity.
Yeah, and people would just stick names on things to try and make them sound cool too.
Yeah, like I read this story hypothesizing that a lot of the strains back in the day
that had super in them, like it was just like, it didn't mean anything.
It was just like, you know, so Super Skunk's the big example, you know.
Yeah.
I've heard people say that if you look online, a lot of sites will tell you that it's a cross
of regular skunk to Afghani, which was true for what one breeder did.
However, I think for the majority of it, it was just like really good batches of skunk.
Yeah.
Well, it's like in Brazil, I mean, they have kind of two types of weed.
They have the brown, which is just like brick weed from over the border.
And then you get access to skunk and skunk is just covers anything that's better than
brown.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I feel like that was kind of the case in the UK for a long time as well.
Yeah.
Well, it could very well have stemmed from there as well.
Yeah.
I just know that like for them, it was like, because they didn't even really refer to
cheese as cheese.
They just still called it skunk.
And I know at least when I went over there in 2010, it was the case that, yeah, it was
like there was still a lot of brick weed coming in from various places and I had got some
of that.
But yeah, you could also get like skunk, which was like, when they explained it to me at
the time, I remember thinking, this just sounds like the equivalent of like, you know, like
bush and hydro in Australia and we're getting hydro.
Yeah.
Right.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That's a good comparison.
Yeah.
So there's been a kind of bit of a boom in the Aussie cannabis industry as well.
I mean, outside of the plant itself, it seems that there are a few people like for seeing
a green rush, you've got vaporizer companies starting up, add to that the whole host of
medicinal things.
But I even saw like a hemp drink release.
And I guess now with the change from food standards with them allowing us to consume
hemp now, we're going to see a lot more of that becoming quite prevalent.
What's your take on all of that, man?
Yeah.
I mean, I've heard that hemp's got lots of antioxidants and stuff in it.
So I mean, even if you want to just look at it, see, I always try to look at things from
like the most ultimate pessimist view.
So basically, I try to look at things from the view of like what a current medical doctor
would look at them, which is like someone who like probably doesn't really support marijuana.
And it's like even they would have to agree that like a drink like that, it's got like
lots of antioxidants.
It's like you could theoretically make it low calorie if you know you don't stuff it
full of sugar.
And there's lots of other things that could be, you know, like all the flavonoids just
depending on how they did like the whatever type of the hemp extracts in there, like you
could make it all the way up to being like almost like a full extract type thing just
without the actual cannabinoids.
And if you look at like extract of most things, they appear to be more effective than like
oil or something like that.
And so the extrapolation is that there's stuff in there which is doing extra.
So yeah, you might be getting that in the drink and I think that'd be cool.
In regards to all the vapes and stuff, I'm not a big vape dude myself.
My buddy Gerald The Hand, he's got like the best vape I've ever had in that it hooks up
to like a bong and so like you can still pull it through a bong if you want and it delivers
like a real good hit.
Whereas most, I've tried it's like a different high.
Yeah, it really is.
Yeah.
And like for me, I always laugh at that.
I'm a bong bitch.
I was brought up on them.
Yeah, same way man.
I've probably heard a couple being sucked down along the way.
Yeah.
So yeah, it's hard to switch over to most vapes when you come from bongs because you
used to that big hit and yeah.
But this one, this one I tried from Gerald, it's pretty good.
It goes hard.
I'm thinking about getting it.
Do you remember what it is?
No.
He'll kill me for not knowing because he likes to do it.
I don't know.
It's got like an active fan in it though and that's cool.
So it's like it's actively pushing it down the stem of the bong and then you all.
Yeah, right.
So it's pretty good.
Gets a good amount of smoke out in a relatively short amount of time.
And I think that's like the big part of like trying to simulate a bong hit, which is essentially
that like big hit small amount of time.
So I know before I was doing this, I was doing a lot of stuff with my friends.
So I know before we sort of started kicking it off, you were talking about an article
that you've been writing at the moment and it was a good segue for me to talk about
something that we've kind of covered a little bit.
But, you know, I guess one of the demons of the Aussie cannabis scene is PGR weed.
And a lot of people don't even know what it is.
They don't even know that it's a thing.
Yeah, it's a thing.
Yeah, it's interesting.
I remember the first I ever heard of it and the first I think Australians ever heard of
it was I got a good friend, I won't drop his name because I can't think of like an
alter ego name for him right now.
But he's on Reddit and he was the first one I know and he was the one who posted
something about it.
And he was the one who posted something about it and it was like the first article I ever
read about it.
This was like three or four years ago.
And I remember reading about it at the time and I was like, this is interesting because
this is like I've always had the suspicion that something like this was going on.
Because to me, I always used to think like, how come all like quote hydro weed in Australia
has like that similar feel like you get like that rubber band feeling around your head
and it's I used to describe it as like just a brick to the head like it just knocks you
out.
Yeah.
And I always used to wonder like surely not all the growers are using the same strain.
That just can't be the case really.
And yeah, I realized that like a lot of it, a lot of that those unpleasant feelings are
caused by the PGRs themselves.
And more so the reason why all the weed looks the same is because I mean, some of the strains
are shared between the big growers, but more so the PGRs themselves cause the plants to
look a particular way.
And that's why, you know, the hydro looks quite similar.
So with that in mind, which lent itself to the, it lent itself to like the myth I guess
because it was like, this is the good weed.
And so, you know, it looks it's got covered in red hairs.
It's really dense and, you know, kind of fat nugs, you know, that are all really dense.
So that became the myth for a lot of people that that was the good way to get.
It's interesting.
I never, I'm quite young, so I was never getting weed when it was good, so to speak.
Like the first time I bought weed would have been like around like the 2000 and 2008, 2009
period.
And maybe a year or two earlier, like just, but yeah, about then.
And so it was always rampant PGR stuff.
So for me, I never, yeah, I never thought it was good or bad.
I definitely thought it was better than bush in the sense that I just thought bush was
trash, but at the same time, that type of sativa that is typically called bush is, it
just doesn't really speak to me anyway.
I'm not a big fan of it.
Yeah.
So I guess the things to look out for with it though, and this is the interesting part
because it's really, it's really kind of hard unless you've got just exposure to seeing
a lot of PGR weed because there are a lot of little variations and.
And PGR, sorry, it's plant growth regulators, right?
Yeah.
Yeah.
That's the.
Basically these are, these are chemicals which are trying to mimic natural chemicals the
plant would make.
However, they've got a lot of unwanted side effects in the human body.
So if, if the, if the companies could just make the natural chemicals themselves, that
would be great.
But for whatever reason, like they're not uptaken through the roots or you, you know,
you can't water the plant with it and get it into the plant.
So for that reason, you got to give it a different chemical that will get in and try to replicate
the effects.
But unfortunately a lot of the molecules themselves have got, for example, like carcinogenic properties
or just they disrupt spermatozoa and as a result, resulting in like, you know, because
this was a, this was a typical thing I got told growing up, you know, like if you smoke
stems, you'll have like deformed sperm.
And it's like, I used to laugh at that, but it's actually true.
Like people does literally do that.
They, they cause spermatozoa disruption.
So yeah.
And like for those kinds of reasons in most like of the, for instance, the States in,
in the US, those where you have legit grows, you're definitely not allowed to use PGRs.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Well, I mean, if it's being tested, then yeah, you definitely can't.
A lot of people seem to think it is being used in the States.
I'm a bit skeptical because I see photos online all the time of people being like, this is
PGR weed.
And it's like, it's still super crystally.
It's just, it's just dense.
And that's the thing, which I think a lot of people don't understand is it's like, it's
not just like really dense weed is PGR weed.
It's like PGRs make the strain more dense than it would have been.
So if you had a strain that was going to be super airy, it might not even end up being
like, you know, quote dense after PGR use.
It would just be more dense.
Yeah.
Exactly.
So, so it's not just like a rule of thumb.
Like, you know, if you, you know, like it could be the case that the most densest bud
you've ever come across was not PGR, you know?
So yes, that's a big one to remember.
But I think for me, the biggest one in my opinion is the discoloration, you know, like
it's, it's got like a weird gray, dark color.
Yeah.
It doesn't look right.
It looks like it's kind of almost been vaporized sometimes or used.
Yeah.
That's okay.
Like someone had good bud and it's like post-vape bud.
Well, I've even heard rumors of people blasting bud and then selling it like, you know, to
make BHO and then selling the bud after.
I've heard of that too.
I think the thing for that would be though that you'd have to be starting with good bud
because I've heard of people like trying to do extractions on PGR buds, but you know,
you get horrible returns because there's no trichromes.
Yeah, of course.
But yeah, I could definitely see that being possible if you had good weed, you know, and
you gave it a blast and you got it out and dried it for long enough so it didn't smell
like butane.
Yeah.
And admittedly, like to the, to the experienced smoker, you'd probably still pick up on it.
But you know, to the, to the novice, it's probably no different.
There seems to be a bit of a rise in concentrates as well.
I mean, obviously having a concentrate section to your cup shows that it is happening, but
definitely starting to see it become more prevalent in the Aussie cannabis community.
It was, we, I was in the States and, you know, talking to young dudes like in their late
teens, early twenties, and they're like, you know, flowers are for old men.
You know, that's what my dad smokes.
I'd never touch that stuff.
And just straight up doing dabs their whole life, you know.
That's an interesting one, isn't it?
I'm, I'm in the same boat.
I'm, I'm flower for life.
Yeah, right.
I, in Australia, I got a theory about it.
Pretty simple, you know, weird shit here.
So it's natural to want to try to make it stronger.
So you get concentrates.
Easy solve.
In America, you got good flower though, because that's the interesting one.
Some people have told me like, it's just because, you know, like eventually people are going
to jack their tolerance up and then, and then it's like,
Where do you go to from dabs, man?
Part of me thinks it's like, it's a mistake in a way.
It's like you do dabs and they're good because they just, they fuck you up.
And then, and then you keep doing them and then, and then you've done them for like a
week and then you smoke some flower and it just doesn't do anything for you anymore.
Right.
Yeah.
I think that's maybe what happens to literally everyone because I don't know.
Like I just say to people, like I meet a lot of people who are like concentrates only.
And like, as soon as someone says that to me and they're Australian, I immediately
think like, Oh, you probably haven't had like really good flower before.
Yeah.
And you just dabbed yourself out of being able to appreciate the mild bud that you've
got now.
Yeah.
And it, but like, I mean, the one thing I'll say in defense is maybe not a lot of them
were dab only, but a lot of them were like mostly dabs.
And, and I have physically met up with them and like shared some of my flowers.
A lot of them would have been like, yeah, like I'd be happy to smoke this.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So for me, I don't, I can't pinpoint why in the States they do it because yeah, for
me it's like, I just say to people, I'm like, look, if you try like the most top end
flowers, it's to me, it's on par with the most top end concentrates.
So yeah, it shouldn't be a case of like, Oh no, it's still better.
So yeah, I don't know.
I think yeah, it's the tolerance thing.
And it's also America's got like this big thing about like just going super hard, you
know?
Right.
Yeah.
Bigger, better.
Yeah, totally.
Like just go as hard as you can.
Yeah.
Well, that, that kind of brings us around again to the article that you were talking
about earlier and kind of starting that conversation.
I mean, if you're in a, in a shitty position where you can either only you're, you're
supplying people and you can only get crappy weed or you're on the lower scale of that
and you're only able to find crappy weed for yourself.
I mean, we need to start a conversation within the community where we start to get away from,
from crappy weed and start looking at really good cannabis and demanding it and finding
a way for everybody to work together, growers and suppliers to, to keep good cannabis flowing.
It's, it's such a multifaceted problem, isn't it?
It's huge.
It's, there's, there's so many parts which like, I feel like we should start on first,
but it's hard to know where to.
An interesting thing to note about that is that in my opinion, if you're someone who
makes like a substantial amount of money, like, I don't know, because substantial is
like a bit of a vague term.
How should I put this?
If you're the type of person who's like a dealer, but you're just, just kind of helping
mates out, so to speak.
Yeah.
Maybe getting cheap weed for yourself or something in the deal.
Yeah.
But like, I think if you're at the point where you're actually pocketing money from it and
you're selling shit stuff, I think you've got an obligation to prioritize, like literally
actively looking for a good source of weed.
It might take you forever to find it, but like, there's nothing that annoys me more
than like I meet a dealer and they're just like, oh yeah, man, I just sell PGRs.
Like that's all I do.
And it's like, and, and, and do you look for like a better source or anything?
And they're like, oh yeah, look, I did a while ago.
And it's like, well, it's not going to come fucking knocking on the door, dude.
Like, and, and so, yeah, like, I mean, I think if you're like, especially if you're like
a dealer for a living and you're just dealing PGRs, like it's, it's fucking your obligation
to like try to find a better hookup.
Yep.
And, and as I said, you know, it's hard, it's hard.
So I'm not saying it has to happen, but you got to try.
And yeah, in regards to getting growers and stuff to link up, it's, it's about forming
good relationships, you know, and, and good relationships are built on lots of things.
And we mentioned this earlier, but you know, like a good relationship is one where a buyer
is not constantly trying to bid down a seller.
And likewise, a seller is not constantly trying to pull the wool over the buyer's eyes
in regards to quality.
And so what I mean by that is, is like, there, there aren't really high quality dealers in
Australia because of several factors, but a big one is that a lot of people don't want
to pay the price.
And so until you are like happy to pay prices, you're not going to find that dealer.
And so the, the way I would tie into it is, you know, if you meet someone who offers you
weed for a higher price, don't just instantly shy away if you suspect, ask them for a sample.
It's totally reasonable to ask for a sample, you know, like if you, even if you were going
to buy the smallest amount they were willing to offer you, one cone is nothing in compared,
in comparison to that, you know, even if it was like $50 worth, one cone is like $2 worth
of weed at max.
So like, it's totally reasonable to ask for a sample.
And if it's good, buy it and form a good relationship with that person and don't try to bid them
down.
Don't like ask them next week if you can get it for five bucks cheaper.
Cause like that's, that's a big problem.
Yeah.
Because like eventually the person will be like, Oh man, everyone wants it cheaper.
And so they go and find a new source.
Don't tell anyone all of a sudden the weed shitter.
And that ties in, you know, a lot of people have had that story of like, Oh yeah, like
I got this new dealer and like they were really good.
And then all of a sudden it just dropped off after like a month or so.
And it's like, because yeah, like people just, you know, passively always kind of trying
to wear them down.
And so they think, fuck it, I'll get this cheaper ounce.
I can give it to them a little cheaper.
I'm also making some more money.
Cause like bottom line's lower now.
And it's a problem.
And it's like this, you know, this bloody slippery slope almost.
And so yeah, it's like self degenerating and yeah, nasty circle.
Yeah.
So it's like find someone, find someone who's got weed you're happy with to pay the price
and value that.
And if they're a good person, they'll value you as well.
That's at least how I think about it.
Yeah.
And I think the community is growing and opening up enough now where it's like, Oh, I'm going
to get this weed.
I'm going to get this weed.
I'm going to get this weed.
I'm going to get this weed.
I'm going to get this weed.
I'm going to get this weed.
And I think that's where, if you're smart about it, those relationships, you can start
to make them and you can start to build them and start to find like-minded people close
by.
A lot of people message me asking for weed and I usually don't reply.
But some of them, for whatever reason, and probably just dependent on the mood.
I mean, I'll decide to reply to them and just like kind of ask why they're asking me this
more or less.
But most of the time, the answer I get is they're just like, Oh, I've tried.
I've tried.
And it's like, when you say you've tried, do you mean like you've messaged other people
randomly who you don't know just asking for weed?
Because it's so funny because it's like I form friendships with people and you know,
like probably takes a long time.
But like eventually, I'll like maybe give them a bit of weed, like just unexpectedly
and it'll just, there you go, dude.
And it's like people don't seem to understand that like that's almost just how friendships
work.
It's like you don't just walk up to someone and ask them for something immediately.
It's like when you're their friend, maybe they'll help you out like from their own
perspective.
Yeah, exactly.
You wouldn't do it on the street.
Yeah, exactly.
So it's like I just say to people, I'm like, look, I know you want weed, but maybe you
should just try to make some friends in the community and just chat to them and just get
to know them for ages.
And then maybe eventually one of them will offer you something like even as simplistic
or as reductionist as that sounds, that really is like the most basic game plan you could
have to try to start scoring good weed if you had no means of doing it in person.
Like literally, start making friends with people online.
Don't pester them.
And by that, I mean, don't ask them for weed.
Just don't just ask them questions.
But like, you know what I mean?
Like become friends with people.
Yeah, be genuine.
Yeah, reach out.
Yeah.
And people will sense the genuineness and then that's when they won't feel weird about
maybe helping you out.
100%.
So yeah, it's interesting.
It's all about how you present yourself.
And it's like, yeah, I know that maybe you don't have weed now, so it's really tempting
to just ask for some weed, but it's never going to work.
And the other problem is they could never understand the position you're in anyway.
So like I don't expect them to have 100%, you know, ability to be like, oh, well, if
I was in his shoes, I'd never help someone else.
I won't ask that because like, yeah, they've never been in my position.
So they don't know why, you know what I mean?
Because it's a bit of a unique one to be in.
But at the same time, they should be smart enough to know that like, yeah, just getting
a random message online for drugs is never going to result in a...
And if it did, like, fucking what type of a guy would I be?
Like, you should be worried about getting rolled.
Yeah, that's the dude you've got to be alarm bells.
Yeah, man, that dude comes and rolls you.
So you've been, obviously, you've got a great selection of strains at home and have over
the years produced some beautiful cannabis and, you know, have done some traveling.
What are the things that you look for in like a really good smoke?
Do you have like a top three strains or a top one even?
Can you nail it down?
Yeah, my favorite strain is the Blue Magoo.
It's amazing in my opinion.
Anyone who likes blueberry strains, they'll really like the Blue Magoo.
Shout out to Dynasty.
You can get it from them, the BX2.
It's really good in seed form.
I love it because it's a very indica, Afghani type plant.
However, it's got much better side branching than the typical Afghani.
So from a growing point of view, it yields a lot better than a typical Afghani, which is like really good.
It's got like bang on blueberry turps, but it's got like this kind of musky incense twist to it.
So it's hard to describe, but it's very like complex and nuanced.
Like you can just sit there and just kind of decipher all the components.
And it's like a cave you explore, you know, there's so much to it.
And finally, it's so medicinal.
It's just you smoke it and you feel like in between all your joints, like little clouds of air,
and you can feel the anti-inflammatory properties.
And it's also really good for anxiety and things like that.
And yeah, it's just a little side note as well with that smell.
It's like a very feminine smell.
It's not like a real, it doesn't overpower things.
Like if you had it in a bag with something else, it might even get overpowered because it's, yeah,
it's got like a soft, almost like the way like lavender's got this softness to it.
Yeah. Does it come from Blue Dream?
Is that in its genetic somewhere?
No, it comes from blueberry and it's crossed to a strain called Major League Bud,
which is a very old school strain of Williams Wonder from SSSC,
which is essentially the best seed bank of all time.
So yeah, definitely some heavyweight genetics behind it.
And you know what's really interesting?
Because I thought about this for a while and I wanted to make a point of mentioning this
if I ever brought this up, was the Magoo is part of the reason as to why I share clones with people.
Because I, you know, like I don't give them to anyone, but I share them with friends for sure.
And the reason for that is because the Blue Magoo, they don't know who made it.
It was just made by someone in Oregon.
It's like real popular in Oregon.
And it's a result of basically because DJ Short, the guy who invented blueberry,
he decided to release clones to the community and to people.
And as a result, you know, like my favorite strain was essentially conceived
by just some dude in a basement because DJ Short was willing to give out his really good cuts of blueberry.
Yeah, that's right.
And so for me, that really was like, well, I'm going to make sure that like, you know,
like I'm not giving it out to everyone to the point where it's just valueless,
but I'm not going to say no to people who are worthy.
And so, yeah, that's something which I always consider.
And I think people should consider as well because, you know,
like and I mean, likewise, DJ Short would never,
he probably wouldn't even really know that much about the strain, to be honest,
but he would never take credit.
So it's like, it's a really, you're just helping other people.
You know what I mean? Like it's no skin off your back, really.
Yeah.
Yeah, I love that side of the whole breeding thing
and the whole sharing and the community that you guys have.
It's a really nice thing to see.
It reminds me a lot of the Jiu Jitsu community in a lot of ways.
It's cool.
So, something I just want to quickly mention was
in regards to the cut, like one of the goals is obviously,
you know, have an event next year, which would be great.
Yeah.
But I want to tie it back to like that growth of the community.
And so, another thing which unfortunately I've got no control over
or no one really does except for just people collectively is
I'd really like for there to be organic networking
at the end of the comp, you know.
So what I mean by that is part of it is like,
so that people kind of know who's who.
So if you think, hey, I'm trying real hard,
I'm at the forefront of things,
I'd love to know other people who are here with me.
You know what I mean?
You kind of now know, you might have thought
you were going to get first place and you end up getting third place.
And so now you've got two new best friends,
whoever came second and first.
100%, right? Yeah.
And so, yeah.
Yeah, true, true.
Great.
So, yeah.
So like, and that again ties into kind of the Magoo point
in that, you know, like through that networking,
people share clones.
And, you know, like my ultimate goal in some regards,
people always ask me like, what's my ultimate goal?
I don't really have one.
But one thing I would love to achieve is for there to be
like a clone sharing scene in Australia
because that's how shit happens.
Because like so many strains are a result of just accidents
and it was just because like there was like a really nice
female clone in that grow room at that time.
And, you know, as a result, there's now a new strain.
Yeah.
So, yeah.
I think it's really important that people do that.
But there's so many issues surrounding that.
And so the first thing is like, this is like kind of a little
how-to of how to trade clones, you know?
Yeah.
First of all, don't ever accept a clone of someone
unless you are either A, 100% sure that the clone they have
is just better than like anything you've got,
anything you've ever tried.
Because so many times I've accepted clones
and they just don't perform up to what I'm expecting.
And that comes back to exposure, you know?
Like what you think is really good and you tell me
it's really good could be totally different
to what I think is really good.
And that's just because I smoked Chem 91.
I don't think I'll ever smoke stronger weed than that.
And so to me, when you give something a 9 out of 10,
to me it might just be a 7 out of 10.
Yeah.
So that's an important point because that can lead
to frictions and especially it can lead to like maybe
you do a trade with someone and like you're both happy
with the deal and then all of a sudden you feel ripped off
and like they weren't trying to rip you off necessarily.
Yeah.
So, yeah.
Like you just want to avoid that.
And it's really a simple way.
Like you just trade some bud first.
Be like, I'll send you some bud of that.
You send me some bud.
And then if we both like the bud, we can then trade.
Yep.
And so that's pretty simple.
And then so the kind of the unsaid part of that though
is how do you then, you know, have good weed to trade?
Well, you've got to be buying seeds regularly.
Yep.
I often, sorry, I feel like it's almost wasted time
when I'm not growing out new strains
because sometimes you find a strain and it's phenomenal.
And so you maybe you're going to spend a little bit
of time working with that.
But honestly, it's still just so rewarding to pop new seeds,
to find new things and to be able to share them
as opposed to just growing the same thing out.
Because to me, I look at it like at the end
of each growing cycle, so to speak, you've got two choices.
You can either grow to make money, you know,
by like selling the bud or whatever.
Or you can grow to have new clones at the end of it
because you've tested new things
and you've called out the runs.
And now at the end of it all, you've got maybe,
let's say, you know, you did a whole room full of plants.
Well, now at the end of it, you've maybe got two
or three plants that are like phenomenal.
And like, you know, I've got them in your kit, so to speak.
Yeah.
So it's like you've got a choice.
You can do those.
To me, I'm not interested in the money one.
You know, I'm interested in finding the new clones
because, hey, the clones are worth a lot more
and they're, you know, an infinite source of the bud
as opposed to just a finite one, which will get you money.
But then it's gone and you've got to make more.
Oh, yeah.
But more so, it opens the door.
If no one pops seeds, that's just a shame
because then we've got no new flavours in it.
And you really do need to constantly have new strains
coming onto the scene because, A, it gets people interested.
But more importantly, I'm sure as you're aware,
when you're like, and this is a hard point to explain,
you know, because by definition,
a heavy smoker is anyone who smokes once a day.
So like for people like us,
that doesn't sound like a heavy smoker.
Like if someone came up to me and was like,
oh, you know, I just have like one hit before bed.
Like I wouldn't call them a heavy smoker at all.
I'd be like, you're a light smoker.
But that's a heavy smoker by medical definition.
And so, and you do notice, even if you smoke that much,
if you suddenly switch strains,
you'll feel like you've just been hit for six, you know.
And that's because the change in cannabinoid profile
is like a shock to the system.
And it almost feels like you've had a bit of a tolerance break
in the sense of like, it's just,
it's hitting you harder than the previous strain was
until you readjust to it.
And so if nothing else, you know,
there's people might need to take meds every day.
And it's like for them to be able to have something
which can just totally feel like a shock to the system,
even though they haven't gone on a tolerance break.
That's awesome.
And from a recreational point of view,
it's always nice to have new flavors
or to be able to feel like a different type of euphoria
or whatever.
100%.
I mean, you know,
it's always the joy of being able to get overseas
to places where you've got access to the various strains
and you don't even have to buy lots of it, you know,
and you can just,
then you get a real good appreciation
of how varying and subtle the different effects
of different strains can be.
Yeah.
And that's something which I think it's like,
it's that whole exposure point, isn't it?
You know, like if people knew about the different ways
they could feel,
I think they'd be so much more passionate about things
like this one time.
I had some banana OG
and every time you took a hit from this stuff,
you'd get like a wave of kind of tingles
slash euphoria go through your body.
And I'm sure everyone's experienced that
from smoking weed at some point in time.
But the crazy part was like,
every time you took a hit of this stuff,
without fail, you would do it.
And it was just mind blowing.
It was like, like, this is,
there's clearly, you know,
like a specific composition of chemicals
in this weed right now,
which is doing it.
Exactly right.
And what people haven't,
probably haven't realized is that,
yeah, I only like smoking.
There's been a couple of times I enjoyed it,
but I never did the other times.
Not knowing that those couple of times I enjoyed it,
there's a specific strain out there for them
that's going to replicate that every time for them.
Yeah, totally, totally.
So yeah, I think exposure is a big one
and that'll be good
because just over time it'll naturally happen.
And I mean,
a little side note of what I was mentioning before
in regards to the popping seeds,
you also really need to keep the clones
because I know a lot of people who grow seeds out,
but like they don't keep clones.
That's just such a waste, you know,
like you're seriously wasting the genetic.
If you found the best strain on earth,
it's now gone.
And it's just,
that's it.
And how long?
Sorry, go on.
Sorry, I mean,
if you keep a clone and you propagate a mother plant,
she's viable for a long time, right?
Theoretically forever,
as long as you don't treat it bad.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, it's just like people,
it's just,
it seems like a bunch of effort
and this was something I went through myself
and I realized
every time I kind of up the ante as a grower
or as a breeder,
it then just became the new norm.
Like it was like,
oh, you mean I've got to take cuttings
of every plant before flower.
That's so many.
And then soon enough that was the norm.
And then it was like,
oh, I've got to keep cuttings of the males as well.
Are you kidding?
And just now that's the norm,
you know what I mean?
And so it's like,
it's just adjusting and getting used to it
because some people will be like,
oh, well, if the plant's really good,
I can just re-veg it.
I don't need to take a clone.
Problem is when you re-veg a plant,
often that plant will now be reduced potency
and reduce yield.
So it's like you might have it back,
but it's like often it's not the same plant
and not as good,
I should say.
And so, yeah,
it's worth the effort to take time
to keep the clones
because there's probably been more good strains lost
even in just Australia
than like there are clone only's in America,
so to speak
because lots of people in Australia
buy good quality seeds.
It's like they just grow it out
and they're like,
yeah, that was like an awesome three or four ounces.
Next one.
Yeah, that's it, hey.
So that's interesting.
So if you pop a bunch of seeds, right?
And I don't know what your feelings are
on feminized seeds.
Is that kind of the way people go
or is that not a thing?
As far as I thought,
you're kind of still a bit risky
with playing with the genetics further down the line.
Yeah, to me, honestly,
I've grown a lot of feminized seeds out
and I've never really had major issues
with hermaphrodism.
Except from the calicon.
Keep that in mind, everyone.
Calicons, hermie.
And, but I mean,
some of them don't,
but most of them do.
But basically, in general,
yeah, my feminized seeds have never hermied on them.
And when I speak to people,
that tends to not be their issue
with feminized seeds either.
It tends to be when people want to breed
with feminized seeds.
So that's the issue
because it's like as a breeder,
you should be going to the effort
of doing all the things that need to be done.
And if you're a breeder,
feminized seeds is a bit of a shortcut
because it's like,
oh, I don't have to bother,
you know, culling out the males.
I can select through 30 plants
instead of 15 because, you know,
I'm pretty sure.
Yeah, so it's like
if you're just growing out for yourself,
go for feminized seeds.
It's a great way to,
especially because, you know,
you don't have to like fuck with
culling the males
if it's your first time around
and you don't want to have to.
Well, yeah, that's what I was going to kind of ask about.
So if you don't know what you've got,
they're not feminized seeds.
So you've got, say,
you've got 10 plants growing.
You would advise
or you would take cuttings of the 10 of those
before they showed any signs of sex
or what they were going to be
and have them all clearly labelled and marked
and then make your decisions
after the flowering point
and refer back to those previous cuttings.
Basically, yes to everything you said
except I sex them first.
So I find out what are the males and the females
and then I take cuttings of all the females
and if I was going to breed with the males,
I would select my male out of the group
and then take a cutting of that
and then cull all the males
and then I'd have a cutting of all the females
plus the one male
plus big parents of all those ones
and I'd put the big ones into flower.
Yeah.
So then you've got little ones.
Because often a lot of sites will tell you
to keep the big plant as a mother
and then grow the little one up and flower that
and it's like, no, that's totally wrong.
Put the big plant into flower
because otherwise it will get way too big
and then what the fuck are you going to do with it?
Put the big one into flower
and then the little one,
once it's rooted and cloned,
that's your new mother
and it's tiny and easy to maintain.
Yeah, cool.
Cool.
And then in sexing before you determine clones,
is there tips and tricks to sexing males and females?
I mean, obviously every new time grower
is worried about, you know,
having their females pollinated
so everybody trips out
that they don't want to get their boys out
before there's any problem of them releasing pollen.
Yeah, yeah, good question.
Yeah, I've got some tips and tricks for you.
So if you're feeling confident,
what you do is you let the plants get root bound
and so by that what I mean is
you put them into little pots after you've sprouted them
and by little I don't mean crazy small,
I mean like, you know, relatively small.
Maybe like a half a litre up to a one litre pot.
I wouldn't go higher than one litre though.
And basically you let the plant grow in that
and basically that's the only pot it'll ever be in
before it goes into the final pot
which you then basically you're transplanting
into that one and then it goes into flower.
Yeah.
By leaving it in that small pot
and letting it get root bound,
the plant like gets a little bit stressed
but we're in veg cycle
so stress doesn't mean anything in veg cycle.
So yeah, it gets root bound,
gets a bit stressed and it'll show sex early.
The other thing I do in conjunction with that
which is a little bit easier to do
because most people when they go on their first time
it's probably easier for them to just have the plant
in like an appropriate pot
because towards the end
when you've got like a big plant in a small pot
it becomes a little bit harder to maintain.
So if you're not feeling real confident with that one
the other one which I'd recommend
or you can do them together is
keep the plant under 24 hour light, okay?
Under 24 hour light the plant won't grow as quickly
it'll have smaller internodal distance
but it'll be very sensitive to darkness.
So if you say grow it up to say five nodes big
it's got five nodes
and it's under 24 hour lights
and you then start to give it eight hours of
sorry six hours of darkness
which is not enough to make it flower
but it's a lot of darkness in comparison to getting none.
Yeah, the plants will almost like start to prepare for flower
and they'll start to show their sex.
So yeah, so either one of those
or both together works really well
and that's how you can find out the sex before.
And either one of those, sorry to interrupt
but on either one of those
would you then after doing either one
rootbound or whatever
would you then move it fully into its flower cycle?
Yeah, so once it got rootbound and showed sex
it would be about a reasonable height anyway to do that.
I would then replant it as soon as it showed sex
if there was enough growth on it
to take a clone then and there I'd do that
otherwise I know it's a female
so yeah as you said put it in the final pot
maybe give it a week or so
before you flip it to flower
so it can just kind of establish itself
and it'll grow a little bit
and yeah then you'll be able to get a nice healthy clone off it
and you can still take clones relatively safely
up until the end of the first week of flower
so even if you have to give it a bit longer
you could do that
but the one caveat I'll put on that is
if that clone doesn't root
you won't know till about
it takes about two weeks for a clone to grow
to really show you whether it's going to root or not
so if after about two weeks
if your conditions are good
and it hasn't rooted
it's probably not going to root
so at that point you'd be in week three of flower
and now it's too late to take a clone in my opinion
so that's a bit risky doing it
but you know you can do it
Yeah and I guess
well you just want to take enough clones initially
so that your success rate in the rooting
is increased right?
Yeah that's it
I'm a bit paranoid
I still take like two or three clones of everything
because I feel if I took one
I feel if I took one
and it just didn't
you know what I mean?
Like you just don't
Yeah you don't know your spot
Oh damn it
Of course the one time I only cut one
Oh it's happened to me once
and I lost my most beloved plant literally
Lesson learned
Yep
And I took three clones
and none of them rooted
So there you go
Maybe I should be doing four or five
100%
And I
especially like in the climate that we live in
with the illegalities involved
you know
the reward understandably has to be there
so that doesn't mean that our growers have to
grow lots of crappy weed
let's let them grow less really good weed
and pay like what it's due
Yeah that's it
and I think
you also need to
not abuse the medical side of things
in the sense that I know so many people
and they eventually
someone will like start throwing the term
medicine around
and
and then using that as almost like a form of like
I need this for cheaper
because it's
it's one thing to be like giving someone
some you know weed
or if you want to call it medicine in this sense
at a discounted rate
because like you feel like they really need it
and they can't afford it
but it's another thing for like
what I hear about
which is mostly people who
just kind of start to throw the term around
and be like oh
and then use that as like a segue into like
can you hear that cop car?
Yeah I can
He's like right up front my house
and it's an ambo
It's gone now cool
Yeah and so people use that
Oh fuck off
Sorry
People use that as a segue to try to
you know get stuff for cheaper
like you know I literally got told
two days ago by a grower I know who grows
he grows really good organic stuff
and he gives it away
super cheap in my opinion
like crazy cheap
like he's barely
I think he's probably just covering his bare minimums
Yeah
and he was saying like yeah
like he was giving this girl like
one ounce a month
and then all of a sudden
she needs two
and it's just like
he like agreed to do it at first
but then he just realized that like
you know she would then just go
and sell it to a friend
Yeah
and he's just like you know
just willing to pay like good prices for it
and it's just like
yeah that's kind of
a bit sad
Yeah
It's a shame
I mean there's always going to be people out there
looking to rip you off wherever they can
and
yeah I mean
some of the rest of us
kind of have to prop it up
It's a shame
I guess one thing I was thinking about
because I actually
I was around at a friend's house today
and the
Canna Koala
and the Oz Canna Lady
I don't know if you're aware of those guys
from Instagram were there
and
they're
they're bringing
going to start bringing in some
CBD isolate
and
I mean
hemp produce isolate
it's
your opinion on that
I mean is it
is it any different from
CBD isolate that would be
produced from a cannabis plant
I honestly haven't read enough into it
but
from the briefings I have read
it seems to suggest that
CBD derived from
cannabis would be
much better because
assuming you're not talking about
like 99%
like you know like
stuff that looks like crystal meth basically
because
you know at that point
it's all the same
you know it really doesn't even matter
where it's come from
it's fucking
99% CBD
yeah
but if it's like some kind of
extract
like a dab type thing
I think from a plant
would be way better
because we know that
the
you know all the
the other components of
the plant such as
you know the flavonoids
and the terpenes
all of these things
synergize with
the cannabinoids so
yeah
it makes sense that
you know THC
based weed
which has got
the right
THC
the right cannabinoid
profile
in flavonoids
yeah I think that would be better
and I think that
who is it CBD Crew
the good ones
there's like
there's like CBD Crew
and CBD Seeds
and one of them was like
a fucking joke
and one of them was like
Shanti Barber
and that one's like legit
but anyway
those guys offer
a strain called
CBD Divine
and it's apparently
like the first strain
that's
derived from
a cannabis plant
not hemp
that has like
0% THC
and like
16% CBD
and it's got like
and it looks like
a cannabis plant
and it's like
apparently got
pretty good terps
so I could imagine
that the extract
would be good
I smoked some really nice
well there were
the two CBD strains
at the farm last year
there was some Swiss
and
maybe it was
I can't remember
it was a spider web
which was like
something from
Charlotte's Web
yeah
and
I mean they were
they were delicious
one of them had a
super low
CBD
super low
THC
and one had a
kind of higher CBD
and medium THC
and
they were
they were really lovely
like the taste
the smell profile
were absolutely delicious
but the buds
themselves were
like
were considerably
different to like
normal cannabis buds
too
in that they kind of
they didn't have as much
structure to them
that could have been
a part of the grow
as well so
yeah okay
I mean
I've got a one to one
on that
but
I mean
I'm not sure
I've got a one to one
CBD strain I grow
but it looks like
regular weed
but I think at
one to one level
it probably would
yeah
yeah
I haven't really seen
what
the end
product of
what they're making
this
the hemp extractions
look like
like whether there's
any appreciable
I mean there'd probably
be a few calyxes
like individually
stacked on top of each other
but
yeah
but I mean
just as a quick note
I still
wasn't aware
that they would
import CBD
I thought there was
still some weird
like little restriction
about it
yeah well
as far as I
I think
because I think
it's still technically
classified as a poison
right
I think that's the way
they do it
where it's like
because it's like
you can get prescribed
a poison
because pretty much
every drug is listed
as a poison
yeah
yeah
but you can't
import poisons
see I wasn't wondering
if
and this is
from the foods
for Australia
New Zealand
reclassifying hemp
I don't know
if that changed
some of the
availability
if it's all hemp derived
yeah actually
I mean
in the sense that
yeah that actually
probably works
I just think
that you might have
to derive
it might have to
make it here
you know what I mean
like you just
just press it here
yeah
yeah
which
I mean it's gonna
it's
if that's the
the
if that's the case
like if that is
the work around
that now that hemp is
you can consume it
so now you can start
to make
hemp based
extraction things
I mean it's gonna be
interesting to see what happens
in terms of that market here
yeah it's
it's interesting
I
I don't know
if it'll be game changing
you know
I think it'll be game changing
for like you know
epileptic kids
and stuff like that
yeah
but I just
I always have to
remind people
that the reason
why I grow a
one to one strain
is because
as far as we can see
one to one
seems to be
arguably the most
therapeutic ratio
yeah
and the reason for that
is because
if you look at
all the
the different
symptoms
and spectrums
of disorders
that cannabis
treats
it appears that THC
tends to
treat the large
majority of them
and it's only
actually a very small
amount that are
exclusively treated
by CBD
so what that means is
there's only a small
amount of diseases
where you absolutely
need CBD
but the largest
amount of them
actually benefit
from having both
THC and CBD
so yeah
so like for example
the real epileptic kids
those are one of the ones
who exclusively benefit
from the CBD
but most people
I think they actually
don't get benefits
for most
like I'm pretty sure
like the glaucoma
people for example
like you actually
you need the THC
more so than the CBD
in that case
so yeah
so I think
that's the reason
why I'm
so I think
that's the reason
why people
don't want to
have CBD
in that case
yeah
and I think
even in
in some of the cases
of kids with
with epilepsy
and things like that
I think
further into their
treatment like
years down the line
they're finding
that they're
having to
up the THC
a little bit as well
yeah exactly
I think
that they're
it's really
synergistic together
so yeah
so yeah
that's something
because it's like a, it seems like a big farce to me, you know?
Oh, it's scary.
And I'm literally counting on the, you know, I guess the government, so to speak,
to increase the penalties on growing after the whole scheme's kind of fully rolled out, so to speak,
in that they'll do exactly like what they did in America,
where they'll say anyone who needs it now has access,
everyone else who's still growing is just a criminal.
And even worse criminal, potentially.
Yeah, like just doing it for the money.
So, yeah.
So, in my opinion, like you've really got to be steadfast in the right to grow your own
has to be like the number one thing.
Like if you don't have the right to grow up for yourself,
I don't think I would compromise for that because even in the States, you know,
we can both attest to this, even in a place where you can grow yourself,
there's still so much issues with, you know, it not being grown correctly.
Like in like a medical sense.
And so it's like if it was exclusively up to like Marlborough or whatever,
what hope in hell do you have that they give a shit about your health?
Exactly. Yeah.
No, it's pretty crazy, man.
Like I still just get blown away at like how our laws are shaping up here,
but I think we're going to have to go through like a kind of a dark period where it's going to be kind of like that
and it's going to be mad controlled before actual decriminalization and recreational use comes in.
But there's going to, I think we're in store for like a few years of dark,
crappy, weird reform after reform of bizarre cannabis law.
Yeah. And I mean, I think I would probably agree with that.
And the interesting part about it is like how we referenced earlier.
There's almost like two sides to the spectrum.
There's like the political side of it.
And then there's just the actual kind of underground production side of it.
And that we could, for example, as a whole community, just as a hypothetical, be like, you know what?
No one's going to try to be active in campaigning for law change.
Instead, everyone's just going to try to focus on growing the dankest weed possible.
You know what I mean?
And yeah, or you could do the opposite.
And it's like neither one of those would be, I mean, I think the first situation would probably be better.
Like, you know, like it's really illegal and you've got good weed as opposed to having it legal,
but everyone's just smoking PGRs.
Yeah, exactly.
But you know what I mean? So in my mind, it's like, well, I accept that there's that political instability,
which essentially means like, you know, all your work could be for nothing.
So it's like, that's why I think it's like you've got to push that other end of the coin so hard
because it's, what if it's just like the other way around where it's like we get to the point where weed is so dank
and everyone's smoking dank weed that it's just like, fuck, this needs to be legal.
Like, and so, you know.
I think that's what might be what pushes it over in the end.
Yeah, like maybe. And I mean, I think it would be a lot more complex.
And I think a big thing would be labor getting in power, to be honest.
Yeah.
But even then, you know, like that's just like a minor point.
But I think, yeah, like I've always thought that and that's a part of the reason why I breed it.
Because it's like I just thought, yeah, like if everyone could smoke dank weed,
hopefully they would then have the knowledge and the willpower to say no to PGRs.
And then that's like how you get it out.
And you could also get good flavors into the community.
So, yeah, it's an interesting one.
But yeah, you've got to push that side of the coin always.
I mean, Australia's still caught up with some really bad preconceived notions of weed smokers as well.
You know, it's still got a really bad rap.
They managed to be down in a lot of parts of the U.S., you know, that whole reefer madness.
It really sunk in, like in my parents' generation, you know, it's pretty hardcore.
Whereas in the States, you see people of my parents' generation, even later in life.
I mean, California is different, but you're starting to see it all around America now,
where people later in life are starting to really break down their preconceived notions about cannabis.
Yeah, totally.
I just feel like it's a bit of a weird statement to make, but I feel like on the whole,
the older generation of Australia are more conservative than the older generation in America.
Yeah, certainly.
I mean, on the outlying end of the spectrum, definitely not.
You know, there's definitely some really fucking conservative outliers in America.
But if you look at the general masses, it's really one of those problems where it's like,
you hate to say it, but it's like, we just need the old people to die off.
You know what I mean?
Like, obviously not literally, but in the sense that...
We will see that change come in, that generational change come in, in our lifetime.
That's like 20, 25 years away, though, you know?
So, hopefully that's not how far away cannabis reform is.
Yeah, it'll be like a trickle-down thing where you'll see one person in parliament start to really support it,
and then it just starts to break along with them, and the others lose their numbers.
Yeah, and that's typically how it's happened around the world, and it's playing out all around the world.
They could surprise me, and it could really happen quicker.
Yeah, that'd be nice.
Yep.
Alright, man. Cool.
Sweet.
Well, I reckon we can call that a podcast and a pot-cast.
So there you have it. Nice and short one.
Big thank you to my homies at The Herbalise Podcast, as well as all of their sponsors.
To our sponsors, 420 Australia and Organic Gardening Solutions.
And to everyone for listening.
See you.
