Hello and welcome to the next episode of The Podcast, a cannabis podcast for budding enthusiasts.
As always, big shout out to our sponsors for helping to make this episode happen.
Seeds Here Now, number one seed bank in the game, all the hottest breeders, the newest
strains, the freshest drops.
Hit them up if you want your next crop to be as fire as possible.
Likewise Crop It Biological Systems, your number one stop to keep your garden happy,
healthy, bug free and the best harvest possible.
I tell you what guys, you do Seeds Here Now, you do Crop It Biologicals, you're in for
a primo harvest, absolutely no question.
Please go hit up both of them, fantastic sponsors of the show who we appreciate greatly.
Last but not least, the Patreon gang, the lifeblood of the show where the fans hang
out to help ensure that more episodes happen.
Tons of exclusive interviews, additional content and early access to episodes.
Go check out www.patreon.com forward slash the podcast to join if you want to become
a part of the Patreon gang.
On this episode, we are lucky to be joined by the meme master and fresh prince, Masonic
Seeds.
Here to chat all things Wilson, plans for the future and what's trending in the scene.
So, let's jump into it.
Alrighty, so a big thank you and welcome to the meme master himself, fresh prince on the
block, Masonic.
Thank you so much for joining us.
Thank you for inviting me, Platt.
No problem my friend.
The first question we love to ask all guests, what are you currently smoking on?
Oh man, you caught me on a good one.
This is some outdoor Zerbert from 365 Canna Farms grown by Calicocher, sun grown.
Not outdoor, sun grown is different.
Okay.
So, I mean it begs the question, are you more a fan of sun grown or indoor generally speaking?
I'm a fan of good man.
Most of the time, most weed nowadays, not most weed, but there's some good ass weed
and I'm a fan of good man.
This is some good outdoor, this is some good indoor.
So, you know, easy does it for me.
For sure.
And do you think that indoor will continue to hold the kind of placeholder as the superior
quality or do you think that over time outdoor and sun grown will become the more popular
amongst the masses?
I've yet to see an outdoor flower that kind of just hits like an indoor.
So, I think there's always going to be a spot for indoor.
Yeah, for sure.
For sure.
So, I mean on that note, it sounds like a very sort of terpy strain.
What sort of flavours do you find you're more inclined to?
You a gas guy, a fruity guy?
I'm a gas fruit guy for sure.
There's way more flavours than that.
So, it's not like I can't choose both.
I could choose both.
I like fruit, I like gas.
I'm not too big on, you know, old world terps like, you know, a brick or something.
But yeah.
There you go.
I mean, I got to ask them because it caught so much hate amongst the scene.
Have you ever tried or been impressed by one of the more Amsterdam hazers like the typical
Jack sort of terps thing or not your thing?
I mean, I came up on Jack.
I'm 28 years old.
So, that gives you how much, you know, knowledge I got on weed.
I'm a fucking baby compared to a lot of fools that, you know, probably got 10, 20 years on
me. But Jack is cool.
I fuck with Jack, man.
If you fuck around, give me a Jack cut.
I'll hit it to Wilson and I smoked plenty of Jack and J1 and, you know, Super Lemon
Haze and shit like that.
And I mean, it has its placeholder.
It's just not my preferred smoke.
Sure. And you raise an interesting topic that I've been asking people about for a while
and that in particularly the Bay Area and even down to L.A.
and whatnot, you get a lot of people talking about how they're just they're over the Jack
terps. It's just saturated for them.
But what my perspective is, is that the rest of the world isn't of that opinion.
They love it. Do you find that's reflective in sort of the demand for your seeds that
those sorts of strains still do pretty well?
When it comes to the seeds, man, there's a demographic for everything, just like you
said, you know, like there are people that love Jack, you know.
So, I like to hit everything and cover every box.
And you are right.
Or I don't even know if you said that, but people do.
There is a bigger calling for, you know, gelato and Skittles and and stuff like that.
Runts has is like the number one probably trending fucking strain amongst Instagram
or whatever weed avenue you're on.
But yeah, these strains are good for a reason.
You know, they are good. All these strains that I name Runts is good.
Gelato is good. Skittles is great.
I'm smoking a Skittles derivative.
So, fucking yeah, man, I'm privy to everything, man.
It's just I like stuff better than others.
Yeah, perfect.
And I mean, it's cool to hear that you're so young and achieving what you are.
And the question that comes to mind for me is that given you probably grew up when
Cookies was taking off, you were like getting into the cannabis scene and whatnot.
What's your thoughts on Cookies overall as a strain?
Because a lot of the older folk have this bit of a, you know, they're not so into it.
They don't like it. It's too new for them.
But you feel like you love it?
Cookies is dope.
Cookies is nice, man.
Ain't nothing wrong with Cookies, man.
Cookies is dope.
Cookies has this namesake placeholder for a reason, you know, fucking it's a good strain, you know?
Yeah, OK. And I mean, on that same note, you mentioned gelato, you mentioned Skittles and Runts.
What's your thoughts on Runts?
Do you feel like it stands up to gelato or it's derivative?
Oh, man, it's two different things.
Gee, I've tried it from different people.
You know, I've tried, you know, I've tried gelato, I've grown gelato, I've grown Runts.
They're two different things and they're both great, you know.
And then there's different gelatos too, you know, we can talk 41, 33, so on and so forth.
And they're all great.
Yeah, well, I mean, you asked the question for me, which of the gelatos are you most inclined to?
33, I think, is a full representation of all the gelatos, you know what I mean?
But I'm more inclined to the 41 for sure.
Yeah, I remember being at the Barberry Dispensary a while back in San Fran and trying some of
Stravinsky's 41 and I was so blown away by the potency.
Like I really thought it was going to be a bit hypey.
And I remember just looking at my friend being like, dude, I am fucked up.
People assume all rec weed is not good.
That's the problem, you know what I mean?
And generalising in any aspect of life, man, you're going to be in for a treat.
You know, you're not going to be open to new things.
You're going to be in your same box because you're just- everything is hype.
Everything is mediocre.
Nothing lives up to your palate.
You know, people are like that.
So, you know, I'll par to them.
Yeah, OK. And I mean, a point around gelato and Runtz that I wanted to specifically ask you, because I think you're a master of this, is that I feel like I like gelato more than Runtz.
But it's undeniable that Runtz have done a phenomenal job marketing the brand.
And I think you excel in that in your own right.
Do you see it similar to the way I've just put it or do you think it's a bit different?
Oh, man, you hit it on the head.
They push their product, man, and that helped shove it down people's throats, let alone solidify it as a namesake strain in the cannabis industry.
And people should take notes on that.
You know, fucking go make a song.
Go hire some dude that looks like Willy Wonka to fucking rap for you.
You know, fucking whatever you got to do.
And nothing against, you know, Young LB or any of your fam like that.
But go get your money, man.
Fucking go feed your kids.
Go make a legacy.
Quit being a fucking dude sitting at a fucking table on your couch with a bunch of other 40 year olds talking about how you could have did it better.
Yeah, I mean, I've certainly seen a few of those conversations go down and it kind of segues nicely into the idea of Berner and what he has and hasn't done.
I remember watching a YouTube video from you just a day or two ago and you were saying, you know, a lot of people criticize Berner.
They say you give him too much props and you were like, I think I kind of give him the right amount of props.
And it brings up this idea of like the naysayers often hate the fact that he's not the breeder.
But then I would always respond with, but he did do stuff like you can't deny that.
He hyped it to the point where it is what it is.
What's your thoughts on Berner overall?
Berner is a business person, you know what I mean?
He's over there making sure he's good, you know.
And that's just people got to understand that in life that not everything is a honeymoon, you know, and that's a good...
He sets the bar of what you might be dealing with, you know, and whether it be good or bad, you know, fucking I got nothing but nice things to say about people because, you know, that's how I am now.
I learned to be nice.
So shout out Big Berner.
Yeah, I feel you.
And I think a point that kind of helped me to realize that exact sentiment you just expressed is I think it was Sticker Farmer put up a post and he said, whatever you think about Berner, like he's paved the way for people to be able to feed their family for years to come.
And I thought that's actually a really unique perspective on it because he's created this empire kind of more so than what anyone else has done around any other strain.
He made jobs, point blank period.
Yeah, that's exactly.
And what you can say, he didn't make jobs, but like, okay, he represents cookies.
People work at cookies.
He made jobs.
Easy does it for me, you know.
Yeah. All right.
Well, let's jump back to what we normally ask people first, which is tell me about your first experience with cannabis.
Oh, damn.
Well, I'm from South Central Los Angeles.
So there's weed, you know, people smoke their weed out here.
So it's not like I'm from a conservative area that is not accessible.
So it was accessible growing up.
My pops always told me he didn't want to see me smoking that shit because he didn't see no future in it because of all the stigma on it.
You know, especially being in the hood.
If you got caught with weed, they're probably going to throw you in jail real quick, you know, especially being a Mexican, you know, fucking boom, boom.
But so I was always scared of it.
And then I got into eighth grade summer, going into ninth grade.
I think that's when I found like my buddy in an eighth grade had like a stem of some stress.
That's what we call brick weed.
And he's like showing it to me.
And I'm like, what's that smell like?
And he's like, oh, that's weed.
And I'm like, oh, can you bring me some tomorrow?
Just being a bad little kid, you know, fucking eighth grader or something.
Yeah, I was an eighth grader.
And whatever.
He doesn't bring me none the next day.
And like we just smell the stem.
And that's like my first encounter with weed.
It was just smelling the stem of it.
Second encounter, I'm hanging out with the skaters and we end up in a garage.
I was I was a fat kid.
I couldn't even skate, dude.
I would literally run with the chase the skaters around running because I wanted to be like hanging out with them.
You know, I wanted to be part of the skating crew.
Couldn't skate for shit.
Didn't even have a bike.
I'm just like running behind these kids.
And we end up in a garage and whatever.
One of their older brothers lights up in there.
And dude, I ran out that motherfucker so fast.
I'm like, I got to go.
Like, this is scary.
So, yeah.
But I think finally ninth grade came around and I got some weed from Javante.
He's one of my classmates.
And I went home and I rolled it up.
And there used to be a cul-de-sac with like a dead end place where all the transients would sleep in South Central.
And I rolled it up in a joint, but I didn't break it down.
And I lit it up and the shit was just falling out.
Dude, dude, dude.
Like the nugs, the compressed nugs would just fall out the joint.
And I'm like, whatever, you know, I gave it my best shot.
I go back and whatever.
That was a failed attempt.
So I haven't got high yet.
Three times with weed.
Didn't get high with the stem.
Was too pussy to do it in the garage.
Did it wrong the third time.
Fourth time around, they have some cat piss shake.
And I'm like, fuck it, just give it to me.
And I think I made like a...
I forgot how I smoked it, but that's like the first time I got high.
And I'm like, yeah, this is it right here, buddy.
And ever since then, it's been, you know, weed boy.
Hell yeah.
I mean, that's so like...
I'm so jealous that like your first proper experience getting really high was with like cat piss.
I guess that's some of the perks of growing up where you did.
Were you aware of any other strains that were popular around that time?
No, completely oblivious to anybody that smoked marijuana.
Just like a little, you know, conniving little kid just, you know,
dwelled my way, you know, dove my way into that world.
And, you know, here we are today.
Fantastic.
So was that the experience that kind of solidified it for you that you were like,
hey, I'm going to be involved in this for a good minute.
Or was there another one where you really like realised, hey,
cannabis is what I want to do with my life?
As far as that, that moment I realised I just want to get high, you know, not all the time.
Little did I know it was going to become all the time.
You know, not that I just want to get high all the time, but, you know, yeah.
But fucking, yeah.
So I didn't know I was going to grow weed or anything.
I just knew I was going to be smoking it.
And what was the progression like from there to your first grow?
Like how many years went by and what kind of inspired you to first kind of plant a seed or to
grow one out?
Well, for shits and giggles, you know, in high school I would, you know, grab a bag seed from
any given stress and throw it in a cup and put it in the backyard and watch it grow a little bit.
Maybe every now and then get a lollipop of bud.
And this is what age are you in high school, ninth, tenth grade, around that age.
Uh, 10, 11, 12, no growing, just smoking, lots of smoking, 11, 12.
And then my parents are like, this guy's just never going to stop smoking.
You know, like we got to we got to help him somehow, you know?
So my dad, he had a buddy.
He was getting in.
He was becoming more liberal, you know, more open to marijuana.
He's also in car clubs, you know, it just so happens dudes in low rider car clubs, some of
them smoke weed.
So it's kind of like, like, dude, you're over there kicking it with those weed smokers talking
about, I can't smoke, giving me a hard time.
So finally, like, whatever, dude, here's Ray.
He grows weed.
He's going to show you some stuff and we're going to help you.
So this is, you know, graduating, you know, around graduation time.
So he buys me like some clones and like 10, like 15 gallon barrels and he fills them up
with whatever they used to use a 50 50 miracle grow to steer maneuver, like the hottest shit
you can make on planet Earth.
But that's what they would use and whatever.
I'm like, whatever, dad, like I just want to smoke weed like the cool growing and he's
like, yeah, man, we're going to make it worthwhile.
And I just want to smoke the fucking weed.
But he ended up trying to grow it and rats ate it.
So and then and then finally, I'm like, OK, we moved to to Compton because we used to
live like in South Central over there by El Segundo, Vermont.
And I just I'm like, I'm smoking weed.
I had got a pound of sour diesel that I didn't manage correctly.
And I was like back to square one, you know, graduated a little bit of college, just lost
in the sauce.
Don't know what I'm going to do with myself.
I'm a kid.
And I just started growing for funsies and I would see my wife on Instagram and I'm like,
I'm in the real world.
You know, I just graduated high school, never was on Instagram, never was on social media.
I'm like, baby, like you're always on social media.
Like, get off of there.
You're wasting your time.
And then I'm like, let me see what this is about.
I start going and I start getting mused by everybody that grows on there.
And I'm like, what?
Like, there's strange names and there's this and there's that.
All I know is you can go by OG Kush.
You can go by, you know, Blue Dream, whatever strains they have at the shop.
Every now and then you get a clone.
Don't know that there's a big, you know, history and makers and like this whole thing, like
everything that I know now, none of that.
And just picked up game little by little.
To this day, I still soak up game like everything about right.
I found that shit out in less than 24 hours.
Like, I didn't know none of this shit.
I'm just like, boom, fucking educated and like that.
That's the power of the Internet and how fast you get information.
Yeah.
Wow.
A lot of questions we can ask there.
I just want to rewind back to how you mentioned your dad introduced you to his friend.
Was he like, did you consider the product he was producing at the time to be good quality?
Or do you think he still was kind of figuring things out himself?
I thought it was good.
I thought it was cool.
It wasn't like now that I look back, it was, you know, not that great.
But like at that moment, seeing that much at any given time is good.
I remember when you see like your first like 10 pounds in one space, you're like, whoa.
It's all good.
I love that.
I love that.
Okay.
And was he just like a sort of a hobby grower himself or did he have some connections to
some cool cuttings and whatnot?
What were they messing with?
I never dove that deep into who he knew as far as what he was growing.
But he, you know, he grew a lot of weed.
That's for motherfucking show.
Hell yeah.
So, you kind of explain the mediums.
What were the other aspects of the grow going on?
Like, were they using just like HPS lights?
What was the situation?
Oh, no, this is outdoor.
They were doing outdoor.
This is outdoor marijuana.
Whatever indoor they did, I didn't dive into that.
To this day, I've yet to like, I have walked into numerous grows.
I've had my own little four lighter that, you know, didn't go as planned.
But I, you know, used it to what I use it for.
And, you know, fucking you've never seen like a picture of me like, hey, you know, crushing
my 20 lighter.
Never ever because it's never happened, you know.
Yeah, sure.
So, would you say that you like predominantly you like to work more outdoors or it's just
the experience you have?
No, that's what I know.
I just know how to grow outdoor.
Yeah.
A lot of it.
Nothing wrong with that.
Yeah.
So, from that point, was it mostly this, your father's friend who you were kind of looking
to for inspiration and knowledge or were there any like bigger breeders you'd become
aware of and you were like, wow, this person knows what they're doing?
Well, you know, first it was, you know, Ray, my dad's buddy that, you know, taught me the
50-50 formula.
And then I'd have buddies come over and be like, dude, Miracle Grows terrible.
Like you're supposed to use Fox Farm.
I'm like, okay, here goes nothing Fox Farm, you know.
And then fucking hopped on Instagram and people were like, organic, organic, organic.
And, you know, whatever organic at that point I had like figured out how to use Fox Farm
and General Hydroponics and shit like that.
That's what I was using by the time I hopped on Instagram.
And then I go on Instagram and they're doing organics.
And it was like this crew called Summit Dogs that were using a Nectar for the Gods.
So I started using Nectar for the Gods.
And then I started seeing this, the KNF Farmer dude.
And I'm like, whoa, like that's like wizardry, dude.
Like you're over there fucking like what?
Like what are you doing with that milk?
Huh?
And then I dove into KNF and then I just, you know, I went into a rabbit hole of that.
Ended up with Jadam.
Jadam said KNF was trash, throw that whole book in the trash.
And I'm like, okay, I'm just going to stop here.
Go back to what I know and this keeping plants really green, which is with salts.
So now and whatever I do salts, but I do it works now is basically what I'm trying to say.
Sure.
That's a very interesting sort of progression you've had through the various grow styles.
And it's cool to hear that you've tried both sides of the coin, so to speak.
Overall, do you subscribe to the idea that a lot of people do where it's that like organic
is the best end product you can get, or do you think you can do just as well with any
sort of thing?
Man, I've had some really good organic shit, man.
I'm not going to lie, but the thing is I'm growing for seed production.
So, you know, if it was up to me, I'd bust it out organic, you know, fucking when you
go eat fruit was better organic or fucking the other one, you know.
Yeah, of course.
I think that's an analogy that I often fall back onto myself.
So from that point there, what was it like before you kind of became a breeder?
Did you spend some time just pheno hunting things and figuring out the ropes and kind
of collecting clones?
Like what was happening before you started breeding?
Breeding.
Breeding was like fucking the chocolate chip cookie for me, man.
People would see accidental pollinations in my yard and inquire on them.
And then I'd be like, whoa, like fucking I should go do an intentional one, you know.
So that became the the Tropicana cherry pie tangy mel that I ended up giving to my buddy,
Warped.
He brought it back and I'm still growing for, you know, cash crop or whatever, going to
blast it all into shatter or whatever the case.
And not knowing that I'm creating a dope ass seed or he's created a dope ass seed at his
house, but I'm getting half of them because I provided the mel or whatever amount I'm
getting.
And I put them off.
Fuck is right for so as soon as I got them and everybody's like, dope, I want some.
It was Agent Orange, Tropicana cherry pie tangy and it was a plush berry Tropicana cherry
pie tangy.
And people inquired and and the demand was really high and fucking I'm like, cool.
I've been busting my ass forever growing all these plants in the backyard, not forever,
but as long as I've had them.
And it's high risk because I got to grow them as big as possible and get as much as I can
in the middle of Compton fucking and cross my fingers that I do it right.
You know what I mean?
And, you know, fucking it just made sense to start making seeds and establishing my
seeds right then and there.
So I just did it.
And my thing is, well, you got to do it before it's saturated.
You got to do it before everybody else, you know, and you got to do it point blank, period.
So I just did it.
Boom.
We did the Tropicana cherry pie tangy.
I fucking made my homage all the way to Chalice and fucking in my mom's car and it broke down
on the way there.
I fucking smoking and steam and I'm like, fuck this.
We're making it there.
We pull up and and and fucking I go say hi to Oni because I'm already growing some of
the Tropicana the cherry pie tangy stuff was was one of the first strains I had made
for the Oni banner.
And I go and I meet Oni and they're like, you're fucking bat shit crazy.
Like, what are you doing here?
Like, you're poor.
You're supposed to be in Compton with your shitty plans or whatever, you know?
And I'm like, yeah, well, I'm here, you know, he's like, man, here, have these seeds and,
you know, have this hash.
And I go home and it's the papaya femmes like the first papaya availability, one of the
first papaya strains on the market.
And I grow those Tropicana too.
One of the first people to grow Tropicana too, which is also one of the, you know, best
strains.
Cool right now, too.
Everybody likes it.
And I grow them and I hit up Oni or Harry Palms at the time he was working with Oni.
And I'm like, hey, man, I got this male and these females out here.
He's like, fucking put it to work.
And I'm like, hell yeah.
And fucking it's been it's been a rap since then.
Wow, what a cool adventure.
The first thing that jumps to mind when you tell me that is we had a lot of people message
and ask, what's your relationship with Oni like?
Because I think some people actually thought you were like Oni, like just in disguise or
something.
No, no, Oni seed company, Oni noodles.
That's my mentor.
I learned a lot from him.
He taught me to just, you know, taught me a lot of shit, you know, a lot of ropes.
I don't got to do a lot of mistakes because he tells me not to.
He's like, no, like stay away from them.
That's good.
And it's always been it's always been for the better for both of us.
It's never been like I've never felt like like, you know, if if I ever felt compromised,
I just leave.
I'm very cool like that.
And this weed game, I know people are like that.
Everybody, people don't get along.
And I know people are shocked that we've been getting along this long.
Fucking people are like, that's how, you know, people are supposed to break up like now,
like, you know, we know how to work, you know?
Yeah, great.
That's good to hear.
And I mean, there's so many things I want to ask you about that last little answer you
had.
I mean, you touched on the papaya.
For a long time, there was what I think is an incorrect rumor going around that papaya
was just a renamed green crack.
What's your thoughts?
Have you heard this rumor?
Yeah, I think my buddy Rasta that's in jail, he was a meme guy back in the day.
He was under the moniker The Rasta.
He actually started that rumor, I believe, because I'm I don't know, like, I'll be a
self-proclaimed like I'm one of the probably original meme guys.
Like when it comes to the weed memes, like I'm the guy you like, you know, I'm one of
them, you know, I even sound the Michael Jordan of fucking memes.
I don't care.
I'll take it, you know, but yeah, he started that rumor, knowing that I was homies with
Oni, like just to like, make fun.
And he's like, ha ha, like, I'm starting rumors, you know, green crack is papaya.
And like, he'll send it to Oni and Oni would laugh about it.
So everybody was in on it, you know what I mean?
So and no, no, papaya is not green crack.
Papaya is actually a clone from I've overheard stories and I hate asking them because, you
know, you know, they say you look you're stupid or if you don't ask, but I stupid is not a
word, but you're stupid if you don't ask.
But I don't like to ask, but I've asked before or I've overheard someone ask.
And the story goes that it's a cut from Pink House in Colorado or some shit like that.
That was that Harry Poms smoked.
And he's like, I really need this.
And he brought it to the masses via cut, you know, reversing it and it's other things,
et cetera.
That's what it is.
What what seed stock it's from.
I don't fucking know, you know, and, you know, it's something I can easily ask those fools,
but it's like papaya is papaya.
So that's kind of that for me.
Yeah, sure.
Good answer.
And I mean, I guess it begs the question, what's your thoughts on green crack?
It's also like Blue Dream, a bit of a polarizing one.
Oh, green crack, Blue Dream, everything has its, you know, its place.
And those shits are cool.
Like I've made a Blue Dream hybrid before I did Blue Dream, you know, and I'm green
crack should give me a green crack cut.
I'll slap that bitch right now, you know, fucking let's do it.
I love that.
So just to jump back a moment, you were talking about the first kind of strains you were playing
with and they were a bit of a mistake, but they worked out being great.
And you mentioned that one of the mothers was Agent Orange, the other was the Plush Berry.
I've for a long time been a fan of TGA, regardless of what you think about Sub and all the rest.
I thought they put out some pretty nice work.
What's your thoughts on TGA?
Did you like to grow their stuff?
I never grown any TGA.
That was grown by Warp Genetics.
He did that pollination for me.
Those are his moms.
But fuck, man, dude's an OG.
That's for sure.
I've heard some weird shit, but like, who cares?
I mean, who cares?
I like, like, you know, show me the papers and then I'll care.
But, you know, everything is hearsay until I see it on paper for me because the internet,
you know, don't hear everything.
I mean, don't believe everything you hear and shit.
Sure.
So with that in mind, what was the, you know, we've heard about some of the stuff that was
unintentionally made.
What was the first cross you intentionally made and did it work out to work well or didn't
work out so well?
Oh yeah.
The first intentional crosses were the Papaya Femmes cross to Tropicana F2.
So that was Papaya Punch, Tropicana F2, Kato Cookies, Tropicana F2, Banana OG, Papaya Tropicana
F2, which became my namesake, you know, flagship strain, Wilson, Do-Si-Do, Papaya Tropicana F2,
and one other one, Three Chem, Papaya Tropicana F2.
And those worked out really well to the point where Oni wanted them for his banner.
He's like, hey, I was going to do the Banana OG Tropicana hybrid for, you know, Oni and
you, you know, you did it.
Like, can you not sell them?
And I'm all like, yeah, man, sure.
I won't sell them.
He's like, better yet, like want to work together?
And I'm like, fucking even better.
And that, you know, you got to crawl and you got to, you know, even though I say, you know,
or, you know, I might say in a lot of words, you know, the code, this unwritten code that
people don't think I respect.
I still have a general respect for it.
You know what I mean?
To the point where early on in the game, I asked.
Now, I'm at a point where it's just I'm in my own lane now, you know, fucking if I get
a cut from from a breeder and he's like, hey, respect it.
That's different because I got it hand to hand with a breeder, you know.
Now, if I went and bought some seeds, it's mine now, you know, those are my seeds and
whatever I do with them, fucking it shouldn't affect you because you should be doing something
different anyways, you know.
Yeah, sure.
And I mean, you just touched on a very pertinent question I was going to ask you a bit later
on.
Would you say that generally speaking, you preach that sort of philosophy yourself in
terms of if someone buys your seeds, they can kind of do with it what they want?
Or do you feel like it is kind of good manners at least just to try to reach out and just,
you know, touch base sort of thing?
You can reach out, but fucking don't be mad when they say no.
So, it's better if you kill first and then ask questions later, you know, and fucking
what are they going to fucking do?
You know what I mean?
Fucking you can get off Instagram like, oh, man, you know, like people are crazy like
that.
It's not it shouldn't bother you deep like that.
Now, if you have like a there's positions that you're in, like if you're just a random
person, it shouldn't you should be like, dude, go ahead, you know, make more seed stock.
You know, if it's a big person, you should be like, hey, fuck you guy, you know, kind
of but like flattered because they're so big they want to do it.
But it shouldn't mess with you.
It shouldn't affect you, you know, and they should respect you enough.
Like you shouldn't make people mad, too, you know, because I will go after your shit
and sell it for a penny, you know, fucking shit like that.
So like.
It's just it's just there's there's there's equations to everything, you know, not everything
is the same answer.
So yes and no, you know, it's yeah, you know, fucking it's like like, for instance, Capulet
gave me a cut.
We did a project.
Don't release the seeds.
OK, that's because that's a that's like a written formal contract.
Now, hey, man, I see you made a cross with my things like you shouldn't be selling that.
That's different.
Like, was there ever any formal thing?
Do you have a disclaimer on your bag?
Like, where is your backup?
Is this some unwritten shit?
Do you feel threatened like you're having a bad day like is shit like that?
People that get grab testers and make seeds with them.
I could understand that, too.
But but also there has to be that that that foreground like, hey, these are testers.
They're for you to have an opportunity not to start a fucking seed company, you know?
Yeah, I agree.
There's there's obviously a lot of nuance in varying different situations as to what
sort of the approach the approach to take.
It raises the question for me and you raised you raised Capulet himself.
I often kind of scratch my head a little bit at how Cap gets a bit frustrated at how the
Mac one is, you know, everyone and his dogs able to get their hands on it these days.
And he you know, he harps on about how he was just meant to be given out to the OGs
and you deserve it and stuff.
But then I also think about Bodhi's sentiment where he says, look, if you don't want something
getting out, you just shouldn't give it out.
Like, what's your thoughts on that?
Do you think like if you give a clone to someone, it's inevitably going to get out?
Yeah, man.
Fucking that.
That's that's, you know, that's.
That might happen.
And the way I do it, I just poke fun at the situation.
Like the first time I met Cap, I was like, how much like I think I told him something
like, hey, like, how much can I sell my Mac one for or something like that?
And he just looked at me like, you fucking asshole.
And like that's that was like my way of breaking the ice, you know, fucking.
So, yeah, you know, and it kind of like throws him off like, like, what the fuck, guy?
Like, you know that I'm I get mad about this and you're over here like joking about it,
you know, so fucking.
Yeah, yeah.
Just break the ice.
Yeah, I agree.
I think there's definitely some humor to be had in that situation.
So if we just rewind a little bit, you mentioned that you actually crossed a Dosey Doe male,
I believe, to Blue Dream in the past.
What's your thoughts on Dosey Doe?
I feel like it's a cool strain, but it's also kind of fallen off a little bit.
Did you find much success in that male?
Oh, people love the Blue Doe, man.
And it was a very small seed stock and people loved it to the point where I have a clone of
it.
It's probably like two years old already now, probably older, probably two.
I just love adding years to shit, but it's just it's at least two years old.
Who knows my buddy, Maga Cannabis or whatever his name is.
He sent me that cut and I hit it to Wilson again.
Not again.
I hit it to my Wilson keeper, but and I've had tons of flower of it.
Hash.
Everybody that's grown it loves it.
You know, like I hate to fucking put cream on my taco, but it's never been like, hey,
this Blue Doe sucks.
I've never gotten that response and very, very, you know, it's probably like 50 to 100
packs.
It wasn't that big of a drop, but it was very successful seed stock.
And I put energy into it.
Like we were talking about marketing earlier, like Blue Doe happened to be the only strain
I had in the making at the time.
So all my energy marketing got put into that one strain as opposed to now.
Where I'm just like in full production and it's like everything times Wilson.
So it's kind of hard to nitpick which is like the one for you.
You know, so it's all like just go on the site.
Now it's like go on the site, type in your favorite strain.
It's probably across to Wilson.
That's what I that's kind of the wave now.
Sure.
A good answer.
And I think part of the reason why I brought that question up is because, you know, I really
like all of Fletcher from Archives work, but sometimes he does get a bit frustrated when
people breed with Do-Si-Do.
It feels to me as though he wants to have sort of exclusive breeding with males from
that one.
Did you find any issues with that from him or anything like that or it was all bueno?
I mean, fucking I know for a fact he knows who I am.
Fucking everybody knows who the fuck I am.
But when I did that shit, I didn't fucking know who made that shit.
I was just grabbing Do-Si-Do, hitting it to Blue Dream.
That's how oblivious I can be to the game, the players, etc.
I'm just out here having fun.
Fucking if Fletcher would have hit me up, I'm like, who was happening?
To this day, I'm not here to make anybody mad.
And at this point, they shouldn't make me mad either.
Fucking we're all human, dude.
Fucking you don't like something, shut the fuck up.
Stay in your corner.
Leave me alone.
Sure.
And something about the Do-Si-Do, which a few other breeders have done with other strains,
is that there's like different releases where there's like, you know, the number four, the
number 22, the number 18, like all these different sort of variations on it.
Do you think you would ever do a project like that with maybe Wilson, where there's like
these different sort of brothers and sisters using the breeding or you just like to stick
with the keeper?
No, that's what I'm doing actually right now.
Popping like fucking 200 Wilson seeds and I'm going to do that.
And I have my Wilson keeper mail around and we're just going to have some, we're going
to make all the 40 year olds and up happy.
I love it.
I love it.
And out of curiosity, do you remember which of the Do-Si-Do variants you used in the Blue
Doe?
It was pollen gifted from my buddy Tert Factory that he found.
He sent it from Colorado.
Okay, cool.
Yeah.
So, you mentioned it earlier, but I'll get you to repeat it because the question we got
more than any other question from the fans was, what is the genetics of Wilson?
Some people thought it was just a Trop F2, some people said banana papaya Trop.
Can you iron it out for them?
Wilson F1 that I made for Oni Seed Company is banana OG papaya from Femme Seedstock that
I found times Tropicana F2.
People get it confused with Wilson Zero, which is Oni Noodles, Oni Seed Company's
interpretation of, you know, almost the same strain, but with his selection of banana OG
papaya from Femme Seedstock hit to his Tropicana F1 that is his flagship male used in, you
know, almost every strain until recently he's been using different males.
Cool, cool.
And what sort of like flavors and structures can people expect Wilson to bring to crosses?
Oh, man.
I like to say it just brings hash to product, you know, everything seems to wash a little
better with some Wilson in there, but I've never got like a scientist or anybody to take
data like, oh, like this is pre-washed without Wilson.
You know, this is the mom that you hit pre-Wilson and this is it.
Like we got numbers for you, buddy.
But what I do get from Wilson is fucking, it's just continuing like lineage, like isolating
a clone terpene profile times Wilson, getting a derivative of anything in the easiest form,
as opposed to sitting cuts, you know, keeping cuts.
You can have a big ass fucking bag of seeds with the flavor in there, you know what I mean?
And it's easy to give it to people as opposed to a mom that you got to keep clean.
And, you know, hopefully it makes it across the country because it's not going to make
it to fucking Spain or wherever.
It's just that's what I do.
And that's what Wilson does.
Wilson is my boy that fucks everybody and allows me to get seeds of it.
And it just so happens that people are happy with the seeds, no matter what the progeny
of it fucking.
I just say, hey, man, it makes it hash more because it probably does.
And that's what people are telling me.
Wilson washes itself.
It hits like five, six, any given fucking phenol hunt.
So from the seed, you just grab a seed, throw it in the ground.
You're going to get some hash with Wilson.
So we'll say it brings that brings sexiness to the plant.
So you can grab a land race like Malawi or something like that and hit it to Wilson.
And now you got, you know, not fully blown purple weed, but, you know, purple hues, you
know, undertones of purple, which is brings that, you know, so it does it does some shit
for the plant, you know, bag appeal, you know, hash.
That's what it does.
Lovely.
And I mean, we'll touch on some concentrate stuff later.
I just love to ask you quickly, what was the creation of Wilson like?
Like, where did the name come from?
Were you watching Castaway or how did it come about?
Well, I'm not too big on naming strains.
That's the thing.
Only named them.
Banana OG papaya is called Castaway.
So I crossed Castaway to Tropicana F2.
That ended up becoming Wilson, like a play on, you know, already, you know, Castaway.
So that's how that became that.
And it turned into fucking this whole thing, you know, and it's still relevant with, you
know, Tom Hanks getting coronavirus as soon as, you know, the shit hit and it just so
happens he yells Wilson out in the fucking movies.
It's just it's perfect time and everything happens for a reason.
I love it.
And so what was the decision like to breed with the male?
Did you pheno hunt the seeds first and find a killer female and you were like, damn, I
got to find a male of this or how did it go?
Yeah.
Yeah.
So out of all of them, out of all the females, like Wilson was, you know, the one that was
different.
It was something untapped, you know, papaya punch smelled too much like, you know, either
papaya was too punchy.
The three cam papaya was just too much papaya.
The do-si-do and the Kato, they just weren't as good as the Wilson.
So that left the Wilson and I went and we had a festival in San Francisco and we all
sat down and I had made these crosses.
No, no.
No, I hadn't made these crosses, but I had went back home and they're like, hey, dude,
no, we were in San Francisco and made these crosses.
And they're like, you got to pick one, you know, like to be the one.
And I'm like, well, shit, I'm growing a bunch of them at the house right now.
I got like at least 30 of each growing right now of those five strains.
And I'm like, they're like, the Wilson's the one.
And I'm like, yeah, the Wilson's the one.
And I'm like, well, shit, I got a bunch of males of them and I'm going to go through
them.
And, you know, that's how we started hitting everything with Wilson.
And that's how Wilson became the go to, you know, strain and fucking it worked out.
Yeah, it was talked about.
It was talked about.
It wasn't spontaneous.
We did sit down and we did, you know, brainstorm it like, you know, go home.
We being Oni Noodles and Harry Palms was at the table that day when he was working with
Oni.
And you're going to go home and you're going to get a Wilson and, you know, that's going
to be your namesake, you know, and fucking here we are today.
Sure.
And you mentioned earlier that Oni's version of Wilson, the Wilson Zero is using their
selection, different males and whatnot.
Have you ever kind of compared them side by side?
And do you think they're more similar than different or they're quite different because
the selections just differ?
Oh, they're different, man.
Oni's Trap F1, it really, the progeny of it is, you know, completely, you know, it just
stands out compared to, you know, my Trap F2, you know, so it's different.
It's different weed, different selection, different weed.
Sure, sure.
And something you mentioned earlier, which I think is a hugely relevant point is that
you've got to like get the project made and out there before the time comes and goes.
And that was something he referenced in regards to that Trap Cherry Pie Tangy male.
What I'm interested to know is it seems like the Wilson is come at a very opportune time,
like that sort of flavor profile it has is big at the moment.
And it's not like, you know, because some breeders will realize something's big and
then try to get that sort of cross done.
And then by the time it's out there at market, it's come and gone.
What's your thoughts on the current flavor situation within the scene?
And do you have any predictions for what might be the next big flavor?
Oh, man.
I think people are going back to the wheel, which is OGs, you know, people are going back
to the shit that worked, you know, not so much R&D no more.
There's still the R&D, but I mean, me personally, I'm going back to, I'm trying to find, you know,
the markers or as far as we can get into the markers.
But, you know, sadly, you got to hit a Matt Riot to get the real deal.
So I'm in for a treat.
I don't think I'm ever going to get any real plants.
Look, we're going to have to have a chat about Riot, but we'll defer that for a moment because
I wanted to ask you a little more about some flavor stuff.
So I'd be interested to know now, now that you're a bit more established and as you mentioned
earlier, a lot of people are familiar with your work.
Are there any breeders outside of ones you've already collabed with that you think are doing
cool work and you might want to do a project with them?
I mean, as far as doing a project with anybody, I don't like to ask too much for help.
So that's kind of like, I kind of see like, hey, that's like me asking for something almost.
So I've never asked for anything.
Every project I've done has either been a forced collab or the big homie looking out for me.
So like right now, I got a, Shcherbansky hit me up the other day.
We're going to do a collab.
Cap already, we already did a collab.
It's in the works.
He just popped the seeds that I made in my yard with his male, I mean, with his female
in my male.
But who would I want to do a collab with?
Fucking, I do collabs with all my friends, you know, to help them, you know, make more
seeds and just be part of the machine.
But I would like to meet all the OGs, you know, and pick their brain and let me, you
know, just hang out with them or something.
That'd be cool.
Whoever OG it is, you know, fucking, hey, what's up, you know, what you got?
What you working with?
Oh, I did this.
I did that.
You know, fuck this guy.
Fuck that guy.
Cool.
Does it work?
You know.
Yeah.
So, you mentioned the term forced collab.
Is that sort of like a thing where someone's a bit upset with a cross you're making and
sort of kind of, you know, calm the waters, it turns into a collab or what did you mean
by that?
Oh, that just means I just, you know, fucking just do the collab without any consent, kind
of a kill now, ask questions later thing.
Like, hey man, I popped all your seeds and I crossed on the Wilson.
Forced collab.
I love that.
Forced from the other side of what I was thinking.
Okay, that's cool.
Yeah.
That's cool.
So, what would be your advice for sort of a newbie breeder?
Like someone who's looking to get a bit more notoriety, how should they go about doing
things?
What have you learned?
Oh man, notoriety, man, just be cool, man.
Be cool, man.
If fucking if you like, you got to use your platform.
So, you know, you got to talk to people.
At least I think you do.
I mean, so you got to be kind of, you know, you got to have good communication skills.
Can't be fucking an introvert.
You got to put out a little bit, give them a little bit of taste of your work, your life.
But I mean, maybe you don't, maybe I'm wrong, but that's what I did.
I just kept it cool, kept it real.
Keep it honest.
If I don't know this shit, don't lie about it.
Don't got to come up with any story as I go.
Just keep it 100, man.
Sure.
And I think, you know, that was a bit of a segue question in terms of, I think that you've
done very well on Instagram in terms of building a following, getting people to be aware of
the brand and the crosses.
Do you think it's possible for a sort of fledgling breeder to be able to succeed in
the current landscape without being sort of active on a social media or Instagram?
Yeah, someone asked that last time.
They're like, what would you be using if it wasn't Instagram?
Well, there'd be another form.
There'd be another place, you know, it'd be YouTube, it'd be Facebook, it'd be any given
form.
Fuck, it'd be word of mouth.
However, you got to get it.
Before I was breeding, you know, making seeds, whatever you want to call it, I was backpacking
the weed I grew in my backyard from shop to shop, you know, selling that.
So, you know, fucking that's what you'd end up doing.
But it wouldn't be as successful, I think, because, you know, it just so happens there's
a lot of motherfuckers on Instagram.
It's easy to use, it's user friendly, and it's easy to, you know, get that message across
on here, as opposed to going on a whole ass form, not user friendly, not being able to
put a face to a product, Facebook, a couple channels.
It's just the most convenient thing for people when it comes to weed like that.
Sure.
And I guess an extension of that would be that I feel like you're quite a polarizing
figure to some people on Instagram.
I think most of the people I talk to really enjoy your content and the memes.
There are obviously some who are not so into it.
Why do you think people view you as a polarizing figure?
And do you think that it's a case of just any publicity is good publicity?
No, not even that.
Any publicity, like I don't want to be known as...
There's people that think that's the case and they're like just doing terrible.
Like, dude, all the publicity you're getting is fucking terrible.
Like, that's not the case, you know.
So with me, I think they just relate to like, I can do that too.
From the bottom to the top, you know, if they see me grow the foundation, they're like,
what the fuck?
How did you do it?
What's the trick?
And the trick is just stay grounded, keep your job, build your dream and hopefully cross
your fingers that you did your dream right and you built it up right.
Work hard, of course.
But that's all that cliche shit that Gary Vee could tell you in any given video.
Oh, good old Gary Vee.
So you referenced earlier that, you know, you're the meme guy, so to speak.
How did this come about?
You know, were you always sort of like a jokester sort of guy growing up?
Yeah, man, I grew up on 4chan, dude.
I would go to go visit my brother in college and he went to UC Santa Cruz and, you know,
there they would nerd out his buddies and they would be on 4chan and I just thought
it was the edgiest shit in the world.
And I kind of just would lurk every day, every now and then I'd go on there.
And I've just been aware of memes longer than most people have.
So, you know, I got 10,000 hours of memes on them.
So it's like, it's fucking...
I'm the fucking outlier when it comes to that shit.
There you go.
Yeah, you've...
What is it?
You've mastered it.
You put in your 10,000 hours.
Yeah, straight up.
That's facts, G.
So I guess the question is, do memes sell packs or do you think they just grab people's
attention enough so that you can then push?
Elon Musk said it the best, G.
Memes control the world or some shit like that.
It certainly feels like it's the zeitgeist and that like people respond to it.
Definitely.
Yeah, my wife was talking to me in the car the other day that people, when we're older,
they're going to be looking at memes like a piece of art, like, oh, this meme came out,
like the dong, the black dude with the dong, you know, in Corona or whatever happened.
Like, they're going to bring that up on a screen in a college and they're going to be
talking about it.
They're going to be like, oh, you know, the great meme of the coronavirus epidemic and
shit like that.
It's art.
Yeah, it will be very interesting to see how it's all analyzed and broken down in like
sociology classes in 20 years from now.
That's pretty hilarious, actually.
So you referenced in a prior answer a little while ago that Shabinsky's been hitting you
up to do some stuff.
What sort of stuff would you want to maybe work with him?
Like you're using one of the gelato carts or what do you have in mind there?
Yeah, man.
I mean, for starters, I respect everybody, you know, that's how it goes, unless they're
not respectable people.
And he hit me up because he sees how I roll and he respects it and I've never disrespected
him.
And if I have, I've owned up to it because I can be a little disrespectful here and there.
And he's like, I like the way you roll, you know, and I think it'd be a great opportunity
for us to work together.
And I'm like, fuck, yeah, man, you're fucking Shabinsky, man.
People fucking probably would say they don't want to work with you and end up working with
you anyways because they're fucking weirdos like that.
But I'm not a weirdo.
And I'm like, let's fucking work, man.
And, you know, hopefully we get this shit cracking.
Hell yeah.
So, you know, another good segue in that you've got your own store in the works in
Fairfax, just down the road from Shabinsky's store.
What's that journey been like to being able to get your own store?
Was it just a dream you never thought you'd be able to do or was it just always the end
goal from day one?
Oh, man, fucking who knew, man, who fucking knew?
Uh, first T-shirts I made were at the same place I made this one.
And it's just like the dude at the swap meet that will whip up a shirt for you for 20 bucks.
So, you know, I would like on Instagram, I was like, hey, guys, like I got my cool little
logo, you know, that the guy, my homie sent me like, who wants a shirt of it?
Oh, I'll take one.
I'll take one, you know, and then it became, oh, I made a box of T's and they come with
free seeds or however you want to look at it.
Free seeds, free tea, free tea, free seeds, however the fuck you want to look at it.
And it just so happens the design is dope, like something you'd go and buy at fucking
a store, you know?
So it's like you get seeds and a dope T, fuck yeah.
And it turned into a monster.
It turned into me fucking getting boxes of T-shirts, let alone trying to find a storefront,
finding a storefront on fucking Fairfax, let alone.
So it all just kind of just happened, man.
There you go.
And, you know, do you feel like you've, quote, made it, so to speak, at this point?
Bro, I'm broke as fuck, man.
I ain't got shit, bro.
I ain't got no property.
When I'm on a beachside, you know, my buddy's driving me on a helicopter from place to place
so I could go have a business meeting and then be able to home and sleep at night in
my fucking house in Calabasas or some shit like that.
That's when you made it.
But man, I'm, I'm fucking, I'm still trying to figure it out.
Gee, I didn't make shit.
That's all.
People see what they want to see.
And that's all I let them see, man.
They only see, they don't see my wife throwing a fucking control at me across the house.
You know, they only see, you know, my wife handing me this T-shirt all nicely, you know,
it's like.
Yeah, okay.
I mean, that raises a really interesting point.
Do you feel like there is just like all this sort of behind the scene works, which people
often kind of discredit because Instagram often, you know, it doesn't really show that
a lot of the time.
There's some shitty people out there that don't want their shitty lives on Instagram.
Like they made shitty decisions in the past.
I own up to anything I do.
So I'm very open about everything.
Like I'm an ugly motherfucker.
So what, you know, show the ugliness, but try to make it look good, you know, and I'm
very open.
Like people could fucking tell you like what I did today, because I'll be fucking cracking
on my phone all day.
So like, it's weird like that.
I'm trying to figure it out.
There's a balance to everything.
I do hide the shitty shit.
Of course, I'm not going to tell you like, like if someone's doing adultery, you think
they're going to be like, oh man, fucking my wife caught me cheating today.
Like it's going to be a terrible week.
The seeds are, the plants are going to look bad.
Like nobody's.
And if they do, they're just fucking crazy.
Keep that shit to yourself, you know?
Yeah, of course, of course.
So just to jump back to what you mentioned earlier about how, you know, you were doing
the buy a shirt, get some seeds or get the seeds, get a free shirt, however you want
to look at it.
I've noticed that you have got to be the king of like the insane promos.
And I think that the thing which like really piqued my interest in that is you were doing
like 15 packs for like 450 bucks or something like that.
I think you're doing even better deals than that at the moment.
Do you feel like this is a really good way to get your work out there and to have people
repping your brand?
Or do you think you're just trying to be good to the customer?
It's both, G. These dudes, you know, whatever.
They want to make it like, like it's fucking the holy grail, you know, like, dude, you
have a five gallon bucket of those fucking seeds.
Like, do you not want people to have them?
You know, like, like you, like there's ways of doing things, you know?
And I've managed to figure it out how to do it my way.
People think it's like they're whoring out their strain, you know?
Well, isn't that what you want?
Kinda you want everybody to try your perspective?
Nah, only these select people at this select price, you know?
And there are strains that you can allocate towards that price because you put more work
into them, etc.
Or, or there was only so many of them.
So you can do whatever you it's your fucking product.
You can price it at whatever you want.
And some people do better than others, you know?
Sure.
And I mean, it raises the question, do you feel like what you're doing might help bring
a new sort of era of pricing for seeds and that like gone is the days of, you know, the
$150 pack sort of thing?
It is, man.
Everybody, not everybody, but I've had seed makers, sellers, whatever you want to call
them, hit me up and be like, dude, that is, you're fucking crazy.
It was 15 for 300 at one point.
And I would let them pick the 15 packs from a fucking extensive list.
And they're like, would it like, and I had the five for 100.
So if you didn't have $300 to cough up, you can get five packs, but those would be dealer's
choice.
You wouldn't be able to pick them from a cohesive list.
But to date, I still have that except the 15 for 450 is a different tier and whatever.
I sound like I'm selling this shit now.
That's not what I want to do.
We're talking about how we're driving the price down.
I think they, it's just, you got more work to do now.
You know what I mean?
Now you got to have somebody bag and tag for you.
Now you got to really, you know, put your fucking boots on, strap up because, you know,
here comes fucking Masonic and he has five gallon buckets of every strain he's ever made.
And it's fucking, he can give them away all fucking day for a whole month if he wants.
And then, and then fucking sell them again.
It's, I gave away more seeds than I've sold.
That's for fucking sure.
You know what I mean?
And five for 100, that's what, like 50, 60 seeds or some shit like that.
That's not too many seeds, man.
I get it.
Some people don't have all the space, but we're in a different time.
We're in a different era.
People have to grow very secluded, very secretive back in the days, access to genetics and all
that shit.
You know, there was, it was harder now it's, it's the future.
And, and, you know, we move a little faster, like the internet, you know, information goes
fast.
Everything's faster now, let alone my seed production method and how the sales go.
Yeah.
I mean, so much to go into there.
I guess the first thing I quickly ask about is your seed production method on the surface.
When I was looking at just your, your output is insane.
Like there's just new crosses dropping left, right and center.
Do you do this by having a few different sites and kind of staggering things, or do you make
them all at once and then just slowly trickle them out?
So it seems as though new stuff's always being made.
What's your approach to that?
Well, what I did this season, I just kept the male and I just kept bringing out males
any given week from my big male, or, or I, you know, let alone brought out the big male
at the very end or in the middle pollinated him and kept the cuts.
So it's all like, there was always pollen around pretty much.
There was always a tower of pollen hitting everything, whether it be a cut this big one
that grew out a little bit more, you know, the male that I, you know, the whole dad that
I had, and I just fucking flipped the whole thing and just, you know, just on everything
and just called it a day.
But yeah, it's, it's keeping stages of him, keeping towers of him all spaced out throughout
wherever the fuck I'm at.
Okay.
Yeah.
Cool, cool, cool.
And you also mentioned that you've probably given away more seeds than you've sold.
I remember in a prior episode, Bodhi spoke about how this is just sort of like a good
act to do in general.
It's kind of like helping the scene out by giving people seeds.
Obviously it helps promote you because although not everyone's going to test the seeds you
give them, some will, and some will post photos and it'll help to get you a bit more sort
of notoriety amongst people.
Do you subscribe to that idea?
And do you think that when a breed is sort of starting out, they should give some seeds
away and not just be trying to sell everything from day one?
Yeah, that's, that's, uh, I actually, that's some game right there.
That's some real game, actually.
Uh, dude, you, you, when you make your first cross, man, and you think you're going to
just be like uncle Scrooge or whoever the fuck and just, you know, fucking deep diving
into gold, bro, you need to relax and just start giving shit away, man.
You just, just give away half, half of the seeds.
Gee, you're going to see, they're going to see other people have them and they're going
to be like, I want some too.
Now you can sell them.
You know what I mean?
And it's good karma points too.
So, uh, uh, I'm into mystical shit like that.
You know, I believe in positive out, you know, output, you can get some positive shit back
and ain't nothing wrong with, you know, there's dudes out there that got a yard, but they
think every seed pack costs a hundred dollars, you know, they're just cause that's what every
seed pack costs until, you know, fucking people like me came around or been around.
You know, I'm not too privy.
Maybe there are people, but they don't know how to use the internet or they don't even
know how to go through the Avenue of going it, you know?
So, uh, yeah, fucking give away your seeds and then start your shit.
Yeah, for sure.
That's going to help you a lot.
Hell yeah.
So, I mean, on that topic of making seeds, what's the next couple of Wilson crosses you
want to make?
And are there any sort of dream crosses where you're like, you're just trying to get your
hands on the female, but you're finding it hard to track down sort of thing, but you
think it'll be like a winner?
Uh, I'm not, I'm not too, uh, I don't seek the strains too much.
I'm not too like, if there's a hot strain on the market, I'm not like, oh man, like
I need that.
It's going to really help me, you know, me build everything just kind of falls in my
lap.
I'm, I'm, I'm nice to a lot of people and, uh, I give like I give and they give back and
it just so happens.
A lot of my buddies have some cool ass cuts and I happen to have a lot of them, you know,
they happen to fall in my lap.
They happen to get pollinated.
Pollinations with them.
So it will be like a G41 that I didn't, you know, transplant and, you know, do full term
or something like that.
Like, like the Cuban black haze, like, even though I know it's probably not going to be
my favorite strain, I know a lot of people love it, but so I want to put it in their
hands and, you know, make some money just so happens to be part of that.
You know what I mean?
And people can be like, oh, I do it for God.
Nah, I'm a motherfucker.
Like you're doing this to, you know, put some food on the table and maybe go to Disneyland
too.
You know what I mean?
So quit that shit.
Like, you know, you know, you want to live nice, you know, you don't want to fucking
be mediocre.
And if you do well, fucking you're ethical and you're cool and all power to, you know
what I mean?
Namaste.
But a fucking, you know, we're, we're over here fucking, you know, we're doing stuff
for a reason, you know, and, and the guys that are going to get the Cuban black haze
Wilson times Wilson again, they're going to be stoked for that.
That shit.
They're going to be like, dude, you grabbed my favorite strain, but not only did you hit
it to Wilson, but you hit it twice and it's, and it's cheap and I can get it, you know,
I don't got to go through, you know, to this guy to get it.
Cause fucking it costs too much or whatever, or it's inaccessible.
Like I'll make it accessible and that strain along with a bunch of other strains that,
you know, I'm stoked about like, uh, like the Mac Wilson, the Mac from cut Wilson.
I hit that small seed stock because Mac doesn't take well to pollen.
So I'm going to hopefully the hybrid of it does.
So I'm gonna hit it again.
Nice.
You read my mind.
I was about to ask with the, with the Mac, have you figured out any tips or tricks to
getting it to make pollen or it's just a luck sort of thing?
Well, to take pollen, to take pollen, the cut, uh, I just hit it, man, just hit it from,
from the badge to finish it, cross your fingers that you get enough, you know, that's literally
what I did.
And, and, and literally, uh, and I, and I'd be like bullshit, like caps just saying that
to deter people from hitting it, you know, like he's just telling you it don't take,
but now like that shit don't take well, gee, it really doesn't take well to pollen it.
And it don't want to give you seed.
And that's kind of cool.
Cause like, you know, that, that's like one, uh, one, one step of red tape from people
pouring out his, his, uh, his, you know, his baby.
Yeah, for sure.
And I mean, I like to ask all guests this, what's your thought on the Mac flower and
concentrate itself?
Are you a fan?
It's a bit of a polarizing strain in its own, right?
I mean, I've been to piece of green a couple of times and I pick up Mac caps cut to this
day.
My buddy dog man was here the other day.
He washed them.
It's its own thing, man.
It's dope.
Max.
Cool.
I'm not one to hate on any strain.
It's just some are better than others.
It's like, man, you hate weed.
Like, come on, dog, chill out.
You know, I don't hate anything to hates or dislike.
Like, I just don't like it.
I don't necessarily dislike it.
I like it less.
Yeah, I feel.
And I mean, speaking, just referencing earlier, I was watching some of your YouTube videos
and you were testing like the snowman from the cookies crew powers up and the London
pound cake.
These strains cop a lot of hate, not necessarily because the people have tried them, but just
because they really dislike the crew behind them.
What's your take on these strains?
Do you feel like like some of these strains, which cop a bit of flack are pretty good.
It's just like the stigma surrounding the crew that made them.
Or how do you feel about it?
It's quality control had a lot to do with the stigma that was put on the strain.
Now, for instance, snowman, when it was debuted at Emerald Cup, there was some moldy badges.
So people were going to just put that you mentioned snowman moldy, you know, so stuff
like that doesn't help.
And, you know, fucking you grow fucking a million acres or I don't know how much they
grow.
But and fucking you're going to you look hard enough, you don't find something.
But it's just it's how you address things, too.
So there's politics to everything.
You know, the strains were good.
If they're good, they're good.
There was whatever.
When I went to cookies, Berner called them and had them help me while I was on the phone
with Berner and he made sure I got all the fresh stuff.
So there goes quality control.
He made sure like his, you know, that's smart on his behalf.
You know what I mean?
Like if somebody went to your house, like not saying you sell weed, but like say you
sold weed and it just so happened to be like somebody you want to be in good graces with
and there's there's tears, you know, you're going to call whoever's serving that dude
and you'll be like, hey, man, give them the fucking the head stash, you know, like I want
them to go home and and give me a good bias.
So, you know, you can't blame them for that.
You know, fucking there's there's there's there's a product for everybody.
Not everybody can afford the fresh batch.
They got to get, you know, the sun grown or whatever.
So he made sure I got the good stuff.
So, of course, he he was smart about that.
He made sure I went home and it just so happens I was doing reviews at the time and he got
good reviews because everything I reviewed wasn't fucking terrible because, you know,
sometimes shit's bad and, you know, and I and there's a complete hiatus on that on that
shit because it's just it's a whole ass job, man.
You you know, you do this shit.
So editing and all that my wife does it.
I record it and I'm just like, you know what?
We're just going to stop for a bit.
So, yeah.
Yeah, I feel yeah.
So something I've been personally wondering about the whole cookie situation is that as
you referenced, there was some issues with quality control with some of the outdoor batches
and it kind of raised this idea of like for a longest time, Cookies was primarily an indoor
only sort of company like they were selling indoor flour.
It was good quality.
It helped get the brand to where it is.
Now they're expanding outdoors and doing some sun grown stuff.
Do you feel like overall that's beneficial because it's providing like different price
points, like some cheaper, more available stuff?
Or do you feel like the potential issues with quality control might overall just diminish
from the brand as it is, which is kind of got reputable for being like high quality?
Man, fuck.
That's a very...
That question has like 10 answers to it probably.
But I've never ran a big ship like that, you know, they probably have a dude that does
analytics on that shit, you know, fucking over there like, dude, like when we put out,
you know, you know, said batch from said SKU, you know, fucking cells went above the
roof and they just keep going above the roof.
So they're just like, just keep putting it out that, you know, and I know, you know,
you get to know people and you see what goes on behind the scenes and shit.
So my thing is all like just...
Fucking...
The truth always prevails.
So if they're like doing some shady shit, like they know they're doing it, you know,
so hopefully they're not, you know, who knows?
I know that I got a personal call and he's all like, hey, man, QC, but that wasn't me.
That was somebody else or maybe it was me.
I've talked to him a couple of times and I'm just like, you know, whatever.
I don't like to dive into it because I'm not that's not my business.
That's that's a big ass ship right there.
I don't think so, because they're they're really, really big.
And and Instagram is so small compared to the demographic that they kind of cater to
from what I see, like not everybody knows who, you know, Gage Green is and and like
all these the breeders, they just know that there's a shiny bag and there's weed in it.
And that's what everybody's smoking.
So they want to smoke it, too.
It's kind of like, you know, I'm not a fan of weed.
I'm not a fan of weed.
And if there's good product in there, then that's just extra.
You know what I mean?
And us, we know.
The smoking mirrors, but the common consumer is is is just getting a baggie with stuff
in there.
Yeah, I mean, gosh, what a what a great answer, because there's so many avenues we can go
off in.
To me, you kind of touch on this idea that's prevalent at the moment, and a lot of growers
really get frustrated by it is among the just the average consumer, you know, the sort of
hobby enthusiast smoker, the Mylar culture seems to be very prevalent.
You know, this idea of just anything in a Mylar bag with good advertising is going to
sell well.
How do you feel about that?
Does that frustrate you?
Do you feel like what's in the bag is more important than the bag itself?
Or do you just think it's just marketing like get with the game?
It's cutthroat, bro.
It's cutthroat.
It's a it's like it's like a dude that it's like hitting up the fake Jungle Boys account
and getting sold weed.
And you're like, hey, they bamboozled me.
It's like that.
You see what I'm getting at?
It's kind of like that.
So it's all like, you know what the fuck you're getting into?
You're in you're in you're in Texas in the middle of nowhere.
You think you're getting a real Gary Payton cookie bag for $40?
Like just like and that's another thing is just, you know, educated and it can go as
far as remedial education.
You know, some dudes have a hard time reading.
Imagine how they are fucking trying to figure out what weed they want.
You know what I mean?
Yeah, sure.
So do you think that this trend will basically continue where some of the things I've been
told and observed is that, you know, the quality of the weed can kind of take back
seat to the good Mylar?
Do you think that that's only really going to fool the kind of inexperienced or do you
think that trend will continue and weed might just go down a bit in quality because the
Mylar is flashy enough?
Oh, man, they're going to keep they're going to ring it as much as they can and probably
till till the end of time because there's McDonald's and there's, you know, the best
burgers in the world, whatever you think that is, you know, so there's always going to be
that weed around and they're going to give it to you in the best presentable package
possible and Mylar just so happened to be the one.
Sure.
And a question which I've been pondering for a long time is in regards to last time I was
in the States, which was about a year ago now, I noticed that like a lot of the weed I was
seeing and being presented to me, it looked really nice, but a lot of it didn't smell or
smoke as good as it looked and it kind of is like in that same vein as the Mylar and that like
it's got the aesthetics, but there's not a lot of substance behind it.
And then someone said to me this thing, which I thought was really quite profound where they
were like, yeah, like this, this is what the demand is because on Instagram, you can't smell
buds people post, you can't smoke it, but you can look at it.
And if it looks good, that post is going to be popular.
Do you kind of see that trend yourself?
And do you come across this sort of like weed that looks good, but isn't really quite packing
the punch you hoped?
Yeah, man, that goes back to organically grown shit, you know, fucking some weed might look
terrible and it's like the best shit ever.
So and yeah, Bag of Peel does sell, you know, like that hot girl does sell, but she doesn't
cook or do anything.
Not that that's what ladies are supposed to do, but like my partner, you know, I want
her to be smart and shit, you know, fucking some of them aren't.
Some of them are the whole package, though, you know what I mean?
So fucking same thing with weed.
Some of it just looks really good, but it, you know, I don't know shit.
So do you think that that trend with the average consumer will continue whereby like people
are just looking for the most frosty thing and they don't actually really care about
the terps or the end effect?
Yeah, it's easier to just pump shit with HGV than it is to, you know, put a little bit
more love into it.
You know, people are doing big classrooms, teaching all these plants at the same time.
So they're only going to get so much love.
Sure.
And I guess the next question, which I don't think I've asked anyone yet, but it's got,
it ties into all this and it's been on my mind forever.
There's this, you know, amongst this same sort of consumer group we're talking about,
like the sort of casual enthusiast, the term exotic, it's used to be like, you know, that's
the bee's knees.
That's all I want, the exotic.
I realised there's really no definition around what exotic is like, what to you is exotic
weed?
Exotic is, what is exotic?
That's like, I don't know, man.
Anything Berner is promoting is exotic, you know what I mean?
Like anything trending, I think would be like the right exotic definition, even if it's,
I don't know, but what if like Acapulco gold is trending again?
That's not exotic, you know?
So, exotic is, like you said, that's just malarkey.
Yeah.
So, you feel like it's more of a marketing term than something that actually has like
a strict sort of definition?
Yeah, man.
It's like I could come up with some shit like that.
Like, now this is antique, you know, like we only smoke antique weed over here.
Well, like it's kind of like that, you know?
There you go, the old school.
And I mean, it's probably about as good as the segway as I'll get as any antique, you
know, one of the favourite strains of the show, and I try to bring it up in every episode
because it's so near and dear to my heart, is the chem dog.
It's a bit of an antique strain in its own right.
What are your thoughts on the various chem cuts?
And do you have a favourite?
Would you ever want to breed with any of them?
Oh, shit, man.
I'd be lying if I told you I had any of them.
You know, my first, the first time I had chem was from Skelly, who works with 710 Labs.
And I went to his house and he gave me some chem 91 in hash form.
And I'm all like, oh, this is like GMO.
But you know, no, no, GMO is like chem, you know what I mean?
So that was like my first time.
And I'm just like, cool, like chem is GMO.
You know, like that's like that's kind of my interpretation, because I had smoked GMO
before I smoked chem because I'm fucking new booty.
So I'm like, so I bought like chem.
I fell in love with chem right away because it's like, oh, you're the original one.
You know what I mean?
To me, that's how I look at it.
Like, oh, like this is where it came from, you know, so chem.
And then what other forms of chem have I had?
I don't know, but that's like the first time.
But I've had it a bunch of other times.
And chem's dope, man.
Fucking chem dog has hit me up before, too.
And he's a cool cat, you know, I got the chem D95 Wilson that I did.
That one's dope.
There's some cool shit in there.
You know, that one was hit every box.
They grew like 600 different plants of every Wilson hybrid.
And that one was the best one.
So, yeah, chem dog.
Wow, lovely.
And I mean, are there any other sort of I love the term antique.
I'm going to keep using that.
Are there any sort of other antique strains that you're fond of and or would like to discover
a bit more?
So like things like, you know, like hazers or skunks?
Yeah, man, I would love to dive into the rabbit hole of haze.
Like the first interpretation of haze that I had was it was called Lighthouse.
I think the cross was called and it was like NL five times NL five times NL five.
I was like, they just crossed NL five a thousand times or some shit.
And I'm like, this is this is different, you know, and like it grew on me.
And then people would show me like haze interpretations or derivatives,
and I would have a marker for it.
So to date, it's it's still not solidified yet.
Like, you know, there's other hazes and shit.
So I want to I want to meet fools that have that.
Like the homie was going to send me the A5 and the C5 or some shit.
I have no idea what these are, but he's all like, these are the ones, you know, or they're
part of, you know, that great legacy of people getting haze.
And then the other day I was going to get some other haze.
But he's like, no, no, no, I'll do better with it than you.
And I'm like, whatever, dude, I'm not.
In a rush to go smoke haze, I'll go get it from him tomorrow anyways.
So yeah, man, I'm I'm I'm trying to become privy to the old books per se, you know what
I mean?
Like, like anything, like you, you want to go read the first parts of the book.
So that just happens to be some of the first strains that were out that I'm I want to get
privy to everything.
Sure, sure.
And there's I mean, I'm sure you've seen posts and heard people talk about it, but there's
this huge sort of collective push in the scene to find or to revive the roadkill skunk.
What's your thoughts on this?
Do you think it exists?
I'm kind of starting to get to the point where I actually doubt it's even around anymore.
Oh, man, I'm I'm like, like we were talking earlier, I'm becoming aware of all this.
And I've heard the funny shit before, like I even had a, like, for some reason, I ended
up in the ITC dude's ear, and he went as far as going to my booth and showing me his
roadkill skunk.
And I'm like, I don't even know you like that.
Gee, like, what are you doing here?
Like, he's like, Oh, I just want to make sure we have no beef.
Like, and I'm like, dude, we ain't got no fucking beef.
I ain't got beef with nobody.
And he's like, yeah, man, I heard like people were tagging me in posts making fun of him.
So it looked like I was part of the ordeal, because people would just assume I just make
fun of anybody.
But that's not my quarrel.
You know what I mean?
But like, that wasn't cool either.
Like, dude, like, what are you doing here?
Get away.
And that's it.
You know, like, not even right now.
I'm not even talking trash.
That's just that's just what happened, you know, and and I and I and he did show me like
the roadkill skunk that he had and whatever it was just like, whatever, like, get out
like, let's just go be our own people.
I wasn't I wasn't impressed, you know.
So so, you know, as far as roadkill skunk, that's one interaction I had with it.
And then before Matt Riott was on team, fuck you, Masonic, I would dive into his lives
and they would like talk about and he'd like, you know, you know, snivel at other people
even mentioning it.
So it was like it's like it was always like the way I look at it is like, OK, dude, what
are you smoking right now?
All right.
Like you got a swisher sweet and an eighth from the dispensary in a plastic can like,
OK, like as far as I'm concerned, you have no say in anything like just shut the fuck
up and roll up your weed and just smoke away, you know, but like if you got some full mouth
and you're over there just phenol hunting every day, you're every day you're rubbing
into plants, becoming one with the plant and you're just you're on the pulse, your fingers
on it.
I want your I want your perspective now, you know.
But and if there's an old school guy that's still on the pulse smoking every day, smoking
the new, keeping around the old, that's who I want to hear the perspective on RKS, you
know.
So and even then I'm not like as far as I'm concerned, it's like who cares?
Yeah.
Yeah.
So so another topic, which I think is still people trying to flesh it out because there's
just the ambiguity around it is all of the OGs.
You know, there's so many variations in different cuts and it's the lineage is still a little
bit of mystery around it all.
What are some of your preferred OGs and what's your thoughts on the TK?
Because a lot of people think that the TK is probably the original.
Where do you sit that one compared to the other OG cuts?
Well, the thing with the OGs, there was a lot of all right, here I go talking about
nothing I don't know about.
OK, what I know from me being a consumer in Los Angeles where there was a lot of dispensaries
that primarily sold OG, I seen a lot of vanity strains, as I like to call it, or even renaming.
So that helped pollute the namesake of, you know, TK maybe, you know, so that's probably
it.
I've had TK by itself, really, really great strain, but I've also had, you know, abusive
OG and, you know, fire OG, radiation OG, Spider-Man OG, Batman OG, fucking sad OG, happy OG, you
know, every fucking OG known to man.
And they're all very similar and they're all very good.
So I've grown the Tahoe, I've grown the hardcore, fuck, you know, and OG, I don't really have
like a marker for what's the real one, but it's better to go get a TK cut because, you
know, at least you know what you're growing.
Yeah.
Kind of.
So I guess the question then becomes, you know, I think most people have had a cut given
to them at some point where it wasn't what it was labeled, be it either unintentionally
mislabeled or just the person wasn't aware they had the wrong cut.
Have you ever had that happen to you?
And which cut was the one you were hoping to get, but then like it didn't turn out to
be the right thing?
No, that hasn't happened, but I have gotten cuts that weren't labeled and they were dope,
hit them to Wilson and sell them as is.
So they'll be like, hey, what's Willotto?
It ain't a gelato cross.
That's for motherfucking sure.
So and then I'll be like, I don't know, man, like my homie Bad Motherfucking gave it to
me.
It was cool.
And I hit it to Wilson and people are asking me what it is because they love it.
And I'm like, they're like, well, I like it.
And that's it.
You know, no need to fake the funk.
Be like, oh, you know, it's a gelato bag seed, like try to come up with a story on the spot.
Like, no, I called it Willotto because I don't know where in my right mind I convinced
myself that was gelato.
And then I start fucking with real gelatos and I'm like, that ain't no fucking gelato.
And, you know, so I'm like, you know, Willotto.
So, I mean, on that topic of, you know, clones and your clone library, yours certainly seems
to be very impressive.
You know, if you look at the crosses you've made, it seems like you've got access to a
lot of nice cuttings.
Do you keep these clones around or do you just know you can access them again?
And what's your thoughts on people selling clones for like really expensive price tags?
Shit, I keep a nice network of people that I trust to give me cuts if I like, if I really
like something, you know, some cuts even go as far as like, okay, fucking 100 people have
them already.
Like, there's no way that's going to go anywhere.
The Compton Land Race, that's a whole other thing.
A lot of people have that, you know, and that's not even my cut.
So, that's kind of how cuts work for me.
If I want something to get spread, I'll give it to 10 of my friends, you know, and of course
other people are going to have it, but that's the point, you know.
So, that's kind of how that goes down.
Me keeping cuts, I flip everything.
Like, I'll keep some cuts, I'll mom them out for a while and then I'll be like, okay, I'm
tired of GMO.
I've crossed it to Wilson 10 times already.
Like, I think I can let it go.
I think enough people in the world have GMO for me to get it again.
So, there's never been anything that's like, fuck, I really can't rely on somebody else
to keep it around for me, you know.
So, there's never been anything like that.
And if there is something that I want like that, I make sure to give it to at least five
motherfuckers.
Sure, and I think the obvious follow-up to that is, was there ever a cutting or a strain
that you had for a while and you were fond of it and then you lost it and all of a sudden,
like, no one else has got it and it's gone forever?
Well, my portfolio of strain knowledge in that is very minimal.
So, no way, Jose, man, you guys would be like, you're stupid.
We've been, you know, about strains for four years.
Like, what could you possibly have that you miss so much, dude, you know.
So, I've yet to have that happen to me, you know, having something like, oh man, this
is a game changer and I lose it.
No, that hasn't happened yet.
As far as a game changer, everything's, you know, everything's everything.
So, it's kind of just works for me.
I've never had, there are strains that excite me more than others, but I don't put all my
eggs in that basket.
So, it never really hits me that hard if something doesn't follow through like I want it to.
Sure, and just as a follow-up, because I'm not sure we chatted about it.
What's your thoughts on people who sell cuttings, especially like, I guess the question for
me is more interesting is the person who found the cut.
So, like they put in some work to maybe either buy the seeds or to phenohunt themselves.
What's your thoughts on selling that at that point?
So, touching on, it's happening to me now where I've done some work and they're using
my name to sell the cut for a high price and it's kind of, it leaves a nasty taste
in my mouth like, so what I'm gonna do so that I don't complain, because I'm not a complainer.
Like, that's as far as I go as complaining is me telling you, is I address the situation.
So, what I do is I grab the same said cut and put it in my hands and just lower the price
and now I'm happy.
So, yeah, it can bother me.
So, I'll put that into, I'll get in the driver's seat and just bust out a fucking million trays
and stand on the corner and fucking sell it for $10 just to make me happy.
Yeah, I mean, that's proactive, right?
I like that.
Yeah, man.
So, you touched on just a moment ago the Compton Land Race and I've been interested in this
one for a while, most notably because I think the name's interesting.
It's obviously not a true land race.
What's the backstory behind this?
Compton Land Race, okay, so it's face-off, OG, I-95, Stardog from Seed that I got, that I
hunted in my indoor when I was running my indoor that I got from Secret Society Company and then
that's when I was all like, man, I suck at indoor.
Like, I need to, you know, do something with this.
I spent all my tax income money on it.
I work at Rite Aid.
My wife's yelling at me.
I turned my whole garage into a grow.
Like, I need to do something.
So, here goes all willy-nilly, you know, all to Wilson.
So, boom, we got face-off, OG, I-95, Stardog, Wilson, one of the first set of Wilson hybrids
that I made.
So, I grow that out.
No, no, no, no, no.
Okay, so I have that Seed stock.
My buddy down the way, who's in Compton still, is growing it out.
He grows it out and he's like, oh, man, I'm growing out your face-off, OG, I-95, Stardog,
Wilson, you know, like, what should I do with it?
And I'm like, just grow it.
And he's like, oh, I got this Mac.
That's when Capulator had done his Mac from Seed, you know, the first drop and everybody
went crazy for it.
And he also had a meat breath, Mal.
And he's like, well, I'm gonna throw it outside and I'm gonna let it get hit by these.
And I'm like, whatever, you know?
And then, sure enough, he does the pollination.
So, it's face-off, OG, I-95, Stardog, Wilson, potential males, Mac or meat breath.
And then, cool, we got this Seed stock and it's called Motor Mouth at this point.
And I go to Oklahoma and I sell that shit to everybody as is, like, on the fucking package,
open pollination, Mac, meat breath.
They're just like, fuck it, you're Masonic, I'll take one.
And then, so whatever, that happens.
And I grow that shit out in my yard.
And I'm like, whoa, this is actually not half bad.
And I had a peanut butter breath, Mal, that hit it.
And that's Compton Landrace.
So, it's face-off, OG, I-95, Stardog, potential males, Mac, meat breath, times peanut butter
breath.
And then, I hit it back to Wilson again.
But that's Compton Landrace.
Now, it's Compton Landrace times Wilson.
Wow, that's got a bit of everything for everyone, doesn't it?
I mean, it's just a fun little project, you know?
All right, that's just what I needed.
Fucking this bitch.
Love it.
What did you just hit?
So, when I take dabs, I take really, really huge dabs out of everything.
Because, you know, we work hard for that shit.
So, I'll grab, like, a dab that's not going to get fully hit, per se.
Everything on the stick's not going to get smoked.
So, I'll have a container where every time I'm done with that dab, I'll throw it in there.
So, there's 100 flavors that I did that jar to, to the point where it got filled to the
brim that I had to split it in two jars.
So, that's what I just smoked right now.
I smoked one of those jars.
Lovely.
So, it's like a bit of everything, the jungle mix.
It's a gumbo, for sure.
It's a big old gumbo.
But that one tasted like the rainbow belts that I was smoking.
So, it had a lot of rainbow belts of Skittles.
If it's not, I'm dumb.
But it tasted like Skittles.
There's all types of Skittles tonight, huh?
Just fucking Skittles everything.
I mean, that's a good point to talk about for a second.
I find that Skittles is interesting because the overwhelming majority of people love the
flavor of it, right?
That's why it got big.
It's done well for itself.
But you get a small subsect of people who are like, just tastes like soap to me.
Where do you sit on that?
It don't taste like soap to me.
Skittles has its own unique profile.
I got privy to Skittles, not in the States, but when I would go travel to Barcelona.
They fucking love Skittles out there.
And fucking Skittles, you know, if it ain't Skittles, fucking get the fuck out of here.
So, you know, I fell in love with it out there.
Came back home.
And it's been a wrap since.
And it ain't soap.
I've had some soapy shit before.
For fucking disgusting.
And and that's crazy because I've never liked like I can't even say what weed that is.
I can just I'm just like, dude, you had that in the fucking laundry or something.
You know what I mean?
Because there's no way weed can be that fucking bad.
But if it is, man, that's probably like the only strain that I'll hate.
You know what I mean?
And it ain't Skittles because Skittles ain't that soapy shit.
And one time I did have a strain like that when we were in Colorado.
I was smoking with Ginger Larf and and and and and fucking I forgot his fucking name,
but he's a real Rockies homie.
And they'd be able to tell you what fucking strain that was.
But hopefully I can, you know, show them this podcast and they'll be like, oh, that was
a strain.
And I'll be like, fuck that strain.
That's the only strain I hate.
There you go.
I mean, you touched on the Barcelona scene, which I think is an interesting sort of scene
in its own right.
What's your thoughts when you go over there?
Do you feel like in a couple of years, that'll be kind of where the USA scene is?
Do you feel like they follow the USA trends too much?
What's your thoughts overall?
It's two whole different vibes, G.
Even amongst us in LA from state to state, city to city.
So you can't replicate that, you know, that let alone the fucking the city you're in.
You're in like old world, you know, Catalonian land.
And then next thing you know, you're smoking a joint.
Like you can't replicate that, you know, so it's its own thing.
Sure.
And I mean, interestingly, we've seen a lot of people leave California, say, since the
start of the year, often citing things like that.
It's too hard to get into the legal market.
Rents in California are quite prohibitive.
Things like that.
And they're moving to other states.
Do you feel like Barcelona or some of these other states will eventually take the lead
over Cali as the hotspot?
Or do you think it's always going to retain that title of like the weed Mecca of the world,
so to speak?
Yeah, Cali will remain the Mecca, I think.
But other places will emulate and innovate, you know, what we got going here.
Some places, you know, already do that.
So, you know, California, I think is the fucking, you know, the place that people,
you know, good weed in California go hand in hand.
Yeah, touche, too right.
So, on that note of doing a dab right there, and I think I can see you grinding up some
flour right now.
My question is, if you had to pick one or the other, which would you be a concentrate
or a flour guy?
Oh, man, I'm on hash all day.
Gee, hash.
I love me some dab and some hash.
Hell yeah.
And what sort of style of hash do you like?
Water hash?
Do you like dry sieve?
Like what's your preferred, if you could choose anything?
Full melt, full melts, water extracted hash is, you know, rare, but it's there.
And that's my favorite full body, full everything.
It just feels the best.
And second is hash rosin.
Really great, too.
Sure.
Good picks.
Good picks.
Do you feel like water hash, and more importantly, as you alluded to, like, you know, full melt,
you know, the five star, the best quality you can get, do you feel like it's almost
becoming a bit of a dying art?
I feel like we're seeing a lot of concentrates in the market, but water hash doesn't seem
to be as well represented as, say, like BHO or some other styles.
I mean, it's easier to polish a turd with BHO and those other styles with full melt.
It's fire in, fire out.
So if that shit's not pristine, it's just not going to be good.
You know, so you can't really hide a lot in full melt.
So a lot of people aren't the most versed, so they can't achieve full melt.
And if they do, it's not up to par.
So they end up squishing it into hash rosin, because Lord knows, they would rather have
some fucking full melt too.
But, you know, it's probably has too much particulate in it or just doesn't, you know,
smoke as good as the hash rosin.
You can make what it does.
So that's the case with full melt.
Sure.
And do you think that it just worked out coincidentally that, like, the Wilson male is
really good for adding trichomes, for kind of making strains that would suit this style?
I guess what I'm trying to ask is, do you breed for concentrate production?
Or it was just sort of a, like, a happy coincidence that that was how the Wilson male happens
to affect crosses?
Yeah, it was a happy coincidence because it could have been, I could have been, when I
made that, like, that was it.
Like, it could have been something else.
It could have been two strains from somebody else who wasn't as good as Oni, you know,
and that would have never happened.
So it was all coincidental.
And it just so happens these wash really well.
Papaya washes really well.
Banana OG washes really well.
Trop F2 just so happens to wash.
All three of them together, fucking, you know, there was nothing that, you know, reduced
the quality and the genetic per se.
But I'm not a fucking, you know, I'm talking about shit I don't know about because, you
know, I'm just fucking, like, you know, it is what it is.
Sure.
So you mentioned earlier that a lot of your breeding involves hitting Wilson to things
and kind of seeing what comes out of it.
Do you ever approach any crosses where you kind of think of it conceptually and you're
like, oh, I think that these two strains are going to pair really well together?
Or is it just a bit more sort of haphazard in the way you approach it?
And you're just like, well, if it's going to work, it's going to work.
We'll just see what happens.
Like, how do you approach making it?
It's usually what the mom's about, you know, so if mom's banging, I like the mom, you know,
I'm like, oh, this is going to be cool, you know, because that's what I like.
But if it's like, oh, like, here goes nothing, you know, hopefully someone likes it, then
that's what that is.
And that's exactly what that is, because there's people that like stuff that other people don't
like.
And fucking that's how life is, you know, fucking colors and shit.
Yeah, sure.
So on the topic of Wilson, we had a few listeners chime in and ask, what would be some of your
top picks for the Wilson crosses if they're kind of thinking about snatching something
up from the site?
What do you recommend?
And what's like your sort of personal favorites?
Well, shit, I would ask them what's their favorite, you know, like, what do you like?
Okay, I just so happen to have that cross the Wilson, go check that out.
I would tell them, go grab Wilson by itself, but that's gone, you know, so they can have
a marker of what they're getting into and see what that Wilson even brought to said
mother said strain.
So they could be like, oh, cool.
I see the Wilson in the GMO because I've actually smoked Wilson before.
So I used to tell people, go get Wilson.
So now it's all like, oh, get what you like.
Oh, you like gelato?
Go grab the G33 Wilson.
Oh, you want like some old land race type shit?
You want some antique shit?
I got you.
You know, fucking you want some exotics?
I got you.
You know, cover every, every, every marker.
But yeah, I would tell them to grab what they like.
And if they don't know what they like, I'll tell them, go grab the five for 100, because
you're just going to get a bunch of seats and fucking you're going to have fun and you
won't feel bad because it wasn't a hundred dollars for fucking 12 seats.
It was, you know, way cheaper.
Sure.
Another question we got from a lot of customers was regarding testing.
And I think that there historically has been this sort of tradition of people testing their
crosses, but in a more recent sort of turn of events, we've had many breeders come on
the show and say that if you're going to make crosses and test them out and do the whole
nine yards, often the trend and the hype has come and gone before you can get that to market.
What's your thoughts?
Do you subscribe to that idea?
And do you tend to test?
That's a nice way of putting it, you know, the way they say it, you know, that's, fuck
yeah, that's, that's like, you know, you sound, you sound cool saying that, but yeah, straight
up new shit.
I just put it out.
I don't test new shit.
But then again, they're not, they don't have to buy that shit.
There's a hundred strains that are two years old, almost to date that are tested.
And I got numbers and I can show you a thousand pictures of, so you can be like, oh, I like
that, you know, or you can, you know, fucking do what I do and just grow any fucking seed
and see what fucking happens and, and be on top of the game.
And what they said by the time, you know, I test any runs cross or any given hype strain,
the new one's going to be out.
So fucking, it's just, just be honest about it.
Fucking, if you didn't test it, you didn't test it.
Easy does it.
And, and if nobody needs to buy it, but if they want tested, I got that too.
We got a hundred fucking strains that are tested, you know, fucking, there's a little
bit of everything.
So, uh, and everything will be tested fucking from the day you grab that strain, fucking
somebody else, you know, three weeks later is going to be like, boom, here's the pictures.
And I'll be like, here's your tested motherfucker.
Have a good day.
Because that's exactly what it is.
You know, fucking, they can say like, oh, you know, fucking, I don't think they're out
there with like a chart and like a 200 Fino hunt on every strain they make.
I, I highly doubt it.
And they're like, oh, you know, 20% Herms and, you know, germ rate, et cetera.
No, most of the time it's all like, oh, the homie fucking that I never even met on Instagram
that I sent testers to popped on me, sent me a couple of pictures.
It's tested.
He gave me a cool perspective.
And some people do have their testers and, you know, all power to them like Capulator,
the stranded, I can't release stranded until Cap is finished testing it.
So, you know, I do abide by those rules when I need to.
And, you know, with a cross with Cap, he's not going to let, you know, a bunch of Herms
pop up with his collab with Masonic because it'll be funny.
So, but, but yeah, like, you know, there's a hundred tested strains guys, you know, fucking
you want some tested shit.
I got you.
You want to be, you know, the new guy with the new shit.
I got that too.
You know what I mean?
Whatever you want.
Sure.
So you mentioned earlier that Wilson as a pure strain was sold out.
Do you have a plan to remake it?
Or do you like the idea of like there being some amount of exclusivity by not just continually
remaking strains?
Now F2, that's it.
You know, whoever got it, they got it.
If they want to keep a clone of it around and let it circulate, you know, by all means
we're, we're working on the F3 already.
So, you know, I already have the F3, so I'm gonna pop those out, maybe find a keeper,
rotate that around and make the F4.
Nice.
And I mean, another question is about new males, you know, everyone's familiar with
the Wilson work.
So we had quite a few questions regarding possible new males.
And I noticed on your website that there were in fact, a few crosses that utilized a monkey
berries male, which I believe is from exotic genetics.
Is that correct?
Yeah, that's, that's strawberries and cream.
Cross to grease monkey, my high ass.
Yeah, that's exactly what it is.
So what happened there, what I do every year.
So two years ago or a year ago, I like, you grow a lot of seeds, right?
And there's males and, and sometimes you spent money on them and you're just like, fuck,
I don't want this male to go to waste.
It's like a cool male.
It has runs in it.
Oh, it has a grease monkey in it.
You know, it's, it looks promising amongst, you know, its counterparts.
So what I do, what I did is I like, Hey, Los Angeles, who wants to make a strain with Masonic?
And they're like, me, me, me, me, me, me, me, me.
So I was like, okay, come grab this male, hit it to, you know, your selection.
Bring me half the seeds.
You know, you keep half, I keep half.
So everything that isn't a Wilson hybrid on my site was pollinated.
And, and it wasn't like a random person.
The people that I did have do it were part of my people that become my friends now.
Like, you know, long beach reefer did the monkey berry cross for me.
I beam pop and did the blissful wizard cross for Masonic seed company or for himself.
However you want to look at it.
He made the seeds, you know, that I just so happen to have on my website that I provided
the mouth for that I grew out that I selected for them.
I'm like, Hey, you should use this.
It's a cool, promising strain.
Same thing with slaps, which is run squeeze monkey.
And there's a couple more that probably aren't even, you know, up for grabs, but that I have
that I've done with, you know, a bunch of other of my buddies that grow as well.
And they're super into it.
Cause you know, they get to fucking make seeds and keep them.
And now they're in other people's hands.
Cause you know, I got a big Avenue to put seeds in people's hands and they're like,
cool, fucking my seeds are in Ecuador now, you know?
Yeah.
You made that in your backyard.
Fucking good shit.
We did that together.
You know, it's a team effort.
Yeah.
That's a good way to do collabs.
So in general, what are you looking for in a strain when you're looking to pop a new one
and maybe find a male in it?
And I guess in general, are you a fan of exotics work?
Everything I've grown from exotic.
I grew the, the funky charms.
I grew the strawberries and cream.
I grew the slaps, the grease monkey, strawberries and cream.
I grew the slaps and everything so far has been, I haven't been like, oh, that's just not good.
You know, everything's been great.
Actually, everything was great.
And fucking when selecting anything is just, you know, of course I'm not going to go with
the runs, you know, the runs it's like, all right, like that's no bueno.
Uh, just the best shit you can tell fucking the shit that stacks the most, the shit that
smells the most, you know, the more vigorous ones, shit like that.
People want to make it like this, this, this fucking hard ass process.
But, you know, you put five foos in front of me and I can tell you who's more athletic,
you know, fucking, it ain't the food that weighs 300 pounds.
You know, it's, it's the six foot tall dude who's fucking built like a linebacker.
It's the same thing with plants.
You could see it, you could feel it.
You've been growing for 10 years.
I hope you could fucking tell which one is better than the other one.
Definitely.
And that's a great answer in terms of segueing to the next question, which is what are some
of the traits you look for in a male when you're looking to breed with it?
Or is it more of a process of like feel and like you've got a hunch on this one?
Uh, it's like, like the way I chose this one, he just stuck out the most, you know, he was
the more, the bigger one, you know, he just grew the fastest and that's how I chose my
most recent male that I have.
So it just sticks out amongst the pack and it is a hunch if you want to call it that.
And as far as like, oh, I look for inner nodal spacing and all that other bullshit.
Like I didn't dive that deep.
I'm just like, that's the one we're going to do work.
Let's do work.
Oh, cool.
Everything, all the progeny from it has been A1.
So, you know, it worked.
Boom.
Yeah.
You just kind of touched on an interesting topic there.
And I think DJ Short kind of summarizes it the best himself where he says, he kind of
says, look, you know, some people will tell you that there's certain things you can look
at in a male and it'll indicate whether it's going to be a good or bad father.
And he was like, but at the end of the day, fuck all that.
It's about testing the seeds.
And if the seeds are good, the male was good.
It's just that simple.
Do you subscribe to that idea?
Or do you think there are certain things you can look at the male and be like, oh, you
know, this one's got the short internodes.
It'll be better.
No, no, I haven't talked to a breeder and dove in that deep and respected that opinion
to that point, you know, but there are some, there are some things like that.
But, you know, the other day I learned that, you know, the root ball in any given male
could be, you know, like a good indicator of a good male because, you know, it has a
bigger stomach per se and it can uptake nutrients and shit.
But, uh, but DJ Short is right in the way that, you know, if the shit's good, it's
good and fucking, and no matter how you fucking chose the male, there's no denying that fucking
you could have did the any, many, mighty mo method.
You know, you could have had your neighbor choose for you.
Like fucking, you could have pulled it out of the fucking hat, but as long as the shit's
fucking good, that's what matters.
And, you know, whatever selection method you have, that's good too.
Good for you.
You fucking, you know, everything about weed, you know, every fucking, you know, I'm sorry,
I'm using the F word, you know, every, every scientific term for every part on the plant,
like you're the man, Doug, you know, good shit.
You're the wizard.
And, uh, those guys are usually the ones that, you know, like to be the ones with the crown
and shit.
So my thing is just do it, man.
Just, just make the shit, grow the shit and be happy.
So let's say you decide to pop a new strain, you know, we'll just say that the monkey berries
from exotic, you've decided you want to run some of it.
Do you generally have a certain number of seeds you like to run?
Like, do you feel like one pack's enough or you like to get a couple packs?
How does that work?
Oh, nah, man.
I get away with popping six of them motherfuckers, Doug.
I'll pop half the pack and or the whole pack, you know, and, and fucking most of the time
you find some dope shit in there.
Sometimes nothing comes out of it.
Like the fucking seeds won't even make it.
You'll get all males and you'll be like nothing.
Sometimes you get the most beautiful female and you're just like, damn, like that's, that's,
that's some gangster ass weed right there.
But, uh, and it's never more than fucking one pack.
The only shit that I do more than one pack is when I cross it to Wilson again, because
now I, I got more shit to play with, you know what I mean?
So I can cross, I can pop, you know, as opposed to, you know, I went and bought a hundred
dollar plus pack of 12 seeds from any given breeder.
You know, I'm like, fuck you with these seeds, you know, like I don't want these to go to
waste.
So I hit them to Wilson and then I got a million of them, you know, so now I can go play with
these more.
And that's kind of when it comes to big Fino hunts, it's most likely going to be a Wilson
hybrid.
Sure.
I mean, it makes sense.
Right.
So I guess the kind of the final question on Fino hunting I have is that when you do run
some new seeds, are you primarily looking at the females?
And if you're impressed by the females, you then consider using a male or is it the other
way around where you go into it thinking, I want to find a female, sorry, a male.
I want to find a male.
No, it's never want to find a male.
It's the male is always Wilson is my male, unless it's like, what the fuck is that?
You know, then I'll do what I did with the other ones, you know, where I, you know,
outsourced them to another person.
So there's no cross pollination going on.
So sometimes, and it's not even looking for a male, it's all like that has a nice calling
to it.
Or, you know, we can hype that, you know, like that's runs times this.
We should totally continue that, you know, because people are going to want that, you
know, or that's a CBD or, you know, that's freak show.
Freak shows gnarly, you know, or that's Australian bastard cannabis.
No matter what it is, we have to continue that.
You know what I mean?
So it's shit like that.
You know, it's, it's, there's equations to wanting to keep something around, whether
it be in female or in male form.
Sure.
So you just mentioned CBD and I noticed on your site that you actually do have a CBD
cross using the, I think it's the auto Colorado cherry mother cross to Wilson.
Is this something you did because you specifically wanted to be able to provide people with a
CBD option?
Or do you think that there's actually a bit more to CBD than most people think?
And you've got kind of some future plans to work with it more?
So my buddy had, uh, did a CBD seed stock like by itself.
So he had fucking a whole room full of that shit.
And he's like, Hey, Masonic, like want to sell some CBD?
And I'm like, man, I don't know shit about CBD.
Like, and he's like, well, you know, he, he put me on game and he's like, it's a box
Colorado cherry box auto or some shit like that.
It's, I should know what it is, but that's, that's what it is.
It's auto box Colorado cherry auto times Wilson.
And, uh, he's all, you should sell it.
So I start selling it to people and as CBD and people are growing it and they're sending
me the back results and it's CBD.
Thank fucking God.
So it's CBD and I'm all like, and I'm like, man, everybody keeps asking me for CBD, you
know, CBD, CBD.
So I already had CBD.
So I was selling them that it wasn't a Wilson hybrid yet.
I was selling them to it as is, and I still have some of that stock.
And then I'm like, fuck it.
You know, I'm gonna grow some myself too.
So I have this bed and I just literally just fucking like, cause I had a lot of it.
I just threw a handful in there and I grew out a bed full of CBD, hit it to Wilson.
So in that CBD seed stock, it's actually like any given mother that you'll get in there
times Wilson, but it's, it's box auto box cherry times Wilson though.
And that's exactly what it is.
People are growing it.
I've yet to get test on it, but it is a CBD THC grass.
Great.
And is that something you want to maybe delve a little deeper into in regards to just generally
CBD stuff?
Or do you just like being able to provide that option?
Uh, I like to cover everything and, and I, you know, I got a lot of questions on CBD,
CBD, you know, and I'm all like, well shit, you know, I'll, this ain't fucking, you know,
uh, I don't have like a paper and shit, but you know, this is as much as I can tell you
on CBD.
We had like some COA and shit, but you know how from County to County to state to state
hot can, you know, it can go from up and down.
So some places it could have been hot and shit.
So, you know, my buddy almost got in trouble for that, but the way I sold it, it was like,
look here, asshole, like this is CBD, you know, like this isn't, you're not getting
this with the fucking lawyer or nothing.
I'm not going over here telling you to go do a whole cash crop, you know, fucking in,
in Idaho somewhere where they grow a bunch of it.
I don't know, but I'm, I'm just giving you a couple and it is CBD, but it is because
I got tests and fucking, you know, people love it and he did too.
And it's just, it's just hot in some places compared to others.
Yeah, sure.
I think, you know, the variation is, is somewhat intrinsic to plants, right?
Like they're not, they're not identicals of each other.
Another cross I noticed on your site, which caught my eye was actually, uh, you did a
cross using the Romulan clone and I wanted to ask what's your thoughts on the Romulan?
It's come up a few times in the show, because as far as we can tell, it might be the oldest
clone in existence.
If you trace it back, it appears to be older than most things.
Do you think your cuts the original and are you a fan of it?
I got Romulan from three sources.
I got Romulan from some dude that's pretty, you know, like he's, you know, he, he's not
like out here, like Masonic, you know, 40 K followers, but you know, like he was in
the forums back in the day and, you know, he can talk to, you know, all these esteemed
growers and shit.
And for whatever reason, he reached out to me and went as far as, uh, I don't know how
some way, but we, he ended up using my name as his, as his cloning.
So he's Masonic cloner.
So he sent me a Romulan cut.
So he's like pretty cool in the scene, you know what I mean?
I think, you know, growers know who he is and stuff like cool growers or whatever, like,
like old school fools, you know, as opposed to, you know, us new guys.
And he reached out and sent me a lot of old school shit.
And I kind of took it for granted because you get lost in the sauce sometimes and you're
just like, yeah, whatever.
Use Masonic cloner.
Oh, cool, cool.
Send me those clones.
He sends me like everything anybody would ever want, like as a starter pack and you're
like, whatever, I'll hit him to Wilson.
And I did, but like, but you lost that relationship because I wasn't too thankful about it.
Cause I should have been more thankful about it.
Cause that's not just something you get.
And, uh, and I think back on that.
So, and whatever, that's a whole nother story, but that's who I got one of my Romulans from
and another Romulan I got from one of my buddies who just, he just trades back and forth.
So, uh, with him, I wouldn't like take it.
I take it with a grain of salt more than anything.
Cause you know, it matters who you get it from, you know, so the Masonic cloner guy
pretty tapped into the old school scene.
I'd imagine he'd have some type of Romulan, you know, uh, other dude got it from probably
four other fucking people that's, you know, quote unquote Romulan.
There you go.
And, and overall, are you a, you're a fan of it or you think it's a bit of a yesteryear
one, but the Wilson cross adds a new flavor to it.
I have no fucking idea.
I grew it in my greenhouse amongst fucking, uh, a thousand other strains, hit it to Wilson,
probably looked at it twice.
And, uh, I need to grow it out and to its full potential to be like, that's Gucci.
And that's what I'm doing right now.
I got Romulan Wilson.
Uh, I got six of them growing right now, so I can grow a nice big one to be able to tell
you like that's John Blaze or not.
Nice.
Well, there you go.
We'll have to wait and see.
I noticed on your Instagram recently that you had mentioned you were doing a collab with
Soul Fire and I like Soul Fire gardens.
I think he does some good stuff.
Tell us a little bit about, is it the Don Magic Juan?
Is that how you say it?
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's named after the pimp Don Magic Juan.
So what do you think is going to, what can people expect from that one in terms of flavor
profiles and whatnot?
And I mean, it's got a cool name.
How'd you come up with the name?
Just, just after the pimp.
Yeah.
Well, he, it's, it's Don Mecca and I'm just like, oh, Don Mecca, Don Magic Juan, you know,
like the Don, it just clicked right away.
So I'm like, let's name it after this pimp guy, you know?
So that's how we got the name.
He thought it was a cool name.
He totally rolled with it.
I never name anything.
So, you know, I had to really make it, if I named some shit, it's going to matter.
So it mattered.
He, he went amongst himself.
Not he went, he did the Paul, he did all the legwork.
He fucking found the female, hit it to his male, send me the seed stock and is like,
you know, and went as far as growing it all out while I'm like selling it the whole time.
So, uh, like he, he'd be able to tell you more like of what that plant actually does.
He's sending me some, you know, I'm going out there or something like that.
You know, I don't want to accuse anybody of anything, but I'm going to be smoking some
of that soon.
So I'll tell you on Instagram how it is.
Lovely, lovely.
That, that sounds like a cool cross.
I like a lot of his work.
I think you'll, you'll do a nice little combo together.
Yeah.
I love Soul Fire.
He's a really dope guy.
I talked to him.
I grown a bunch of his stuff.
I grown his mind flare.
I grown his banana runs and I think that's it.
But, and he grew my papaya God.
That's what he hit the Don Mecca with.
And papaya God is a papaya cake times Wilson.
There you go.
I think, yeah, I think it's going to be a flavor town, right?
Yeah.
Fuck yeah.
So I forgot to ask you a little bit earlier when we were talking about concentrates, what's
your thoughts on vape carts?
They themselves are quite polarizing.
And I think the most interesting thing to think about in regards to all the vape carts
is like, obviously they're, they flood the market.
They're very prevalent, but someone made this comment where it was like, you don't really
see posts about buds with PM anymore.
You just see lots of carts.
Oh yeah, man.
Nobody gets PM anymore.
I thought you knew that.
Well, yeah, nobody gets PM anymore.
And carts are mostly miss for the most part.
I actually have a good cart right here because I have buddies that make them and I get them,
you know, from one hand only, you know, instead of, you know, a farm to here to hair to there,
but, uh, they're mostly miss and, and it's not my preferred way of consuming.
Cause it's just not, it just doesn't feel right.
I rather drive around town with the joint in my mouth than a vape cart and a fucking
cross my fingers that I don't get busted.
Good, good call.
Good philosophy as well.
So a lot of the vape carts we see entering the market are often, as you alluded from
new producers, that there's a whole supply chain behind things.
And usually it's not high quality because it's going through all these different hands.
What's your thoughts overall on someone coming into the market, wanting to do a vape company
or wanting to just start a new sort of company?
Because I think that there's often a lot of distrust and a lot of dislike from people
who are just entering the scene now, cause it's often kind of painted as though like
they're just trying to do a cash grab sort of thing.
What are your thoughts on that?
Do you think it's possible for someone to come in and to want to do something like that
and to do it properly, or it's inherently like a bit of a sketchy situation?
Well, there's always a harder worker.
So like there's always room for that, you know, don't, don't be discouraged.
Oh man, the cannabis scene is saturated.
They're not going to want to fuck with me.
There's a thousand shovels to this cannabis industry.
You just got to find where you belong, you know, like look at, look at Sticker Farmer.
He doesn't sell weed, but he's a big part of it.
You know what I mean?
As far as Instagram is concerned, things like that.
So as far as, you know, a vape cart, like you would have to do a lot of homework to
get into a vape cart scene cause fucking, it's not just something you do.
Cause it's to this day, it's, I still think there's a lot of work to do on those.
Cause everyone has a fucking different one and you don't know which one's the good one.
And I don't want to find out either.
Cause fucking most of the time they're bad.
So it's like fucking, you already know you're stepping into a trap.
So it's, there's, it's hard to R and D on those as far as, you know,
mass produced ones are concerned.
Stepping into the cannabis game, if it's a cash grab and that's what you're going in
for fucking good luck, all power to you.
And if you fucking figure it out, it's cause you're a harder worker and you fit in, somebody
was on their ass and you caught them slipping.
If you're in it with good intentions, well, remember there's the guy with the cash grab
fucking attitude out there.
That's trying to work fucking, you know, trying to outsource work, do whatever the case and
wait till the institutions come in.
And you think these little guys are trying to figure out these institutions are going
to fuck everybody up.
Now I sound like a crazy person.
Like, what is he talking about?
These institutions?
Like, yeah, man, there's people with a lot of money that can just buy everything and
fucking hire lobbyists to prevent other people from setting up shop.
So, but we're not in that, in that stage yet, but eventually, you know, we will be and fucking,
it's going to be even harder for people to set up shop via marijuana.
Yeah.
I mean, a brilliant point you mentioned there and a discussion which we've had with a few
previous guests is like, what is the sort of incoming big ag movement going to do in
regards to shaping the cannabis scene?
And one of the ideas we've heard expressed is that there'll be like a distinction between
like the connoisseur or like the craft market and then just like the mass produced sort
of thing.
What's your thoughts on the big ag's involvement?
And do you think it'll pan out as though like there'll always be this connoisseur craft
market that we kind of currently exist in and then the big ag will just be booth for
the masses or how do you predict it plays out?
Yeah, man, there'll be Bud Light weed for everybody.
There'll be some dudes that end up with a sculpin company that get bought out by Bud
Light and then there'll be the Hettie beers that get bought out by all the Hettie boys
all the time.
Same thing with weed, you know, fucking there's going to be a lot of booth and hopefully like
if you love weed, you're going to learn about it and you're going to go look for, you know,
the small batch.
Great shit.
Yeah, good sentiment.
Good sentiment.
So, the question that we've received the most inquiries about is this ongoing meme war you're
having with Mr. Matt Riot of Riot Seeds.
Are you able to give us a little bit of a backstory on how this all happened?
Oh, yeah, man.
So, I get along with Oni Seed Company.
That's my mentor.
Speakeasy Seed Company used to work with Oni.
They got into cahoots.
Riot tried to be like a mediator amongst Oni and Speakeasy.
You know, he's basically butting his nose in there.
He, whatever, that's their deal, you know.
So, he's like on a fuck Oni crusade and I just so happen to be associated with Oni.
So, he's like saying fuck Masonic on his live.
Not my heart tracing because it's fucking.
Now, he's saying like because I just get like fucking attack mode.
But so, he's like fuck Masonic, fuck Masonic.
Anytime anybody is on his live, yo, what about Masonic?
Oh, he's dead to me.
You know, fuck that guy.
He's a clown.
You know, he's a bitch.
He's a girl.
Like all these just and I'm just, I stay quiet.
I stay quiet every day.
I knew a new message from somebody.
Hey fool, Riot's talking shit and I'm, life's good.
Like I don't need to be in a quarrel.
Like I don't need publicity like that.
I'm chilling.
This is old Masonic.
I used to attack.
That's old me and I'm just like fuck and I go on my, I go into my secret accounts
and I go onto his page and sure enough, fuck Masonic.
Fuck Masonic and I'm like, man, you know what?
Fuck this shit and I just went and I just like, man, fuck you dude.
Like, you know, as much as I could and now I'm Riot Seed Company.
So, and Blue Bonnet's mine.
Clockwork Orange is mine.
Those are all my streams now.
26cookies, mine.
Riotberry, mine.
Riot Seed Co.
I'm the real Riot Seed Co.
I'm Matt Riot now.
That's my shit now.
So, fucking, you know, don't fuck with me, you know.
Wrong guy.
You should have just kept my name out your mouth.
I was being really political about it too.
You know, you say Masonic three times, I might end up being Matt Riot.
So, I'm Matt Riot now.
Wow, what a turn of events there.
So, I guess the follow-up question to that is, do you plan to release strains that are
using the names of strains he's done or do you plan to make crosses with them?
What's the situation?
Nah, we're doing it quick.
We're doing it quick.
So, none of my strains have names on them.
So, Blueberry Cement Shoes times Wilson Cross Back to Wilson is now Blue Bonnet.
Orange Skittles times Banana Punch times Wilson is now Clockwork Orange.
Girl Scout Cookie Polynesian Thin Mint Wilson is now 26cookies.
And I'm gonna have to figure out what other strains are gonna take what names for.
And we're gonna sell way more seeds than he has.
People are gonna be like, I'm growing Blue Bonnet and fucking, they're gonna tag Blue
Bonnet and we're gonna have a thousand Wilson hybrids as Blue Bonnet and fucking everybody's
gonna know Blue Bonnet belongs to the real Riot Seed Company.
Sure.
And do you think that people would rightly or incorrectly get upset with how lineages
are kind of a bit muddied when you do that?
Not with Masonic.
They know what's happening.
They know what time it is.
There you go.
Okay.
Kind of a more meta idea to what we've been discussing is that I'm a part of obviously
the cannabis scene along with yourself, but I'm also a part of a few other different online
communities and something that I've noticed over the past year or so is that the cannabis
community seems to have a bit of a disproportionate amount of drama in it considering it's like
a bit of an oxymoron.
Like we all smoke weed.
We're meant to be chill and calm.
And yet there's almost more drama than other communities where there isn't this sort of
psychoactive chemical that helps calm you out.
What's your take on that?
You know, it used to be you smoke weed, you're cool.
You know what I mean?
Now it's all like I smoke weed cooler than you or something like that.
I don't know what it is.
I like to think my demographic, I'm kind of open arms, you know, as opposed to, you know,
you got to know this much before you enter here.
I like to think, you know, I cover every demographic, you know, fucking I don't care what you know.
I never answer questions seriously on my live.
So you're never going to.
And if I do, it's like feeding a dog medicine, you know, like I'm being funny.
And every now and then I'll put some medicine in the dog food.
So, you know, it goes to people every now and then.
Next thing you know, you got people interested in actually wanting to know about breeders,
you know, so and shit like that.
But yeah, fucking I got off topic on the question, but fucking yeah.
That's all good.
That's all good.
I guess my question, like the follow up would be is, do you think that the sort of, you
know, dramas we see play out will continue or eventually people will maybe chill out
a bit and kind of be a bit more like the stereotype and just become a bit of a chill stoner?
You know what, dude?
I was chill, bro.
The problem was I was chill till till fucking Friday.
I'm cool, dude.
I'm like the guy that would throw rocks at everybody.
But but not because I was being malicious, but maybe a little bit.
But like it was mostly to poke fun and to laugh at because like if they said something
that I didn't agree with, I would like poke fun at them.
And it's the Internet.
And that's what you can do on the Internet.
So I would make I would poke fun at Jungle Boys.
I would poke fun at Koma.
I would poke fun at Kali outdoor at anybody and everybody.
Next, you know, fucking I'm on I'm on a meme war and then, you know, drama, blood, what
people love.
And then now we're all friends.
And now I've come in to this part in life where I got a business I'm running and and
I've apologized to anybody that I made upset.
Like I've literally gone out of my way and be like, hey, dude, like, I'm sorry, I didn't
know how to make friends and I was trying to get your attention.
So I was being mean and I made a couple of memes about you.
So now I'm in good graces with Jungle Boys, Burner, fucking Koma, Kali outdoor.
And I and all these people, they all have different demographics, you know, like like
people that fuck with this guy don't fuck with this guy.
And me, I'm just I'd rather be cool with everybody.
So if if if they're fuck you, Masonic, and they're like a big person and they're getting
that message out to everybody, I'm going to say something about it.
If they're like a small dude that just kind of went on my page and is like, fuck you,
Masonic, ignore that.
You know, but if somebody is out there like fucking with a fucking holy Bible, like, you
know, with their own fucking crusade, I'm like, nah, man, I'm gonna put this to an end.
And and that's the only drama you will get from me is is is quick drama.
It used to be, oh, you know, this guy's dumb about weed.
I'm a poke fun at him.
Now now it's like, OK, I'm over that.
We're running a business now.
I'm nice to everybody now.
I'm not going to poke fun at nobody.
But this guy was saying fuck you 100 times.
So fuck him.
And I'm better at saying fuck you because I'm more computer savvy.
I'm I've been on 4chan.
I'm better with memes.
I know how to make people laugh better.
And that's where this drama comes.
And people are like, oh, man, like, can we all just get along like, dude, I do just get
along.
This motherfucker over here is saying fuck you every fucking time.
So like, I was tired of being quiet.
So I fucking said fuck you back.
And I'm really good at saying it.
So I'd like brought back the old me, Sonic.
Yeah, good answer.
I just want to jump back to something you referenced a little earlier at the start of
this sort of little answer to this section here is that I noticed you have been posting
recently about Pokemon and Yu-Gi-Oh cards.
And it all makes sense now because we're about the same age.
And so I realize you would have been growing up with it about the same time as me.
And I likewise very into Pokemon and Yu-Gi-Oh.
I thought it was a bee's knees.
Have you ever played the games or were you more of like, did you actually play the game,
the card game or you just more of like a collector?
And do you collect any sort of stuff like that?
I played the game as a kid.
I wasn't a collector.
So I played and whatever was meta at the time, that's what I was playing.
Like Pokemon, we played as kids, not serious, but we got into Yu-Gi-Oh and we got Yu-Gi-Oh
serious business.
Like we go to the trading card store every weekend.
Mom would give us both 20 to 40 dollars and we'd make it work and we'd have to really
learn.
And I have an older brother, so I always had a mentor and he would always get first place
and I would always get fifth or something.
But I got better and I don't know how to play the TCG anymore.
I just played my Sunday at Pokemon right now.
I just opened two starter decks and the Charizard theme decks that came out and we played.
So I still know how to play.
But Yu-Gi-Oh, I bought a deck box, a blister box the other day, and I'm like looking through
the cards and I'm like, fuck no, I can't do this no more.
But I did recently stop playing whenever Darkstrike Fighter was banned on Yu-Gi-Oh.
So yeah, I did play a little bit.
Oh man, I love it.
I remember spending a good chunk of my youth playing that one.
It was good for the meta.
Yeah man, I'm into it and I noticed a lot of people like Logic and I think it's Jake
Paul is that YouTube sensation's name.
I guess they started collecting them amongst themselves again.
And right before that, I had put out a big calling on my Instagram.
I'm like, dude, anybody have Pokemon cards, trade them to me.
And I did it right before like, boo, fucking prices went up.
Now people don't even, they think they're in fucking and rolling in gold.
They're just like, oh, this is a million dollars.
And I'm like, dude, relax.
It's like a couple dollars.
They're not even great.
They're probably not even mint condition.
And but everybody has their Pokemon cards and everybody's looking for them because of
the, you know, prices are skyrocketing right now.
Sure.
So, the next thing I happened to notice, which was like a bit of a rare niche sort of thing
is that unlike a lot of people in the cannabis community who are really into dogs, it appears
as though you're more of a cat person and you even rep the chicken a little bit, which I
think was kind of cool.
What's the backstory behind that with the chicken and with the cats?
And is that where your animal passion sort of lies?
Oh man, I got dogs too.
I just don't rep them.
They just don't sleep in the house, man.
So, you know, you don't get to see them as much.
And it just so happens you're comfortable and on the phone.
The dogs, Dusty sleeps in the house, but, you know, he's not as photogenic as the cats.
But I love dogs just as much.
So let's not let's not confuse that.
I love all my animals.
The chickens.
Actually, before this interview, I have to put my chickens away.
So I have to put them all in their coop.
I got a lot of chickens and cats.
I've always loved cats, chickens.
I would go to my grandma's farm in Mexico every summer and winter and they had chickens.
So I grew up around chickens my whole childhood and I even had ducks when I was a kid.
So I've always been a fan of chickens and now they give me eggs and shit.
So that's cool, too.
In the pandemic, I already had my chickens and nobody had eggs, but I had eggs and all
my friends wanted chickens.
Everybody is asking me about chickens.
Like I was the fucking chicken ambassador.
I'm like, motherfucker, go read a book next to, you know, they're fucking way more versed
in me and I'm like, good, you know.
Love it.
I love it.
So I forgot to ask you earlier, you mentioned you do obviously a lot of growing outdoors,
but we didn't and you and you mentioned that you use salts for the seed production.
But what sort of medium do you like to use outdoors?
Is it just just soil from the ground or you bring in a medium?
And do you have a preferred brand of nutrients you want to mention or you prefer just to
leave it unsaid?
Oh, man, I'll go grab a bag of roots organics and fucking run mills.
You know, I get mills for free, so I run it.
Easy does it.
If if I didn't have that, I'd probably go grab veg bloom or something.
Or you can always make a super soil and just fucking plug and play.
Let that super soil feed the whole time.
I had a bunch of bags of living soil from red blood soil that I ran, but I'm not over
here like dechlorinating anything.
I'm just running straight from the hose.
So it's like it's kind of, you know, oxymoronic to be growing like that.
But yeah, it's easy does it for me like seed production.
You don't need to do much besides make sure the plants are healthy and and fucking you're
not over there.
Pruning and picking, making sure shit looks sexy.
Sure, sure.
So I wanted to ask you about your thoughts on some of the festivals like the weed festivals
and just selling seeds at them in general, because over the past few years we've seen
a decline of the Emerald Cup in terms of people being able to sell their seeds legally.
And more recently, people are kind of like, oh, the vibes not really where it used to
be.
And then lo and behold, I managed to catch up with you in person at the Ego Clash last
year, and that was a cool event.
And so I guess my thoughts is sorry, my question is, what's your thought on the Emerald Cup
and its sort of trajectory?
And do you think these smaller boutique events like the Ego Clash are going to become more
popular?
Dude, fucking Emerald Cup, man, my ass, my dumb ass, like, there's, you know, you feel
like, I don't know, you just feel poor sometimes, you know, fucking I'm walking around Emerald
Cup, supposedly my buddy had a spot I could set up at and sell seeds.
So I'm like, cool, I got this huge box of me full of seeds, you know, you have a spot
for me, cool.
We end up inside and it's not even his program, it's somebody else's, there's nowhere for
me to go.
So I'm fucking lugging this huge box of seeds around Emerald Cup, you know, and it's like,
and it feels weird because I'm Masonic, people are here to visit me, you know, as well as
the Emerald Cup, but I'm over here like lugging a box around, looking like a fucking chump,
you know, like embarrassed almost.
Like, I don't got booth space, you know, it's like, it's almost impossible, only Cap and
Exotic can apparently get booth space here and whoever else, you know, but whatever,
you grow and you make more money and now you're in a position to maybe, now I can, you know
what I mean?
Get booth space if money talks, you know?
But then I wasn't and fucking supposedly I had a buddy that had a booth and he's like,
hey man, set up right here, that's cool.
And I set up and apparently they were doing something they weren't supposed to be doing
and like the Emerald Cup fucking, the daughter that was running the whole thing is like,
you guys got to get out of here and like, I like, DBG was there or yeah, yeah, and like
they had all their stuff on the table and I think they were like trying to like kick
them out of the whole festival entirely and I was there but I had all my shit tucked under
the table a little bit more low key and like they kind of overlooked me and I just kind
of grabbed my stuff and like went to the side and dude, like fucking embarrassing and yeah,
that is the vibes I got at Emerald Cup but somehow, some way I managed to like on the
outskirts of, you know, people that weren't peeping too hard, I managed to backpack a
little bit of seeds and I have my whole catalog with me and managed to, you know, push some
seeds, peddling them on my feet around Emerald Cup which is something I didn't really want to
do like fucking, I should be able to have a booth, you know, fucking this is dumb, you know?
Yeah, definitely. I think that's a sentiment that many of the former breeders have expressed.
Do you think that things like the ego clash and smaller events that maybe invite only sort
of situation will become the more popular and predominant sort of thing that the real heads
are going to or do you think it's like the Emerald Cup is still so big it's going to draw the crowds?
I think we got to do some more of that ego clash shit but not to the point where it's,
you know, where we ring it too much because if you do something too much, people get fed up with it
so recently I did a pop-up at a hydroponic store and, you know, it was kind of, it wasn't no ego
clash but, you know, you didn't have to go to a fucking festival to go pick up seeds, you know,
so we can do a derivative of that and whatever, you know, like an ego clash. You could have an
ego clash in your city. It doesn't have to be ego clash, it could just be a sesh and
grab some like-minded guys and maybe bring a star or something because little by little,
poos are coming out the woodwork and, you know, people want to associate with others amongst
themselves that smoke weed too so you got to give them that power. You can't be like,
oh you guys aren't good enough to talk about breeding because nobody breeds in Ohio but,
you know, that's not fair. They can all gather and have seeds too and make a cool seeder in
their state, you know, so whatever the case be. It's early, shit's growing, people are getting
bigger, there'll be more breeders from more places and there will be more like ego clash
things I'd imagine. Yeah, sure and I guess final question before we get into some of the fans
submitted ones on the tail end of things. I remembered thinking that it was a very just,
you know, weird situation to be in that cave at the ego clash and like people had the booths and
you had your table set up and you're selling seeds and stuff and I thought this is like a
really like unpredicted sort of experience. What are some of the most weird or standout
experiences you've had while being in the industry or selling seeds? Well that one is one of them,
sure enough being in a fucking cave selling seeds, you know, that was one of them.
I was in Atalanta one time fucking selling seeds, you know, on the outskirts of this huge
free dab festival. That was a pretty nasty one. One time I set up shop outside of a Target in
Compton in the parking lot and I just had people come to me like if I was selling mixtapes out my
trunk and I like nitpickingly invited people like, like, oh you look okay, boom, you know. So
I took that and just expanded that into my pop-up. So I just screened more people via Instagram
because you can tell a lot through somebody's Instagram, like come on,
like if you see some dude called Robin motherfuckers, like you're not gonna let him go
to your, to your pop-up, you know, like dude your name is Robin motherfuckers, like why would I let
you come with me, you know, so you know, no, no, no discrimination but if you look like you about
to jack somebody and you have no pictures of your grow on your, your weed, you probably will never
get invited to any local Masonic shindigs. There you go, wise words. So on the tail end of things, we've just got a few
fans submitted questions before we get to the final five or six
quickfire questions. First one being what's your thoughts on shrooms, you pro shrooms?
Shrooms man, there's, they're, they'll put you in your place, you know, I, I even micro-dosing man,
they'll make me shut the fuck up and just go to my room and lock myself up for a bit and just put my
phone down for a second. I think they're a good reset. I wouldn't tell you to go to a heroic dose
like, like that but nibble at it, see how you like it. Some people like it better than others. I'm,
I get uneasy with them so I do them spontaneously, I'll nibble at them, never more than,
more than a fucking 0.1 because if I eat a 0.3 I'm like hugging the floor, like it's that bad for me.
There you go, good answer. So next one was do you currently have any plans to work with any males
besides Wilson? Maybe, maybe in this new Pheno hunt that I'm doing I have a bunch of elite crosses
crossed into Wilson but it ended up being a Wilson hybrid so maybe, maybe. Maybe, so the next one
which I thought was interesting is would you ever consider doing a Wilson F2 or F3, I don't know
what it would be classified as, where it's like your Wilson crossed to Oni's Wilson 0?
Uh, that's a good idea. Maybe that, we haven't even thought of that. That's crazy, that's a
good idea. Yeah, we'll appreciate doing that tomorrow. I'm gonna hit them up.
So the next question we had submitted was are you more of an indigo or sativa fan?
I'm more of an indigo person. Yeah, sure, and if you had to pick, Hayes or Cush?
Cush, I'll do it. Love it, love it. So next one was out of all your strains, what's the most potent to you
and what's the biggest yielder? Well I've got uh, out of the biggest Pheno hunt out of anybody that
I've got, I got the Chemdi i95 was probably one of the heaviest yielders, Chemdi i95 Wilson.
And out of personally that I smoked, I hate to like be cliche or put cream on my taco, but I
smoked some Wilson F2 that really blew my socks off. No, good answer. A bit of a more random one
to round out the fan submitted one. What's your thoughts on the new Aesop album? Oh, Aesop rock?
Yep. Oh man, I have, bro, I don't listen to Aesop rock like that. That fool uses too many words for
me, dog. I need to go pull up a dictionary. There is no way in God anybody could recite a whole Aesop
rock song and if they can, Jesus Christ, your ass is really sitting there digesting that shit. You
have to practice that motherfucking hundred times. That guy's dope though, man. Aesop rock's cool.
I should probably check it out. No worries. And the final fan submitted question before we do the final
five. What do you think are the genetics in cookies? I have no idea. It's a, it's F1 DERB.
There you go. I think that's what will always be told.
All right. So final five quickfire ones from me. What is the best or most memorable weed you've
ever smoked? Hmm. Shit. This is Zerbert, man. I'm, I'm, I'm, it's pretty memorable because I had a really
I was smoking nothing but concentrate like to, to date at Ego. And, uh, I was just like, man,
weed's not cutting it. Like flowers not cutting it anymore. And I'm my buddy. Uh, that who's my
buddy now. He, he, he had a buddy. They was like, Hey man, you should talk to him. He, he saw me in
the cave and he let me hit his pipe. And, uh, it was a Zerbert and I'm like, what the fuck is this
shit? He's like, that's Zerbert, fool. And, and I'm like, can I grab some? And he like literally
points at a three, six, five. He was right there or can it be, I think his name is. And I, and I
went home with an ounce. And ever since then, like, you know, I was smoking nothing but hash,
but, uh, I went back on flower on that day. And to this date, it just so happens you're asking me
about it. Cause, uh, Calico shirt, they grew a bunch of it. And randomly I'm like, Hey, I like,
I like that strain a lot. And they're like, sure, we'll, we'll give you some. And like randomly,
they fucking brought me a quarter pound of that shit.
Oh, lovely synchronous. So on the other end of the spectrum, was there ever a strain where like
everyone, you know, was hyping it up and saying it's the bees knees. And then you finally try
and you were like, this isn't that good. I tried some PIF S1. That shit was terrible,
Doug. All that PIF shit. They need to shut the fuck up and sit down. I don't care. Like it's
okay. It's like, it's nostalgic and it's reminiscent, but it's far from good. I'm just
fucking around. I'm a piss a lot of people off. It's it has this place, you know, it's all for
them foos with the Timbo's dead ass BS foos. But yeah. All right. So the next one, you're about to
get dropped off at a desert Island and you can only take three strains with you. You've got to
smoke for the rest of your life. What are they going to be? Oh, I'll take some, uh, Skittles
with me. I'll take a, some GMO and some Wilson. Fuck it. Lovely. All right. Now flip side of the
coin. You're about to drop someone you don't like very much off on the Island and you get to pick
the three strains they're stuck with. What are you going to leave them? They're going to get some,
uh, some super lemon Hays. They're going to get some Malawi Panama red and fucking
what's it. And whatever soapy strain that was that I smoked at Colorado.
Cool. Cool. Cool. So final question is if you could go back in time to anywhere,
any place, anytime collecting the seeds or a clone, where would you go? And what are you getting?
Shit. I would just for my, uh, you know, just for the culture, I'd probably go in Mexico and
find some shit over there just cause I can speak Spanish to figure it out over there.
Oh yeah. That's a good answer. We definitely need some more land races from down there.
Yeah. That'd be dope. Love it. All right. So I think that just about brings us to the end of it.
Is there any comments or shout outs you wanted to make?
No, that's it, man. Thank you for inviting me. Shout out everybody out there. Shout out,
shout out. Yeah. And there you have it. Thank you so much to the main master himself,
Masonic for taking the time to join us and share all the knowledge.
Thanks G you have a great night or a great day.
And there you have it, my friends, wise words from the man himself, Masonic.
You like it? I thought it was pretty good.
As always huge shout out to Masonic for taking the time to come on the show. We appreciate you
greatly just like we appreciate our sponsors and I recommend everyone who's listened,
go hit them up. Seeds here now, best of luck.
Seed bank in the business, guarantee on satisfaction, not just germination.
Go check them out now. Why would you go anywhere else? All the biggest and best breeders. I love
them. You love them. Go show them some love. Likewise, Poppet Biological Systems, your number
one stop for predator mites, beneficial predators, feeds for your garden, microbial powders,
so much. You got to go check them out. I'd sell it short and just leave it at that.
You've got to go get their stuff. Keep your garden happy, healthy, your next harvest being
that primo fire. Trust me guys, you want to have a beneficial army there before you get into trouble,
not afterwards. Finally, the Patreon gang, we love you guys so much. Thank you so deeply.
I really appreciate all the support you guys give. You help to ensure that the episodes happen.
Without you, we might not be here. If you want early access to content, exclusive interviews,
giveaways, and so much more, please go check out www.patreon.com forward slash the podcast.
I think that's it for this episode, my friends. I will join you for the next one.
Thanks for the support as always. This is your boy, Heavy Days, coming at you from the
Upside Down Library, signing off yet again. We'll see you.
Transcribed by https://otter.ai
