Hello and welcome to the next episode of The Podcast, a cannabis podcast for budding enthusiasts.
As always, you're joined by your boy, Heavy Days, here from the Upside Down Library.
And we are incredibly grateful to all of our sponsors.
It's here now.
Number one seed bank in the industry, all the greatest breeders, the hottest drops,
the latest strains, anything you could want, they got it.
And they offer a guarantee on satisfaction, not just germination.
Check them out guys, they got what you need.
Likewise, huge shout out to our friends at Coppett Biological Systems with everything
you need to ensure that your harvest is pumping on all pistons, firing on all cylinders and
giving you the highest grade harvest to date, free of pests, pathogens, with their wide
range of beneficial predators, including the AcuparM and the Spidex Vital, they'll keep
your garden happy and healthy.
Huge shout out to our homies, Holden Down the Fort Down Under, top shelf seed bank and
organic gardening solutions.
For all the greatest breeders, for all the best organic gardening products, check them
out.
Plus the organic products I use and the seed bank that I sell my stuff through.
And last but not least, the Patreon gang.
Thank you, thank you, thank you.
The one and only, we could not make episodes happen without you.
If you would like to get early access to upcoming episodes, exclusive unreleased content, bonus
episodes with Bob Hemphill, Mean Gene, Bodhi, 707 Seed Bank, Track Home Jungles, the list
goes on.
Please consider checking out the Patreon, www.patreon.com forward slash the podcast.
Hello and welcome back.
Part two of our chat with the crew from White Buffalo Seeds.
Talking all things Canadian history, land race strains and so much more.
Let's get back into it guys.
I noticed you work with seed banks, but you also sell via your own site.
And I've seen that this is becoming a more increasingly popular option for a lot of breeders.
And I'm sort of wondering, do you think we're moving to like a direct sales model eventually
with breeder and customer or do you think seed banks will always be sort of the mainstay?
I think that, I don't know, I hate to say it, but I think eventually it's going to be
an all legal model.
At some point it'll be a lot easier to get into the system and create legal seeds.
I mean, it's already there.
You can create legal seeds in Canada, you just got to go through and get a, you have
to have a little bit of money to invest.
I think, yeah, at some point it's going to be more like garden seeds or whatever.
Weed won't be valuable to grow.
It'll be like a tomato, you know, when we get to that spot when everything is fucking
hemp fiber and hemp bricks everywhere and weed plants everywhere, you know, it'll be
like a tomato or a strawberry or anything else.
Yeah, it's just going to be like, think of how there's so many, there's been so many
new breeders in the last 10 years, like it's just exploded, like the amount of breeders.
And you know, there's only, you only need so many, like there's only so, the market's
only buying so many seeds.
I don't know, I think at some point it's just going to be all legal because it'll just be
the path of least resistance.
There really is no, you know, most countries there's not a way to sell seeds legally, but
in Canada there is, and I can see how in the future that'll just be the model for everywhere.
Like there'll be, like I know most places now, most countries now that are legalizing
or whatever have a med program, there's a way to get cannabis into the legal seed registration
program.
Like there's, I think it's like United Nations seed program and every country in the world
has their version of it.
And they just have to put cannabis in there more or less.
But then like there's all sorts of complications with politics from what I understand, like
you can't, like right now you can't really export stuff around the world because everyone's
got quotas for like in the recreational side of things.
Like the UN won't allow recreational export, but there's medical export.
And eventually, I think eventually there's just going to be like, everything's going
to be open at some point, but we're just like going through growing pains.
Growing pains are really extreme growing pains.
And do you think you'll be able to continue your operation in approximately the same sort
of way it is now going forward with legalization?
Or do you sort of fear the big ag moving in type of thing?
Well, what's happening is like we were talking about Pinkush, the end of Pinkush, the end
of the like Pinkush era.
These guys, when they hit the wall, the Pinkush is not selling anymore.
Well, a lot of them are saying, well, what do I got to do to become, to get a legal commercial
license?
And like it happened a decade ago in the medical side of things.
Growing Black Market had no intention of joining the system and getting like a medical license.
Because at that time it was like, at the very beginning, you could only get it, it was hard
to get it more than a few plants.
License?
License, yeah.
Yeah, there's the licenses were basically by plant count.
But like over the past 10 years, things have loosened up and there's like these gray area
kind of doctors that are, or even like nurses, nurse practitioners that, you know, they understand
how the law works and how we have to do to get licenses for like a bunch of people with,
you know, like a much higher plant counts than what was previously possible.
So anyways, like the whole like Pinkush thing exploded.
These guys need to figure out, like they were hesitant back in the medical days.
They were hesitant about getting licensed through the government, but eventually everyone
did.
Eventually there's like no...
Even the holdouts, they were like, I'm never gonna do it.
Yeah, yeah.
They're like, they all got their license.
The hardest, the hardest old timers that would like, they would, you know, like the most
anti, like establishment guys, like they all of them got licenses because it's like in
California when they had the, you know, their medical program, it just, the doctors figured
out how, you know, how to disseminate a whole bunch of licenses and get a bunch of money
for it.
It's the same deal here.
So if there's money to be made, you know, you can sell out, you know, get a bunch of
licenses to people.
And like, and it was, you know, it all comes down to like how, like how much of a pain
in the ass is it to get a license basically.
And they've just made it like really easy to get a license.
So there's really no reason not to get a license.
But like in the future, I think that it's going to be the same way for commercial, like
commercial cannabis licenses in Canada.
It'll just be like, they've, we've already seen it in the past.
The program started in 2013, our legal recreation, like our legal, like, no, no, no, no.
Yeah.
It was MMR originally.
Yeah.
Or like, it was basically our legal commercial framework started in 2013.
And like initially those first guys that, that got into the system, like there was a
bunch of big guys that got into the system initially.
And then like a bunch of those early guys that got into the system had no idea, or like
they were trying to get into the system.
They had no idea what the hell, you know, like what they needed to do because they like
everything was kind of like vague.
Like they had, you know, it was just a new system.
It was hard to get information.
Yeah.
Like the, there was a lot of like money that was wasted.
And it was just costing millions and millions of dollars.
But now like nowadays for $15,000 for like $15,000, basically you needed to have at least
$15,000 for one year to get your like micro cultivation license and, and a facility that's
like up to spec.
But the, for the micro guys, the requirements are a lot more relaxed.
So like it took a while to get these micro licenses as part of the Canadian system.
But you know, now that they've introduced them and now that they're like pumping out
the licenses, it's a lot easier.
And you can, there's guys selling like application, like an application template, basically.
You just like fill in your, your stuff and go get your license.
They're pumping out four to eight licenses a week.
That's like standard and micro cultivation in Canada.
So there's like 800 and some licensees right now.
So yeah, eventually like I can see, but I mean, it's going to be the same thing.
Like there's, I don't know, there's only so much weed that can be grown and sold like
within our market and we can't, the recreational market can't right now.
They can't export any of it.
They can only export medical stuff.
And it generally has to be like EU compliant because a lot of it's going to Europe and
then there's some going to Australia.
Yeah.
Yes, there are definitely a few Australians who have been the beneficiaries of the Canadian
system.
But I think nowadays there's quite a few facilities online in Australia.
So there's some options out there.
I did want to take a moment to jump over to the legendary Roberts Creek Congo.
A lot of questions relating to this one.
I believe it originated from one of your good buddies, Vision Creator, and he's pretty tight
with you guys.
Would you be able to give us a bit of a backstory on it?
Yeah, I'll start off the story.
When I was working with Reeferman, when we were in Amsterdam, we were hanging out with
Duby and Kiki from Canada Bioand, and we had established a bit of a friendship there
previous to that.
And we just decided to trade some seeds.
And when we got back to Canada, they sent some seeds and the Congo was one of the varieties.
And Reeferman passed it along to Vision Creator.
And Scabby was actually working with Vision Creator at the time.
So they started those seeds.
And yeah, we were like doing big outdoor grows at the time.
Doing like two, three thousand plants at a time and grabbing all kinds of genetics and
just going through, bam, bam, bam.
The whole basement was filled with different phenos and I'd wake up every day and like
grab a different pheno or something to try.
It was a really fun time.
But that Congo plant that came out was one of the best in that year.
The Trinity Cat was something that really reminded me of like in the same kind of realm.
We did them the same year and they were like back and back like that.
And the rest is history, I guess.
Robbie has spread the word of the Congo.
I mean, it's a really good plant to grow.
It's easy to grow.
It's got a pretty wicked beginner sativa high, I like to call it.
And you know, people like that lemon boot polishy.
It's sexy.
People like that.
And yeah, it's a good plant.
I think more people should grow it.
Definitely.
Yes.
You know what?
I'll be honest.
I actually wasn't familiar with it until I was at a good friend of the show, Mr. Bob
Hemphill.
I was at his house and he pulled out a jar.
And he only really has good weed, so to speak, you know, like really cool old school stuff.
And I was like, what's this?
He's like, oh, it's the Congo, man.
Like it's the real deal.
And I remember being very impressed by the bud structure.
Very, very bulky.
And he said to me that like he had heard rumors it might have been crossed with an Afghani
or some sort of Indica.
Well, we submitted that one to Phylos and it didn't link up with anything.
And when you grow it out and you grow the crosses, you see what's in something.
Like, you know, you can tell if it's been crossed with an Afghani.
Yeah, we've crossed it with so many things, like so many sativas that if we grew out a
bunch of them, you'd think we'd hit something like that.
But we've never.
Never come across.
And like all the seeds we put out there with Congo sativa crosses, we never get anyone
coming back saying, hey, this is a short crop.
Well, sure.
So you think like it's just really, truly like a special fast flowering and the structure
just it's like, you know, just really one of a kind.
Well, like after growing a lot of Africans and it's in that time frame, you know, it's
like really high on the terpene, which is different, you know, like the terpene.
But, you know, I'm sure there's fucking everything.
So what were the siblings of that?
Like. Oh, God, I can't even remember, honestly.
Was it like really, really crazy hempy phenos?
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, definitely.
There were there were some phenos that were very Medusa headed and spread out for sure.
Yeah. And like stuff with running calyxes, anything like that.
Yeah, definitely.
But the like the high end terpene content of that plant is what makes it really special.
Definitely.
And why do you think it's like got this real cult following but hasn't quite truly broke
through to the mainstream quite yet, because I remember when I tried it, I was like, this
is some of the best weed I've ever smoked.
But yet I myself hadn't heard of it like 10 minutes prior to that, you know, and I was a
bit like, you know, I know a lot of strains, you know what I mean?
Like it really makes me feel a bit caught out.
Why do you think it's not more well known?
I think it's got its own special enigma, like it decides where it wants to go and who wants
to grow it and.
People that aren't supposed to be growing it, maybe they lose their plants or something, I
don't know, like we've been sending cuts down to the States for years and it should be all
over the place.
But, you know, one thing I figured out about Canada over the years, because we've had this
more of a protective environment or more of a tolerant environment like in the past.
And because everyone like it's more of an indoor dominated society, we've just got it's
more conducive to saving cuttings because there's everyone's pretty much everyone's got a
room or like a light going year round, you know, or during at all times when it's needed.
So I think it's just it's easier for cuts to circulate in Canada.
Like I think there may be in the States, you know, it's more there'll be more outdoor
growers. It just seems like.
There's just more cuts being held or just like, you know, for the amount of people we
have here, you know, our population's 10 percent of the states.
I think we have a high proportion of people holding cuts just because they can, you know,
you got a spot to hold them.
There's less cuts being lost, basically what I'm trying to say.
Yeah, nice.
And out of curiosity, have you guys ever grown out any like S1s of it and sort of seen
what that had inside it?
No, but that's like a dream that's like right here in front of us right now at this moment
in time.
So we'll get there soon.
Are you doing a fem right now?
I'm just I'm just starting to experiment with some.
Some feminization, like I'm I did some feminine, I've done some feminization in the past
and I just don't like the.
The chemistry of silver thiosulfate, because it's got a bunch of sodium in the mix, like
a bunch of sodium in the mix, like the actual chemistry you mix sodium thiosulfate and
silver, silver nitrate and the molecules swap.
So you have silver thiosulfate, but also in the same solution you have sodium nitrate.
So every time you're spraying your plants with it's not like I'm not.
I'm not trying to be critical of it, it's just for me like.
I'm interested in chemistry, so I want to try.
I just want to try some other alternate formulations like I've tried, I just tried
instead of sodium thiosulfate, I thought to myself, well, let's try calcium thiosulfate.
So we made silver thiosulfate and then the other molecule is calcium nitrate that it
makes in the same solution because you're like when you make sodium, when you make a
silver thiosulfate, it's a co, it's like a co solution, there's like two solutions
going on there.
Like you don't separate out the sodium nitrate.
So.
And just I'm just wondering in my mind, I'm just curious, you know, maybe we can maybe
there's because like from what I understand, like I don't have a lot of experience with
reversals, but I did enough just to like to know how it works.
But yeah, in my mind, like.
I want I just want to try a bunch of different other silver molecules because like the.
The basic theory is that you're trying to get as much you're trying to get a bunch of
silver loaded into the plant and when you get when you reach a critical amount of silver,
that's when the plant starts like the hormones start flipping and they start producing
hormones that are, you know, to make male flowers.
So, yeah, I'm trying a bunch of different.
Silver formulations.
I just made made silver citrate.
So I took silver nitrate converted it into silver oxide with like with lye sodium hydroxide.
And then mix that with citric acid and then it made a citrus.
So silver citrate in solution.
So, you know, I'm just going to try.
Making a bunch of these molecules and I think the.
The first one I tried this silver.
That was sulfate calcium nitrate solution.
I worked out pretty good, but it's a calcium nitrate is a double.
It's a double veggie nutrient.
So calcium is a veg nutrient and nitrate is a veg nutrient.
So it's like hitting a flowering plant.
With a double veg nutrient is not really helping it want to flower.
So I want to like I'm going to try this silver citrate next.
Just I'm just going to try it just to see what it does.
And then I'll just spray the other stuff as well.
Just to compare the reactions.
Are there any specific concerns about using a standard STS solution that you hope to
overcome by using this alternative one?
Well, in my mind, my concern is by spraying the plant with silver sodium.
The plant does not want to take up sodium.
So maybe it's going to be like not, you know, it's not fully going to be able to upload
that silver.
OK.
And it's also like it's just not healthy.
You know, if we have the option of not spraying sodium onto the plant and we, you know, can
we choose that option?
Is that possible?
That sounds pretty reasonable.
We I actually had a discussion with a friend of mine the other day and we were linking
some papers to each other.
And there's actually a few different chemicals you can use.
You can also use a cobalt chloride solution.
Yeah, that's all.
Yeah.
If you're OK with chloride, if you're OK with cobalt chloride, there's also another molecule.
It's like three methyl heptanone or something.
Yeah, yeah.
I know which ones you're talking about.
Those ones are.
Yeah, I'm not interested in that other stuff.
Or what about just just straight up colloidal silver?
Yeah, I don't know.
I've heard that that's not super reliable.
Yeah, I think it is less less effective.
You've got to spray it more often and for longer.
Yeah, you got to spray it a lot.
So the other molecules I want to try are.
What was the next one?
Silver.
Silver by glycinate.
It's never been as far as I've under as far as I understand, it's never been it's never
been synthesized before.
It sounds like it's chelated with two glycine, which amino acid.
Exactly.
Exactly.
Exactly.
So it's like you can go to the health food store and get all your minerals now as by
glycinates, calcium by glycinates, magnesium.
So I figured out.
I think I figured out the path.
I think you got to you got to make silver oxide and then and then do a swap between
silver oxide and glycine solution.
I've also heard you can use just gibberellic acid.
That's right.
But that one's also not super reliable from what I understand.
And but I've like I've heard something I heard like back in the day is you spray your
your GA before you spray your silver or after like one of the two.
And it like gives a boost.
It gives a boost to the silver.
That's what I've heard.
Yeah, I've heard that it can increase the pollen rates because the gibberellic acid,
you know how you've got like a pollen cluster, it like it causes it all to elongate.
Yeah, and it'll shoot.
It'll shoot the like it'll spread the the the stamens apart.
And it probably helps with the ejection of the pollen to to get it out of that stamen.
Like like when I was just doing some experiments there, I one of the plants I sprayed, it wasn't
like ejecting pollen.
So but when I dried it and crushed it in my fingertips, there's a bunch of pollen there
on my fingertips.
And I looked at it under scope.
I was looking at the inside of that stamen and the inside of the stamen, it's like super
cool.
It's like a geode.
It's like a crystal geode, but just covered with pollen grains.
So like the whole inside of those stamen are growing.
It's just like a layer of pollen growing on the inside of it.
That's awesome.
The one of the plants I sprayed, they just weren't detaching.
So they just didn't have enough oomph to finish the like to finish the maturation and like
crystallize so that this shit can like detach.
Yeah, sure.
And out of interest for our listeners, are there any specific sort of feminized projects
you're hoping to do like any like, like, you know, so I think you've alluded that the Roberts
Congo, you're going to reverse that.
So we might see some hybrids with that in the future.
Well, basically, we're going to reverse everything and cross it to everything.
Okay.
Every permutation possible.
That's my goal.
Everything that everything that everything that's tested, you know, like tested cuttings
that we have in our collection.
We've got like 50, we keep like 50 cuts at a time, generally.
And I like we like to get like occasionally we get rid of, you know, we'll purge a bunch
of stuff that you know, like just I just like to get rid of stuff.
I'm like, yeah, this stuff is good.
But like, you know, we have other stuff that's better in that particular category.
Or like it's we did some breeding with it and wasn't a good breeder.
So like, yeah, get it out of here.
So given you've got this like incredible collection of females, but not necessarily
having been able to cross them together, but now being able to, which two females are you
really excited to see like the offspring of?
All of them.
That's a silly question.
Yeah, you never know, man.
Once you start doing this, you realize that you can make good choices by having good goals
to go towards, you know, getting used to knowing the plants and what you're doing and how they
grow and what you want to add to that or take away from that.
So, yeah, it's really I mean, you got to do everything.
It's yeah.
And the other thing is like the coolest comes out of the most unexpected places.
Yeah, definitely.
Like you should you just got to grow everything.
Like basically, that's what you got to do as a as someone that's looking for stuff is
you just got to grow everything you can get your hands on.
Yeah, grow it.
Grow it all and smoke it all and then like keep the best and then grow them again.
You know, like you got to grow everything again.
Several times.
Yeah.
Smoke it all again before it gets into the house.
That's a good recipe.
So, out of curiosity, I noticed you guys have got the Congo Creek Haze.
It sounds insane.
Would you recommend it for someone like myself who loves the Congo and wants to have something
similar to that?
Or do you think the Haze is like, you know, quite dominant and maybe there's an alternative
cross you offer where you get a bit more of that Congo?
If you don't mind, like they can go between like 11 to 15 weeks if you don't mind running
that long.
I would highly recommend the Haze Congo Creek.
Definitely.
100% grow it.
Yeah, because it's actually way it's actually well in our mind we like it better.
I like it better than the Congo for sure.
Yes.
Extra extra special.
Yeah.
It's like the Congo for me has a short high.
The duration of the high isn't very long.
I think it's a little bit longer.
The duration of the high isn't very long.
And I think that might be like something to do with plants in that time frame.
Not sure.
Yeah, it's a faster finishing plant.
You can't expect it.
Yeah, like, yeah, so yeah, that makes sense for sure.
But so that is it has that longer leg high on it, right?
That longer creative high for a musician or writer or a dancer or whatever, you know,
to get into that place.
Yeah, nice.
Yeah, and it's a bit more complexity into the flavors too.
But I mean, there's such like the Congo has such a cult following that people they just
want the Congo.
Like a lot of people just they just want that Congo.
They don't want like, no, if you said Congo, hey, so then they would like slap you like,
you're like, no, I just want to come.
That's all right.
I'm not that much of a purist.
I would be interested to know, though, given you guys have grown such a wide diversity of,
you know, equatorial strains and various sativas.
Do you have any sort of tips for people to grow them indoors?
Like, I know that I've got this friend, he's an older guy, and he grows a lot of Thai and
he puts heating mats under his pots.
And he's like, when I asked him about it, he goes, Oh, I think I'm replicating the soil
temperature of the equatorial regions.
I was like, that's kind of interesting.
Any weird, fun, creative tips you've got?
I don't necessarily agree with that, because a lot of the equatorial stuff is growing up.
Elevation.
Sure, sure.
They're going to be.
Yeah, like they might be some of those spots like Columbia.
It's not necessarily super warm there.
Like you go into Bogota, it's freaking cold as fuck.
Yeah, yeah, definitely.
I mean, not cold as fuck, but it's like, what was Medellin?
Oh, the eternal spring, right?
Yeah, but it did get pretty cold there in the night, right?
So those Colombian genetics.
The guys that are growing are like up in the hills.
Definitely up in the hills.
Those Colombian genetics add a lot of hardiness into anything we throw them into.
So that's one of the things the biosphere of Colombia has presented great genetics for our use.
Yeah, nice.
Okay, well, I mean, do you have any other tips for people to do indoor sativas?
I think DJ Short says he likes to do instead of 12-12, like 11-13.
Do you do anything different like that?
Or you just approach it straightforward?
You know, what I like to do is do the first eight weeks on a 12-12 schedule.
And then after eight weeks, flip it down to 11-13.
And then for a couple of weeks, and then down to like 10-14 to the finish.
So like, yeah, because you know, they're not going to want to finish like in eight weeks early.
You know, there's no real advantage to flip in my mind, flipping the light down until like,
after eight weeks.
Yeah, sure.
That makes sense.
Yeah, so the tip is to try and get your plants down to 10-14.
Because otherwise, they're just going to keep spitting out pistols.
A lot of those tropical plants.
That's a good tip, because I hear that a lot from guests that they have strains that'll do that.
Yeah, you just got to get it down to 10-14 or 11-13.
The more it wants to keep flowering, the more you have to reduce it, basically.
But like some plants, they just need like 20 weeks or
22 weeks, and there's just nothing you can do about it.
The slow burn.
One of the questions I like to ask all of the guests we have on who have like, you know,
quite diverse seed libraries is what seeds in your library are like the most special to you?
And what ones are you most keen to run?
That's a tough question.
Well, for me, I always like I have these seeds called Rapa Nui, Easter Island.
And I've always like, emphasized about something special coming out of that in a weird way.
But yeah, for me, yeah, that's something that we're really, yeah, it's like really hard to,
like I was saying, the weirdest, the coolest shit comes out of the weirdest places.
So I just don't, I mean, definitely the tropical stuff.
Because that's what we like to grow.
Yeah, it gives us great eyes and great creative eyes.
And yeah, it's just the, I think as we move forward as like a people, you know,
we'll evolve a finer taste to cannabis kind of like the way we do with wine,
and it'll become more socially acceptable.
And, you know, we'll get to share these things more often, you know,
as people proliferate those genes more and more.
Yeah, for sure.
So while we're on the topic of growing from a question or two ago,
I haven't asked you guys yet.
What style of growing do you use?
Are you soil, are you soilless, cocoa, hydro?
What's your preferred method?
Cocoa, two thirds cocoa, one third perlite.
And we make our own compost and we pre-mix the compost,
like one to 10 or one to eight or whatever, into that mix and test it, get a soil test.
And just do basically water only, but maybe throw in a few things that might be needed along the way.
Try to keep it as simple as possible because we grow so many plants and we're growing everything
in the same mix from like the craziest sativas to like the most sensitive sativas
to like the most hungriest indica things.
But what we figured out is we just got to,
the more sensitive stuff, we'll just put less compost into it.
But like they all seem to like, the plants like people, you know, plants are like people,
they all seem to like a certain type of food.
Like they all seem to be reasonably happy with the same like meal.
Yeah, we just try to keep it simple.
Our compost is made from a bunch of the old cocoa mix as the bulking medium,
as like the browns, the carbon.
And then we get a bunch of like alfalfa,
soybean meal, rock phosphate, fish bone meal, thalamite lime, high calcium lime, gypsum.
And then a bunch of the old compost, we'll throw that in there, like 5% as inoculant.
And we were using, we made some IMOs,
like K&F style IMOs to inoculate the compost piles before with just like...
Indigenous microbes.
Yeah, IMOs from our forest around here.
And then trace minerals.
And lately we've been, we take a bunch of like sulfate trace minerals and
dissolve them in water and then mix them into biochar and throw that in there.
It's pretty like, pretty complicated.
I don't really, it's not like a big deal.
It's pretty complicated.
It's not like a method I recommend that people try as, you know,
unless they really want to experiment.
But we've been like experimenting for like 15 years on various recipes.
But we're finally like, right now, the latest recipe is like super close to where it needs to be.
And like the last three years, we figured out how to, like where the recipe needs to be to
totally impervious to powdery mildew, like our plants don't grow, like they won't grow powdery
mildew.
Is like, we basically, we figured out when you get a soil test, there's something called a
base saturation for the cations, cation base saturation.
That's like your calcium, there's the cation exchange sites.
And they basically, they measure how much of each of those ions, each of those cations is on those
cation exchange sites, like the ratio.
And they measure calcium, potassium, magnesium, sodium, and hydrogen.
And what we figured out is to like, what worked for us is to get that calcium number as like
insanely high as possible.
And to use a bunch of different calcium sources.
We've got like seven different types of calcium in our mix, which includes the rock phosphate
as a source of calcium and the fishbone meal, like the stuff that has a lot of calcium in it.
So according to Kerry Reams, he was saying that there's so many different calcium molecules.
So it's like nice to have all those different calcium molecules available for the plant.
Very comprehensive, but yet still organic and thus a man after my heart.
I love it.
When you opened up with Coco, I was like, okay, here we go.
Here we go.
Getting ready for it.
And like fish this time of year, you know, we're on the coast, we'll take some fish and
throw it in a bucket and make some fertilizer, you know, let it eat up.
So yeah, the local stuff is good.
You know, we try to get our stuff as local as we can.
Yeah, we're trying to close the loop as much as possible.
I love it.
I want to quickly ask you, what's the backstory on the BC mango?
Because there's a breeder in Australia, his name's Ski Mask Seeds, shout out.
He's worked at a few generations and he's doing some fun stuff with it.
And so I was sort of interested to hear the backstory on it and what sort of traits do
you remember it having?
Well, I've never grown out that particular hybrid, but I've seen test grows of it.
It is, the cross is, drumroll please, the female was Dutch Passion mango.
Was it Dutch Passion that had the mango?
I think it might have been KC Brains.
KC Brains.
Yeah, KC Brains.
That's right.
KC Brains, that was a BC, like a BC selected cut or like a Vancouver Island selected cut of
the mango.
And then a guy named Detox in like mid-Vancouver Island, he crossed it with Cream Sotica.
We grew out a bunch of those and we just, those things are all over the place.
Like I said, that Cream Sotica will give you every variation of color possible,
leaf color, bud color, all sorts of like, they're really dense, those Cream Sotica crosses.
So they're really nice, like they look nice and stuff.
The high is not like super strong or anything.
No, not a very good high.
But we selected out a semi-autophenyl of that, that's like super hard to keep in,
it was super hard to keep in veg.
And when you would put it out, it just wouldn't, it was like the Mighty Might,
you'd put it out and it would only grow like three feet tall or whatever.
For all intents and purposes, it was autoflowering, but I classified as semi-auto.
So anyways, that was the female side.
And we crossed that with a Northern Lights that came from Steve Tuck.
And Steve Tuck used to work in Holland for, I believe he worked for Sensi,
Dutch Passion, one of those.
So he claimed he had like a good enol line and it seemed to be all right.
Nice.
Yeah.
But like that particular enol line, I grew it outdoors in BC and it actually,
like this shit actually worked outdoors.
So yeah, it actually had good mold resistance and was relatively early.
Interesting stuff.
Another cutting from back in the day, the UBC Chemo, that was like a real famous Canadian clone.
And you occasionally see people bring it up today, but not too many people have it.
What made that cut unique, you know, and how would you describe it to people?
I've never tried it or smelled it, so I've got no idea what it's like.
I would call it wheelchair weed.
Like it didn't have a lot of character, but it had good medicinal properties,
like very narcoleptic and-
Green apple, sour green apple kind of.
Yeah, and it was nice.
It looked like a Nepalese kind of aphid cross to me.
Definitely.
Had really like serrated, sharp, thin leaves.
And there was two phenyls, there was a short phenyl from Montreal and then the west-
Yeah, but that's not, that has nothing to do with the UBC Chemo.
There was another chemo in Montreal that like confused the situation, but it was like unrelated.
But ironically, it came from BC, from some dready-
Deadman Island.
Is that what they said?
Yeah, yeah.
At Denman Island.
Oh, Deadman Island.
But the French guy kept saying Deadman Island and I'm like, Deadman Island?
Oh, Deadman Island.
That's great.
Are there any other Canadian genetics that you think deserve more of a rep,
but have never really got the attention they merit?
Well, there's a lot of stuff that's extinct that we can't even say, you know,
like that queen who knows, and some of those hash plants are pretty cool.
They're just not like, a lot of this stuff back then was a little bit rougher.
Like it's not the same, it's, you know, it's like top seven at 20% or
20 whatever percent THC.
That's the difference, like the, you know, the stocks, the trichome stocks are smaller,
you know, like they're not this really flashy weed from today with really long trichome stocks
that like bend over and reflect the light really well and like cover all the foliage.
So all you see are like these shiny trichomes, you know, trichome stocks.
Like, so yeah, just on the, like the cannabinoid ratio and the way it looks,
not as, it's not as nice in the bag.
Yeah, it's definitely evolved for sure.
And like the flavors were different back then, like the hash plant was really rancid.
Yeah, it was like rancid, like popcorn parts and
it just reminded me of like something like rancid oils or something like rancid
socks, stinky old rancid socks.
I was going to say pee pants, but I didn't want to bring pee in here.
So yeah, yeah, the old God Bud's kind of a cool one.
Yeah.
The Jordan God Bud.
Yeah.
And that's, it's like an Afghani perps back cross, like you had like a Sensi Afghan,
Afghan one or something like that.
That they had, there was an old cut called perps that was from the island.
It's like an Afghani or Pakistani or something.
And it would finish outside, but it's like not, it's good.
It's really good.
It's got nice medicinal qualities, but today it would just be like, whatever, you know,
people would more or less would pass it over, you know, because it's not like super flashy.
Type buds.
Harder to grow.
Yeah.
It's not like super loud or anything, but anyways, Jordan, I believe cross did the
cross in the back cross with Afghani and then came out with this selection called the Jordan's
God Bud.
And that one's like super stinky.
It was, it was popular for about five minutes before everyone realized it was the stinkiest
plant going and everyone's.
And it was a really, really little bigger to veg it out.
It's just took a long time to veg your plants up.
Yeah.
But it was, it was super stinky and it had a nice rancid old man pee pants with, with
grape, nice grape flavors in there.
Yeah.
Look, I've had some nice God Bud before, just grown from seed.
Probably not the select clone, but it was nice stuff.
I got to say, but I did want to ask you, cause I've been wondering about this forever.
This is a bit of a throwback one for you, C-Ray, but the gorilla gold, that's, that's
an interesting strain.
I think you were a part of the creation of that.
Were you?
Do you like, if, if so, can you give me some of the backstory on it?
And as just a quick follow-up, I read rumors online that it involved mighty mite in the
breeding.
Is that true?
Actually, Scabby knows more about that one.
Yeah.
Mighty mite Afghan would be mighty mite Afghan early gold.
So there was a mighty mite Afghan and.
Just talk about the, the mighty mite Afghan seed line.
Oh, okay.
Yeah.
Like I guess the mighty mite was grown around here a lot.
It's a very, very tiny little short plant.
And.
Yeah.
It would grow like three feet.
It was a semi-auto.
So you keep your mum and veg, make a bunch of cuts, throw them out.
And they'd only grow like three foot, one big stick.
And you could grow it in a bunch of pots and put it in, you know, like a high drip system
outdoors.
Yeah.
It finished really quick.
It was one of the quicker ones that people did so they could get it off to the market,
but it didn't last very long.
And the guys were throwing the Afghanis around at the time.
And it yeah, they.
They had that.
Was it, you think it was the auto Afghan from Sensi seeds that they threw into that?
Or was it just because it was a mighty mite?
It's hard to say.
Yeah.
It's hard to say because they were like dead.
Grateful head.
Grateful dead.
You know, hippies that just use various names.
Like this is Afghan, but it could be, you know.
But yeah, anyways, they had a, they had a, there was a seed line that was circulating
around the, the Northern Gulf islands.
Yeah.
Of mighty mite Afghan that they inbred.
And then it got crossed into this early gold cutting, which was a Himalayan and it flowered
really quickly a very sparse bud.
And it would be one of the first ones we would cut down.
And you're talking about the early gold?
Yeah.
The early gold talking about the Himalayan side of it.
And where did that come from?
A guy in Ontario.
That's all I know.
That's all I know about it.
But I know it was Himalayan and it made one of the most soupiest hashes, like meltiest
ashes you've ever seen it like stick to everything.
And yeah.
So the guys were just trying to find stuff that would finish outside here and mixing
all this stuff together.
It yeah.
The early Bramble became.
The first generation of Burlar gold was called early Bramble.
Early Bramble by a tech side of Island Chief Company.
Who released it?
Camaro Rick.
Yeah, but it was it was Texas Island Chief Company patches that.
Oh, yeah.
Patchwork seeds.
Patchwork seeds through Mark Emery seed.
And Kyneseed.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So that was the first generation of the Gorilla Gold.
And then it got passed to Breeder Brad in Ontario.
And he did some work with it.
And then he passed it to a guy in Manitoba who went by greens on a forum called Unleashed
the Green.
And then and then he sent he sent me some seeds and I did some work with it.
Which is kind of funny because it's originated here and then went across.
Came right back to the same fucking spot.
Yeah.
Pretty weird.
Yeah, we're right.
We're pretty close to Texas.
Interesting stuff.
Interesting stuff.
I was also curious to know your in one of your crosses.
You use an Island Purple Indica.
Do you happen to know is that the same one that goes around like Washington and Oregon?
The it's just called Purple Indica.
I don't think so.
I think that one's different because I was looking at it.
Inspector grows it, I think.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's different.
I'm pretty sure.
But yeah, they call that they call it the perps or the Vancouver Island perps or the
Vancouver Island Purple Indica.
But I think it's just it's just a generic name, you know, Purple Indica.
I'm sure there's like a thousand per one.
It's got really awesome candy smell and taste.
It's really beautiful.
Like, but it's yeah, it's just it's one of those plants that's just real hard to grow.
It's a pain in the ass to grow and it's just there's a lot of easier things to grow.
And it was like a later finishing outdoor plant back then.
So it's just too late of a finisher.
Nowadays.
But it's still it's still around.
It's one of the old ones.
It's probably from the 90s, if I had to guess.
Yeah.
Speaking of ones from the 90s, early 2000s, I think you're involved in the Willie Nelson
with reefer man.
Is is that true at all?
And and I guess as a general follow up, whether that's true or not, it's a pretty popular
strain from everything I read, but like no one really seems to hold on to it anymore.
Do you know why that might be?
Well, when you grow the seeds, you know, there's variation.
But we we got the we got the cup winning cup out of like growing a few F1s, like a couple
of packs or two or three packs at once.
So there's some good cuts in there.
I like the lemony ones.
So yeah, this like beautiful, rusty lemonade or whatever.
Yeah, there's some there's some ones that I classify as old lady perfume.
They've got this like a very floral smell.
But with this electric like lemon juice smell in there, there's definitely some good ones
in there.
The PM resistance wasn't the wasn't the best on those.
So, you know, I don't know if that's part of it, but also there, you know, there was
people don't hang on to stuff that's more than 10 weeks flowering, you know, so that's
probably a large part of it.
And I never liked that Vietnamese black mother.
Yeah, they're all right.
There's definitely some good ones in there.
But we also sent around that the the cup cut and like, I don't know, you know, that was
a long time ago.
Things get lost over time.
And like I was saying in the States, it's harder to I think it's harder to keep cuts
around there.
Certainly.
So from the breeding point of view, how do you go about testing your males?
One of our listeners was wondering and specifically they wanted to know like with the hazes because
what you can see on your Instagram that you flower the boys out and you really like to
look at them and that's great.
And I guess they're sort of wondering, given that some of these hazes can go a long time,
is there another way you do it or do you just like rough it out and you're like, I got to
flower this thing that holds by?
Well, we when we initially grew those, there were six males and like we like to do a good
flowering of them and then just and then constantly smelling them because those males are just
constantly changing smells.
And we just like get it right, get right in there and smell them, like try and get in
there at the peak flowering, like just constantly smelling them every week.
And it's pretty obvious like when you grow the females, like the whole the whole idea
doing selections and inbreeding and like trying to pair the ones together that you like is
you grow the females first and you find the females you like and then you try and like
get a good handle on what the smells coming off those are and then you go look at your
males and try and just try and match up those smells.
I mean, as for the from the point of view, trying to find the best, you know, the best
smells that might correlate to those like the hyzer that you're looking for.
But yeah, so we had six initially and then we selected three out of those and then we
just crossed those like those three males we crossed to some of the other hay spenos.
But then we still had the original three males and then we stuck the three males outside.
They were basically those six males they segregated into two.
There was two types, I would say two types.
One that was more lemon grassy and grassy like the lawn smelling.
And those were the ones that we didn't favor and the ones that we favored are more citrusy
like tropical flowery.
They also had like this crazy onion smell on them as well, which apparently I've been
told that's a sign of a true like a good haze has that onion smell on it.
So there must be some weird terpene.
So yeah, we stuck those three males like clones of those males outside in like September just
to see what they would do.
And there's one that was just like it looked like it actually liked it outside.
The other two were like, yeah, no, this sucks.
We're not meant to be growing outdoors in the coast of BC.
But the one guy was like, yeah, this is all right.
We grew out some of the crosses with all three males and they were all like good.
Like the ones that you could tell which ones came from each male just on the nodal spacing
and like the bud structure.
But the ones that had they had like really nice bud structure outdoors and they were
flowering like the males were flowering pretty decently and they had they actually had pretty
good mold resistance.
They're just like it's just a superior growing plant like the hives were the same in the
play like the terps were pretty similar.
But yeah, the structure and everything, they're just way superior for growing and they're
like a little bit faster finishing.
So eventually we just we got rid of the other two haze males and just kept that one to to
breed with.
And then we eventually we crossed out with there's a couple of other males that we had
we crossed out with there's a local cutting of the seedsman original haze from one of
our buddies back in the day that he gave us and we crossed out with the original haze
our original haze stud male and we've just started growing out some of those and we're
going to like continue forward with that as a line.
And we just did a 50 we grew out like 50 seedlings and there's like 30 females in there.
And from those 30 we selected out two.
But one is like superior for high wise.
They're both like they both smell really good.
One's a little bit faster but like a little bit longer flowering one that's the one we're
going to use for doing some feminized crosses.
So like we've done a bunch of these crosses with original haze males.
So now we want to replicate those ones that worked out good with the with the female feminized
style.
Nice that's exciting you actually managed to bang off a few questions I was going to
ask you about what can we look forward to in the near future so that's exciting.
I guess we've just got a few Patreon questions before we get to the final little quickfire
ones we do with everyone.
I'd be interested to hear your answer to this one because you got such a vast experience
with it.
What is the best outdoor variety to you and what makes a strain good for outdoor from
your perspective?
It's worth growing.
Like it's good enough to smoke like a lot of outdoor stuff is in this day and age just
like the standard is the standard is way higher than it was for us back in the day.
So like we're in a tough spot for growing and really we should just be growing everything
in a greenhouse.
But it's you know we're it's also nice to be able to breed or like grow something that
just grows straight outdoors and gives you a really nice quality product but it's like
really really hard to pull that off here.
You got to grow a ton of plants and like you need you need to grow like thousands thousands
of plants to ultimately to come up with a good like really good outdoor strain that's
worth growing.
That ticks all the boxes like a lot of outdoor stuff is just developed just to be mold resistant
like good enough to finish and make it you know good looking product and I think it's
good like don't get me wrong it's good medicine and stuff but.
It's not what people expect in this day and age.
Yeah people are just are over the.
Yeah the whole outdoor thing died it was like a really big community thing.
They want their quads and their their pants.
So kind of just faded away with the market.
Definitely a sentiment we've heard from other guests as well.
Ironically in the legal market there's now eight hectares of outdoor grown grown for
every hectare of indoor.
So the legal market is I think a lot of it just gets turned into oil and edible so it's
like the carts the carts are huge in the legal market and they're like the markups on cards
are insane.
So in your opinion what are some of the best varieties you guys offer for flower and what
are the best for hash.
We've got some concentrated enthusiasts in our Patreon crew and so yeah what would you
recommend for flower and what would you recommend for hash just in terms of your personally
what you like.
Well all the all the new Irene sorry all the new Iraqi crosses are getting good reviews.
We grew a bunch of them they were all pretty awesome.
I'm like it all depends how I when people ask me you know what do you recommend I always
ask first how many which you know what do you like to smoke and what do you like to
grow.
How many weeks are you willing to go if you're into longer flowering stuff so we're just
you know we try to have a little bit of indica like faster flowering stuff but our main focus
is like longer flowering stuff.
So I don't know if you're like the question is you know are you.
You willing are you a sativa enthusiast or you know are you sativa curious.
Or you can break it down like this you could break it down like sativa strains and hash
they don't yield very well so they're not going to be put into the market at all people
aren't going to try them a lot you know it's like a labor of love kind of thing.
And we have these fancy glassy cushions that make really good hash returns you know and
so you could you could break it up like that kind of thing.
Yeah but we haven't like we haven't washed.
We haven't watched any of these Iraqi crosses yet.
Yeah I want to but we're going to do we got a we got a GMO and a form cut so we'll do
Iraqi GMO form process.
And I'm sure those will wash.
They can't probably can't not wash.
I like that.
But we don't we don't like we're not like we're not making hash so we're not washing stuff.
So that's not really our focus.
We do a lot of live resin right now so we get to yeah.
But at some point like it's it's definitely something that we have to do is just a lot
of people are asking for it.
So you have to start washing a bunch of stuff and like I'm trying to get stuff to people that
want to do those test washes.
So yeah there's people out there that want to do test washes.
I mean we'll slip you some test seeds.
Yeah please everyone if you can get in touch.
One of our listeners said be sure to ask Cray what's the backstory on his Jamaican.
That's a scabby story.
Um it came from a friend who was at the first Jamaican Cannabis Cup and it won the first
Jamaican Cannabis Cup like 2006 or 2006 or seven somewhere around there probably.
Yeah.
Negril.
The sea came out of the bud it came back.
You know the guy's name was Biggie or something like that.
Yeah on the beach or something.
Yeah I think that was it.
Yeah I can't remember right now.
Yeah he's brought it back to Canada.
Um there's a bunch of fennels and they all really had that pineapple skunky smell but
one of them had the high too.
So ended up keeping the one with the good high and the funky smell and it's the only
plant that like really stinks and itch for me like really really fucking reeks you know.
Um yeah it's got a really complex interesting smell but a beautiful plant not a big yielder
but um this really good bud man if you if you want to experience something different
you know uh.
Super potent.
Super potent too yeah.
Yeah it whacks you right in the third eye.
It's like getting hit with a baseball bat.
Yeah check that shit out it is good like that cross with the punahay is some of my
favorites you're making me remember now yeah.
Thanks.
That sounds lovely.
They're like uh they're really um for skunks they have some really beautiful uh uh fruity
and floral uh there's smells in there like uh like berry smells and uh nice uh rotting uh
like watermelons or something not watermelons.
Super strong weed super good weed and if you ever get a chance definitely grow it.
And just to confirm because I've seen you describe it on the side as uh with the word
skunk in there the pineapple skunk do you think that it's like a Jamaican quote land race that
sort of happens to be like that or do you think it's some sort of hybrid European influence
something?
There's no there's no such thing like nowadays as a Jamaican land race.
No.
Yeah yeah yeah.
There's uh I mean from what I can tell there's guys save seed there and uh you know they
don't um there's not a lot of stuff left over from the glory days so.
They take what works and what they like and they keep moving forward with it you know
like that's the major mentality and uh yeah there's like some of them had the kicker high
and some of them didn't that's what it boiled down to really I mean yeah.
Yeah okay sure.
They're probably it's probably a mix of uh you know various hybrids.
Yeah I would imagine.
American.
So another one of our listeners asked would they be able to tell us a little bit about
the highland Nepalese father that was in the ganja wise crosses I have to admit I'm not
familiar with what they're talking about.
I gone to wise there um some friends of ours that run some of our stuff so yeah it's uh
it's just the same uh mail that was used for really Nelson back in the day I mean not the
same but it was like done somewhere but yeah it's a um skunky um it's very hashy like skunky
like uh and kind of uh like it's it's really good it's like a really good uh representation
of the of the old school Nepalese shoe hash if you've ever had that um slightly uh citrusy um
but it's one of the it's one of the best traditional hashes I've ever had is the
Nepalese uh like they call it shoe hash because it came it was part of the shoes to uh like the
what do you call the heel of the shoe or something they would put or they
yeah to press it yeah so let know like they'd smuggle in shoes I think they would smuggle it
as shoes or something like that. That's interesting cool to hear cool to hear.
I've asked you about the original haze and the gorilla gold the one other Australian that got
brought up a few times by our listeners was the whitey can you tell me anything about that at all?
Yeah it's uh came from a guy called THC development and I got a he was on uh like
Unleash the Green Forum and uh but he was selling it through um the the uh retail side of Unleash
the Green Forum um and it was uh he said it was a white S1 but I like we grew out these
whitey uh like they're called whitey and the guy said it was uh the white S1s um that he
like he made like he grew out some white S1s and he found a male in there and uh he did a
back cross back to the white he was able to get then this is his story um like that as I recall
yeah he he got a white the white uh cutting and yeah back crossed it with this male that came out
of Kelly Connection the white uh S1s um and uh apparently like a lot of S1s if you grow enough
there'll be males that pop out like one out of every three or four thousand so yeah I mean either
it's like a like a man one of those males which I wouldn't be too surprised because it was kind of
weird there's some weird things about it so yeah we grew uh some of those they were male female
seeds um but I mean it could have been just a pollen contamination too but yeah it's a white
it's seven it would be 75 percent the white uh cut yeah we grew out uh I think I got like three
or four packs of those grew out a bunch of them and we like out of all those we only found like
uh a couple like a male and a female that we that we really liked those and we made more seeds
but yeah the cool thing was this is a kind of an interesting story
and we had this carport uh that we were just keeping uh a bunch of our
mothers um well like in the winter time we just had a carport with a light and like we just keep
the light on and that was enough heat to keep the thing in the winter like it would go down to uh
it was down to like minus 10 here in the winter um anyway so I was uh we were growing this carport
and uh one day I was in there and I'm like oh bummer there's some plants getting pm um and I
just kind of ignored it and then I went back I'm like damn like there's like pm starting to spread
here and I was just like uh so busy at the time that like I just uh like it wasn't a priority
because it was just like some extra cuttings that we didn't need but we had like most of our uh
collection in there anyways I'm at one point I was like yeah this is kind of a waste like I was just
going to chop them all down start over but then I thought to myself like why don't we just like let
it go and uh see uh like let it go and we can see um which plants have the best resistance and
like we can kind of see as we go along um which plants are more resistant because they won't get
like they'll like what are the plants that don't like that get pm the lot you know the like at the
very end which plants can hold out to the very end it was like a very um very it was like the epitome
of a stressful environment so it's like it was good it was good in my mind when I saw what was
happening I was like yeah let's just let's just test all these plants and then see like the very
the like the the various uh amount of pm resistance um and so yeah we were able to like uh
to to like classify all the various cuts that we were holding and uh you know figure out like
what's the where the upper echelon plants for pm resistance like if you just let these plants go off
anyways in the end there was a what our whitey male was completely pm resistant there's like so
much pm in there like I was just like I was like so impressed I was like this this is like 100
pm resistance at least to the the like you know like powery mildew um you have what's called races
so if you look at the Washington state they have a hops powdery mildew uh breeding program
and they've uh what they do in their breeding program is they have a culture up their various
hop powdery mildew races so it's the same same uh subspecies of powdery mildew but various like
ones that they've collected off various uh like the different hops cultivars and they um when
they're breeding new hops they introduce all those six or however many races and they say okay
yeah they can like classify those plants and say this one is resistant to race one two three and
five um but not to six and four whatever but yeah this is uh this whitey was uh like
is like completely impervious I'm like damn this is fucking crazy it's like I never would have I
never would have figured that out if I didn't do that you know if we didn't do that that's cool
only the strong survive we sent uh that we sent uh like some stems of that to uh Kevin
McKernan at medicinal genomics and he did a full uh genome um what do you call it genome scan uh
sequence sequence yeah genome sequence on it it's like plant number 48 to have to have its full
genome sequence so that's kind of cool um and it's like public domain you can go look at it
on their database he was part of a paper uh I believe like three years or four years ago now
with uh like the like it had 47 we were like just we just submitted just after that and he did a
like he sent us the whole um the genetic like the heat map that showed um like all the different
genes that they figured were linked to him and where the upregulating and downregulating was
going on for this whitey plant and it was like unrelated like you couldn't the patterns were
different than what they had already as confirmed as pm resistance so he was a little bit skeptical
or he was saying that um uh people like people were like questioning him about you know the
various people that submitted pm resistance people resistant plants to that to like that um project
um you know like what's the you know what's your uh standard your like scientific like research uh
grade uh standard setup you know like what's your control environment what's your criteria you know
like like I I unfortunately I didn't take any pictures like I wish I would have had a bunch
of pictures because I would have sure you know that would have been like enough but um so I just
because I didn't have any pictures um uh it was it was just like he did like he didn't really
he didn't really um I don't know if he believes that it was like fully pm resistance but
but uh I assure you that plant was pm resistance and still is it still exists
but yeah so we made um we made uh f2s from those and we haven't like dipped into those um but we
will at some point dip into those and apparently like we've sent those some of those f2s around and
people said they're like really nice they make um nice but they're kind of like uh
the whitey kind of reminds me of that uh south florida og kush uh style of plant but it's not
like it's it's not really um no it doesn't have like a super strong flavor to it like a super
like you don't go wow this is amazing but it works pretty well in hybrids um and it's it's kind of
and it's it's kind of falls into one of those varieties that's kind of like
submissive in crosses so it's like a good uh a good male for like crossing
a bunch of stuff too without like dominating the cross that's really interesting stuff it
almost makes me think that like maybe with that pm resistance stuff you just found a new
mechanism through which it could be pm resistant you know it doesn't have to all come through the
one sort of pathway but there you go that's cool have you ever seen any of the offspring
oh yeah we grew a bunch out yeah they're um the offspring are perfectly like you get everything
from the the uh per pm resistance um you get everything from your target uh like plant to the
male like of the resistance like from the female you know baseline to like 100 resistance like you
get everything in there so yeah at some point it'd be nice to uh to be able to like follow that
line and um a friend of ours uh dr philip henry he does a bunch he's done a shit ton of papers like
you got to check him check him out like he's done some really cool stuff um he was uh he wanted to do
uh like a test uh like a study on on the whitey um using uh what's called a snip chip or a snip
chip and that's snp chip single nucleotide polymorphisms yeah yeah yeah that's um and he had
like he has like a snip uh snp chip uh template that he wants like that i don't know like i
haven't followed up on that but basically the idea would be to uh grow it those f2s and um
like just do another similar situation where you just let the pm go all to hell and then you um
take samples of everything like stuff that's pm resistant and not pm resistant and everything in
between and like and then try and drop all those onto onto one of those uh plates to get you know
to see what the up regulating and down regulating of all the genes is and then
like it personally i don't think i think after going through all this i think the way that we
selected like we found this pm resistant plant is a perfectly viable way to do it um like you can do
all this stuff molecularly and and um but i think like doing stuff like like doing what we did on
the site is like superior you know it's superior in many ways because we're dealing with the real
real world uh fun you know fungal inoculants of our environment that exist in our environment full
time yeah yeah like real what do they call it like real evolutionary pressure so to speak but
that's uh that's a wormhole we could probably go down forever we've we've actually just got one
last question before we do the quick five to wrap up we had a listener who wanted to know if you knew
anything about the origins of twixa twix they said oh has it got something to do with butterscotch
hawaiian yep it's a butterscotch hawaiian f1 fennel that we isolated we grew it in um actually i was
i was working with gonzo eyes in quebec at that time southern quebec um so yeah we grew out some
butterscotch wine grew out 250 of those f1s and uh yeah it was one of the top venos the reason
it's called twixer is because twixer is canadian slang for 26 ounce bottle of booze and it was
fennel number 26 and i just thought it was like it kind of had a universal appeal like uh like
it's just a common in canada that's a common phrase from back in the day like go grab a twixer
you know like pick up a twixer like twixer whatever it's just like a thing that everyone
does you know go party grab a twixer um how about how about uh i give just a little rundown on on
our like uh breeding slash fennel selection process because we didn't really um cover that
i mean we kind of covered it here and there but yeah sure now let's do it okay so um like what
we like to do is we like to start off um let's say we're um we we're growing something that we've
that's from outside of our uh like seeds that we haven't made or grown before like something we
bought and purchased or um traded for or been gifted um with you know we'll grow um depending
on how many seeds we have if like if we have a limited amount if we have three packs for instance
or four packs we grow those out um take like cuttings of everything um and just uh like
like nowadays we like to just hold on to the males uh then flower out all the females uh smoke all
the females um like trying to classify them um select out the ones we like and then we'll do the
take the cuttings of the males flower them out um and then i try and do like a good smell
evaluation and actually what we like to do what we've been doing for the past few years is when
we go to transplant those male cuttings into uh to flower them out we like to smell the roots
the roots of the males so not only do we smell the stems we smell the roots as well because the
roots are actually if you get in there you'll smell there's some um there's some really like
strong terpenes that are coming off the roots and they might not be like perfect representation but
um they just give you more information um like about the smells so yeah like with the iraqi when
we grew them out um we uh we did when we went to put the females or the males into flower we had
you know we had like 30 males or whatever and uh so we just went through all the males and smell
did like stem rubs and uh and um root like smell smell all the roots and just chuck the bunch just
because basically just smell the ones that are like a the loudest ones because that's like the
old-timer wisdom is just you don't mess don't mess around with males that don't are loud as
that's like the old-timer wisdom but and you know we'll be a little more sophisticated and we'll try
and pair up males that um are similar to the females that we prefer so um and yeah we'll flower
out all those um we'll collect pollen from the males that we want and then we'll go take that
pollen like go get our um this is all like ideal what we do in ideal circumstances like we're not
obviously not able to do this all the time but it's just kind of like the evolution of
like how we're doing things and how we like to do things so yeah well we uh we'll collect a bunch of
pollen and like we've uh we have a a vacuum pollen collector that we hook up to a vacuum cleaner that
has like uh it's got like two screens on it so it's got uh it's just like uh just some plumbing
stuff like plumbing unions um i'll make a post about it on instagram one day again um but yeah
it's got uh paper filter discs to collect the pollen on that are like 25 we got like 25 micron
holes or something but they'll collect all the pollen so we can like vacuum individual plants
and collect that pollen onto a paper disc and then take that disc and put it into uh
into like a little tupperware containers with some silica uh desiccant beads color changing
silica desiccant beads um and then just let that pollen dry out for like a week in there and then
you can also see like if the beads are changing color then you got to change them out to get all
that moisture out of the pollen um and then um take that pollen back like put it in uh like make
some little vacuum seal bags and like vacuum seal that stuff and uh like label it all stick it in
the freezer um and trying to like before doing all that vacuum seal try and split it up into it so
you have a bunch of different uh like male number 17 will have like you know like three little
packets so that each time we open up pollen there's enough to do a bunch of pollination and
we don't have to worry about spoiling all the pollen we don't have to worry about opening up
like exposing all the pollen um to oxygen etc um and then yeah make a bunch of seeds
um and then grow out the seeds and do the whole thing over again.
Out of curiosity how long have you been able to store pollen for successfully?
In the free in the freezer um I don't know like I think you have to like I want to at some point I
want to uh do kind of a figure out with a pretty decent microscope when you desiccate the pollen
I want to be able to look at it under a microscope and be able to tell when it's like look at it and
see it's shrinking down because I think that's kind of like um be kind of interesting to see
to try and optimize the curing of the pollen to get it so that it doesn't over you don't over dry
it um but like Skunkman says you can keep on it'll keep for 10 years or something I don't know if like
um it's probably 0.01 percent vitality after after 10 years but if you got a billion pollen
grains yeah you only need 0.01 percent um wow but in the fridge it's only like uh it's only
like six months to a year in my experience in the fridge um and you got to be really good about
like making sure there's desiccant and with in with your pollen in the fridge because it's a
moisture environment yeah certainly I've heard that I've heard people struggling with any more
than say 6 to 12 months yeah yeah definitely interesting and how do you go about doing your
testing of strains how many seeds do you pop what size pots do you grow them out in is there a
standard protocol or just sort of whatever fits at the time uh well we try to grow at least one
pack for testing in-house um but ideally like two packs because then yeah it's just a little better
sample size um and then just uh just start them like I just tend to start them in little
like little cells and then just go through like a bottom to like number one pot number two pot
um and then it all depends like how much veg time we have till the next crop like till the next
room's available so I can't kind of variable but minimum we'll grow them for four to six weeks
before popping them in flower um it's kind of what you want to do anyways you want to get them let
them get sexually mature um and then yeah just generally flowering them out in five gallons
and up five or ten gallons usually in like geopods in the organic mix with water yeah lots of water
and then um if we see like we're looking for the major things we're looking for when we do testing
is number one is is this a plant worth growing or is this like a seed line worth growing is there
gonna like if people grow a pack are they gonna find something worth growing at least one plant
that's like worth keeping and uh the other thing is like is there like if we grow do we find more
than one intersex plant one intersex plant is you know because we deal with a lot of sativa stuff is
um I would consider it acceptable you know if it's like one intersex out of two packs maybe you know
um but if we get more than that then it's like okay yeah gotta you know it's like you know it's
too much but generally we don't actually like we don't see a lot of intersex in most of our stuff
surprisingly it just kind of blows my mind yeah it's kind of weird isn't it um so our males you
know our male like when we evaluate males one of the things we do is we just like to keep the male
around in like beds for years yeah keeping in beds for like a year two years because um you can see a
lot you can learn a lot about the male just by keeping her around and um throwing into flower
you know flowering them off occasionally and just checking for like uh because even after a year
they'll start spitting out pistols like they'll be like oh they just like start for some reason
they just get you know they'll get stressed out after a year because we you know we like to
evaluate what plants do in clone form you know more so than what they do in seed form because
you know ultimately most people are growing from clone not most people but a lot of people
definitely robust conditions there for sure onto our final five questions for the episode so I guess
maybe probably need to get separate answers for each of these but first one being what is the
best or most memorable cannabis smoke or experience you've ever had oh my god i'll tell you one i'm i
was making brownies out of like i was maybe like uh 21 or 22 i was making some brownies out of
some sativa bud and i wasn't really familiar with sativa at that time and i had done lsd a few times
before that and yeah i ate enough butter that i was having a full lsd experience of cannabis so
yeah memorable for sure yeah i had i actually had a similar experience where i was making this one
summer i made a bunch of weed granola and i just uh i just i got a little carried away
eating it and i was thinking yeah it's all right i'm thinking i wonder how much of this stuff i
can eat before like you know like what's the maximum amount i can eat and i ate a bunch of
that i was like i was high for a solid 24 hours i remember i remember like at one point i was just
like spinning out of control but i mean that's not i mean that's not like super profound or anything
that was just like what happens in when you eat too much thc as a younger person but like um
as far as like what was uh oh memorable shit would be like vancouver and like around the
like around that 2000s era with like getting high down there with some of the people that
would come into town and stuff there's lots of really good memories that was a really special
era in that time what was going on there cannabis culture with greg williams and mark emory and
and yeah lots of really good memories of like fighting fighting for right
but as far as like profound smoking he's thinking of like 420 it brings to mind you know just like
being around a lot of people and uh but what's uh like with i think maybe the question is what's the
weed you smoke that fucking pop your top everything there you go definitely interesting memories right
and if we go to the other end of the spectrum what is the most disappointing experience in terms of
something where like your friends had hyped it up everyone's really keen on it you tried it and
you're like is that it uh this one time i grew um some cali orange that i got from emory seed
company and like we were i was just this was when i was new to the scene and um it was just one of
the strains i was going around so we just thought it was the best shit ever um because it was going
commercially um anyways so i grew some of this uh cali orange and uh yeah my grabbed a bud and my my
roommate rolled some up and we like rolled up the biggest fatty we smoked it and i looked at each
other like no effect like what the hell is going on here but in retrospect that was probably a high
cbd fennel like that you know it's probably some you know i had the same experience with that i was
like uh yeah but maybe you're thinking of like what's the what's the variety of weed that was
hyped up so high and then you went to smoke it and then cookies is one for me yeah where you're like
oh this is all it is oh you're talking form yeah yeah it's kind of gets pulled fast like if you're
smoking it for a fact yeah it's like that three day smoke you know you smoke it more than three
days and it's no good right oh for the tolerance you're thinking yeah what about uh east coast
sourdough what do you think of that i put it in a similar category yeah it's it's it's got a really
like super pronounced uh flavor and like really strong flavor it's got a nice flavor it comes out
really well in the oil yeah but um the high is uh just not it's not very like uh
like a sophisticated like interesting yeah yeah i was gonna say sophisticated but that's not the
word like uh yeah it's kind of boring it's kind of yeah and it just seems to like fairly easy to
build a tolerance to the yeah east coast already is it like it's nice to have like some other weed
when you have that stuff in my plate great so the next question we have is a fun one i'm gonna
drop you off on a desert island for the rest of your life where you can grow as much weed as you
want but you can only take three strains with you they can either be cuttings or seed lines if you're
confident and you like nah bring on males um what three things am i gonna leave you with
oh shit well definitely got to be a colombian in there yeah definitely
have to be a colombian for sure i'd have to have a tie and probably some afghani
yeah yeah there you go colombian tie afghan or pakistani maybe instead
but yeah like like seed lines with a bunch of variation and i'm like you know like a nice
colombian with the more the better yeah it's like each bag would have like 10 000 seeds in it
yeah yeah for sure um so on the other end of the spectrum you're gonna drop someone else off
onto the island someone you're not a fan of what are you what are you gonna leave them with
oh some low rider for sure fucking low rider definitely yeah
and something with a lot of intersection oh a lot of intersex yeah but it's like it would be like a
hamstring by the time you finally grew it out you realize oh shit this got no thc in it what the
heck or it's like really sneaky intersex it's like hidden right at the very bottom leaf underneath or
in the center of each bud yeah yeah that's great that's great all right on to the final question
for our interview if you had a time machine and you can go back to any place any point in history
to presumably collect either some seeds or a cutting where would you go and what are you
collecting oh a pre-soviet invasion of afghanistan all through there in that hash making area that
would be super fun um and maybe we would about going back to like like 100 million years oh
yeah i'm going can we go to like a planet serious to like serious beast or serious beast star yeah i
think i'd go i'd go to we'll go to the like the serious like when they were loading the the
spaceships up with cannabis to send it to to the earth let's go there and then we could like smoke
all that stuff and like pre-select it before it went to earth what's this all about did cannabis
was a gift from someone else yeah that's what the isn't that the normal with the normal yeah i
think that's right yeah the princess of of uh serious b that's right that's where the camera
it was a gift from her yeah yeah that's what we go there we go and hang out with her
i love it i love it okay so with that being said i think that just about brings us to the
end of it were there any general comments or shout outs you wanted to give or make
for shout outs um we'll shout out the whole uh like white buffalo crew like uh ganja wise
203 grower 203 grower you just uh just gotta look at our followers list i guess to get the spellings
x grower
tree frog medicine canada dang um louis poncho yeah ld poncho
mostly canadians um i'm sure there's a bunch of guys i don't want to miss anyone yeah
those are most of our main homies that we collect with i was about to say don't worry
everyone inevitably forgets one or two people off the list so not to not to worry too much about
that well you know again a huge thank you for coming on the show both cray and scabby of white
buffalo seeds for sharing all the knowledge a bit of your plans for the future as well as some cool
stories about some great cultivars thank you so much again also um if you want to check out scabby's
instagram it's uh hop hop extracts xop xop extracts and uh white buffalo seeds is with a z at
the end because i lost my uh i got uh reported too many times with my original account with an s at
the end and uh hope hope is pronounced hope hope with like an w like a wh sound it's not the x
yeah oh it's a the local word for hummingbird around here but yeah it's also like everyone
pronounces that differently yeah some people say hope hope some they whoop whoop you know
some say zop zop some say zop zop yeah but i like oh yeah it's universal hope poke i like that well
again thanks so much guys cheers thanks for the interview was really enjoyable yeah it was quite
it was nice nice too it's kind of nice to look back you know like it's it's weird yeah it's weird
looking back and realizing all this shit you know yeah like like so much has happened um and it just
seems like time flies and um hopefully the future of cannabis is as big as we can imagine it you
know that's the only thing i hope you kids you know grab those plants and get fucking growing
yeah yeah it'd be nice to um i'd like to hook up with you for an update in the future because we
got some cool shit coming up in the future that's like uh we got some like really cool shit going on
and in hem fiber and uh just like uh some growing some sativas in the tropics and doing some like
selections in the tropics and shit like that and we got guys testing our shit out in uh
like high high desert southern california and like oklahoma and shit so yeah there's lots of
cool shit coming up there you have it friends the end of part two what a killer episode from
the kristen white buffalo huge shout out for coming on the show we appreciate you so much
just like we appreciate our sponsors seeds here now best in the industry you know them you love
them check them out all the hottest breeders all the latest drops everything you could want if
you're trying to pheno hunt the next big winner but in order to do that you need to keep your
garden happy and healthy and to do that you need to go by check out our good friends at
coppert biological systems they have everything you need to keep your garden happy and healthy
pest and pathogen free check out the aki param if you need to combat some aphids or check out
the spidex vital if you've got spider mite problems it's always good to release some
prophylactically then you never have an issue what does that mean means release them before
there's a problem guys get on top of it coppert biological systems best in the game
huge shout out as always to the patreon gang we love you so much for the lifeblood of the show
if you want to help support the show please go check out the patreon at www.patreon.com
forward slash the podcast you will get access to episodes early totally unheard content from
the likes of mean gene bodhi mr bob hemphill charlotte of 707 seed banks now from trichome
jungles so much more we're giving away seeds and the discord's popping now check it out guys
thank you so much patreon we love you
from the upside down library this is heavy days checking out
i'll see you
