Alright, alright, alright.
Welcome back to the next episode of the podcast, a cannabis podcast for budding enthusiasts.
As always, you're joined by your boy, Heavy Daze here from the Upside Down Library.
And as usual, we want to give a big thank you to our sponsors.
We could not make the episodes happen without you.
A huge shout out to our friends at Seeds Here Now, best seed bank in the States to
get your seeds from.
A guarantee on satisfaction, not just germination.
Why would you go with someone else before they promise you that the seeds will crack?
These guys promise that you're going to be happy as well.
Check them out guys.
Number one in the industry.
They've been supporting us for a long time.
The hottest drops, the latest brews.
Check them out, Seeds Here Now.
Likewise a huge shout out to our friends at Copa Biological Systems with all the best
predators, preventative bugs and feeds to keep the good army happy, healthy, keeping
pests and pathogens at bay.
If you're battling spider mites, check out the Spidex Revital.
Or if you've got aphids problems, check out the Ahipar M with proof of predation technology
built in.
You can see the bugs working in front of your eyes.
They change colors when they start eating bad bugs.
What more could you want?
Huge shout out Copa Biological Systems.
Thank you so much for the support.
Likewise shout out to our newest sponsors, Simply Souvenirs, an incredible seed bank
based out of the UK, stocking only the highest quality breeders as well as a range of smoking
accessories and a whole lot more.
If you're in the UK or Europe, check out Simply Souvenirs, your one stop premium boutique
seed and accessory store.
Thank you so much guys.
Simply Souvenirs.
And finally, a huge shout out to the Patreon gang.
You know it.
We love you.
Lifeblood of the show truly could not make episodes happen without you.
Please consider supporting the show on Patreon www.patreon.com.au slash the podcast.
So for this one, friends, we've got a special one.
We're joined by the one and only Soul of Soulfire to discuss all the latest and greatest
in his world, specifically focusing on his Mindflayer drop, which is happening right
now today.
This episode is a special exclusive synchronized to the drop and we want you to hear more about
what you can expect from the killer crosses in the Mindflayer series.
So without further ado, let's get into it.
Alrighty, friends, we are back and a big thank you and welcome to the man behind some
of the hottest drops you've seen going around, undoubtedly a legend in the Pacific Northwest
scene and just a great guy in general.
Big thank you and welcome to Soul of Soulfire Genetics.
Thanks for coming on the show again.
Hey, thanks for having me back, man.
It's been a while.
Yes, super keen.
I was looking at it.
It's almost been a year since we last chatted.
So really?
Yeah, it's flown by.
Yeah, it seems like that was a quick year because it doesn't seem like that long to
me as it seems like we were just talking about the Bahama drop, but I guess it's kind of
flown by.
Well, hey, you touched on it yourself, I guess for a man who's been as productive and as
busy as yourself, probably not hard to understand why the time's flown by.
Give me a little bit of a rundown on what's been going on for you in the past year.
How did the Bahama Mama drop go in your opinion?
I think it went amazing.
I mean, for us, it brought in a lot of new growers, maybe to the Soulfire brand.
Just the way that we revealed it and just unfolded it for people on Instagram, doing
our reveals, showing the pictures that we grew.
I just thought it brought maybe a lot more people into the fold.
So yeah, I guess last time that you and I got together, that was a year ago.
We talked about that was the first drop of Bahama.
Then this year we did the second volume of it, which was much smaller.
We sold out pretty much instantly.
It was just gone, and it was just as cool.
And now we're on to other things.
But yeah, to answer your question, I think the Bahama was big for the Soulfire brand.
We keep seeing just crazy heat that people are finding in there.
Yeah, it's awesome.
I would have to 100% agree with you.
That drop, in my opinion, was one of, if not the biggest in the past couple of years, in
fact.
A number of questions sort of stemming from what you just answered.
I guess the first place to start is, I noticed that the part two of the Bahama Mama drop
was a little more limited.
I was curious to ask, is there any strains out of that drop that you think will come
to gain a bit more notoriety, even though maybe you didn't get quite as many packs out
as the first drop?
Yeah.
So I think the weekend at Gary's, I think it was our first opener with a Gary strain
or a Gary Cross.
That and the Gas Nana, I mean, some of the things that we just saw in that, which the
Gas Nana was banana runs with Gary Payton and just some of the banana flavors that we
saw in there.
That weekend at Gary's is so just greasy and it's such a good breeder that Gary, I think
those ones are going to, when people really dive into them.
I mean, I did a remake, so I don't know.
A lot of people, I guess, is the first place you'll hear it because I haven't told anybody
this, but I did a remake of a lot of the strains that we ran out of that people fell
in love with from the Bahama drop.
So like Bahama Berry, which is from volume one, we sold so many of those and people just
keep asking for it.
And there's so many ones that they love that same thing with the weekend at Gary's.
So I remade some of those.
I also did some BXs and then we remade the Bahama S1 because that went out as a freebie
for the first month of the first Bahama drop.
And I think we gave away like 30,000 of those.
So now we've remade the Bahama S1 as a retail pack.
It will just be priced at our normal pack price.
And that'll drop sometime after this, maybe a month or so, a month or two.
So yeah.
But to answer the question, I think out of that second release, I think for me, weekend
at Gary's is probably going to be one that we see a lot of the, I don't know, the Lemon
Peel.
I mean, the Lemon Peel Cross, the Bahama Peel there.
I think the hash lovers, once they really get in there and they start finding the TERT
profiles in there, like when we were trimming up all the testers, I was trimming it with
a couple of hash guys and they were just trying to walk out the door with all the bags they
trimmed.
They're like, I'm writing my name on this one.
I'm taking this one home.
You know what I mean?
So there's just so much in that second.
I wish I would have had more of them to share with people.
We just didn't.
Yeah.
What a great answer.
And many of the strains you mentioned were some of the ones that I had sort of earmarked
myself and, you know, it's funny you mentioned the Bahama Berries.
I popped a pack of that myself because it caught my eye.
So there you go.
You are speaking to the testament of it.
The Gas Nana, man, got some traction behind it.
Undoubtedly, a lot of people I've spoken to are really excited for it.
It's an interesting pairing as well.
How would you describe the flavors?
Do you get the banana coming through or is it more dominated by the Gary?
No, the banana comes through strong.
So I was a little scared to do it.
Like, you know, I was like, I don't know exactly how this is going to go.
I know Gary's a great breeder and I know the banana runs I was using was very candy banana,
very creamy, laffy taffy, fake banana.
And I was like, you know, if I can get.
If I can get what I'm looking for out of this, which is like a greasy, gassy, but yet still
fake banana smell, then I'll be happy and I'm happy to say that we accomplished that.
So there's some green phenols in there and then there's like some jet black phenols in
there as well.
So our selection of that, the one that we kept, which I didn't even find it.
So our partners here in Seattle, Nomads, they found the one that I actually kept.
I found a bunch of great ones.
Like the ones I pictured and showed were great.
But the one that he found is just so intense with the banana terp, like that fake candy
banana terp.
I had to keep his.
And it's.
Yeah.
So I guess the best way I can explain it is like a super mechanic shop, greasy smell.
Which I believe comes from the Gary and then that fake banana.
So something completely different than you'll see in a banana runs, but very intense, very
intense, great taste too.
Sounds beautiful.
And while we're on the topic of greasy gas, I noticed that the Mando sold out very quickly
from the Bahama Mama series and not surprising.
Do you think that you'll look to remake that one at all?
It seems like it was extremely popular.
Maybe I don't think I'll remake it, but I may go through it and use it later in another
project.
But I don't have any plans to remake it.
And it wasn't in our remake schedule for the ones that we just remade with the Bahama.
So short answer.
No, not looking to remake that one, but possibly look through it, hunt a bunch of them.
And maybe find something to work out of there.
Yeah, beautiful stuff.
And would you say that in general, one of the sort of strategies you use as a breeder
is that you do look to continue the breeding forward each generation.
So like you say, you make the Mando this cross and then next one, maybe you breed with that
and like keep working it forward.
Or do you sometimes just go back to the same thing?
I generally don't go back to the same thing because I don't know.
We try to keep it fresh.
We try to keep it unique.
But if you've watched the pattern of Soul Fire, I guess over the years, we've been out
like six, seven years.
And a lot of our lines come from our original Black Banana line.
Right?
So a lot of them build on that.
So I would imagine to see some offshoots if we find something amazing.
But you know, the Bahama that came from the original Black Banana line.
The Don Mega that came from our original Black Banana line.
This Mind Flare, it's a few steps from that, right?
Because that was from the Waiju Jelly, but still originated from that original working.
And I think we just want to see how far we can push it and how much we can improve it,
I guess, if that makes any sense.
Yeah, definitely.
And I want to live back to that.
But I got to quickly ask you this question I've just been personally curious about.
Did you name the strain Don Mega after your dog or is the dog named after the strain?
Oh, no, the dog is named after the strain.
Yeah.
I love that.
It's a cute dog.
I was like, I would love if this dog was called Don Mega.
It's like such an imposing name on this cute little dog.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So hopefully...
So that's a...
He's a lilac, fluffy Frenchie.
I don't see any of them here in Seattle, really.
I got him from my buddy who he breeds and shout out to King County Kennels.
Yeah, I got him from him and dude, he's just the most lovable.
Cool.
I actually have two.
So I have another.
I have a female, a female Merle that I got from a friend as well.
I bought from a friend and I'm going to pair those two together.
So they're like Soul Fire selected Frenchies.
I'm not going to have a bunch of litters.
It's not my job.
It's not, I'm not jumping in the dog game.
That's not my thing.
But I do find it super interesting.
You should see the genetic profiles that come with these dogs, right?
Like they break it down to the allele.
So it's really cool to see the breeding that's going on with these dogs.
So I'm going to have one litter, maybe two litters of some Soul Fire pups and that'll
be it for me.
Wife will lose her mind.
She already doesn't want to do it.
The Merle one you mentioned, she's a cutie.
When I saw the photos of her, I was like, man, I don't think I've seen a Merle Frenchie before.
Yeah, the Merles are super cool, man.
I mean, she's got, she's a chocolate, chocolate, try Merle, Cocoa Try.
So yeah, she's got like Cocoa Paws and then like that cow, that cow print look and just
a personality and she's super small.
She's like 22 pounds and he's like 20.
He's supposed to finish out at about 25 pounds, 25 pound fluffy.
So I love it.
I guess that the breeding you're going to do is just regular release only, not fems.
That's right.
No, yeah, yeah.
It's not even regular.
Like you have to go and get these guys a C-section, artificial inseminated.
It's like a whole process that.
Oh yeah.
Yeah, I really wouldn't want to do all the time.
I mean, at least the breeders that I got my dogs from, they're not like puppy mills.
They don't keep their dogs in cages or anything like that.
Like they're like family dogs and that's how our dogs are because anything less than that,
I wouldn't deal with it.
So yeah, no, they're great.
I love them.
I didn't really know that I was going to fall in such love with them, but yeah, they got
great personalities.
Beautiful.
I love it.
I love that.
Well, let's go back to a question that we normally start the episodes off with.
What have you been smoking on?
So right now, mostly a lot of Hashrozen.
So I'm smoking mostly the fucking Mind Melter.
I washed a bunch of it when we did our test for the Mind Flare run.
And so that one, I mean, that's our first Don Mega Fem.
Well, actually, yeah, yeah.
That's the Mega Mind.
The Mega Mind is what we watched.
I didn't watch the Mind Melter.
That's what I've been smoking on.
I've been using my Puffco just because I can travel around with it.
You know, I just got to travel around with that fucking thing when I'm on the run and
shit.
And then I actually put some in some little pens just for me and the homies.
I just give them pass them out some pens and dude, it blows, man.
Sometimes I forget when you have good Hashrozen in a fucking pen.
I was in the this is a horrible story, but I was in the grocery store the other day and
I was like, I was in the meat aisle.
I was looking at some shit and then I just rip on this fucking pen and I just blow it
out.
I guess I forgot where the fuck I was at, you know, and I look over and this old lady
is looking at me like, what the fuck?
Like, what the fuck are you doing?
And she just got hit with this cloud.
I was like, oh, God.
But yeah, it's the thing about those Hashrozen pens is they actually smell like pot when
you blow them out.
I guess it's the point of the story.
It really smells like you just smoke some pot.
And whereas a lot of these other like pens and shit you get from the store smell like,
I don't know, not like weed, you know, so I guess that's why I enjoy those.
But yeah, that's what I've been smoking just a little bit.
The hash that I made, I got some Bahama Berry flower from Nomads.
I smoked a joint of that the other day.
It was pretty tight.
So yeah, I had a nice strawberry on the exhale, which is fucking...
So I can't wait till you grow yours and we'll see if you get the strawberry on the exhale.
You're gonna have to let me know.
Yeah, look, super keen.
I'll keep you filled in.
For everyone listening, we're specifically gonna drop this episode on the first when
the new Mind Flayer release comes out.
So why don't we use this opportunity to sort of dive into it and take a little quick rundown
of some of the strains in the drop, if that works for you?
Sure.
And let's get into it.
Let's do it.
Well, look, we've already sort of spoken about the Mind Melter a little bit.
What sort of additional characteristics would you mention about this one?
Would you say that it's specifically made for the concentrate enthusiast?
No, I wouldn't go that far.
And I can't go that far because I haven't washed a bunch of them, right?
So I washed the Mega Mind.
I washed the Mega Mind.
That's the Don Mega with the Mind Flayer.
And I already kind of knew that I was gonna wash just because Don Mega washes so well.
And I had a bunch of them that we tested, and I had this one that was just monster big,
huge plant.
And it was ugly as shit.
So I'll just be honest.
It was super ugly.
But I was like, oh, man, I was feeling the nugs.
I was like, I think this thing is probably gonna wash.
And I did the trick where you cut off a nug and put it in a glass or a jar of ice and
water, shook it up, and it looked like a snow globe in there.
And I called up the homeboy, and I was like, man, I'd sent him a little video of eyes.
What do you think?
You think this is gonna wash?
He's like, oh, yeah, I think it is.
So I froze that one and washed it, and that's the shit that I was smoking.
But I can't say that everything in there, I wouldn't make a claim like that until we
get some more feedback from other people on that.
So there's a lot of cool stuff in there.
A man of integrity.
I love that.
I think some breeders would just happily say that every strain washes very well.
No, I can't.
I can't.
I can't.
I can't attest to that.
I washed the Mega Mind.
It dumped for me.
It was like really pretty, pretty hash.
And I try to only keep the best, and I still got I don't keep the full spec, like all the
bags or anything.
And I felt like I got a really tight return, and I was happy with it.
So if you're looking for a washer, Dom Meg is always a good choice to go with.
So Mega Mind, other than that, you're on your own.
Figure it out for yourself.
Definitely.
And yeah, Mega Mind, my apologies.
I had a brain fart there when I said Mind Melter.
So the next one I'd love to ask you about is the Utter Madness.
I think this one looks beautiful based on the photo you posted the other day.
And the parental lineage is very appealing to a lot of people, especially those who were
particularly impressed by some of the photos of the biddies you put up in the Bahama Mama
drop.
What sort of plants can people expect out of the Utter Madness?
Super frosty.
So this one, I've seen it now.
I grew it.
Now we've seen Growing with Dragon, which is like a SoulFire team member, if you're
not familiar with them.
He's a moderator in our Discord.
He's been growing our stuff for years.
He has a YouTube channel, a great guy, super helpful dude too.
Like he'll answer any question you have, just like I will.
He's always there to answer questions for growers.
So I always send him.
We don't have testers at SoulFire.
Not anybody can just test for us or any of that.
But we have a few different people that have been with us for years that are passionate
about the brand and just growing pot in general.
Generally guys that grow in tents at home.
Because I think my base is mostly guys that grow at home, which I'm very proud of.
And he grew it and fucking crushed it.
And then I saw NoMid Seattle.
I was just down there looking at all their ones and they're crazy.
So that structure of the biddies that people really loved in that color, that pink, magenta,
that pop comes through.
Comes through.
And then the Mind Flayer gives it like some more stack, even though it was already kind
of that blockhead was already kind of stacky.
And then the Frost, which I was surprised on because the biddies itself, it wasn't the
frostiest for me.
At least that blockhead cut, the one that I used in that cross, it wasn't the frostiest.
But these ones that come out from this cross are insanely frosty.
So it's a good choice.
And it's kind of got like a fruity parfait, like a fruit yogurt smell to it.
It's cool.
Definitely.
If you're into colors, you're into frost and you're into something finishing early, like
those pictures that we picture we put up from the biddies reveal.
That's day 48.
Really?
That's day 48.
I had no idea.
Yeah.
And I saw the exact same thing when I grew up and I saw the exact same thing that I just
saw down at Nomad Seattle.
They're at the same day as Dragon over in Michigan.
And it looks to most guys, they would call that done.
I mean, obviously Dragon and Nomads and myself were taking it to 63.
For me, as a rule of thumb, I like to take everything to 63.
But these look damn near finished at 48.
So if you're looking for a fast strain, if you're looking for something to be done quick,
utter madness is probably something you want to go for, for sure.
That's brilliant.
And you sort of touched on a general thread I wanted to swing by you, which was that,
at least from my perspective, it seems as though there's some amount of conscious decision
making going into trying to beef up the yields.
And I feel like as a community, we've sort of backed ourselves into a corner with some
of the hype strains.
It feels like more and more, it's just accepted that you're going to get smaller yields.
But I feel like your work, largely speaking, has all of those exotic characteristics.
But as you just mentioned, you're trying to pull the flowering times down a bit and getting
a bit better structure and yield.
Is this something you did consciously think about, or am I just wishful thinking?
No, you're right.
So when I looked at the Bahama line, there were some crosses in there that were extremely
heavy.
So like the Bahama Berry, heavy.
NF Sheesh could be very heavy, Creature Panic, heavy.
But some of the other ones were not as heavy as I would like them.
Still Frosty, still beautiful, still everything you want to see in an exotic strain, still
have the turps, still taste amazing when you smoke it, just all the things you want.
But we're trying to maybe make that stack better.
And so like whereas the Bahama would be a lot more flower, very little leaves, great
for trimming.
You know what I mean?
Sometimes there's just a little bit of elongation in there that I was trying to, on this drop,
trying to shorten, trying to fill in that stack.
And I feel like that's what MindFlower brings to the table is an amazing stack and a faster
finish, a faster ripening, and then like a chocolatey, more greasier turp to it.
And it looks like, in my opinion, from what I've grown and what I've seen grown, it really
brought some frost to it, which I wasn't expecting.
I was expecting a lot less frost, to be honest, from the MindFlower drop.
But we got lucky and we got some frost out of it.
But it wasn't what I was breeding for with this drop.
There you go.
Happy accidents are always welcome.
They happen, yeah.
And while we're on the topic, give me a little bit of a rundown about what it was about the
MindFlower when you first saw it or whenever it happened that made you decide this is the
next pollen donor to do.
What impressed you about it?
Oh, it was the smoke on this one.
The smoke and an interesting story that the MindFlower that we used from this actually
came from my good friend, Vic from King County Camels, who had grown it.
I gave him a box of beans way back in the day and he grew that.
And he was like, bro, look at this thing.
And I came over and looked at it.
It has all these crowns and fingers coming out of it and wild leaves and it finishes
super early.
And I was like, dude, that's awesome.
Let me get that.
And I held onto it for a long time and grew it a bunch of times.
The homeboys grew it.
They grew it.
They model cropped it.
They're loving it.
And I was like, dude, I love this shit.
So shout out to Vic for turning me on to that plant.
And I think that happens a lot.
I we have a tight group of friends, tight group of growers that we hang out with.
We all grow shit together, you know, and if they grow something of mine or anything, they
were like, oh, dude, this is tight.
You should check this out.
And then I grow it.
And so I think you need that community and then to select from.
I'm lucky enough to have it, really.
So yeah, beautiful stuff.
And as you said, it's sort of a testament to the work that can be done when you have
a bunch of friends helping out.
I was just thinking of that saying, what is it?
You know, it takes a village to raise a child.
It's almost a bit like that to find the right pollen donor.
Yeah, no, for sure.
Like SoulFire, I love coming on and doing podcasts and talking about the company and
being on Discord and talking with people about the brand and what we're doing.
But it's by no means me.
I mean, it's a big thing to get it done.
It's a big thing to get your seeds out.
It's a big thing to select plants.
And it's not just me at all.
It's a bunch of people that make it happen.
And if they weren't there or they weren't helping me out, it just wouldn't be done.
So it's no one man band over here.
That's it.
Shout out to the whole team.
Shout out to the whole team.
As well as your lovely lady.
I know she does a lot of work behind the scenes as well.
She does the most.
Undoubtedly.
So if we take a look at the next Mind Flayer drop, one of the really caught my eye was the
Turnt because I don't believe I had seen you use the Rose Cake before as a mother.
Tell us a little bit about the Rose Cake and then how did the Turnt work out with it?
Yeah, so that one, I will say, so we got that from Bellevue Cannabis.
They had it.
They were growing it for a long time.
I just love the Turnt on it.
I love the creaminess of it, the cakiness of it.
I was always a big fan of, I don't know, the cakeier strains, like the wedding cakes and
things like that way back when they were the cool thing.
And just the look.
You know me.
I love pink.
I love pink pot.
I think that it's, I don't know.
I think it's underrepresented out there in the strains.
And it just, it was unique.
It totally caught my eye.
And I was like, you know what?
Let me grow this a few times.
I grew it a few times.
I probably sat on it.
I don't know.
Months and months.
Like, you know, I grew it quite a few times before I really was like, you know what?
Let's put this in.
And then, you know, then we had to grow it from there again.
We had to grow the progeny out and the progeny, the smell is just amazing.
You know, the fruity cakey smell is awesome.
So that's why I made it.
Lovely stuff.
And how do you think the strain turned, ended up incorporating, you know, the Mind Flayer
and the Rose Cake?
I think, I mean, I think it's at least going to bring that the time down.
Not that the Rose Cake was even a fast or a long flower because it wasn't.
So I just think with the Mind Flayer, we're always bringing, we're bringing these times
down a little bit.
And then, you know, the one I think it might be the next one that we reveal.
Actually, it just it has a lot of color.
It has, it has a lot to it.
It has a lot to it.
And I think really the Terp is what it is.
I'm trying to select for good smelling things that that people are going to like.
I mean, we got to get some different stuff out here, you know, because there's just you
can only have gelato so many times.
I love gelato.
Gelato is amazing.
But we can only have so many variants of that.
And we just got to try to maybe that's why the Bahama was popular with people because
it was different.
Like there was some different, there are some different characteristics to it.
Same thing with the Mind Flayer, some different characteristics.
And I think that's kind of what the Rose Cake added to this would be something different.
Yeah, okay.
That's a great way to sort of put it.
And just as a personal thought, I feel like what you're saying is 100% correct, right?
Like there can only be so many gelatos.
But I also feel like you've done a good job of helping to incorporate into your work,
but also do it in a unique way.
Because if you look at like the YU Jelly and all the work that's come from that, I think
there's a strong argument to be made that like while there is gelato in there, it's
really like not just gelato or even gelato derivative.
You've sort of turned it into your own thing.
Do you think that that'll be a sort of method you use going forward in terms of like, yeah,
maybe there is cookies in a cross, but it's not like your regular cookies?
Right.
And I think that's, I think what you said is what I think every breeder should do, every
seed maker should do is try to make something your own, you know?
Like it's anybody can take two hype cuts and put them together and be like, oh, this is
that, you know what I mean?
But make something your own, make it individual and unique, and then incorporate some of the
flavors that are already kind of out there.
And you'll see that what you make is something new and something all your own, even though
it may have something that we've seen before, but you incorporated your own flavor with
it.
So now it's all new.
So yeah, don't just take two cuts that you pick up at the farmer's market, slap them
together and think you did something.
I think you gotta kind of, you gotta make something first.
So.
Yeah, certainly.
And that's a sentiment we hear echoed by many guests.
I should have asked you earlier, but I think now's a good time before we keep moving on.
When I popped those Bahama Berry seeds in Minecraft, if the Australian Federal Police
is listening.
No, geez.
When I popped those seeds, they raced out the gate and I thought, beautiful, healthy
seeds, what I want to see.
And then it got me wondering, because I don't actually ask this question enough on the show,
how long do you think it takes for a seed to become fully viable?
Because in the past, I think I've said to someone, as long as you give like the seed
six weeks on the plant, it should probably be pretty happy.
Do you let it really go?
Because I've heard some people like they just let the plant go to like 13 weeks, because
it's just like more is better maybe.
I don't know.
Where do you stand on that one?
Are we talking about when we're harvesting seeds?
Yeah, if you're just because a lot of our listeners like to make their own seeds, how
long do you think it takes?
Right.
It does not take that long.
So we've had this debate as well.
When I'm making seeds, I pretty much run the plant the same amount of time as if we
were flowering the plant.
Sometimes if you let them go for too long, those seeds will start to crack and you'll
start to split open and the seeds will still be viable.
But they look weird.
Like you'll see along the edge, there'll be like a little split opening.
And I just don't know how long those seeds will probably hold on the shelf as much when
they have like an actual air hole in there.
But yeah, I think to answer your question, I'll bring the plants down about 63, hang
them and let them just completely, completely dry.
I would imagine, and this is just anecdotal, that those seeds are still ripening while
they're drying.
So they're still probably going through some sort of growth process of ripening on the
vine.
So I give them a long dry while they're hanging.
Mostly because it's just absolutely irritating to try to sort seeds in any kind of stock
that's still wet or not 100% bone dry, especially for the way that we do it, our technique by
using the Easy Seed.
So let them go to 63, hang them up and then let them get a solid dry, maybe two weeks
even and then Easy Seed them out.
And then they should go in your refrigerator for a winterization for, I don't know, a
month to 45 days.
Yeah, beautiful info there.
I love that.
And you know what?
I had seen those cracked seeds before and did wonder what the situation with that was.
And I got a surprisingly really good germination from them.
So yeah, you will.
I really was a bit confused because I was sort of expecting them to not germ at all.
So thank you for that info.
Yeah.
So I wouldn't worry about that.
Like those ones that have that, if they have a little crack in it, they generally pop just
fine.
I don't know if they're going to make it like 10, 15 years because sometimes we pop
seeds that are like 10 years old and have no problem as long as they keep refrigerated,
not in your freezer, but refrigerated.
Seeds last a decade in my experience.
But yeah, people freak out, man, about seeds.
They're like, oh, these seeds are so pale or these seeds don't have tiger stripes or
these seeds are.
Dude, seeds are like phenos, right?
Every plant has a different looking seed.
Don Mega seeds are super pale.
Beautiful germination.
Cookies and cream seeds from Mike, super pale.
Like white pill.
Amazing.
So seeds are different and don't think, oh, this one doesn't have tiger stripes.
That tiger stripe shit just rubs right off.
It's just outside coating.
So that's just, you know, it's just seeds are different.
Remember like Gorilla Glue back in the day, anything that you cross the Gorilla Glue,
absolutely itty bitty tiny seeds, tiny micro seeds.
Yeah.
So some great info there.
I love it.
And as you mentioned earlier, you know, you make a lot of seeds, you give away a lot of
freebies.
And so I'm imagining you must end up with a lot of like.
I love giving away freebies.
Can we give away freebies?
How do we give away freebies shit here?
Oh, let's do it, bro.
Let's figure it out.
Maybe we'll do it through our Discord.
I was inspired by your Discord.
Shout out to your Discord.
Everyone go check out the Soulfy Discord.
This is probably a very redundant statement.
You're probably already on there because it's so good.
But please go check it out if you haven't.
But yeah, bro, let's do it.
I'd love to.
Yeah, yeah.
I'm down.
We'll give away some shit.
However you want to do it.
Let's do it on your Discord.
You know, we'll do a box, one of these Mindflayer boxes.
Give it away on your Discord.
It'd be awesome.
Oh my God.
Get people.
Get them stoked.
I'm going to have to be like 500 renamed entries in that cross because this box is insane.
And we'll talk about it soon.
I did just want to quickly ask you before we move on.
What do you think is the best thing to do with all of the material that's left over
after you've shucked all the seeds out?
Because it sounds like you dry it till it's really crispy.
So the seeds come out easily.
What do you think is the best thing to do with that spent material, so to speak?
I just throw it away.
It's gross.
I just throw it away because there's something, there's some sort of, you know, chemical change
that happens when a plant is actually pollinated versus it's just left to flower and never,
you know, and never get that pollination.
So, yeah, all that extra material, I just throw it right away.
I don't think it would make anything very good.
It smells great and it looks pretty decent.
But yeah, no, I don't keep it.
I just, and the way I do it, I do it in like a big pan and like a barbecue pan or like
a baking pan type deal.
And then I shuck a plant off in there and then I'll just, you know, with gloved hands,
just sit there and break it up into the finest material.
And then you kind of like pan for gold to get your seeds to go to the bottom.
And then you just remove that top layer.
And then I run it through the EasySeed and boom, it just cleans them up.
It was absolutely hell before that machine, to be honest.
With the volume you're doing, I can only imagine the frustration before you had that.
So, yeah.
Oh, God, it was a nightmare.
Glad to hear the EasySeed has made life easier for you.
We just mentioned the box you're doing and I love the box.
It's a concept that's catching on among the community.
I guess before we delve into the specifics of the Mindflayer drop, I'd just like to quickly
ask, do you think you'll look to do a box going forward with most releases?
Yeah, sometimes I can.
It just depends on how much stock we have.
There's a new phenomenon coming on in America where
hydro stores, because of the farmer bill and because of seeds being, quote unquote,
legal now, hydro stores are carrying seeds.
So you can just walk into a shop and buy seeds here.
And that's going to change the landscape when it comes to everything.
Breeding, where you buy your seeds, all that stuff, how it works.
Breeders may need to scale up.
Who knows?
But this is happening.
There's nothing we can do to.
You just might as well roll with it because that's going to be the new way.
So I think I like to do a box because I feel like I can give people a lot more.
I try to generally try to keep it kind of small as far as like how many strains
I put on a lineup.
It's by design that we only do six to eight, because I think it's ridiculous to think that
somebody is going to go out and buy 18 of your strains and spend.
These guys will put a lineup of like 18 different strains.
They want $200 a pack for every strain.
That's crazy.
I like to do six to eight, a hundred bucks a pack.
That's the SoulFire standard right there.
And then in a box, you just get all kinds of freebies and free shit and fun stuff.
And it's affordable.
It's definitely affordable.
So this box, particularly, most of the time, we just let Area 51 handle it because the
logistics of getting them out to people are a pain in the ass.
And Area 51 is local, so it's easy for us and let them deal with the headache.
But this time I just went crazy, pissed off the office and just
let's make sure that every bank that wants 10 of them can get them.
And so, yeah, every verified bank had an opportunity.
Every verified vendor had an opportunity to get 10.
So you'll be able to get them from them if they got in on it.
Yeah.
Beautiful to hear, because if the listeners haven't seen, these boxes are very generous,
and there's a lot of cool swag in there, particularly some of the seeds in there that
I'm not sure you can get elsewhere, or at least not at the moment.
No, and you never will.
So, yeah, I put in, it's one or the other on the Hood Candy freebies that are in there.
And you'll get them in the box and that's it.
So they won't be in part of the Hood Candies drop.
Yeah.
Love it.
And look, a lot of cool swag in there, especially the Hood Candies freebies you mentioned.
And if people have been paying close attention, they might have picked up some little clues
that the Hood Candies feminized lineup is in the pipeline.
Do you want to give us maybe a little idea about what it was about the Hood Candies that
stimulated you to look at it as the next line to work forward?
Yeah, I just loved it.
I mean, first, the community loved it.
They've been asking for it forever.
I kind of just hadn't done it because we had all these other projects going.
And then I was just like, all right, it's time.
Let's do this, but we got to do it right.
We got to have the right crosses in there.
This one, we're really going for flavor.
This one, we're really going for smell.
I mean, that's what we're going for Terps on this one.
That's what we bred for.
And it's in testing now.
So I really can't.
You may see it pop up in September.
You may not.
It just really depends on how it goes.
So.
Nice.
And you just got my brain sort of ticking there.
Do you try to have a certain amount of releases per year, like say two a year,
or is it really just like up to the whims of how it works out?
It's really up to the whims of how it works out.
I mean, it could be none a year if everything just comes out, or it doesn't meet the criteria
to stay relevant.
I believe you have to keep it unique, keep it fresh.
It has to be fire.
You know, every time.
And if I'm kind of going for a Soul Fire signature look, like if it has that signature look,
if you can look at my pictures, if you can look at things that other people grow and say,
yeah, that's Soul Fire right there.
I don't even need you to tell me.
I don't need you to tell me who grew that or who bred that because that's a Soul Fire
strain.
And I think that's what we're striving to become.
Something where you look at it and you know.
And the only way to do that is through proper selection and being able to say no or being
able to say this doesn't make it into the line or this whole line doesn't make it out
to the public.
So maybe, you never know.
Sometimes things just don't make it.
So even though we talk about it now, you see some freebies in a box or there's some whispers
of that line coming, if it doesn't make it through our quality, it won't be there.
That's great to hear a good sort of quality assurance.
And I guess to talk a little more general about say, how could I phrase this?
Your sort of trajectory as a breeder.
I certainly have noticed that you're doing things in this very professional sort of way
in the sense that like often I don't even hear about your work.
Like a lot of breeders, they'll tell you, hey, I'm testing this out, blah, blah, blah.
Your work, it's professional in that you just hear about the drop coming and the testing's
already happened.
And you didn't even know about it.
And I wonder, is this something you're intentionally doing moving forward?
Because it certainly feels like it could be a paradigm shift where that's how breeders
start working, where it's like, you don't really know what I'm doing right now, but
you'll hear about it in six months.
Right.
I mean, I think that's how they should be working.
If you're not growing, if you personally aren't making your seeds and growing your seeds,
then you shouldn't be dropping your seeds.
It's that simple.
So if you make something, you grow it and you feel like it's awesome and it was awesome
for you, then you can have confidence in giving it to other people.
So yeah, there's no like, this is the upcoming drop and it's happening for sure because I
want it to.
That's not how it works.
It's not, I can't will it to happen.
It has to happen because it was quality enough for it to happen.
So I think that's probably how a lot of breeders maybe, I don't know.
I only really fuck with like Mike and the guys in my circle.
So I don't know what the other people do.
I don't really pay much attention to them.
So I would hope that's how they do it.
Yeah.
Look, I think it's going to be a growing trend.
I just, I always love it when I log on and I see a new upload from you because it's usually
a very mouthwatering picture.
But if we just jump back to the hood candies, we mentioned it's coming in the future.
It's looking promising.
I guess with everything we've said so far, it might be a bit of a no brainer that people
look at the block monster and think, Hey, this is the one.
Tell us a little bit about the block monster that's coming out.
Oh, and the Mind Flayer drop.
Yeah.
So that thing is, it's just got this chocolatey Z turps, and it was again, a fast vision
finisher, super frosty, really vigorous.
Like early on in the garden, it was a bully.
That's how it got its name.
It was growing just so fast.
It was like, you know, bullying its neighbors around it.
Now I was like, and this thing is a monster in here.
So yeah, it was a fun one.
It was a really fun one to work with.
I think people are going to be really happy with.
I think we're going to see a ton of great, great Finos that come out of that.
Yeah.
And I love it.
I love when people get it and then the joy that they get from growing it.
I mean, that's a huge part of this for me.
The reward I get from the happiness, like the actual joy that people get from growing
our strains.
I talk to them every day.
Every day.
If you post it on Instagram, don't be surprised if I pop up and like it and say something
about it.
Because if you're growing my gear, I'm behind you 100%.
You'll hear from me.
That's great to hear.
I love that.
So I did see on Instagram, someone posted up a cross called Californian Demon, the LA
Cush Cross Mind Flayer.
And it got me wondering, how many crosses do you make when you initially do a lineup?
And if you had to guess, what percentage of them make it through to the end stage of like
getting to market?
Yeah.
So we make a lot.
We make a lot and we grow them all.
So I don't know a percentage of it, but when we make a line, it starts out very big.
And then we go through there and we look at who gets to stay, which crosses are good enough.
And a lot of times, a lot of them are amazing, but just didn't work with the design of this
lineup.
It just didn't work with the flow of it.
So I'll look at it and I'll pick out which one do I.
This one is going to be a great Soul Fire slap.
Or sometimes a Soul Fire slap might not even be tested.
You know, Soul Fire slap is such a community.
And that's what that California Demon is.
The Soul Fire slap is such a community engagement, a group thing.
A lot of times those aren't even tested.
Those just go out as a Soul Fire slap.
You slap up a sticker, you put it in Discord.
If it's awesome, I'll post it on Instagram.
If you get posted, you get a free pack of seeds.
That's how it works.
And yeah, that California Demon is dope.
Like we've seen a ton of those that are heat.
But yeah, to answer your question, we make a ton and then we whittle that down to that
six or eight that we think people are really going to enjoy.
Beautiful stuff there.
I'm keen to hear some more about some of the ones that you've tested with.
But I did want to quickly mention it because you spoke about, you know,
homies with exotic mic, you don't really drift too far outside of your immediate circle.
People would probably be aware and if not, you definitely need to get onto it.
You've been doing your own podcast with mic, the Grow Life with the Bros.
Tell me a little bit about that.
How's it been going for you being on the other side of the mic?
Dude, you know what?
You know how that came about?
I was just so inspired by our first meeting because you're such a good host.
You know what I mean?
I went back to Mike and I was like, man, you know, I hate I never wanted to do these
fucking podcast things because honestly, I don't like it to be ever about me because
it's not about me.
Like I was saying before, Soul Fire is a team from the guy that grows at home to, you know,
Soul Flower in the office that sends out everything to all the workers in there to
everybody else are so much more important than me in this.
So I never wanted to be like front for face forward front in front of the whole thing.
But then, you know, I did your podcast and a lot of people really enjoyed hearing about
the story and all that stuff.
And I was like, man, Mike, we should do one, but we should just do a podcast in Discord
this live where we can give away stuff and interact with the audience just right there
and really just bullshit because that's what we do all the time.
Anyway, I mean, the guy calls me, you know, every morning when he's out for his jog and
we just bullshit about everything that's going on from politics to pot to just what's going
on in our life.
And so pretty much every morning we have a two hour chat about just shit.
So we wanted to put that in front of people in kind of a funny way and interact with people
that enjoy that.
So, hey, you were the inspiration for that.
Oh, man, you are way too kind.
I appreciate that.
I'm just being real.
Oh, man, look, I've tuned in and listened to him myself.
They're great.
And I love the live interaction component.
That is one of the aspects of this show.
But what did you think about Mike's rap verse in the start of the show?
Look, I still want to get Mike on the show.
So I'm not going to comment on it.
No, no, go ahead.
Just open forum.
Say how you feel.
People love it.
Yeah, I think it's great.
I love it when breeders kick back and have fun with the fans.
I remember a while ago Mike would do those talent nights on his Instagram.
They were always fun to watch as well.
And when he was like with the milk and everything.
Yeah.
And he'd just like get two random people on the live and just be like, all right, debate
each other or like just do something fun.
It was always good.
Oh, dude, I remember.
I remember the like the talent shows.
He had some dude, there were some people in there with some actual like real talent that
were doing some crazy things.
Yeah, right.
I forgot about that.
That shit was great.
Yeah.
I remember one time this guy just beatboxing and he was great at it.
I'm going to tell him he needs to start a variety show or something.
I mean, the guy is hilarious.
I'll give him that.
Like me, I'm more conservative, like a little bit more reserved.
And then, you know, Mike is like just so out there sometimes.
He's like the class clown.
So together, it's kind of funny.
Yeah, man.
Good times for sure.
Well, everyone make sure to tune in for the next one.
I believe you post about them on your Instagram.
So just keep an eye out for it.
That'll be a fun one.
Yeah, next one will be, I think, the 29th.
So by the time this airs, it'll have already passed.
But we do it every other, we try to do it every other Wednesday.
Yeah, I mean, maybe we should get you on there as a guest.
That's just like flipping the role, the role of reverse all the way around.
Look, I would not turn that down.
So very appreciative.
Nice.
All right.
Yeah, let's do it.
That sounds awesome.
So if we jump back to the strain list from the mind fly, there's sort of only one that
we haven't touched on too heavily, which is the soul sonic.
How do you feel the Gary paired with the mind flyer?
Oh, I felt it was great.
So I don't know, man, like that for anybody who's doing any projects or working any lines,
I was a little, I don't know, I was a little resistant on using the Gary at first.
I grew it and I liked it and I thought it was good.
You know, it was really good pie.
I had a great smell, but something special happens when you breed with it.
It breeds amazingly well.
So when we put it with that and you can just see from the picture that I posted.
So we did like a pre exclusive with that soul sonic on 420 where you could get it just for,
I think, a few days.
And just from the pictures of it, like the way the leaves are, I loved growing it.
I had so many keepers of it that, yeah, I don't even know.
It was hard to narrow down.
And I think that's kind of how you make it into a line in our camp.
Like you can test something and be like, ah, you know, I got one keeper out of like a bunch
or, you know, whatever.
But if you have one that it's like hard to find a keeper because you have so many keepers,
I can't keep all of these plants, but I should.
You know, that's how you make it into the line.
And that was definitely the case with soul sonic.
Yeah, I loved it.
It's great.
So that Gary just puts his gas, like a greasy gas on pretty much everything it touches.
That's great to hear.
And I specifically wanted to ask you, a few people have said that Gary and even as an
extension, cookies can sometimes be a bit of a bully in crosses because it's so dominant.
Do you find that that's the case?
Or do you think it's just a matter of pairing it with something that's equally dominant?
So you get a bit of both representation?
I think you need, I think it's the pairing.
I will say that one, that Gary is kind of a bully.
Like it definitely leaves its mark on its cross, right?
It has this greasy residue that's on the flowers.
And then that just, man, when you smell it, it's so amazing.
So I really like it.
I like the way that it breathes.
But yeah, it's a bully for sure.
I wouldn't say that all the cookie stranger like that, but that one.
Yes.
But I think it's progeny are better than it itself.
And that's just my personal opinion.
The things it makes are better than the original.
Yeah.
Beautiful stuff.
And while I've got you here, I want to ask you, because I got to admit, I wasn't really
particularly familiar with the cake mix before you sort of introduced it with the baby cakes.
You got me wondering, do you have any strong feelings on cherry pie?
I feel like it's sort of starting to make a little bit of a comeback, but I've also
never really heard you speak about it.
Do you have any strong thoughts on it?
I think it's awesome.
I've seen it grown a ton.
I remember growing it back in the day and had some stability issues if you had the real
cut of it.
Right.
So I had definitely had some stability issues.
But I think with how the modern gardener is a lot more savvy when it comes to dealing
with problems, dealing with intersex issues.
I mean, now we've all grown enough cookies to know how to spot and deal with it.
It's a much more educated, I guess, landscape.
So I have the cut.
I also just recently reacquired the cherry pie.
I need to grow it again to re-familiarize myself.
So yeah, it is making a small comeback, though.
And I think the flavor and the terp of it when it's grown the right way is amazing.
So definitely, it's definitely got some unique sort of characteristics about us.
That's cool to hear.
We may hear more about it in the future.
I would love to ask you, I feel like gas has had a bit of a resurgence in the past few
years as like a general flavor type.
Would you say that you agree with that?
And do you think it's still on the up and up or we're sort of plateauing a bit?
Well, I don't know.
I think one of the cooler things about cannabis and cannabis breeding is the locales.
So certain areas in the country like certain flavors.
If you go to LA, it's gas.
They love gas down there.
You go to the Bay, maybe it's more Z-Terp, more cookies.
They still like gas too.
It's just different areas of the country like different things.
I know New York went on a crazy tangent for sourdough.
Everything had to be sourdough.
So these things, they come in waves.
They come in different regions, have different popularities.
So yeah, I think gas is always going to be popular.
Sometimes it's going to resurge and then it'll die down and maybe like a Z-Terp or a cookie
terp will pop up.
I mean, that's just kind of what makes it cool.
Definitely.
Have you heard about some new gas that I don't know about?
Because I'm going to need to know.
Look, I was hoping it was going to be coming from you, to be honest.
What's hot on the radar?
I need to know.
What have you seen lately?
Have you heard about, I've seen hardcore OG S1 getting a lot of traction recently.
There must be like a specific S1 that people have found that's really special.
Really?
No, I haven't, but I'll be investigating.
Look, I know that your reach spreads far and wide.
Hopefully next time we chat, you got it in the stable or you can give me an update at least.
That's right.
You never know.
Now I want to find it.
It sounds like it might be interesting.
That's cool.
Yeah.
I'm always looking for what the other guys are doing.
I'm just like any other seed guy that I buy everybody's seeds.
Every other breeder, any breeder that is out there that looks interesting, I've bought
your shed.
I have it and I'm popping it.
Currently, I go through a lot of different people's stuff looking for unique things.
And I think if anybody out there is thinking about doing projects, breeding, I think you
should.
And I think you should pop everybody.
Popping SoulFire is cool.
And you're going to find some heat.
You're going to find some stuff you love, but pop everybody's.
Go pop Mike's stuff.
Go pop whoever.
Pop other people's stuff.
Find all that heat because that's how we're going to get the new stuff.
You know, it's become so mundane.
Where's the new flavors at?
You know, I'm waiting.
I'm waiting.
I love that.
That's great.
Where's the heat?
I don't know.
That's it, man.
Yeah.
For the longest time, I've said that I think the wheels of our community metaphorically
spin on people popping seeds.
Oh, no, it does.
100%.
Like if you're sick of seeing the same strains or you're sick of there not being a new flavor,
then start popping seeds.
If you're not popping seeds, you're part of the problem.
You know what I mean?
Like you're going to find those.
Somebody has it right now.
It could be SoulFire stock.
It could be whatever, but they have it in their garden right now.
Something fucking amazing.
They're probably never going to post it on Instagram.
They're probably never going to tell their buddies about it.
They probably don't even have a clone of it.
It's just going to come and go.
I agree.
It could be the raspberry mummy inside Heavy Day's tent dropping soon.
Yeah, you never know.
It could be anything.
I'm sure with all these new growers coming online and all the beans that are getting
popped, there's some cool shit out there.
We just got to be, as you would say, privy to it.
That's it, man.
You got to have your finger on the pulse.
I was interested in asking.
I'm particularly keen to get my hands on one of these boxes because I noticed inside it
is the Mind Flayer S1.
I'm not sure you can get that anywhere else.
Have you tested those at all?
Slash what am I...
Yeah.
Cool.
What are we expecting?
I grew some just a nice...
It's really close to the original Mind Flayer that I grew and used for this.
So yeah, those are in the box.
It's not part of the drop.
You can only get it in the box.
So there'll only be X amount of them out there.
So enjoy.
I like to do that.
I like to make things very limited because I feel like that makes them cooler.
If you were in that moment, if you were there to get those things, then you got them.
And if you weren't, then maybe you can't.
Yeah, that's it.
You missed the boat, guys.
Don't be left.
That's right.
Don't miss the boat.
Yeah.
And we do that with a lot.
Like our Last Supper Cross that was out in the Bahama line, guys are always asking us
about that.
Like, oh my God, we got these Last Supper freebies with some banana runs packs.
And these are the most amazing thing.
It's so frosty.
The turps are crazy.
Where are they at?
Where can we get them?
You can't.
If you didn't get them, if you didn't get that freebie for that thing, it is gone and
we're not remaking it.
So, we do that on purpose for sure.
So, yeah, be there in the moment or be wanting.
Or maybe you can find it out there, you know, like guys have shit.
You never know.
But while we're on the topic, I would love to hear, because I know sometimes this is
a hard one because you tend to want to know a bit more info before you give an answer.
But if you could only recommend one of the Mindflayer Crosses just as that you think
is sort of a crowd pleaser, what would you recommend?
And as a follow up, what is your personal favorite of the drop?
Um, yeah.
So, if I was a guy and I was looking at the menu and I was just like, you know what?
I can only get one.
Which one am I going to get?
Which one am I going to get?
I'd probably go.
It's hard to say because they're all so different and, you know, you have different reasons
for getting something.
But if I was a guy looking for something to wash and I was a hash guy, I'd go make a mind.
If I was a guy that is going for like bag appeal, you really can't go wrong with any
of them.
But that's a hard question.
Yeah, it's hard.
Utter madness is an awesome one.
Yeah, if I just had 100 bucks and I had to pick one, I don't know.
I don't know.
It's tough, isn't it?
It's tough because like you were talking about earlier, when we designed this line,
we put each one in here for a different reason, you know?
So, they all have a reason why they're here.
Exactly.
So, what's your personal favorite?
I don't have a straight up personal favorite because I couldn't choose like soul sonic over
mind melter.
I just couldn't.
I couldn't choose like mind melter over mega mind.
So, I don't know who would be my personal favorite.
I suggest like a mind melter.
Maybe if you're new to soul fire, you won't go wrong.
You know, if I never heard of soul fire before, I had 100 bucks to spend and this is going to be
my intro.
Go mind melter.
Strawberry mind melter.
You're going to kill the game.
You'll fall in love.
Yeah, there.
I guess that's what I'll say.
That's a good recommendation.
I was going to say, yeah, I think like the heavy yields and the turps are going to help.
So, that's a good one.
And just to loop back quickly, you mentioned a little earlier that you pop a lot of other
breeders stuff and you're familiar with who's doing what.
I was curious to ask, are there any strains or breeders that have caught your eye recently?
Yeah, I mean, I definitely like what like bloom is doing with his turf profiles.
I've been popping a bunch of like older stuff.
So, I popped some TGA stuff.
Oh, killer.
What stuff?
Yeah.
So, just like a bunch of stuff.
This was a while back, but his blood wreck crosses.
So, I think that it was named as...
What the fuck was it?
I know Chernobyl's one.
No, I didn't pop Chernobyl.
I didn't find any of any keepers, sadly, but it was like a cork cross.
Oh, yeah.
Crazy train.
It was the crazy train.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So, Mike has this huge thing full of seeds, tons, like dude, from all over the years.
I have a big vault, but he has like a huge vault and he gave me a bunch of crazy train
seeds and I popped those.
I didn't find what I was looking for like turbowise.
So, none of them really made the cut, but and that's the case with a lot of different
breeders.
Like I'll pop a bunch of stuff.
There'll be some heat.
There'll be some tight stuff, but it just has to like make the cut.
So, yeah, that and yeah, I'm always buying.
I'm always buying seeds.
I have a buying seed problem.
I would imagine like everybody else.
Yeah, look, I think we're all addicts in that regard.
Just out of like a general sort of curiosity slash follow up.
I remember in the last episode, we chatted about the Flav being one of your memorable
ones.
Oh, yeah.
Did you know that Miss Jill is putting that out again?
Like you can get it again?
Yeah.
I wonder how, I mean, I wonder how like close to what it was before.
Is yeah.
So, do you know when that's coming out?
Because I'll definitely grab some.
Well, I think it might even be out now, but you nailed it on the head.
I've got a question about that purely because the original it was like Romulan by Space
Queen.
That's right.
And the Romulan was heavy, man.
Yeah.
And so, like there's a lot of like, you know, question marks around Romulan these days.
But on top of that, they also listed as Peach Romulan and not just Romulan.
So, I'm like, oh, is that their way of subtly tipping their hat that it's not the same?
Yeah, maybe because that wasn't what the original one was.
Yeah.
Yeah, exactly.
But who knows?
Did they put up any pictures of it or anything?
Because I can tell from like the pictures how similar it really is because it's the
Flav that we used was very unique.
Like the one that Mike selected, it was very unique.
Yeah.
Look, I'm trying to pull it up on my phone now.
It's on Miss Jill's page.
But it should be like kind of eggy and like big, bright green or yeah, bright hairs.
I'll have to send you a photo after the episode.
I'm trying to pull it up, but I can't find her Instagram right now when I'm under the
crunch.
Always like, dude, everybody always is getting deleted.
It's so.
Yeah, it's so terrible.
It's wild.
That's part of the reason why we went to Discord, you know?
Yeah, right.
The constant persecution on Instagram is horrible.
Yeah, I wonder if anything's going to actually change because it's like you can like you
see paid advertisements for cannabis, but then also people getting banned.
No, I don't think it's going to change.
It's not going to change until it's federally legal.
I mean, yeah, the Rock can take down a bottle of tequila and that's fine and nothing against
the Rock.
I love the Rock.
But, you know, God forbid, like you post some pot, then you could just be banned.
A lot of it is the weight that they give the report.
So sometimes you'll get reported for hate speech or all this other crap that has not
you know that's around.
It's not even what it is, but they'll pull your post down because somebody said that
you were being abusive by posting pot.
It doesn't even make any sense.
Yeah, it's definitely it feels a bit like the Wild West, doesn't it?
Yeah, a little bit.
It's just over over policed.
It's crazy because, you know, you can watch somebody literally get murdered on Instagram.
That's fine.
You know, that doesn't come down.
But a guy posts a plant and it's, oh, you know, he loses his whole account that he's
had for years.
It just doesn't make sense to me, honestly.
Yeah.
Do you think that Discord will become even more popular than what it is now?
Oh, yeah.
Oh, yeah.
It's going to be huge.
I told so I wish I could take credit for like a lot of cannabis guys moving to Discord,
but I really can't like Lem here in I knew about Discord years ago just for my kids playing
like video games and me playing video games with them.
It took over for like Team Speak.
So like we would use Team Speak or Ventrilo back then and Discord came along and my kids
were like, oh, dad, like, you know, Discord is a way.
And when I first used it, I was like, this shit sucks.
Like, it's not that intuitive.
There's so much different things going on.
I wasn't into it at first.
And then after a while and I was able to figure out how to kind of use it and how versatile
it is.
I was like, oh, this is pretty cool, you know, and then there's a there's a breeder up here
in Washington named Lemon Hoko.
Lem and he has a Discord, a cannabis Discord.
And it was, you know, they got a lot of different stuff going on in there.
They got all this stuff going on.
And that's when I first saw the idea.
And I was like, OK, and I set up the Soul Fire Discord.
We didn't have any barely followers.
We basically just sit and chit chat in there with like me and Dragon and just a couple
of the regular guys.
And, you know, I told Mike about it at first.
And and then and then at that point, then like Masonic started his own Discord.
He started getting his thing going.
And then I was telling Mike, I was like, hey, man, you should do a Discord, bro.
But he's like, no, I hate Discord.
That shit sucks.
Just like how I was when I first saw it, you know, and he's like, no, this shit fucking
sucks.
And then after a while, after he just had had enough of it with like Instagram, he started
doing his NFT stuff.
And he set up a Instagram and then we are a Discord rather.
And yeah, and he just kind of got used to it.
I think that's what's going to happen.
I think a lot of guys who maybe aren't that tech savvy or it's not that intuitive for
them, I think they're going to they're going to come along because I mean, really, that's
where the core of the Soul Fire base is in Discord.
You want help.
You have problems with the plant pop into Discord.
We got 7,000 guys that are ready to help you answer a question.
You want daily giveaways.
We're doing them every day at 420.
You can get we're giving away a pack of beans.
You want to post your pictures of what you've grown and what you've grown and show off and
show other people what you're doing.
That's where you can do it.
Just the community interaction in there is amazing.
Like you couldn't ask for more.
It's like forums.
It's like a modern day forums, I would say, you know.
Definitely.
I feel like, yeah, it does have that long-ditudinal ability to track threads and things like that,
which is definitely something people have been calling for for a long time, which is
like really great to see.
And as your Discord illustrates, you can really get them popping with a lot of different
functionalities and sort of various different things happening at different times.
There's a lot of reasons to be on there.
Yeah, no, for sure.
And it takes a lot of work, too.
I have an entire staff of moderators that are in their 24-hour summit, different time
zones so that we can just keep it like a positive space that's about what we designed it for,
which is growing pot and talking to other people about growing pot and sharing tech
and sharing ideas.
You know, we have a whole area just about getting your setup right, a whole area about
every different facet.
And you really get to know these guys.
I mean, in Discord, you have pretty much 24-hour access to the breeder who's making your seeds.
So you can talk to them about whatever at any time.
And I think that right there alone just changes the game.
So there's a lot to it.
If you set up a Discord, just be ready for the bumps here and there.
But there's just so many different things you can do.
It's awesome.
Yeah, definitely.
Huge functionality.
Huge functionality.
Cool.
I was just going to mention that one thing we hadn't actually spoken about yet a little
bit off the topic of the Discord is where do you think the flavor demands are going
in the future?
What do you think is going to be the next big popular flavor to take the scene by storm?
Well, I think gas is, like you said, making a comeback.
I think it's cycling back.
I don't know.
I'm waiting for a new flavor profile to pop up.
We were just talking the other day about watermelon strains and how I've never tried a strain that
they say tastes like watermelon that actually does.
I would love to if you have one out there and you're like, SoulFire, there really is
a watermelon strain that actually tastes like watermelon.
I would love to try it.
I haven't.
Not like one that's like banana or like strawberry or like orange or apple.
Like our apple pucker strain that was in the Bahama is amazingly like apple.
It's crazy like apple.
I would love to see that flavor profile take off.
I was at the Homeboy's house the other day.
It was growing his pucker ups and it was crazy apple.
So, yeah, I don't know.
I'd like to see a flavor like that, like a true apple come out.
I don't know.
I don't know where we're going as far as flavors.
Yeah, I certainly can attest that I haven't really come across many true apple flavors.
So that's neat to hear.
The apple pucker, we'll have to get onto that.
Oh, it's insane.
Yeah.
In terms of the watermelon, I haven't, likewise, haven't ever really come across it.
But I think Bodhi says he's got a Landrace African hash plant.
I think, I can't remember, the Ethiopian watermelon hash plant is what he calls it.
But again, that's getting a bit wild and untamed to be dealing with.
Yeah.
I mean, yeah, he has a lot of great flavor profiles.
And honestly, I haven't popped any of his beans for a long time.
I think the last thing I popped from him was like, what was it?
Like an Akai or something.
Maybe it was a long time ago.
I'll have to circle back now that you writing it down right now.
That's great.
He's got some cool stuff in there for sure.
Yeah.
We have to circle back and give him a little test pop there and see what we can find.
Out of curiosity, have you ever come across a real passion fruit flavored strain?
Like a guava?
Yeah.
So, this is actually another point that I'm only just starting to learn.
Are passion fruits common where you're at?
Like the passion fruit?
Here in Washington, no.
Okay.
Yeah.
I mean, it just rains all the time, right?
So, we don't get any of the cool fruits that you have down there in Australia.
No, we don't get any of that shit.
No, because it's like, I was talking to someone the other day.
Oh, you know, I've never had it.
And it made me realize like, yeah, I guess I just take it for granted.
It's just such a commonplace fruit down here that anyway, it's like a sour tart.
Not like super sour, but like a tart version of like sort of a mango with some more floral
influence in there.
More like citrusy almost, but beautiful stuff.
But another flavor profile, which I feel you don't really come across very much.
Like in that same vein as the apple.
Right.
I mean, maybe, I don't know.
Maybe we just haven't.
I believe that this isn't it.
Like the flavor profiles that we have right now, there's no way that this is it.
We just haven't created them yet or they haven't been discovered yet.
Like somebody is going to discover them.
So, I mean, back in the 70s when they were growing pot, it was pretty much just skunky
pot.
There wasn't all these strawberries and watermelons and all these different flavors.
They weren't there.
So there's more to come.
I mean, I don't know.
I talk to people all the time and they just seem so like down in the dumps about where
cannabis is in general.
About the flavors that are around.
They talk as if we're at like the peak and it can never be better.
And this is it.
And I just don't think that that's the case.
I think we're nowhere near the top.
I think we're still creating.
I think there's so much more stuff for like new guys coming on to create.
There's so many new breeders coming out.
There's going to be cool stuff being made.
Yeah, definitely.
I feel like there's so many.
Because I think this plant is very well capable of producing any smell possible.
And so, yeah, where's all that stuff we haven't smelled?
It's coming.
Don't worry.
Whether it's me making it or somebody that has it right now in some seeds that they made.
And that's why I always encourage people like, hey, if you find something cool in a pack of
seeds you get from me, please, by all means, breed with it.
Make something new.
Make something your own.
You do not need to ask me.
I still get these messages all the time like, hey, is it okay if I?
Yes.
Is it okay?
Yes.
Yes, it is.
Okay.
It's open source.
I want you to breed with it.
I want you to make your own things.
I want you to create something new.
So I have something to work with.
So, yeah.
That's great philosophy.
I love that.
I did want to ask.
I'm not the gatekeeper of the shit at all.
And if you buy a pack of seeds from SoulFire, you already know.
It's inherently ingrained that you have my blessing to go ahead and work that line.
Create something.
Create something new.
Yeah, that's amazing.
So I did want to ask with the Bahama Mama drop, we had the part two after the initial
success of the part one of the Bahama Mama.
Is there any chance we're going to see a similar thing with this more recent drop?
There won't be a part two of the MindFlare.
Yeah, there won't be a part two of it.
I think we did the part two because of what I said earlier, where I think it's unfair
to put out so many strains at one time and put that stress on just the common gardener's pocket.
Like, oh, here's 14 strains, but you can only pick a couple at the...
You know what I mean?
No.
I'd much rather put out six and then six to eight.
And then maybe in six months later, you'll get another six to eight from that strain,
if we had that many that should go into it.
But with the MindFlare, I think we're just going to do this six and that'll be it.
There'll be different freebies or maybe different exclusives you'll see.
But there won't be a part two.
And we made enough stock so that there's plenty of boxes that go out.
And yeah, that'll be it.
That's exciting stuff I'm keen to hear.
And I guess it further just reinforces that there's no better time than now, guys.
Don't wait around.
This is it.
Jump in.
Yeah, I think our pre-orders are insane.
So once it goes, it's gone.
And then we'll be doing this Hood Candies testing.
And if Hood Candies makes it great, we'll see that in winter or end of fall,
maybe winter of this year, if it makes it.
If it doesn't, we'll see you next year with something.
We're definitely not a company that's known for putting out drops back to back to back.
We don't do it.
Yeah, you can count my drops on your hand, I believe.
Yeah.
Hey, that's good to hear.
I think that's most of what I wanted to touch on.
Was there anything we haven't touched on that you wanted to do?
No, I think we touched bases.
We talked about the Mindflayer drop, Discord, Frenchies, Passionfruit.
We learned a lot.
We learned a lot.
I don't need to pop over to your Discord and do a gnarly giveaway, man.
Look, I would be very grateful.
I think that everyone would be super excited.
Have you sent me an invite to your Discord yet?
No, I'll do it now.
I'll be honest.
I'm actually a little late to the party with Discord,
and I'm still figuring all the ins and outs of it, but I'll send you one right now.
Okay.
Yeah, send me one, and I'll come in there, and I can try to give you any little tips and pointers.
I know I'm not the best at it.
I mean, the best thing you can do is have a kid that knows what he's doing,
because my son, yeah, he's great at it.
Oh, yeah.
I bet he's the mastermind.
He's the DaVinci of Discord.
He really is.
I mean, that's these kids these days, right?
So I was blessed in that aspect to have him as a moderator there who quickly can
repair things and change things and make things.
Do you have a giveaway bot set up yet?
No.
God, you can get a bot for that.
Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
Dude, that's how we do all of our giveaways.
It totally does the randomization of it 100%.
So it's all automated.
Wow.
It's awesome.
I'm going to go down a deep dive after we get off the phone based on the sounds of this.
Oh, yeah, man.
There's so many different bots that you can use for so many different things.
In Discord, it's just what makes it great.
You know, ticket system, like you got to have that.
So that's one of the coolest things about our Discord is that if you have a problem,
if you have a customer service problem, you have issue with what's going on in Discord,
anything you want to talk to staff about, you just open up a ticket, say what it is,
it gives us a ticket number, and one of our staff members will pop in there and
solve the problem for you.
I mean, that's just how it goes.
So, yeah, I love it.
Yeah, cool.
Look, I'm keen and I would love to have you swing by.
Our listeners would be very grateful to get their hands on any of your work.
And look, I'm sure they're already in your Discord as well.
So big overlap, I'm sure.
Yeah.
Yeah, no.
It'd be cool.
I'll pop over there right when just send me the invite when we get off this and I'll pop over
there.
Amazing.
Well, I think with that being said, that just about brings us to the end of it for today.
Were there any shout outs or general comments you'd like to make?
No, I think that covers it, man.
I appreciate you having me on the show.
I can't believe it's already been a year since the last time that I was here.
I always appreciate the opportunity to come on here and a big shout out to Seeds here now
for always being there.
They were the first bank that ever picked up Old Soul Fire when we first started.
So big shout out to them for that.
Yeah, hugely.
The original sponsors of our show and have been supporting us all these years.
So a huge shout out to Seeds here now.
But likewise, a huge shout out to you Soul Fire for coming on the show, for giving us
some amazing genetics and for sharing some of your knowledge and history with us as always.
Very appreciative.
Anytime.
Anytime.
And there you have it, gang.
A huge shout out to Soul Fire Seeds for coming on by, sharing the knowledge, some info about
the upcoming Mind Player series, as well as some info about the future drops you can look forward
to, including the Hood Candies, which sounds really promising to me.
But I'll tell you what else sounds promising.
Supporting our sponsors.
You support them, they support us.
You keep getting episodes.
How good does that sound?
Go check out Seeds here now for all the latest and greatest drops.
If you're looking for auto flower, feminized, regular, whatever you're after, they got it.
Seeds here now.
Guarantee on satisfaction, not just germination.
Please check them out.
James Bean, as you heard from the man himself, Soul, simply a gentleman beyond others.
Supporting both us and Soul Fire from day one.
Please check out Seeds here now.
However, if you're based in the UK or the EU, check out our good buddies at Simply Souvenirs.
They have a great range of breeders, including Soul Fire, but they've got a range of other
breeders too, as well as some lesser known boutique breeders who they think you should
keep your eye on.
Check them out guys.
Simply Souvenirs or on Instagram, simply souvenirs F2.
They are lovely people.
Thank you so much for the support.
Likewise, Coppert Biological Systems.
These guys have been fans of the show for a long time and have helped us to make the
episodes.
Please consider supporting them.
They have some of the best predators in the game, keeping your garden pest and pathogen
free.
If you've got aphids, check out the aphid pyramid.
If you've got spider mites, check out the Spidex Vital.
I really don't need to say any more guys.
These guys are industry standard, world renowned, best in the game.
Check them out.
Coppert Biological Systems.
Thank you so much for your support.
We appreciate it.
And last but not least, the Patreon gang.
A huge shout out guys.
You know we love you.
We could not make it happen without you.
Please check out the Patreon if you would like to help support the show to ensure that
future episodes happen.
All the while, you'll get early access to new coming episodes, unheard exclusives that
are Patreon only specials, as well as a range of giveaways.
We're doing monthly genetic giveaways now.
Check it out guys.
Some hot seeds from hot breeders.
Get them into your hot hands.
And with that, I think we're just about done my friends.
Thank you so much for making it to the end with me.
As usual, your boy Heavy Daze signing off from the Upside Down Library.
I'll see you.
