Hello and welcome to the next episode of the podcast, a cannabis podcast for budding enthusiasts.
This episode, as always, was brought to you by our sponsors, Seeds Here Now.
You know them, they're the best, guarantee on satisfaction, not just germination.
As well as 420 Australia, your number one store for 420 lifestyle and apparel.
And finally, Organic Gardening Solutions.
If you're looking to get the absolute best crop possible, you have to see these guys.
In this episode, we're thankful to be joined by Smell & Mad of Smell & Boat Seeds.
Here to talk the usual deal, genetics, history, plans for the future, you know it.
Here we go.
Alrighty, so a big welcome and thank you for Smell & Mad for coming on the show.
Thanks so much for joining us.
How are you doing?
Good, Bubba, how are you?
I'm doing good.
First question I wanted to ask, a little deviant from the normal first question.
We almost got into it a second ago, but I want you to tell me now, what are you smoking
on at the moment?
Lots of rainbow, just lots and lots of rainbow.
I had some rainbow hybrids as well, but nothing really beats rainbow.
So I just don't get tired of it or haven't yet.
So you're smoking the pure?
Yeah, the Rainbow SS OG.
I've had a little bit of the Skittles by Rainbow as well lately and it's been super good, but
it's hard.
The Rainbow SS just has that dankness to it and I just can't get enough of that chocolatey
rankness.
All right, well, I mean, we've got a plethora of questions to ask on that, but we'll put
that aside for the moment, jump back to the start.
What was in fact your first experience with cannabis?
Oh I was born into it.
Like my first memory in life was being on the boat.
I couldn't have been more than like two or three and I was up on the lake with my uncle
and everywhere we went with my dad and my uncle, it smelled like skunk.
So I really didn't know why we always smelled skunks, always smelled skunks.
And then as I got older and realized it was the cannabis that always made it smell like
skunk that, you know, it was kind of just like a part of life with me growing up.
I was just always around cannabis.
And so I got this kind of theory that the cannabis you're exposed to when you're early
on can often be some of the stuff which is kind of the most impacting on you.
Do you find that to be the case?
I mean, if we look at your work, you know, there doesn't seem to be any apparent skunky
stuff in it.
Was it just a memory or is it kind of imprinted on you in the way I described?
No, I chased the skunks forever.
I still have a lot of skunk work and rainbow has so much of the tie in it.
And that was always a big part of it.
And the reason why I went down the rainbow journey is because my dad always talked about
the chocolate ties, the chocolate ties, the chocolate ties, and then the Acapulco gold,
which hopefully I work with down the line.
So he always told me about like in the 70s, they would get these sticks that tasted like
chocolate and so they would smoke it, tastes like chocolate.
And it was always something I was all like, wait, weed that tastes like chocolate, you
know, as a kid and I'm a candy junkie still to this day.
I love making candy.
I don't eat store bought candy.
I make candy and just so I can get rid of that craving.
So that's why I started the rainbow really was on that tip, the ties.
Wow.
Okay.
So what was when you were younger and you first started smoking, do you have any idea
of what would come at some of the strains you were actually first exposed to when you
were smoking and were they more indica or sativa stuff?
You know, it really depends.
There was two different types.
One during the harvests in Humboldt, all the outdoor that was going around, most of it
was just called like green bud or kind, but we did get things like Northern Lights and
we did get a lot of Calio.
My dad had a lot of Calio around.
And then there was a lot of South American type strains that my dad had in seed form.
So they grew a lot of that.
But believe it or not, a lot of the stuff in the, because we had dry seasons around
here where the outdoor growers were out of cannabis.
So we had a lot of commercial flower coming up from Mexico.
And so we smoked a lot of commercial flower.
To me, a lot of it was the orange influences.
So it was what now we know as, you know, Calio or those kinds of strains.
There was so much of this lime green smelled like straight orange trees.
And that was truly one of my favorites.
And that's why you'll see in a lot of my other early work, there was a lot of orange influences
in there because it reminded me of, you know, 13, 14 year olds pulling apart these bricks
and smelling that orange juice just hit me in the face.
That's really interesting because this possibly the first time we've ever heard someone express
the sentiment that, you know, they had some really nice kind of brick weed scent in essentially.
The interesting thing about Calio is I was chatting about this the other day to Adam
Dunn.
It's one of those ones which is really the defining example of like how things come in
waves of popularity, you know, like it used to be big, it fell off a bit.
Then we had the Tangier resurgence.
I don't know if you'd say it's fallen off, but you know, it's not at the peak anymore.
Do you foresee it coming back soon?
And more importantly, as you alluded, do you think that those orange vibes do trace directly
back to like the Mexican land races specifically?
I personally, I'm going to start with the last part first.
I personally think that it does come from the Mexican strains.
I was importing tons of kilos of cannabis in the 70s and 80s and so much of it was orange
smelling flavoring cannabis.
You told me tons of stories about it.
And so like California and Mexico were together, you know, it was just, it's one thing.
So if it was grown in Mexico, it was grown in California.
And that's where my belief would lie with the orange is that it was coming up from Mexico
and, you know, compressed commercial and the seeds were very few in these bricks.
And when you found the seed, you kept them and you grew them.
I won't say his name, but my dad had a really good friend that he worked with through Mexico
that he brought him up and he's still with us today.
My dad isn't, but his friend isn't.
I've had the conversation with him where he said that when he was a kid, that was what
was prevalent to area of Mexico was the orange cannabis.
It was everything smelled orange.
The second part, which was the first part, do I believe it'll come back?
You know, I feel when I open a jar of the orange flower and I get that nice zesty orange
in the morning, it helps wake me up in the morning.
You know, it helps get me going like a cup of coffee.
Just the terpene profile of it, the way it activates my brain.
So for me, it'll never go away.
I'll always grow something with that orange profile.
I'll always have something just for my own personal use.
I think there's a lot of the guys like that as well who remember it from the eighties
and the nineties or even further back.
So they'll always have it around.
If it gets to the trendy area again, I think so many people worked with tangy and so many
people crossed with tangy and grew tangy and that's all you heard was tangy and orange
like this and orange that.
I think a lot of the younger guys are burnt out on it.
So it'll be a while before it hits to where it was five, six years ago.
Yeah, that's a really good way to express it.
I kind of think I'm definitely in agreeance with you on that one.
The interesting thing that the kind of tangy wave did bring to the forefront, I think is
the idea of terps and maybe kind of the more underlying argument of possibly terps being
more important than potency.
I mean, for me, tangy was one of those ones where it often, both from me and from people
I know cop criticism in regards to the potency, but you know, it got compliments in regards
to the terpenes.
So like, do you feel that's kind of a representative of the scene and the way breeding is occurring
in general at the moment?
Yeah, it's kind of funny.
Like what was it four or five years ago, everything, even more recently, but I'm going to say that
time where people were showing off these huge numbers and what they were being tested at
and all these massive 30%, 32% was somebody was always one up and somebody started more
using profile, the terpene profile and not just like, Oh look, it's fruity.
It's orange.
But like, I mean, or it's grapey or like purple punch, for instance.
I mean, how many people are working with purple punch right now?
And everybody has the same chief complaint.
It doesn't get you there.
It doesn't have that punch that they should just be called purple or they talk down about
it, but the flavor of it is so good.
It really is.
And how long have people been smoking cigars just to have the flavor?
They don't inhale a cigar.
They just smoke it just to taste it.
And so I always think that we will have that.
I always think that now that people really have isolated terpenes in the certain concentrates
and oils and things like that.
Now I think it's going to get grow even further because of that.
Let's say you can isolate the one from this strain, but you can add it to this concentrate
to make this type of sauce.
That's where so many people are going.
You can walk around the shows.
How many shows do you go to now?
Or tables do you go to a booth where you see like amazing flower?
They're not as often where you see concentrate everywhere.
And that terpene profile is what's selling those concentrates.
I really do think that the terpenes, the smells, the flavors and the taste, that's where most
breeders are at right now.
Yeah.
So last little question I wanted to ask about the orange slash, how should I say, tangy
terpenes for the moment.
There's been some rumors that the tangy may not be the genetics that it says it is.
Have you heard anything about that?
Would you shed any light?
I've heard a ton of people say, I truly don't know what they claim that tangy is.
I don't.
It wasn't something I was super fired up about.
I always had Calio.
I've had Calio since one of my first moms.
So when the tangy came out and people were smelling it and showing it and saying, hey,
check this out.
Oh, that's kind of like what I've been growing for all these years.
So I love that strain.
I love it.
And they were like, well, it's called tangy.
And I'm like, well, tangy, that's confusing to me.
Like, what is tangy?
I believe they say it's like a skunk, an orange skunk, something like that.
Crossed to Calio.
Okay.
So they say it's a skunk crossed to Calio.
Is that what it is?
Yeah.
Okay.
So I could imagine it being a Calio cross.
My only thing with it is, is it has a chemically orange.
Now I know Calio.
I can, I can smell Calio.
I can taste Calio.
I can do all that.
Now could a skunk change that in the, in the gene pool?
Sure, sure.
It could.
But to me, like there is a, what's his name?
The breeder who did the agent orange.
So I first, there you go.
I personally think that the tangy would be more of the agent orange style of terpenes
because I've smelled that as well.
And of course they're all going to come from the same gene pool, but I don't know.
To me, the tangy has more of that chemical orange where Calio has a more of a sweet mundane
orange juicy smell.
Yeah.
Okay.
Interesting.
So jumping back to kind of the earlier days, what was it that initially inspired you to
breed?
Was it something that happened or was it another breeder?
What got the ball rolling for you?
I wanted to make strains on me.
Honestly, when I started, I've been doing it.
When was one of my first projects?
My first, some of my first projects I was trying to recreate a big Korean skunk, things
like that.
The old Asian lines.
So I was getting a bunch of those kinds of lines and I was working with them and stuff.
So I was trying to make the old like 70s style in seed form, you know, so I could enjoy it
with my dad and stuff like that.
And I was growing a ton of like Mexican seeds in the early nineties and things like that
for him.
And he'd be able to come over to the house and like see my little, I wouldn't even call
them little bushes, my monster, like 10 foot wide bushes and things and be able to pick
flowers off because he literally come over, chop them all fresh, take them home and try
and cure on himself because I just didn't do it right.
So our styles are different.
I leave leaves on.
So everything gets chopped with all the leaves off.
It gets trimmed later.
He trimmed everything off when it was still wet and hung it that way, but it's beyond
the point.
That was really what it was is that I liked cannabis and I didn't want to try to buy a
clone from somebody so they knew I was growing, you know, because it wasn't always legal to
grow these giant girls I was doing were not medical.
These were in the middle of manzanita trees and buckets or on the side of mountains where
I was falling in with rattlesnakes and climbing up on my gut and trying to find water to take
up to these mountains.
So that was really the reason why I started to do the breeding was because I wanted to
create stuff where nobody else knew I was still growing.
I wanted to have my own seeds and be sufficient on my own merit and not try to find clones
because there were clones at the time.
They just weren't amazing.
Going back, I wish I still had some of those clones.
I mean, I remember when Romulan first came around and I passed on it and I still kick
myself in the ass every day for passing on that cut.
Yeah, Romulan's one of the interesting ones.
It's almost had a resurgence in popularity.
The thing which I find most interesting about Romulan is as far as I can tell, seems to
be the oldest clone that there is, so to speak.
It's popped in 69 as far as we can tell.
Have you heard of anything older than that?
Seems like it might be the one.
I'm confused on Romulan because I was into the oppression.
It was named after the Star Trek generation, the Romulans.
So when people tell me that it was created that long ago and named after Star Trek, it
blows my mind.
So that part always confuses me.
But yeah, I don't really think a lot of the old breeders were naming stuff.
I had an issue even naming stuff, where it would just be, I never put a name on it.
So I think that's why it's harder to date the cannabis because there wasn't a name.
Things weren't passed freely.
Everything was kept under lock and key.
So dating things is truly, truly hard.
Everything is hearsay or somebody else's word of mouth.
And it's a conversation I just don't like to have because people like to take credit
for things when maybe that was around before they took credit for it, or maybe it wasn't,
or maybe they did create it.
And if I say something and somebody takes offense to what I'm saying, it causes a big
drama.
So I just let people say what they want to say and claim what they want to claim.
Yeah, I can certainly understand that.
I'm not sure about that Romulan one myself.
It comes from Romulan Joe and I know that he adopted that persona after, maybe it's
controversial, but after he had the Mendojo persona.
So if I had to guess, he was Mendojo and had the cut before he was Romulan Joe.
So he mustn't have been calling it Romulan back there.
But yeah, I think you're right.
That reference of the word Romulan doesn't really seem to be around before Star Trek.
So yeah, interesting one.
With that being said though, excluding Romulan, seeing as maybe it's not, I mean, I think
that clone's pretty old, but regardless, what do you know is to be, or what do you think
at least is the oldest clone that you're aware of?
The oldest actual cut?
Yeah, I mean, obviously it's a cut of a cut of a cut, but it's still the same plan as
the original one.
So some of my, so let me think of this real quick.
It's funny because some of the original clones I was seeing were literally called Kind Buds
or Green Bud or Orange Bud, which was later known as Calio.
Those were the ones that I remember seeing when I was young.
And then you had your South American strains or your gold strains and things like that.
And once again, I seen these when I was a kid, but they never had a name.
It was called, oh, that's that, the Kind Bud or that's the San Diego Bud or that is the
Green or that is the Orange or that's that Columbian that we have.
And then the other one was the Michoacan.
I think honestly, one of the oldest ones I remember was just the Michoacan because
that's what was getting brought over in abundance in the brig.
Other than that, I've heard of things, you know, things, but I didn't see them.
I wasn't there.
I was born in 1977.
I have memories, you know, into the 80s and those are the ones I'll speak on.
Yeah.
Okay.
So I think something which has been really interesting to me and probably to a lot of
other people as well is the idea of what do you think it was, at least that in your mind
that caused you to take such a kind of a different approach to your brother in regards to breeding?
Because I mean, he put it, I think, pretty eloquently himself, like, you know, he's got
a very kind of small pool that he sticks with and you cover everything else.
And I was like, that's a good way of putting it, you know, like, how did it end up to be
that way?
I, you know, okay.
So Mad really worked the same pool.
He was really dedicated to the Urkel and the Lavender and the SCDC.
Those were his babies and he works them still to this day.
And I'm actually happy that he's adding a little bit of my work to the pool because
my work is solid, his work is amazing and I think they'll play really, really well
together.
I think a lot of my difference with it was that I didn't want to just do the same thing.
I had a lot of different versions of plants at my disposal.
Like he had his purples.
I was really working the, like the Michoacan at the time or these ties at the time or Callio.
Those were the ones, but also I was all over the world.
I was traveling everywhere.
I was working tons, tons, tons in the outdoors.
I was seeing a lot more of what I could push plants to yield for, you know, reasons, lots
of flower, bigger yields, bigger plants.
Those kinds of things for outdoor growing was really, really what I was looking for.
Plus I would read for myself what I liked, what I really liked the tie.
The Chocolate Cherry, like I was saying, was way too strong for me.
If I worked it, settled it down a little bit, I could make it very beneficial for me.
I just take away that peak of the high, but keep all the parts that made you smile and
made you happy.
I think we just really had different visions on what we wanted to do.
I think he really, really wanted to isolate and really, really wanted to make this perfect
purple line, which he's made a ton of them.
I wanted to spread out a bunch of different stuff and see what I liked the most.
Things along that nature.
Do you kind of limit yourself in any way in the sense that he does in regards to maybe
genetics?
Is there anything you don't want to use or anything you feel you definitely have to use
type thing or is it just kind of you don't limit yourself like that?
I definitely like using or starting from older genetics.
I don't really like the whole pop a pack of seeds, find a male and make work from it.
I really, really like my chocolate cherry because it is a chocolate.
Really like the red one because it is my baby.
I really like the rainbow because I've worked all these lines to get there.
I am going to start isolating myself for a while, pushing the rainbow line, pushing the
red vine line and bringing the chocolate cherry back.
Will I ever just say, these are the only things I'm going to work?
No.
I find so much beauty in so many of the plants that I don't think I could ever just isolate
myself to a specific strain and just do those ones.
I like too many plants.
I can see, like I was saying earlier, I can see commercial brick flowers and I can find
things in it that I think are cool or nice.
I can find some guy who's never grown before is outdoor and be all like, oh man, it has
like this certain smell or oh, I like it structure or hey, it didn't have bugs attacking it,
just stuff like that.
I would never just isolate myself down strains.
I like to fiddle.
I'm like OCD-ish.
I really am all over the place at times.
The chocolate tie, sorry, what was it?
The cherry chocolate tie that's come up a few times so far.
Do you want to give us the backstory on it?
What is it?
I think it's pretty interesting.
It's the Rev's cherry tie.
I absolutely loved it.
There's tons of information out there on the Rev's cherry tie.
It was a chocolate tie female that I came across that I just had to do something with.
It was the only plant that I had personally seen that tasted like milk chocolate.
It truly tasted like chocolate, not like hints of chocolate.
It tasted like actual chocolate.
When I had it and then I had a Rev's cherry tie, which he just sent me, sent us a ton
more beans out so I can further the work with it.
It just worked so well together.
It's like tie on tie on tie.
It was something I had to do to bring myself a tie to work, tie seeds to pop and to go
through to find these perfect tie strings.
What was the process of creating Rainbow like?
For people who aren't aware, the lineage is it's that tie you just mentioned crossed to
the GKB and then you got that hybrid and crossed that to the TK.
How did this whole process take place?
Was it over a few years?
Was each step just obvious?
Can you explain the genesis of it for us?
I started the chocolate cherry, it was before my daughter was born.
My timeframes are never great.
So we'll say between, she'll be eight now, so it was over eight years ago.
So that's when I started with the chocolate cherry.
After I made chocolate cherry, I actually was going through it and finding females.
I wasn't really looking for a male.
Then I started working with my brother, had given me these lavender cross seeds and I
was going through a ton of colon issues, the cancer in my colon and other random things.
So the lavender was really, really helping me.
So I started working with that boy and my chocolate cherry males were just put on the
back burner and I started working with the lavender and Tripoli Wicked.
I hit the chocolate cherry with it and I hit a toggle with it and things along that
line.
But I ended up going back to the chocolate cherry and finding a male that was really
Thai dominant and had that cherry smell instead of the chocolate smell.
It actually had a cherry smell in the stem.
The mom tasted like chocolates and cherries.
That's why I call it that.
It tastes like chocolates and cherries, which was amazing.
I fell from that and hit triangle.
I became obsessed with triangle as an OG.
It was just like the perfect OG for me.
It grew great.
I got it to yield.
It was super potent for me.
It always helped me at the end of the night to come out of my thoughts and bring me down
because I used to be really high strung.
Still high strung, but I used to be really, really high strung.
So when I made that cross, the triangle female with the chocolate cherry male, one of the
first seeds I actually popped came out of a plant that smelled like licorice.
It smelled like candy, like red vine candy.
I was making some calls and I was like, I swear it smells just like red vine candy.
You have to try it.
I was showing it to a couple of my really close friends locally.
They were like, dude, it really smells and tastes like red vine candy.
So I was like, I'll just call it red vine gush.
That name stuck with it forever.
So when I decided to work with a male out of the red vine seeds, the best way for me
to say it was it's a red vine male, which red vine was really in my eyes, that single
female that I had found because it smelled just like the candy.
But how else could I really relay that message to people that it was this by this by this?
Instead I was just thought it's my red vine male.
And I took the red vine male to the OGKB and the very first seed I popped was what ended
up becoming known as Rainbow S.S.O.G.
Because my daughter named it.
She was huge in My Little Ponies and that's how all that whole thing snowballed into it.
All the ponies and on the seed packaging and all the names and everything like that was
really at the time of like five year old kid's idea.
So, yeah.
Yeah, awesome.
You banged out a few answers for me.
I was going to ask for the people wondering why all your strains are named after My Little
Pony.
The other thing I wanted to ask is you use the TK and you kind of set it in there, you
know, you really liked it.
Do you think it's the best of all the OGs?
And more importantly, do you think it's the original or is something else the original
in your mind?
The TK for me, I truly believe that so much California flowers were going back east and
things like that, that a lot of seeds were being popped from bag seeds.
And whether it came from bag seeds or not, it's beyond me.
But I had OGs like TK in California and that's why I loved it.
It reminded me so much of these green strains that we were getting out of San Diego.
Then we had a strain that we called San Diego, I think it was San Diego something.
I can't remember the name of it.
It was just referred to as that really good pot, San Diego.
And so that's, I could never acquire that.
It was forever before I got a cut back of what we called the San Diego cut.
Now it was the San Diego OG later and it reminds me so much of TK.
Well, I ended up getting TK, reminded me completely of the San Diego plant.
And now I have the San Diego plant and they are a lot alike.
They have some unique differences, but they're very, very small unique differences.
And they could be because they've been in completely two different environments for
so long that they've just evolved over time.
And that's why I was obsessed with the TK for so long because I had this flower and
it was coming through quite often and I was smoking on it for like a year straight and
I could never get a cut of it.
But when I seen TK, I was like, holy shit, that reminds me spot on of the San Diego flower.
Yeah.
Okay.
So yeah, it's hitting back home from when you were younger.
Exactly.
So for people who have kind of taken a glance at the current range, most notably within
the Rainbow offering, we can see that a lot of the mothers you've chosen to pair with
it outside of some of your own creations and things like the Dosey Dough, Gelato, Skittles,
things like that.
Do you think that Rainbow itself pairs well with these other kind of, just broadly speaking,
I guess you'd say that, you know, like the dessert type of strains?
Do you think it pairs well with that?
Like going like keeping sweet cookie things to sweet cookie things or what do you think
it crosses really well to yourself?
The male from that line that I chose is extremely dominant.
Like everything was looking Rainbow-like and that chocolate smell and flavor is really
pushing into everything.
Even the Skittles, like it's hard to find a plant in that cross that smells like Skittles.
Everything is like chocolate funk, chocolate funk, funk, funk, chocolate funk.
So I think that anything with the Rainbow male that I chose and it's going to push what
I want, it's true.
So it's kind of like downplaying some of my crosses.
I'm saying that the male will overpower everything.
But with each female, there are some variances, whether it's structure or yields or you will
find different smells with different females.
And I ran a lot of these plants and these are some of the ones I actually really liked.
The Skittles one, I'm surprised that it has been so good.
I was surprised when I first ran them all outdoors.
I usually do all my testing, my initial testing and outdoors in large groups.
That way I can do a mass test under pretty good conditions because we have fluctuations
here where I live.
I mean, it gets up to 112, 115 Fahrenheit and it can bottom down into the 40s at night.
So it would put them through a lot of stress.
So when I was going through my initial testing and I ran 20-ish of everything and the Skittles
were coming out absolutely phenomenal.
So there was no way I couldn't produce or put them out.
The Mindo Breath to me was more along the lines of grabbing the OGKB from it and the
OGKB from Rainbow and seeing what I could do on that end.
And then the same with the Dosido.
It has the OGKB.
Rainbow has the OGKB and I wanted to see what those two would play together.
Plus I hit OGKB with Rainbow as well.
So you can kind of see what I was trying to do with that grouping to see where I could
go later down the line.
Will I take that Rainbow by Dosido back to a Dosido or back to the Rainbow with Mills
if I ever chose to?
The Red Lime was an easy one that was sort of like back-crossing the Red Lime for me.
I did the Chocolate Cherry as well.
I never really liked that one.
That one's really interesting because it's so Thai dominant.
It's not for most growers.
I'm getting plants that were taking four months to finish and a lot of people don't
really care for that.
And then I did some with the Gold Strain, the Acapulco Gold.
I can't release that one because the person who gave me that cut asked me not to release
it and I won't.
And I did a Panama cross with it that I won't release because once again the same person
who gave me the Gold Cut told me I could work with it but asked me not to release them because
they're his babies and he's an older guy and he'll pass them on to me when he's ready to
do what I really would like to do and let people have some real old school genetics.
But yeah, I just think a lot of those crosses really were that that's what the market was
hungry for.
They liked those plants, they liked the gelatos and they liked the cookies and those things.
I wanted to give people what they wanted but I wanted to do it with the Rainbow because
the Rainbow really is a unique plant and it kind of overtakes everything.
So, you can still have your name with the gelato but it'll have my footprint, my stamp
on there with the Rainbow pushing it to a different level.
Yeah, good answer.
So just given your experience and history with all of these various cuts we've just
kind of mentioned, out of all the kind of dessert cuts, what's your favorite one?
And more importantly, what's the most overrated one?
Right now, I got a cut of Acai and surprisingly, it is special and unique.
The flavor, the terpene profile is this raspberry, blueberry-y, creamy thing.
I've just barely grown it for the first time and I got to say I'm impressed.
I haven't been impressed with any of the cookies.
Truly, this thing is crazy.
I was like, whoa, whoever made this, they took the flavor town to a different level.
I also really like animal cookies because it breeds well.
I don't know why.
My uncle, I have an uncle who's on hospice right now and I would grow animal cookies
a lot and it's my dad's brother.
I would grow animal cookies specifically for him.
He called them animal crackers and he would send my aunt over to the house and he called
me Bubba.
That's why I use Bubba all the time.
I've been called Bubba my whole life.
He would tell me, ask Bubba if he got any more of those Girl Scout animal crackers,
like the animal crackers, the cookies.
He would just stumble on the words what the name was.
It was something new every time.
He called it these names, something different every time, but he absolutely loved it.
Out of every strain, I grew ... He hasn't got a smoke rainbow because he's been sick
for a few years.
He's had some of the rainbow concentrates.
I make a lot of rosin and I turn it into coconut oil so I can give it to him that way.
For all the plants that he had, something about the animal cookies was crazy for him
that he loves.
That one's really special to me, the past few years.
The one that's the most overrated ... There's so many gelato cups floating around.
I went through probably seven or eight that were terrible.
I don't even know why people would have grown them and then mothered them and then kept
them in cone form to pass them out.
They shouldn't have ever even been kept or grown.
Those ones are pretty brutal.
Some of the gelatos are just pretty brutal.
The one I found at least looks like OGKB.
It doesn't have the gelato nose that everyone talks about, but I would say that would probably
be the one that's not the best.
What was the name of the first strain you said, the raspberry and blueberry one?
Oh, Acai.
Okay.
No.
We did get the name.
I just was like, what the fuck was that?
What is he speaking?
Yeah.
I thought the audio cut out.
He said something, but all I heard was A and E or something.
I might be pronouncing this wrong.
It's A-C-A-I.
I realize that it's a berry from, I want to say, South America.
I know they have it drink flavored.
I think they're Acai, something along those lines.
Yeah.
I've heard of that one.
My bad.
There we go.
Ooh, okay.
Yeah.
I think I may have even seen a photo or two or just something along those lines on Instagram
of that one.
It seems like those guys from Compound Genetics or whatever might be playing with that, I
think.
Who knows?
Pinkie Pie is a collab between you and Matt, which I thought kind of flew under the radar
a bit as far as I could tell.
I don't know.
What was interesting was that it's kind of like it's the cookie berry diesel across to
the rainbow.
Obviously, probably going to be really good, but the question for me was, do you plan to
do any more collabs?
Yeah, we do.
I met up with him today.
He's an amazing guy.
I met up with him today and we talked a ton about what we're doing.
We are doing this whole ... This wouldn't be considered what most people would consider
a collab, but we're working this huge bubble gum line thing right now.
We're trying to really, really isolate those terpenes and make sure the seeds taste like
it.
If you get a pack of the bubble gum seeds, you're going to get pink bubble gum knots.
Oh, it tastes sweet.
That's not really a collab per se.
I'm getting his Riot Berry OG and we're doing it with a rainbow.
That one's going to be really rad.
Then he did some work with chocolate.
We're going to do my chocolate rainbow male with his chocolate females, but then he gave
me his chocolate tie male.
We're going to take that to my super chocolate rainbow female.
Those are some of the collabs that we spoke of today.
We have a few other things that ... It was funny when we were talking, he was like, let's
try not to say these out to people yet for reasons that he has.
I'm good with that.
Yeah, okay.
I guess it's interesting.
A lot of our fans, they love the polarizing nature of Matt.
How did you first meet him?
How did you kind of ... I think you even said it to me in person.
How did you attribute a bit of the success of Rainbow in terms of Matt helping you to
kind of ... How should we say it?
Promote it to the public a bit more because there's a lot of stuff which goes under the
radar because the public just don't know about it.
How did you meet Matt and how did that all come about?
It's actually funny.
I have a friend over in San Luis and he had Matt's 26 cookies.
It's a 28 or 26.
I forget this every damn time.
But anyways, he had this cut of Matt's and he was looking to reacquire his cookies cut.
A friend of mine had it.
I had reached out to Matt and told him, hey, my buddy has that cookies that you were looking
for.
He told me he was going to get it to you.
I'm going to be heading down your way if you want to meet up.
He ended up getting it back before that.
We just started to conversate, text message.
Pretty much we started talking every day.
We started talking about genetics.
I would show him this vast array of crazy shit I've made over the years.
He showed me all the shit he'd been making over the years.
He'd be like, hey, how come you don't sell seeds?
You have amazing skill.
You have amazing growing skill.
How come you don't sell seeds?
I don't.
It's never been something I wanted to do.
I made these for myself.
I made these to find things for me.
It wasn't really about money.
I'll explain this in a second.
It was never about money for Matt.
People would want to see these.
People would love to see this.
People want to see your work.
He went over two years.
You can ask him.
He asked me for over two years to sell seeds.
I finally agreed with the rainbow.
The rainbow was so special.
I was like, dude.
I just remember telling him one day, I was like, man, I really think that maybe we should
put it out there.
People are getting to smoke it.
This is like 1990s on big, big, big things.
This reminds me of something.
This is so nostalgic for me.
They couldn't put their finger on it.
That was what I was hearing.
I talked to him.
He talked me into it.
He was all like, let me put these.
Let me sell these seeds for you.
Let me help you with this.
I was like, okay.
He was like, I don't want any money.
He didn't want a dollar.
He didn't take a dollar.
Nothing.
He was all, I'll put them on my website.
We'll put them up.
I'm going to talk about it because I gave him.
They helped him so much.
They helped his significant others so much with their anxieties and their feelings that
they were having.
She will have some medical issues.
They helped her with those things.
That's what I saw.
I made this for myself because of my own health issues.
That's really how our friendship started.
It was over talking about genetics and a cookies clone that he was trying to reacquire.
That's truly it.
That's an awesome story.
Something you just touched on which I'd love to delve more into is the aspect of medicinal
value within breeding.
Is this something which to you is just like, it's cool if it's there, but it's not a specific
goal or are you always medically minded in that regard?
As far as a breeder, I'm always going to breed for myself first in my real passion projects.
They really are pushing the medical parts.
I remember being on, I didn't go to forums.
Matt was always trying to get me to go on forums.
I'm always out in the field.
I don't really have time for the forums.
I'm always growing.
I'm always growing.
I'd go on there a few times and I would explain to people about how this strain helped with
this or I couldn't live without this strain.
People would think it was some sort of joke.
They're all, oh yeah, was it miracle weed?
I was like, oh, you called it weed.
You probably don't really love the plant like I do.
I would push that medical benefit as far as I possibly can.
It goes back to the chocolate cherry making me feel like I was on the mushrooms.
I didn't like that feeling, but I could feel the other parts of it and how important they
would be to help relax my body and help calm me.
I get a lot of pain sometimes and I need things that are extremely strong.
I don't like to be extremely high.
I have to find that area, that gray area where my head is okay, but my body's completely
blown out where it's just like relax beyond all belief.
The medical part is priority A1 for me, but I love breeding.
I love making crosses with genetics for other people as well.
If there's some strains that I really want to work with, whether they have any kind of
benefit or not, I would work with them if I felt like these two plants together would
make magic.
I would still work with things regardless of whether they're medical or not, but I personally
for my own breeding, I want them to have certain aspects.
So recently we saw the Rainbow SSOGs F2s go to auction.
Obviously kind of one of your hallmark strains at this point.
You got to be pretty stoked that it cracked like the 2K mark because the proof's in the
pudding, right?
The proof is there.
How do you feel though about the fact that in some ways it could be the next starfighter?
How would you feel if someone starts a company off that pack type of thing?
It was a battle that I had before I even released the F2.
It was a battle I had on all my crosses.
What if somebody took my work?
What if somebody made this?
What if they made that?
Well, I should be really proud if somebody finds something so special that they could
get that type of a plant out of and make an entire company and thrive with it and make
a living for them and their family.
How special should I feel?
I mean, if something I did affected somebody else that affects their family, that affects
somebody else, that would feel amazing.
I would have zero jealousy, zero anything.
Of course, I hope the person who bought the F2s finds something absolutely stunning.
I hope they do some amazing stuff with it.
There was a purpose why I auctioned that.
I had somebody who needed something.
I auctioned that off.
I did two auctions and I gave them half of everything so they could pay some bills.
I thought in my mind, those two crosses that I auctioned were the ones that would bring
in the most.
Lord, that thing brought like $2,000.
I was tickled.
I was blown away.
I couldn't believe it.
It was really, really, really awesome.
I was proud.
For sure.
For sure.
For sure.
I mean, testament to the quality of the work, right?
Yeah.
Yeah.
I put a lot of thought into Rainbow and I'm proud to see that people will see it and truly
put their faith behind my work.
So on that vein, what is the next kind of strain you want to incorporate into a breeding
pool that you haven't done?
I guess as an extension of that, what do you think will be the next big thing to take the
scene?
My next work is, I'm doing Rainbow again, but I'm going to go into a little different
direction with it.
I'm going to isolate the chocolate females and the chocolate male and I'm going to push
the chocolate terpenes into seed form in Rainbow F2 chocolate female with the male.
So I'm going to make some F2s of that Rainbow line that's super chocolate.
And then I'm going to do the F3 with the original Rainbow and then some more back crossing.
So that's where I'm headed right now on my little personal project that's building.
I don't know the scene where it's going to go.
I keep thinking that we're going to leave the cookie and that people will stop working
with it and there'll be something else.
But I think how deep that plant got into modern genetics, I don't know if we could
ever truly get away from it.
Everything has that look to it now and everything has either cookie name or dessert name or
something along those lines.
So it'd be like erasing our modern history.
I don't think it's going to happen.
I'm hoping that guys start resetting, start looking at it different and it comes down
to the breeders to start working with some old hazes and trying to find some old skunks.
And not the lice.
Don't say that you're working with a haze or a skunk and have it be some weird indica
looking plant.
Like really, really do your work.
Pop seeds, find that special plant and go from there and work it because it would be
nice to have that old school feel again.
You can put a modern twist on it and everything like that.
I'm hoping, I'm seeing it so much right now.
Guys claiming that they're using a 1960s skunk or all these hazes, Columbian blacks and things
along that line.
It's hard for me to believe because I haven't seen those strains in a very, very long time.
I've never seen a skunk from the 60s.
But I'm hoping that there are some of those treasure troves to still be opened and people
can still come out.
I've been meeting some people lately.
I've been helping a lot of older people.
Friday night before I took my wife out to dinner, I stopped at a Vietnam vet's house
and gave him some medicine so he could get through the night.
He hit me up and said he didn't have anything and he was clueless.
It's a family friend.
So I drove him over a bunch of stuff.
He has seeds from when he went to Vietnam.
He's offered me these seeds.
I have no clue what they are.
But to have that offer there, there is other seeds out there.
I've been trying to pop some of my father's old Michoacan that I found in an envelope
from when he was in prison with his little prisoner ID and his return address and everything.
These seeds were in there.
I found them in my garage.
I guess they followed us through three moves.
I've tried to pop them.
There was 27, 28.
I have failed miserably over and over.
So the last six I've kept and I'm hoping that one day somebody can extract some DNA out
of it or something so I can see these plants.
So that's where I hope our industry goes.
Okay.
And so would you ever consider doing what might be considered kind of like a consumer
demand strain?
Like for example, if there was enough demand for you to do like Gorilla Glue Rainbow Hybrid,
would you do it to meet that demand or is it very much like you have to want the cross
to happen on a personal note?
You know, I will meet the demand.
I truly will.
I did a lot of those in the last crosses.
Like I was saying, so many people wanted gelato.
I truly didn't want to work with the gelato.
I'm happy I did.
It came out pure chocolate and coffee.
I actually did a Gorilla Glue cross with Rainbow, but I did it for a local friend and I gifted
him a lot of those seeds.
I didn't release those seeds though.
I actually have a ton of them that I didn't release to other people locally or friends
from here and there asked for.
I made the crosses for them specifically and gifted them some.
So I'm open to make anything as long as I don't hate the plant or something.
Hate's too strong of a word.
I apologize.
I shouldn't use that.
As long as I don't dislike the plant or as long as the plant doesn't have some sort of
reputation or as long as a plant doesn't have like, don't share this plant with anybody
and don't do this with the plant and those kinds of plants I try to steer clear from
because I don't want to rub anybody wrong by working with something that I shouldn't
have worked with or things along that nature.
But I am willing to work with anything I see that I find has potential or specialness or
a uniqueness.
Yeah, for sure.
So what do you think the next source of uniqueness will come from?
And the reason why I ask this is because increasingly I see this kind of trend where some of the
old school genetics that are widely regarded as really unique, you know, the Columbians,
the Thais, things like that are being incorporated into the modern genetics.
And the perfect example is both the Rainbow SS, which has obviously got some Thai or even
if you look at another trending strain at the moment, Mac by Capulet, which has the
Landrace Columbian in it.
Both of these strains were, I mean, just as a side note that I tried both of those at
the Emerald Cup and those were the two I actually enjoyed the most.
And I kind of thought this could be kind of jazzing up what's regarded as the stale polyhybrid.
Do you think that is like a reasonable formula going ahead in the future, like incorporating
some of this old school stuff into the modern stuff and trying to, yeah, just spice everything
up?
I believe Capuleter had corrected himself and said the Mac doesn't have Columbian in
it.
It's an alien orange cookie cross.
But what I was alluding to what I was saying earlier, I think we're going to start seeing
in this more.
We're going to start seeing this come out more where guys are finding the older strains
and putting them with the newer strains and kind of resetting the plant.
You still get some of the before it was watering down effects, but some of the look of the
new stuff.
But maybe it improves the yield because some of these cookies that have rabbit turd buds
and you're getting a pound of light or something, people just don't want to do that.
People, the electricity costs are skyrocketing and production costs are skyrocketing.
So you do need to get some yield.
Looking back at older strains, they yielded really well.
They were big, they were aggressive, they weren't susceptible to PM and the bugs didn't
destroy them like they do now and things along that nature.
But no, where Mac, I could be speaking wrong on Mac, but like it was said that it had Columbian
in it.
Rainbow has tie in it.
And you're seeing a few other things that are people, the good breeders or the breeders,
I shouldn't even say good breeders, breeders are saying like, oh, I'm working with this
older IBO or I'm working with this land race type or I'm working with these genetics that
are from Thailand or from South America.
I would love to see a breeder pull the Michoacan back out and to work with that or pull the
old golden strains out and work with that.
They were absolutely flawless and that's why it was important for me to try to get these
Michoacans to come to life, to rejuvenate.
But they went through so much, it's going to be hard.
Some of them look like fossilized, like they're actually glass on the inside.
So it's going to be rough.
But I do, I truly think that that's where we're going to be headed because if you don't
go and pull some of the old stuff back into it, everything's going to become like our
table apples that have no flavor and they're just shiny.
Flavorless or flavorless fruit.
Yeah, OK.
That's cool to know about the Mac thing.
I mean, I wonder if he's going to change the name to Mok.
No, just kidding. But a question our listeners love for me to ask is when you are popping
these old school seeds, what are some of your tips to help getting them to work?
So I don't go straight to the chemicals.
I'll try to do a scuffing first.
These new seed crackers are freaking awesome.
They have a little screw on them and it slowly tightens down on the seed till it just
soars. It starts to open the shell.
I also like to put them in high humidity if they've been dry so that way hopefully they
can pull in some more of the moisture.
I personally put them through a cold cycle.
I'll either put them in the fridge or the freezer until they fully dorm.
I'll bring them out and then act like spring is here.
I try to fool them as best as I can.
In worst case scenario, I'll use the GA3 and deal with the stretch and the craziness to
just try to get it to come back to life.
I've actually only ever used the GA3 once in an attempt to get some old Tom Hill stock to
pop. Unfortunately, it didn't really work out for me, but I went into it knowing what you
referenced that the plants would be hard to manage at first.
When you have done that, what was the experience like growing those plants out?
Were they crazy stretchy and you just had to take a clone of a clone and then it kind of
settled down or was it much less pronounced than that?
Everyone that I've actually used it on has been pretty wild.
They would fly right out of the gate.
They would stretch really, really, really fast.
So one way I would do that is I made these PVC tube and I would fill it up with about
halfway with dirt and then I would drop the seedling in there and I would put an LED right
above the tube. And as the seed chased the light and elongated and got long, I would
bury it in dirt up the stem because that's what I wanted to do was grow in the very
elongated stem. So I would just bury it in dirt as it went up and it would eventually
slow down to the point where I could top it, branch it, take some clones, root them.
And usually the clones were already OK.
Once they got roots and you slow them down, the first generational clone off of that
spaz attack plant was OK.
Yeah, OK, cool, that's good to know.
So final question on the old seeds.
With all of this being said, what's the oldest one you've been able to pop?
Oh, man.
Recently, I popped some Sensi Star from 95.
That was a pretty good feat.
They were pretty white and pretty beat up.
I popped some of my dad's stuff at other times that I'm assuming were from the 80s,
maybe early 90s, all commercial stuff.
And other than that, I've felled on some of the really old stuff a lot and it's driving
me nuts. So I'm thinking of other ways.
I'm hoping that we can get some of these seeds to be.
I don't know how they'll do it, but I'm hearing of DNA and pulling out sales from
plant and basically doing that, what they're doing, those lab clones now, but with the
DNA from the seed.
Yeah, that's interesting, that stuff, I haven't looked into it too much myself, but I
think it's probably cost prohibitive.
Yeah, these things are super important.
So I've been looking into it because I really, really, really would like to see what
it's special to me.
Yeah, for sure. So when you are popping some seeds, how many do you like to pop at a
time? When you're doing a pheno hunt or just maybe even say testing a strain, what do you
feel is a good number to do?
So if I'm pheno hunting to check for stability, I like to do as many as possible.
I think I did 200 ish last summer and then followed that with my fall greenhouse.
I did another hundred and then the next spring I did another 50 to 100 and then I grew
plenty on the inside of the house as well.
So stability, you have to see a lot.
You have to see a lot, especially if you make a huge set of plants with 10 or 15
different mums. Now, when I'm looking for a male, I like to do less where I'll do 10 to
15, maybe even 20 seeds.
I'll take my females, I'll flower them, of course I take clones off of them.
And then I look at the males and if I don't see anything I like, I'll pop more.
If I see one that I like, I'll keep them to the side and I'll pop another set of the 10,
15 or 20 and I'll find another male from those if I like them.
And he goes and I usually do it one more time and then I'll narrow it down to those three
males and I'll put them through their entire pace and see which one I like as it goes.
Yeah, awesome.
At a time, I don't like to see a ton because by the time I looked at them all, I'm getting
irritated or I feel that maybe I'm looking too fast or I'm grinding through it.
So I want to see a small scale, pick the best, small scale, pick the best, small scale,
pick the best and then isolate those three that I'm looking for to find that single plant.
Yeah, okay.
So in regards to the male selection, you just went over a fair bit of it.
What are some of the things you like to do to help you select males?
This is a big one we get asked a lot, but I think to be honest, we've had enough guests
talk about just generic like stem rubs and stuff.
So maybe let's make it a little more interesting.
Do you like to put your males through the ringer, give them a good stress test?
And if so, what do you do?
Yeah, the first thing I will use is a male that flowers.
And I have males that are over 10 years old and that constantly, I keep almost every male
I've ever used.
So that's one of my keys is to keep my males.
He can't flower under 24 hours of light.
He has to be just like my girls where he can stay in there.
And then eventually I take a clone off of him and he gets mulched and the clone becomes
the new dad for in case I ever want to work with him again.
I like to look for structure of the plant.
I know everyone says that.
So I like to look at the leaf.
If I'm looking for a certain phenol that has a narrow leaf, I'll look for that in the male.
I'll look for my narrow leaves or things along that.
And then I always flower them out.
Even if I'm not going to utilize his pollen, I'll flower out my males just so I can see
what his male flowers look like, how long it takes him to drop pollen.
When does he stop dropping pollen?
When does his male flowers die?
The whole, the whole from start to finish his whole life.
And I'll go from there.
I've actually flowered out that I didn't end up using because I didn't like how long it
took them to flower and then not drop enough pollen.
I've had males that had huge flowers and dropped so little pollen.
And I didn't use it.
Did it really matter?
I don't know because I didn't use them, but it was something I didn't like seeing.
A male plant with thousands of freaking little flowers and no pollen was coming out.
Why? You know, what's wrong with him?
So those are all things I look for.
Yeah, that's a good answer.
Out of curiosity, what do you think it correlates to in a male?
If you've got a male that takes quite a while to drop pollen, do you know what that correlates
to in regards to like, you know, that's like a bad sign because it means the offspring will
show blah traits?
Or do you think it's just like it's just one of those things in general where you're like,
look, I don't know, but just you don't want that.
It's not good. I can tell.
I actually think it would just show that it would be a slower flowering plant.
Yeah. So like it would take longer to get going in the flower and probably longer to finish
and flower. To keep my plants in that, unless I'm working my sativa lines, if I'm working my
hybrids, I like to keep them in the 60 to 70 day frame.
A lot of people don't want to work a hybrid, you know, three months and things like that.
So but that's one thing I do notice that I like a plant to come out of the gate, show me
what she's going to do, not be finicky throughout and all those kind of things.
So if I notice that the the mom isn't finicky at the beginning of her flower, she goes
through her stage fast. She gets to her her flowering stage quickly and she goes from
start to finish without a lot of issues.
I can kind of see it from the male.
I feed my males the same as well.
When they're going through flower, I feed them my flowering routine.
And if he doesn't like it and he he is doesn't like the food and he shows burnt tips or if
he takes a lot longer to progress or things like that, it's just it's not a perfect plant
for in my eyes.
It's not something that I think would pass on well, whether I'm right or wrong in that.
It's really, really difficult for me to say because how do I know what those traits pass
along as?
But in my my brain, it tells me, OK, he's slow to start dropping pollen or he's really
fast to start dropping pollen.
I like a perfect plant.
So I kind of like it to start dropping this pollen, you know, through the whole cycle.
He starts building his flowers and his flowers grow and the plant stretches out and it
opens up and then pollen starts to come out all around the same time.
So along that same kind of school of thought, what do you think about the distinction?
Because this is one I wanted to ask.
What do you think about the distinction?
Because you reference the you don't want the male to flower under 24 hour lights.
Totally agree.
What about, though, if it gets extremely root bound?
Because I've noticed sometimes males will flower because they're root bound.
Others, they'll just do it under 24 hour light regardless.
And I thought, do you want to actually do you want to make the distinction or not?
Because maybe what I'm kind of getting at is maybe a plant that flowers because it's
root bound is not as detrimental as, say, one that flowers because it's under 24-7.
Would you agree with that?
Or do you think like, no, no matter what the reasoning is, if it's flowering under 24-7
in a mother room, like I'm not really interested.
No, no.
I, uh, if I didn't do my job and I let him get root bound or cause that stress and he
started flowering, that's on me.
Um, it's like I can look past it and if I can get him, um, his normal routine is to
be in my bucket or his bag and he grows under there perfectly and things along that
nature and doesn't flower and goes along.
But then this one certain time he got root bound and flowers and drop pollen.
I can kind of overlook that.
Um, I will say this though, the rainbow male, he's almost died like four times.
This, I have clones of it.
So, um, I'm just saying this.
So I have healthy clones at all times of them, but I've let him completely dry out
but I've let him completely dry out to where he was weeping, uh, dead and I'd give
him water and he still didn't flower.
I love that boy because he, he flowers under 12-12.
Uh, so there is boy plants that won't flower under stress.
There's boy plants that will flower under stress, but not in normal conditions.
And then there's boy plants that just like dropping pollen no matter what.
But if you stress a plant enough, you can cause adverse reactions and you got to kind
of look past it in certain situations if you really like that male.
So how many times have you ever done a project, made the pollination, growing out the
seeds? You know, obviously the male was good in your mind.
That's why you selected it. And then it just turned out to be a dud for whatever reason.
Is that rather uncommon?
Like do you think with proper selection you can avoid that or is it's inevitable from
time to time?
Um, I haven't really picked too many bad males per se.
Uh, now I've made crosses that sucked.
I've made several that just were all man, what was I doing putting that thing in there?
Um, so I've had crosses that were duds, but I've never, I know I can honestly say I've
never picked a male that just across the board sucked.
I usually only try to work with what I feel is the best of the best genetics wise and
plant wise with research and growing out and checking on lots of different phenols and
stuff.
Um, and I'm, I'm pretty lucky in that aspect where I haven't put down a dud.
I did do a some, and um, I went and call them duds cause we grew the hell out of it
outside, but I didn't get a single skunky nose on one plant.
Everything was super piney and super dank, but nothing got a skunk nose.
And I was really depressed later on.
I did a project and got the skunk nose to come out, but I felt like a failure for not
getting the skunk in my first cross.
Sorry.
What was that cross?
I think we lost the audio for a second there.
Oh, it was a, yeah, it was just a older, an older skunk to, um, uh, skunk number one
clone that I was gifted.
I had some skunk, supposedly skunk seeds and I went through them and I found that
roadkill smell was prevalent in these seeds.
I picked a male and in bed, she smelled super skunk and my female was pure skunk and I
put them together and those first seeds did not smell like skunk.
I did it again with a different male and I got a lot of skunk.
So my male just, he tricked me.
He didn't throw down the skunk smells that I had planned.
That's interesting.
I, we've spoken to a few breeders about this kind of quest for the roadkill skunk.
A lot of people are kind of renewing it now.
Do you think it's possible for it to come back?
And more importantly, do you think that when people talk about the roadkill skunk,
they're referring to the same strain or do you think the roadkill skunk is a bunch of
different strains?
Oh man, I truly think that it's a bunch of different strains.
I think that there's a true.
Okay.
So I think when we're younger, our senses are a lot more open and I think that we get
confused.
Um, now we're more, our palates are more refined with our cannabis smells.
We've been smoking it and selling cannabis forever.
But when we're younger, a lot of things just smell bad.
Like, Oh my God, that's stinky.
And it smells like a skunk.
Uh, but there are truly strains that smell like actual skunk, like a skunk spray.
And I, myself, when I go fishing and I'm out, like we're, I'm pretty close.
I'm in the country area.
So I still skunks all the time.
Like they're always out there, they're dropping their spray.
I mean, my dad had a pet skunk, it sprayed him in the face.
A long story.
I won't even get into that.
But anyways, I have a roadkill.
I, it was not really called roadkill.
It's called skunk.
Um, but it smells like a dead skunk.
So it smells along those lines of roadkill skunk.
It was called skunk though.
Excuse me.
It wasn't called roadkill skunk.
And I, I think though, like what you were alluding to is the fact that there could
be numerous offspring of the same genetic pool of plants that smell like a skunk.
And so a lot of people have a memory of roadkill skunk.
I hope more people work with it.
It was an amazing smell.
It's still an amazing smell.
I'll work with it again.
Eventually I have a bunch of crosses I made years ago with it.
And, um, I've been given them away freely for 12, 13 years.
I've sent off hundreds of packs of them and no one ever grew them.
I don't know what they did with them.
They might've just let them die and not know what they actually had.
Hopefully not.
Yeah.
Hopefully not.
But when people get stuff for free, they just don't cherish it.
They think it's free.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's, it's such a, such a relevant point.
Cause it, it, I mean, it's, it's a pretty well known phenomenon.
Like it's, it's even in documented, but yeah, you know, people, people don't
value what they don't have to struggle for.
It's true.
If you don't have to pay money for something, you're like, Oh, I can, that was free.
It's not good.
Um, I've given him packs of seeds.
Those, uh, uh, blueberry triangle I was making years ago and I was sending
a hundred packs or so to seed vault and letting them give them away.
People were finding some of the best looking cannabis I seen.
Insane.
And they would send me these messages going, Oh my God, can I get more of these?
Where do you sell your seeds?
That was all.
I don't really sell my seeds, but I can send you a few more packs.
But those things, it was like blueberry buttery muffins with the look of massive
buds, and then you'd get these blueberry triangle looking ones, but the blueberry
smell just ruled it that blueberry muffin smell just carried through on everything.
That's killer.
So last little thing on the road, kill skunk.
Some of the, uh, the common sentiment we heard expressed essentially is that maybe
that road, kill skunk is just, uh, uh, it derives from land race, Afghani, you know,
like a particularly accurate kind of smell.
Do you think that is the case?
And is it not kind of interesting that it's called road, kill skunk and it's
like not a skunk at all?
It's like possibly just Afghani.
Well, yeah, it goes back to, um, the days when guys weren't really
naming stuff, you know, and finally that one just smelled so much like dead skunks
they've just, or a skunk spraying, they just called it skunk.
Um, I know when skunk was coming around, California was getting a lot of the
Afghani type influx of, uh, strain.
So it definitely would in my mind would lean that way as well.
Yeah.
Okay.
So what's your, what's your opinions on the chem dog?
You ever want to breed with it or you think it just doesn't gel with rainbow?
I chased a good chem cut for a very long time because I just heard how amazing it
was and how great it was and, and all these things.
Um, I personally got some cuts of it.
I ran them.
Um, it wasn't the cuts I got, whether they were legit or not, weren't for me.
Would I be open to seeing another version of Kim?
Maybe one that was truly sure.
100% Kim or Kim one or Kim sis or Kim for whatever.
Of course I will.
Any, I mean, why wouldn't I, you know, you would be ignorant not to at least
see this plant for sure, but the ones I have grown that were considered and
called Kim 91, the one I ran that was called Kim sis, they just weren't for me.
Was it like, what did you think of it?
Like, just wasn't like, like it wasn't potent or it just wasn't like
the type of high you enjoyed?
Yeah.
It wasn't the type of the, the structure of the plant, the way it grew wasn't,
wasn't what I was looking for.
Uh, it wasn't my real, I didn't mind the, the, the high and the one I had,
I actually enjoyed the flavor.
It had like this accurate, uh, to it.
Um, but the, uh, it just wasn't my kind of a plant.
And then the offspring I've seen come from a lot of the Kim dog has a high
tendency to grow issues after breeding.
And, um, it's something with my tie genetics that I have to take into
serious consideration because tie isn't love, doesn't love indoor growing.
Like, so it takes a soft hand and a lot of us like to push nutrients and my
plants don't need a lot of food a lot of the time.
So I would think if I crossed rainbow with Kim dog, I would have a
and people had a heavy hit.
Next thing I know, people would be saying I bred Hermes and all these things.
And it's just something I have to be very aware of, but I chased a good
Kim dog for years and, um, I don't know, maybe I just haven't got a good one yet.
Yeah.
It's hard.
It can be hard to say.
I mean, there's, it's, I think it's probably one of maybe that or sour
diesel, there's gotta be like one of the most like, Oh, as you said, gelato,
you know, those guys have all just got so many fake ones.
It can be hard to tell at times.
Right.
Exactly.
Like I didn't like sour diesel until I finally had somebody say, dude, this is a
real diesel cut, try a flower of this.
And it was, it was, it was really good.
Like I was all damn that's strong cannabis.
So, um, and, and I'm sad, uh, because I was going to meet up with, I didn't
realize that the Emerald cup of rent at the time, but I believe it's P but
I, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yep.
I was, and he had some Kim dog and we talked about it a month or so ago and
he was, uh, you could have came by the booth and tried real Kim and you could
have guaranteed it would have been real Kim.
So that makes me sad because I could have tried for sure, for sure.
Real Kim and made my opinion on it at that point, because I need to smoke it
and I see his gross and I see his flowers and they, I want to try them.
Yeah.
So we'll just leave it at that for now, because I can't talk about it.
Cause I don't know if I have ever got to grow a real freaking Kim dog.
Yeah.
And I understand.
I mean, yeah.
P bud or skunk guy would definitely be the guys to see to get some
really nice verifiable stuff.
Exactly.
And that's what I wanted to do.
So you kind of touched on it with the mentioning the tie and the
tendencies it can sometimes have to Herm.
Do you find that there are any types of genetics which makes your tie more prone
to Hermy or is it more so as you refer to the way in which people treat it?
Um, the number one will be people treating it.
They don't want a lot of food.
They don't, even though you kind of low lose the rain, the tie look out.
And when I get to the rainbow part, it's still so prevalent in there.
Just light handed.
There's, I mean, I feed quarter strength of these base nutrients.
Um, and that's, that's pretty much it.
I don't really do bloom boosters.
I, I use a few, um, blood swells and a lot of, uh, MicrobeLife organic plants.
MicrobeLife organic products and things like that little biobased.
Um, so it's pretty much all natural ingredients.
And, um, I still feed, you know, quarter and a half strength is my capper.
And, um, I, I don't get it to her, but I haven't actually had any of them.
Um, uh, somebody sent me a picture.
This is completely honest.
They have one of the crosses and they had some bad flowers and balls on it.
And he showed me a picture of the bud and they were absolutely
devastated with toxicity.
The leaves are dead.
There was no trichomes and the flower looks super dry and everything like that.
And I'm all, I just have to make sure people realize, you know, take
it easy hand with these.
You're going to get a beautiful flower, no matter what you do, as
long as you don't overdo it.
So, um, but tie indoors, it takes a little while to get her accustomed to it.
And if you're growing from a seed, you're going to, you know, even if you get some
bananas on one grow or a few, uh, balls on the grow, if the plant's amazing, you
don't really have to just instantly kill it.
Try again one more time because you can grow it out of it in certain situation.
And then you'll know, was it stress or was it because it was a
seedling or what it was, did I do something wrong?
Um, so give it another shot.
Just keep your eyes on them.
But I haven't seen in saying that I haven't seen, uh, unsolicited
hermaphrodism and, um, the seeds other than the ones I've seen when the
plants are just absolutely beat to shit or burnt up and things like that.
Which I still don't like.
I still didn't like to see that, that, that plant threw out balls on, uh, a
seedling with flowers, um, at all, but with how much it looked like it was being
fed and I don't know, some of these guys are using some pretty crazy acids and
it'll drop the pH so much and fluctuate that stuff in a, any plant has a potential
to drop out and under those circumstances.
Yeah.
Without a doubt.
So one thing I did, uh, you know, immediately pick up on was the quality of your
weed, you know, some of the best I've ever had without it being soil grown.
What's your style of growing exactly?
You kind of touched on it a second ago, but you know, like, let's, how do you do
it exactly?
You fill us in on the details.
Okay.
Um, I use the cheapest, uh, medium I can get, whether it's Coca-Cola or
basement mix or whatever, Oh, Tupper, not basement mix, Tupper, whatever cocoa
mix I can get, I use truly whatever I can get for about 10 bucks and then I reuse
it a few times.
Um, I'm a calcium amino junkie.
Those are two things that I use a lot of.
Um, I, I really, really like tricantinol.
So I do a lot of, uh, um, work with, uh, uh, alfalfa and, um, beeswax.
I go, I got a lady out here in the orange groves who sells me her wax, the, the
comb with a little bit of honey in it, and I'll boil it down to make sure I get
the tricantinol out.
Things like that.
Um, the reason I can only use that at certain times though, because it can,
it's an antimicrobial, so it can kill some of the microbes.
So you don't use that in the teas and things.
Um, but it's a huge source of tricantinol.
Um, I love my micro life products.
Uh, they're really well made.
The company is so easy to stand with and behind.
And so I like that.
And then, um, my guy, uh, Adrian from bio biz, he, uh, hooks me up with, uh, a
lot of, uh, bio biz products.
His, uh, sisters have his sister and mom has some of the same ailments as I do.
So I share medicine with them and he in returns, you know, shares the bio biz
with me and, um, it's a pretty amazing product.
Um, but you know, I keep things pretty simple.
Uh, rainbow grows itself.
It, it truly does.
So it's so special about her and I can't, I don't really tell myself or to my
on horn.
I know I'm a good grower.
Um, everything I grow, whether it's whatever I'm growing, it turns out good.
Um, so, but I kinda just let the plants tell me what they want, what they need.
And I've done it for so freaking long.
I just, I don't measure anymore.
I don't own a pH meter.
I don't own a TDS or EC.
I don't own anything.
Um, I still grow people were like, well, you can't do that in large facilities.
I'm all okay.
Well, I do it in 20 lighters.
I've done it in a 50 lighter.
Is that how, how big is a large facility to you?
You know, I just have to do it on a larger scale.
I just pour more into my, my reservoirs.
Um, but I am the worst person ever to try to mimic his gross because I don't do the
same things over and over that I know of.
I used to take monotonous notes where I would had binders and I'd keep track of
what I did, this grow and change this and change that.
And eventually I just got these products that I really like.
And I do the same thing, you know, with these products.
And sometimes I'll use more, uh, calcium if it's a new batch of cocoa that I'm
using, I'll really use a ton of calcium at the beginning to help saturate it.
Um, uh, amino is a really a big part of that because they're the building blocks
that I cherish and I'm obsessed with carbohydrates and things like that.
But I don't really push anything.
I don't use salts.
I don't go for weight.
I think that's another thing that helps me is I don't really push like, Oh, I
need to maximize my yield.
I need the best yield.
I need the best yield.
Um, if I get a really good harvest, a bumper crop, I'm super excited.
But if I got a great crop with a lower quality, I would be mad.
Um, the rainbow that you got from me, I thought I did terrible that grow, um,
had an electrical issue.
I wish you were here now to see this batch of rainbow.
Cause it's one of the best batches.
I've a flower I've ever produced out of any of my spots.
Wow.
That'd be something to be seen.
So I guess with all that being said, what would be maybe one or two tips you'd have
for our listeners, whether it be, you know, common mistakes you see, or just
things you've kind of picked up on.
Um, don't over water, don't over water, especially early.
Um, there's a lot of people who say you got to water, take cocoa, like hydro.
You treat cocoa like soil, you get soil results.
So people start hitting that cocoa right when it transfers.
The first few weeks on the plant and cocoa, let it dry out.
Let those roots chase and fill up your buckets or whatever you're growing in.
Then you can turn on the, turn on the gates and start to give it food.
Um, in saying that, if you're going to water cocoa every day, uh, and you're
using nutrients every day, use half strength because you're feeding every day.
Now you don't need to push it to the limit.
Um, always if you're using salts out of product, like drip clean or something
to keep it clean and keep your salts and mobile, um, don't overthink it.
Don't overdo it.
Don't think that you can need 50 bottles to finish this plant, pick a company's
line and something simple for you and write it out.
There's a reason why they have everything for you and all that.
They spent a lot of money making those lines and try to use just the
base nutrients on the growth.
It's one of your first growth.
Um, just get your a and B or your a, B and C dependent on the company.
And just that just ride those out, see your quality.
And then if you want to add another product, um, and don't short change
your plan on, you know, your calcium and, and aminos, those are two very,
very key things.
If you're not using those products, add it to it.
You'll be impressed with what you get from it.
Yeah, definitely.
So feel free to decline dance this one.
If you want, what's your favorite grow product?
Uh, photosynthesis plus photo C in California from a micro black.
Uh, nice.
That's with the photosynthetic bacteria, isn't it?
Yes, it is.
It's, it's super, super awesome.
I have foliar, I foliar my clones.
I soak my fresh cuttings.
I use that stuff.
Like it's going out of style.
It smells.
My daughter named it fart potion years ago.
And cause every time I come home, she'd be like, you were using fart
potion daddy, and I'm like, yeah, lots of fart potion, baby.
And, uh, that one is, uh, it's a special, special product.
And, um, honeycomb and from the Gallup, I'm so well, the orange
girls are with the bees.
That product is super, super phenomenal.
Um, there's a few other products though, that I really like.
Um, uh, there, uh, micro life has an amino product that I don't
think I could grow without.
Um, there's, uh, Oh gosh, there's a new, not a new company.
It's a new product to me.
It's a element.
It's all from roots organic.
I'm just discovering this product to powder calcium.
It's like 30 something percent calcium and it's changed how I have to
force calcium onto brand new cocoa.
I sprinkle that on the top and the first water, it just saturates
all my cocoa with calcium.
Um, and Bud's well, I really, really, really love Bud's well.
Nice.
That's a, that's a pretty comprehensive list for everyone.
There you go.
So next question I want to ask you could be pretty standard and we've already
touched on it, but do you have any kind of, uh, modifications to what would be
considered the standard light schedules, whether it be for veg or flower?
Um, I go full spectrum.
So I go metal highlight, HPS, metal highlight, HPS, and all my rooms.
Um, on my DEs.
Um, so that's how I flower my plants.
Uh, I used to switch out to 10 K bulbs at the ends, but it became more of a chore.
Then what I was seeing benefits, um, and then the mom room, I'm pretty standard.
I go 20 on four off.
Um, so they, I still like my dark cycles, um, on the plant
to at least have some dark.
I don't really run 24 seven.
Um, so it's pretty basic except for my, my flower rooms.
I like a more of a full spectrum light.
I don't just like to pound the HPS.
I like to mix the metal highlights in there.
Yeah.
Awesome.
And do you play, uh, pay any attention to things like vapor pressure
deficit or anything like that?
Or do you just have a pretty standard temperature and humidity
you like to try to maintain?
Uh, first few weeks I run really, really high humidity, um, 80 ish percent.
Um, and my temperatures are around in the eighties as well.
And then after about week, when I hit about week three, I start lowering
my temperatures and my humidity.
And then by the end, I like to see my room get about no higher than 77.
And I like my night temps to be in the sixties and, uh, my
humidity levels to drop immensely.
Yep.
So what's your recommendations for curing humidity and temperature wise?
Um, I usually dry and I usually dry everything together, chop them off.
At long branches.
I still hang dry, everything like that.
I usually keep it about 73 degrees, 74 degrees.
Um, I, my humidity levels, I try to keep them around that 50 ish percentile.
Um, and it, it dries them kind of fast at the beginning, not fast.
That's wrong, but I make sure with big heavy buds, I don't get in any
sort of bud rot or anything like that.
Keep fans going, but I always face them up into the ceiling just so
it's blowing the air in circles.
And then, um, but after about five to seven days, I usually turn off my
dehumidifiers once that big burst of, uh, humidity is gone, I'll turn off
my dehumidifiers and I'll let them sit for another three to four days.
And, uh, uh, more of a humid room, but the humidity levels are a little higher
and then it kind of slows down the drying process.
And then as soon as they're dry to me, um, off the stems and start
trimming up my product in, um, my, my big key to it is though, is I don't
take them off the stems that they're still moist.
I want them to be dry.
They can still be moist at the stem.
The stem being moist is okay, but my flowers have to be dry.
Um, I don't like to take them off the stem and they're still moisture.
I feel I lose some smell and, uh, overall appeal.
And so when you breed is, is there a specific attribute that you rate above
others?
Like, do you think that, you know, given we referenced earlier, how terpenes
are the big thing at the moment, do you think that if you're going to release
something, like it has to have, you know, good terpenes, be eye catching, or
would you be willing to, you know, put something out that maybe wasn't so in
your face, but if you smoked it, you'd realize where the value was.
Um, I, the number one thing will have to be the medicated part, the high, if you
will, it has to be there.
Like I've bred for myself of just pure flavor and stuff was probably 12%, even
down to 8% with some of my, uh, Kaleo crosses.
They were absolutely like low, low, low THC, but the flavor was amazing.
And, but I found that some of my clients would steer away from it towards my
stronger ones.
So I breed for others for strength first, or I won't say my numbers are insane.
I've never had rainbow tested, so I couldn't tell you where she tests out at,
but her feeling, the way you feel when you smoke her, you know, that you smoked
everything just relaxes.
And that's one thing I look for.
I look for everything to relax, but not be sleepy.
So if that's, if I was to pick something, I know it's a weird thing to pick, but my
entire body to relax.
I want my head to be pushed back where I'm all there it is, but I don't want to be
sleepy because I work a lot.
I have a daughter.
She's very busy.
I'm very involved with her life on every day.
So I can't be sleepy groggy, want to sit on the couch.
So with that being said, are you overall an indica guy or a sativa guy?
I, I'm a definite hybrid.
I don't like being any kind of racy cause I've, I've been, uh, uh, I have a heart
thing, so I've been cardioverted multiple times.
So I don't like my heart to go fast anymore.
Like I can't take it.
But I don't want to be couched lock.
So I'm definitely a hybrid.
I'm a hybrid with a sativa leaning for the beat part, but only to an extent.
I'm very picky.
I am probably the pickiest person I know when it comes to cannabis.
And for me to like pick a side, I want it down the middle.
Like truly like I want this perfect, perfect thing.
Yeah.
Okay.
It's a good, good standards, right?
Yeah, I guess.
I'm or I'm just an ass.
So just jumping back to the breeding for a second, I forgot to ask this one back then.
What's your protocol for male pollination?
Do you kind of like, you know, put the females in a few weeks ahead, then put the
males in and then just let them go and do their thing.
Like, how do you do it?
Okay.
So I put my girls in until flower and I want good flower setting.
I actually like week three ish where I'm already having really good flower sets.
Then I'll introduce the male.
I always put the male into the room.
Um, I always keep a clone that's already rooted in the bedroom so I don't lose my
boy.
The whole male goes into the room.
As soon as he starts dropping pollen, I'll put the fans on them.
All around in there.
I'll give them about two days and then I kill the male bag them and take them out.
I don't want any later pollinations.
I don't want dark seeds and then continue to pollinate as my flowers go or a bunch of
white seeds.
So I tried to do my pollination.
I let him have like two days where he starts really throwing his pollen and it's
not like first bag that opens.
It's when he really starts opening up.
I give him two days.
Then after that, once I feel that there's enough pollen in the air and everybody's got
it, my boy comes out.
Interesting.
And I've heard, uh, I can't remember who said it.
I think it might've actually even been Ken from GDP.
But anyway, regardless, I heard this weird sentiment expressed and I wanted to know if
you'd ever had experienced anything like this.
But basically the idea is if you pollinate different branches with different males, you'd
expect that, you know, you'd get crosses representing the individual fathers.
Someone once said that like a plant won't accept pollen from another male once it's
already accepted pollen from like a first or an initial male.
Do you think that's like any truth to that or it just sounds hocus pocus?
I used to do a ton of limb by limb pollination.
Um, I'm trying to think if I actually use, when I used more than one male on a single
plant, I know I did when I did the chocolate cherry and I did, I wanted the
chocolate cherry, uh, ACDC and I wanted the lavender Tripoli wicked ACDC.
So I hit branches with chocolate cherry and they had branches with lavender SCDC
and they both came out chocolate cherry, ACDC and lavender, uh, Tripoli wicked ACDC.
So I was able to do that.
Yeah.
Okay, cool.
Might sound like a silly question to some people, but I just want to be hearing that
somewhere.
So what was the last strain besides one that you created that really kind of just blew
you away?
Oh my goodness.
Riot just did this, uh, black, I think it was a black pie.
It's a great pie with his, I want to say is Afghani.
Um, oh my God, it is stunning.
It is truly, I'm almost positive it's called black pie and it is stunning.
And then, um, Mads, uh, original Tripoli wicked work was, I was just talking about it
today.
It's truly, truly, truly special.
The original Tripoli wicked.
Um, I think it's Jackie boy by lavender or is it triple E by lavender?
I think it was Jackie boy by lavender.
Um, that one was crazy.
It was the darkest of purples.
It looks so much like lavvy, but it had like this pink lemonade nose to it.
Um, those two were really awesome.
And do-si-do.
I can't knock those.
Do-si-do with that plant I found in those seeds is phenomenal.
It really is.
So give me that black pie by riot and Tripoli wicked by mad and do-si-do by archive and
I'd shit.
I'd be a happy camper.
I grew the two of them for a long time.
That's awesome.
So just as a bit of a side note, you grew the do-si-do from seed.
What was it like to get those?
Cause I remember when they first came out, like they were just so hard to get and they
were so limited offering.
How'd you score a pack?
A friend of mine gave them to me actually to find a keeper.
He bought everything that ever hit the market.
And he just, that's what he did.
I've never seen a seed collection quite like this ever.
He had those 50 gallon totes, just full of every breeder that I know and knew and
didn't know from all over the world.
And, um, it was funny.
I had no idea what do-si-do was.
And, uh, he hits me up and he's like, Hey, I want, I have something.
I think you would like, cause at the time I was, uh, really hunting with the OGKB
and running through my own work with it and putting it through its paces and
hitting it with, uh, the red vine pollen.
And I was like, what do you got?
And he was all, well, it's, uh, somebody's work with OGKB.
Um, do you want to try it?
And I was like, oh yeah, man, I'd love to see it just in case I don't end up liking
what I'm working on, I could work through those.
And, uh, he gave them to me and, uh, I popped, I want to say six of them.
The first day, I think there was, it was an odd number.
It was either 11 or 13 seeds in the pack.
And I popped six, six of them.
And the first six, four were male and two were female.
And those, I killed the males because I, I, I kind of regret it, but I killed the
males because I don't really work with other people's stuff without permission.
Um, then I kept the two females and they weren't, they weren't what I was
looking for and I didn't pop anymore.
And I ended up popping the rest.
And then I found, uh, the Dosey six that I run exclusively now as my Dosey Doka.
And, uh, um, it was, you knew it was great.
In the moment she started to flower, you really did the, just the way she
stacked the way she had her structure.
I like plants that stretch and she stretched out really well.
And, uh, it was just great.
And I watched it and I was all like, God, this is going to be hard.
This is going to be a hard one to ever beat for me, like in the room.
Um, and when I finished there, yeah, it was like, people were saying like,
oh my God, dude, this is some of the best flower I've ever had.
And I was like, yeah, it's really freaking strong.
It's like the same things they said about rainbow.
They were saying about Dosey though, and I was growing the hell out of it.
Um, so yeah, I got them gifted to me.
I shared the cuts back with them.
He absolutely hated it.
So I was done with the Dosey Doka.
What a change of events.
Yeah.
He hated it.
Cause he can't stand plants that stretch.
He's on very, very high height height restrictions.
So he, yeah, he couldn't do it.
I mean, she's four times is four, like quadruples her size after flip.
She's she's crazy.
Yeah.
I've got a, a Dosey do dominant cross, a jelly breath.
And by God, it's, it's a handful.
Yeah.
Yeah.
They'll go wild, wild, but yeah, a lot of people have reached out for it out to me
now for my Dosey Doka after Santa.
And I've shared it with a few people.
Um, one of them, it died or he's moving.
So he doesn't have it anymore.
And right.
It has it.
Uh, so I'm hoping he can do some work with it because so many things have gotten put
on the back burner here, um, with the, all the rainbows and everything like that.
And now what my future plan is with it.
My Dosey is going to just sit there and be for a while.
I got a question for you now relates to a topic you just kind of touched on in
regards to, you said, uh, you didn't really want to breed with stuff.
You didn't have permission.
These types of questions.
I find the devil's in the detail.
So I'm going to give you a specific example, because I think it'll make it easier to
answer.
If someone came up to you and they were like, Hey man, I found a really nice female in
one of your packets.
I'd like to use it in a breeding program.
And I'd be using a male that I created with other stuff.
Would you be cool with me using that?
What do you think about that?
Uh, I would say, well, I would say yes.
They, they bought the seeds it's theirs, use it.
Uh, just, you know, say what it is, be honest about it.
Uh, when I reached out to use my do-si-do female, the first time I was told no to
not use it.
Uh, and then after the F2s came out and everybody was having it and everybody was
working with do-si-do, I was all, man, I gotta be able to work with this.
Paid a lot of money for these seeds.
I put a lot of time and effort into the seed.
I'm going to make some crosses with it.
I mean, I pretty much feel that that plant, I'm the one who helped bring that plant
to where this is not do-si-do as a cross.
My plant, my do-si-do, my girl, like the one that I'm growing, I didn't create her,
but I brought her to life and kept her and I was, I'm going to work with it.
Um, and so if anybody finds something in any of my crosses, do it.
The only thing that would ever affect me or make me sad, we'll say, or anything
like that, like I'd be all damn.
If somebody openly got something from me with, uh, that I did it release and they
made F2s and sold those F2s, that would perturb me a little bit because if I
didn't plan on releasing it and, ah, those kinds of things, what would give
you the thought that you are like, Hey, you're ass off to make this.
I found a boy and a girl in syncy, put them together.
Now I'm releasing F2s of it.
That would see like that to me isn't proper, but teach their own.
Yeah.
It's, it's interesting the way the dynamics of it work, because I think
ultimately what I was kind of intending with that question was in my mind, that's
one of the most reasonable requests anyone can make, you know, it's like, I
bought your seeds, I'm using a female, not a male.
So I don't know.
I think people tend to look a bit more kindly upon that because, you
know, you found it and whatnot.
And then most importantly, they say, and I'm going to use a male that's different.
I made it.
It's not related yet.
You know, so I'm not just cramming two of your strains together, you know,
it's like it's unrelated.
And so, yeah, it's interesting that there are some people out there who, who would
deny that one in my mind, it's like, that is seemingly the most reasonable request
you could make while still showing the respect of asking and doing all that
type of thing, you know?
Exactly.
I've been there.
I've been on both sides of it.
I've asked politely and I've been, and I would never tell anybody, no on a female,
especially like you just said, that they were using, Hey, I'm using a male I
created, I found this extremely special female in your work.
Can I be all like, Oh my God.
Yeah.
I'd probably be the kind of, I'm the kind of guy I'd be all like, yeah, but you got
to send me some seeds is like a joke, you know, I'd be all like, but you know, I
get some of those seeds.
Like I gotta be able to at least see them.
Or if you find a killer cut, let me get it.
Yeah.
And that's what I tell a lot of guys now is all, I have so many guys growing my
stuff.
Now I'm all like, I want to see pictures because if you haven't this many people
grow, my stuff is really rad because they're basically putting on a search
that I can't do by myself.
So I have, you know, a hundred dudes or something growing.
Well, men and women growing out all these said strains, they're growing 10, 30, 50
different seedlings.
I get to see all those seedlings.
I get to see them all and be like, Oh my God, that one's absolutely stunning.
Would you be willing to trade me a cut that you found in my seeds for another
pack of seeds or something else, or two packs or whatever you want, you know, like
I want that one.
And believe it or not, most people offer yes.
When it's my work, like the people who are growing my work.
And when I reached out to him and talked to him about this, they'd be like,
absolutely.
Like they were so happy that they, I asked them and then they would ask me like,
well, do you mind if I do a project with it?
And I'm all absolutely not.
You own those seeds.
And no, but the only time, like I said, I'd ever have an issue is with, there were
some packs that I only released one pack and I did it to some friends or things
along that nature or certain people.
And if some of those people took that single pack of seeds where they got 10
seeds and they took a single boy out of their massive selection of three to five
male, single female on their giant selection of, you know, five females and
they made F2s and then released it.
That would, it's disturbing because of their selection size was 10 seeds first
off.
And then the second one, I never released it.
Why would you release it?
You know, like that, that would be the only holdup I've ever had with it.
And then again, if somebody did it, I'd probably look past it anyways, because
how many projects do I have going?
I would never get to it.
So who knows?
Yeah, it's interesting.
So kind of related to your breeding, will we ever see the release of any fems from
you?
I've actually been getting a ton of requests.
Riot sent me his spray and it's something I'm going to do because I didn't realize
how many of these guys in non-medical states and really, really harsh climates
that can't afford to have boys.
And they've reached out to me and they've asked me, please make female seeds.
Please make female seeds.
And I'm that person.
If somebody asks me for something and I'm capable of doing it, most likely I'm going to
do it for you.
Even if it's not breeding, just in life in general, if I'm capable to help somebody, if
somebody needs help, I am going to help.
Yeah, that's awesome.
And so with that in mind, will you ever consider doing any commercial releases of
some CBD, like some really CBD orientated stuff?
I've made, I was, I was telling you earlier, I've made some CBD.
I'm working with some right now.
I put a little four by four section.
It's not a huge section, but I have a four by four of the chocolate cherry, ACDC and
LaVie.
The other side, the other four by four of this four by eight area is one's chocolate
cherry and one's LaVie Tripoli.
And I'm considering actually making some of those into the, the, the female seeds.
So like if you wanted to pop a CBD seed, you don't have to go through a whole bunch and
look through males and this and that.
It'll be a female seed.
You get it.
You grow one.
It's a girl that's going to have high CBD numbers and amongst other things with it.
But I do, I do want to release CBD because I use so much CBD.
There's another day that goes by in my life that I don't use CBD products, whether it's
from lozenges to gummies to, I have tons of my coconut oil CBD that I usually cook.
I'll buy a cup of CBD flowers from one of my organic friends and I'll make a bunch of
coconut oil with it.
And it's really strong.
And I take a shot of it every morning or.
I'm not the biggest fan of the isolates or distilates because it's just CBD.
I prefer a full plant extract, but there's a few companies that make really good
distilates now.
I had some cream from a company not too long ago and it was some of the best like
face lotion I've ever had.
It was really amazing.
Yeah, cool.
So when you do that shot, do you find you get as good of an effect from that, say, as a
comparative dose, say sublingually, or do you find that ingesting it makes it act a
little different, kind of in the same way to THC is a little different when you say
combust it or inhale it?
Well, I really, really like this, this, what I'm doing with this coconut oil and
drinking it for some reason, it it takes a little longer for it to kick in.
But once it kicks in, it feels that it lasts so much longer.
And I don't like anything with the alcohol tinctures in it.
So the.
I like to just use the coconut oil, and I feel that since it's a fatty oil, that it
does better going through my digestive tract to really absorb everything.
Yeah, for sure.
So kind of relating back to the topic we were talking about earlier in regards to
bringing other people's work, I mean, not really, but kind of in that general area,
how like what would be your general advice to someone who is trying to make the
transition from, say, a grower to a breeder?
Like if you if if you were talking to, say, someone who's a grower and they're saying to
you, I'd like to become a breeder, but I'm not really sure what to do.
What do you think are kind of some of the things you have to do before you can, you
know, really consider taking it on and becoming a breeder, so to speak?
Well, I always tell everybody, breathe for yourself first, always breathe for you,
because worst case, you may make some stuff that you know you're going to enjoy.
That's probably my most important.
If I make something that I absolutely love, then how can I ever be sad about it?
You know, so as long as you're breathing for you.
You're you're golden, and then if other people start to like it and you're able to
put it out there and have people even buy them from you and then grow them, and
that's just all icing on the cake.
But the number one thing should always be breathe for yourself.
Don't go in there thinking you're going to make money off of it or you're going to do
this or that.
I mean, one of them, I would say what to do.
Don't start breathing before you've ever seen a plant.
Don't buy a pack of seeds and think, oh, I'm going to cost this pack of seeds with
that pack of seeds. You've never even seen the plants.
You're going to pretty much set yourself up for failure.
See the plants, grow the plants, find the plants that are special and then go to it.
Then if you find these girls that are.
Wow. That's an amazing girl.
I would love to see her with.
Wow, I found this really, really nice boy over here.
Those two should pair well together.
I'll breed those two together.
But don't go in there thinking I bought pack a from this breeder.
I brought pack B from this breeder and I'm breeding them together because then no
matter what you're breeding them, whether the plants suck or not.
OK, awesome. So interestingly enough, we've seen a
rise in the both the general interest and the concern of breeders involvement with
Phyllis. How do you feel about Phyllis?
Do you feel it's just a tool, you know, engage with it if you want or do you feel
it's maybe I've heard some people kind of say that it could be like the first step to
something a little more sinister in regards to patenting, things like that.
What's your opinion on it all?
I don't like the patent in part because you could have some random guy that patent
something that he had nothing to do with.
So I'll just start there with that.
Just a little saying what I do enjoy about it, though, is that some people pretend that
they're the only people in the world with these clones or these guys who say that
they created this, but they don't have any males or any other females.
They just have this one singular planet.
Well, if it gets tested and compared to other plants, you can kind of know who's made
one. What's what?
People that be a little more honest.
But the problem with it will be is their samples.
Their samples have to be what they truly are.
So in some of these older plants, the Kim's, for instance.
If their sample isn't real, let's say it's one of the ones I've grown and then
somebody has a real Kim and they bring it in there and they don't match.
Well, how do you know which one's the fake one and which one's the real one?
So that'll be the biggest issue.
I, I like the part that you can kind of dissect these plants and say, well, that
person is using this person's genetics because they match up.
Perfectly. So they're just got the female of that and then they're working with it.
So I do like that aspect, I guess it's.
A cool thing, but the rest of it is, I don't know, it's.
The whole thing is, does it really matter?
Like, does it matter who made this or who is claiming that or who did this?
It's an amazing strain.
That's an amazing strain.
If you have it, you have it.
If you don't, you don't.
It is, it is what it is.
I think a lot of it gets down to that whole dick measuring thing, you know, like
that's mine, no, I made that first.
No, I did that first.
So I don't know, man, that one's a tough one.
I'm glad it exists, but I can see the massive amounts of issues it's going to
cause.
Yeah.
Okay.
So quick little sneaky grow question, I'm going to sneak in here.
I didn't ask anything about IPM, you know, what's your protocol like clean and
prevention is best, or do you have any sort of IPM routine you do if you notice
an issue?
I used to use a product called Green Cleaner, religiously, at least every two
weeks or so.
Not because I had bugs, but just because it was a rad product and it cleaned
everything.
One, one time there was blue green cleaner in my body, my bottle, and it's
always green and sprayed it on my plants and lost about, I don't know, 75% of my
entire moms because it was their root cleaner.
It was the root cleaner put in their foliar one.
So after that happens, I pretty much just take great care of my plants.
If I bring a plant in from a unknown source or not, let's not even say an
unknown source, because I would never bring a plant in from an unknown person.
If I bring a plant in from somebody else, it goes through the scope, it goes through
the isolation chamber and it just gets checked.
I usually, I love cinnamon, so I'll use cinnamon oil and spray around the plant.
I won't bring anything in that's already in dirt because those whole root aphid
epidemic is out of control.
So I will only bring in unrooted cuttings that I can root myself in my chamber
and watch the plants and make sure that no bugs pop up and things of that nature.
And I usually keep my humidity levels in that room pretty high just to force out
anything that would possibly be on the plant.
Yeah.
Okay.
So recently, you know, at the Emerald Cup, there was this kind of sentiment,
which thankfully has been cleared up.
There will be an Emerald Cup next year, but the sentiment was around like,
what's the Emerald Cup going to be like next year, you know?
What's your predictions given the legal changes in California recently?
Well, I was seeing that they're going to allow at fairground type things, like at
fairgrounds, they're going to allow these events to take place like they used to.
So you won't need all these huge licenses and stuff like that.
I truly felt that if the only people who are going to be able to sell at these
shows were the big corporations, who would go?
I mean, I don't want to go and give you $90 for a subpar eight.
Um, no C nobody who breeds seeds could be there because the guy, most, a lot of
the, who have been grinding the seed, they're not giant money guys.
They're not doing all these things.
Are they going to be able to have a recreational license to sell
seeds and things like that?
So I think that we're going to see a swing back to the way it was just for
events, just turn a blind eye for events and then continue down this new road on a
daily living, if you will, or, you know, uh, in the, in the rec world, I'm so
anti this rec scene, I've, I've been peeking in on places and checking places
out.
I mean, uh, a friend showed me, he went to Harbor side and bought five eights of
some of the worst outdoor cannabis I've ever seen, but it was all packaged in
glass, ash jars and fanciness.
And he spent over $400 on five eights of brown stuff.
It was, it was unbelievable.
And they wouldn't even let them see the flower or smell the flower or touch it.
But he wanted and how much of it he wanted and they handed him a sealed
container that he paid for it.
Damn crazy.
Yeah.
Great.
That's why this rec it's going to work for some, but it's not going to work for
most.
Yeah, totally.
Right.
So what do you foresee to be the future?
Um, is it a good time to be a medium to small scale grower?
If you can grow really good cannabis, um, you're always going to have a place in
the industry.
Um, because of those reasons, people aren't going to go to the shops and want
to spend that kind of money on the eight middle of the road stuff.
And they're just not going to will, will things change?
I'm sure it will.
But boutique growers will always have a place in the industry because if you can
grow amazing stuff that nobody else has and people want it, they're going to,
they're going to buy it so you can continue to, you know, it's a job.
I mean, it takes a lot of time, effort and money to produce top of the line
cannabis and the, hopefully the prices can continue to support those kinds of
growers.
Yeah.
Okay.
So it's not all doom and gloom.
Like some might make it.
I don't think so.
I, people are still taking all my rainbow off of my, my hands that I need to have
for my medical patients and with, I have to stop moving it because I run out.
So I'm pretty sure we'll be okay.
On that same note though, the kind of the meme sentiment at the last Emerald Cup
was that if all these small scale guys were to die out, all of them were just
going to immediately become breeders as like, you know, a bit of a joke, but there
was a little bit of that sentiment.
A lot of people were switching over and it does in general seem as though the
number of breeders in the market and just in general, it's kind of exponentially
increasing.
How do you think this is going to affect things in the longterm?
You know, do you think it's going to be hard to stand out?
Every name has seeds or genetics in it on Instagram.
I swear guys who have never even made a seed have, you know, so-and-so seeds or
so-and-so genetics.
I think what's going to have to happen is you're going to have to have your own
place.
It's like, like how my brother has purple.
People who want purple seeds will go to see him to get his purple seeds.
Or you're going to have to have something that really stands out.
Like luckily for me, rainbow is a huge, huge, you know, selling point.
People see her and they're like, wow, that is a special cannabis plant.
I would like to try that.
Or I would like to have some of the seeds or some of the flowers.
So those are going to be big things.
I don't know how well people will do when they're just working with this breeder
and this breeder and putting them together and trying to, you know, sell seeds.
I don't know how well those, those kinds of places will survive with the amount of
breeders flooding the market now.
But there's enough growers that want seeds.
Seeds will still sell.
Oh, that's good to hear.
So what do you think is kind of the best way for the community to move forward in a
sense?
Do you think that we should be trying more to kind of band our efforts together for
like greater good goals that, you know, like require people to band together, like
things like a legislative change where, you know, like you can't really do it on
your own, or do you think that it's better to just, you know, kind of everyone focus
on doing their own thing and just have more unity within the movement in general?
The unity thing, it should, it should be.
It's so hard to see so many fights and over naming rights or it's all just about
money in reality.
All the fights around money.
So that's always hard to see.
Banding together, I, with a good voice and the lead to help push it, it would, it
could work.
But our problem is, is that everybody is their own leader.
They all, everybody wants to yell, but not listen.
So that would be the hardest part, especially in this community.
Everybody has a voice, but nobody has ears and they all want to just scream, scream,
scream and this, this, this, instead of like, Hey, why don't we all get together
and let's hash out these major things and let's get on board with fixing this.
I still can't believe this 64 passed in California blew my mind.
Like I was telling everybody I knew, Hey, it's a terrible, terrible idea.
It's not legalizing anything.
It's not recreationally everything.
I mean, if you have over, you know, with cannabis, you can still go to prison.
How was that?
Okay.
How is it okay for anybody to go to prison for cannabis?
It doesn't make sense.
It affected my life.
It's affected my family's life.
The prison for cannabis crap, you know, since before I was born.
And I mean, supposedly I was conceived during a conjugal visit.
I mean, come on, it's affected my life.
Nobody should be in prison for cannabis.
This whole thing like, Oh, we'll let them have one ounce, but anything over that.
Well, we're putting them in prison.
There should be zero prison for cannabis.
Like that's the one thing that it has to stop.
It has to go away.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Good, good point to echo.
One of the last couple of questions before we get into the quick fires, do you think
overall legalization has had a net positive effect or not?
It's better than it was.
It was, uh, when I was growing in the nineties and I could have went to prison for
one plant, so at least we're taking steps forward.
And so we just need a bunch of more big steps going forward.
So it's definitely better than one plant in a person's yard.
You go straight to prison.
So I'll say that at least.
Yeah.
Okay.
So what strain besides the rainbow has been the person that has been personally the most
rewarding for you to have created?
Honestly, the red vine, I mean, that one, can I, you know what, I'm going to leave out
chocolate, cherry, red vine, and rainbow because this one's just drying.
Um, I'm going to go with, uh, the blockhead work that I did with the skunk.
Um, that one's so bad.
It's not like rotted me in a jar.
Like it actually would trigger my gag reflex.
I miss that one a lot.
I need to get back into those seeds.
Um, it was almost like trick flower.
I could like open the jar and be, I'll smell this.
And then people would smell and be like, Oh my God, what is that?
And like, do the same thing.
Everyone got like gaggy over how repulsive that, that plant smelled.
That's awesome.
So down to the last quick fire questions, who's the best grower that you know?
Oh man.
Um, myself, I did.
I think I grow the best flower that I personally know.
Like that I personally, you know, like locally to where I'm, where I'm at.
I don't see.
Oh, um, no.
Um, Oh God.
I can't remember his name.
Um, cultivar.
There's a guy named cultivar on Instagram.
Kid can fucking grow.
So I'll say cultivar.
Yeah.
It's actually a trick question.
The answer is jungle boys.
Damn.
Miss that one.
So what's your prediction for the hottest strain of 2018?
Um, most likely, uh, uh, I'm going to say probably something crossed with
freaking purple punch or with the Mac, something in those, or one of the, no,
uh, Sunday driver from, uh, Colorado.
Won't be the hot strain this year.
Nice.
Yeah.
It's already got some traction for sure.
So opposite end of the spectrum, what's the worst strain to
ever get a following behind it?
Oh my God.
I know.
I don't want to say this.
Um, you can tell me later.
I'll tell you later.
What was number two though?
Number two would be, uh, Oh God.
It was a cork.
Okay.
There you go.
If you could only pick one land race to smoke for the rest of your life,
which one would it be?
Oh, I would have to go with a mutual con, uh, Mexican.
Nice pick.
Nice pick.
So other end of the spectrum, in a way desert Island, where you can pick two
strains, any of them doesn't matter.
Modern or old.
What are they?
SCDC and rainbow.
Ah, nice.
What draws you to the SCDC?
Just like the indicator side of things or.
Yeah, it's, it's kind of like rainbow.
It's has the best of both worlds.
The strawberry coffee is still there and the deep chunk is super prevalent.
And how does that little berry finish?
I mean, I get her to finish black, like her, the, but it's turned black and
she's a really, really special plant.
Yeah.
She certainly looks at, so what is the worst grow product?
The worst grow product.
Um, the, Oh God, it's the, the silica from that really cheap silica.
Everybody uses it.
Doesn't actually do anything for the plant.
Good Lord.
Let's name it.
That's the look of it.
Everybody uses.
It's not that OSA 28 or whatever.
Oh, no, no, not that.
It was the stuff.
Oh, I know this stuff is like $10 for a bottle.
Um, I think it's up.
So, um, Oh, uh, shooting powder.
Shooting powder is terrible.
Shooting powder is terrible.
Yeah, for sure.
Shooting powder is just the worst.
Alrighty.
So indoor, outdoor, greenhouse, you can only have one, which ones are going to be.
Indoor.
Nice.
Last but not least question.
What is the best thing to happen to cannabis since you've been involved with it?
The internet.
It's been the best and the worst.
The internet's changed everything.
We have a giant, giant library that we all get to share if we choose.
Uh, it's changed everything.
No more little pieces of paper writing to Europe, seed breeders,
like everybody's on the internet.
Um, yeah, it started well after I was already in cannabis, but that was
watching that happen, you know, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's,
watching that happen to cannabis and chat rooms and all these things.
Yeah.
They cannabis and breeding and seeds and clones.
It's just amazing.
I think the internet changed everything and it really changed cannabis.
Yeah.
That's a really, really, really good answer.
We haven't had before.
So I think that might just about wrap it up for this one.
Was there any comments or shout outs you wanted to make?
You know what, man?
I want to thank you first, seriously.
Um, for having me back on and making, you know, putting me out there so I can say
my words and stumble upon things.
And who knows what I said?
Cause I fucking don't remember.
Um, um, right.
Of course I got to call out right every time just because he is, he's an amazing
person, my brother, you know, that farmer, he's a, he's my brother.
Um, my wife who will never hear this because she allows me to do this shit
has been with me for 20 years.
Um, watching me through this struggle and she got with me when I was in the
struggle and doing these mountain grows and worrying about me driving in the back
of my car.
Um, and, uh, everybody who follows me on Instagram and sends me messages, everybody
who's bought my seeds or reached out to me to tell me they appreciate my work and
those kinds of things.
It was, uh, of course my guys from microbe life hydroponics, because I love
Brett and those guys and Adrian from bio bears and, and yeah, the podcast is
awesome.
Thanks for having me on.
Awesome.
Thanks so much for coming on the show and for the kind words.
I'll talk to you soon.
Big thank you again to smell the mad for stopping by and for sharing all that
knowledge with us.
As always CT and now four 20 Australia organic gardening solutions, best in the
business and the guys who make this show happen.
Thank you again, guys.
Make sure to check them out.
And last but not least, thank you to our Patreon gang.
These guys, likewise lifeblood of the show.
If you want to get access to content that's not available yet, jump onto the
Patreon.
And if not, we'll see you again soon.
We'll see you.
