Hello and welcome to the next episode of the podcast, a cannabis podcast for budding enthusiasts.
This episode as always was brought to you by our sponsors, 420 Australia, your number
one store for lifestyle and apparel, Organic Gardening Solutions, your one-stop shop to
grow the best no-till around, and finally, Seeds here now.
You know I'm best in the business, guarantee on satisfaction, not just germination.
Check it out.
On this episode, we're joined by the amazing Josh and Kelly of Dragonfly Earth Medicine.
Stay tuned for all the knowledge bombs.
Let's get into it.
All righty, so a big thank you and welcome to the dynamic duo, Josh and Kelly from Dragonfly
Earth Medicine.
Thanks so much for joining us.
Thanks so much for having us.
We're excited to be here.
Thanks for having us today.
So first question I want to ask is what are you guys currently smoking on?
A homesteader.
We actually have a big jar of homesteader here which is one of our really long time
strains.
Well, it's actually a cross of one of our really long time strains, so it's our Zellies
Gift times our 840.
It has a temple spice as a female, so we've been working with the Zellies Gift for a while.
It has a Jack Herrera mom and a gooey mother clone that came from Oregon which is really,
really awesome that we love forever.
And yeah, we've been breeding up here for a long time, so we do have a lot of other
people's strains.
There's a lot of wonderful, amazing people that give us strains, but we really like ours
because they're really intelligent for our area.
So the homesteader is kind of an uplifting, kind of lemony.
High in beta-caryophyllene and has some really a beautiful full spectrum cannabinoid profile.
It's spicy.
Oh, nice.
And so, is that got any like CBD or anything like that or is it a more THC dominant one?
It's mostly THC dominant, but it's probably like a 4 to 1.
So we're guessing, we go from seeds, so it would probably be like maybe a 17 to 19% THC
and we're hoping for like an 8% CBD.
We're starting to breed more CBD into our THC varieties and they still have a lot of
flavor and then they have this dynamic cannabinoid profile which we really like a lot.
And we're also breeding for the CBDV and the CBDN and yeah, just lots of cannabinoids.
We're breeding for the cannabinoids we don't know about yet.
Yeah, that's such an interesting point to make because something I've always thought
about kind of in my subconscious is what if breeders began to embed just a small amount
of CBD in the background of profiles such that maybe people aren't aware that it's even
there per se, but just everyone's kind of enjoying that added medicinal effect.
Do you think that that's maybe something that will like come out more so in the future?
Absolutely.
I mean, you know, trying to have as much CBD as in there and still getting that nice high
that people are looking for, you know, is totally beneficial.
So we've been breeding in CBD from an ACDC clone that we got a long time ago and we have
like a one-to-one and sort of a two-to-one and a three-to-one and a four-to-one and we're
just continually trying to make sure that that CBD makes an appearance in all of our
use strains.
We know that there's kind of like the hemp CBD and then there's the THC variety throwback
CBDs and that's where some of the original CBDs came from.
CBD plants and stuff like the Harlequin and everything came from a THC variety that was,
you know, thinking it might have had the high CBD and then, you know, the tsunamis and the
sour tsunamis and everything got created after that.
But if you're not breeding, if you have to be careful with breeding into the hemp to
try and get your CBD varieties, when you find like a really flavorful high CBD that
is easily breedable with the THC varieties, in our opinion, I think it's what along the
lines what you're saying, that's a real winner.
And then we just sort of keep our hemp breeding with each other.
We don't really see the difference between medical and recreational and in fact, we would
love to just sneak in whatever people consider medical into recreational because why not
be medical while you recreate?
Yeah, exactly.
So you touched on a few interesting points there.
The first one which jumps to mind though is one thing I've heard commonly is that some
strains particularly the CBD dominant ones have this kind of general slash bland terpene
profile.
I think some people even refer to it as like a cherry kind of profile.
Do you agree with that view?
Like do you subscribe to that or do you think maybe that's just a bit too nitpicky?
We definitely see that more in the hemp varieties but now we have lots of friends that are in
the industry that are starting to like pop like 1 million seeds and then they're testing
10,000 of those seeds and one of their number one things that they're searching for is a
wide variety of a terpene profile.
So there's some new seeds out there in the hemp world called a spectrum.
There's also one that's the cherry wine, one that's called a number five that really has
beautiful terpene sort of all over the map.
So yes I do agree with you that sort of the cherry was the first flavor to come up in
the high CBD hemp varieties but now that there's just more searching out there and more testing,
more terpene profiles are becoming apparent.
And so another question I wanted to ask you is I've found a strain by I believe it's CBD
Crew and if not it's CBD Seeds.
It's one of the two.
It's Shanti Barber's company but basically he says he's got a CBD strain where instead
of having any hemp being brought into it at any point, he found a regular kind of THC
dominant strain which happened to have some CBD in it and then over multiple generations
selectively bred it out like selectively bred the THC out of it.
He says the advantage of this is that you don't get that hemp terp and you get a little
bit better bud structure.
But the thought that I had was is that really an issue with you know like for example when
we look at the work you're doing is the bud structure from the hemp genetics which maybe
brought the CBD many generations ago.
Is that still evident or is it just not even there anymore really?
It still looks a lot like the hemp when you get the hempy ones.
Yeah definitely.
It still has sort of that you know smaller flower nodes, maybe even less of them on a
plant.
Taller, thinner leaves you know I mean really you know I feel beautiful terpenes and I know
people that are making oils out of it and even making rosin and stuff so there's still
profiles there to go with.
But yeah I mean there really is kind of the hemp varieties and then the more broad leaf
varieties.
There's broad leaf CBDs is basically what you're looking for.
And so in regards to kind of what I just mentioned with that selectively bred out THC phenotype
would you be interested in looking at something like that or does the advantages on paper
not really kind of seem like it's a worthwhile exploration so to speak?
Definitely.
I feel like breeding out the THC you know more in what is called the drug cultivar cannabis.
So yeah being able to breed out the THC and up that CBD is going to give you those beautiful
you know dripping resinous flower flowers.
I mean essentially if you're a farmer or if you're going to start a business in a farm
you're looking at it kind of like are you targeting no THC or CBD or high CBD with no
THC which allows you to sell more you know globally and more internationally and that's
a real you know that's an attractive incentive.
So in that way you know breeding out the THC and just having the CBD is you know when if
someone's putting in that much effort to create those seeds those are really valuable.
And we also know that the hemp variety you know sort of across the globe it's that point
three percent that they're looking for so that it's you know non-structured and it's
not going to be necessarily put into the cannabis industry with restrictions.
So if you're looking for that point three percent THC that's going to really be found
in the hemp varieties.
We're finding those super super low THC and then you just want to you know up all of the
rest of the cannabinoid profile and your terpene profile.
So it's a big hunt in the hemp world as well as in the CBD drug cultivar world right now.
So I'm not sure if you guys would be familiar with this next part but basically what I had
noticed was whenever I had tried a CBD extract like most notably the really highly refined
ones you know like they're looking really white crystalline type of stuff I just found
like yeah it just really wasn't medicinal in the way that like say a CBD flower was.
Is this like a you know a kind of a pertinent point in your mind like are you kind of on
that same wavelength of like it loses that medicinal value as it gets more processed?
Absolutely.
That means that you're just extracting just the CBD and then you've got that 99% CBD crystalline
and that means that it doesn't really have any other you know terpenes in it for sure
there's no terpenes and as well as there's no cannabinoids.
So you've lost sort of this dynamic profile where they all work together.
You know one what you're saying there is really interesting because you could have something
that you know is maybe a five milligram CBD and if it has CBD V in it and CBD N in it
and it's sort of like a full profile you're going to feel that so much more than say a
hundred milligram straight CBD isolate.
At least that's been what I've really experienced and other people have experienced across the
And that has a lot to do with the terpenes you know and and the dynamic effect of the
entourage where everything's working together.
I mean it's just it's almost pharmaceutical izing it in the sense to try and you know
isolate or distillate you know you know certain parts of it and there's reasons for that and
there's a lot of medicines you can do that.
So I'm not I'm not saying at all it's not a that's not a good thing but I feel like
I do think you it's more dynamic in the in the corrective medicine aspect of it when
you get the other terpenes in there because they work together and they really create
the you're immune they really boost your immune system and in the end you know you're trying
to boost your immune system and those are that endocannabinoid system will be charged
up with with as many different cannabinoids as possible and most of the doctors have proven
that through research is that you know one by one is a good is a good.
Yeah I definitely have found personally at least that the one to one seems to work really
nicely for me.
If we take a little step back though from what we were just talking about with the the
the ultra most extracted slash process end of things and we just go kind of more to the
midway. How do you guys feel about say extracts which have added terpenes put back in them
do you feel like it's like a two step forward three step back type situation or what's your
view.
Well I think that you know there's there's people using terpenes that are made from
foods and they're just getting like mercy from wherever mercy comes
from. And for sure that's not really a thing that we that we
you know promote or condone at all.
I mean if you're going to use terpenes in there they should be from cannabis and
really I mean the whole goal is to is to preserve your terpenes with
your growing practices and with your and with your
your curing practices and when you go to extract that I mean hopefully you don't need to
add any terpenes. But you know when you're making different oils you can get terpenes
from it and it is really fun to work with terpenes and do different things with it the
aromatherapy and different things you can do.
But I think you have to be kind of gentle with
with using them for sure.
Yeah. So last little thing I want to touch on on this kind of CBD topic was
I watched a little segment of you guys talking on YouTube and you were talking about how
you think some CBD slash just funky you know cannabinoid profiles may be related
to the soil itself.
And that was a really interesting point.
And the first thing I thought of is do you think it's more related to the microbes or to
the amendments you're using.
Definitely to the microbiology because if you've got a living soil then
you're really not feeding your plants.
The focus then becomes that you're feeding the soil and then that soil becomes a vast
organism that then you're trying to feed.
And and when you feed them say terpene rich nutrients then it's really the
breakdown of the fungi and the bacteria and all of the different microbiology in
there that then feeds it up to the plant.
So I think to feed really you know biodynamic accumulators that
are terpene rich is probably a really good idea but it's going to go through the
microbiology before it hits the plant.
So there's always a through way you know with a beautiful living soil.
And yeah we've definitely found with testing with our
medicine before that you know a lot of the facilities we've worked with have seen you
know a really broad array of cannabinoids and even some really unique ones that
they haven't seen before.
And for sure you know science backs this is as the
microbiology is what really allows the plant to produce the secondary metabolites
that it has. I mean we definitely know if you grow one the same clone and you know 10
different environments indoor outdoor and whatever it is with different even with
different nutrients you will get different cannabinoid and terpene profiles.
So so for sure there is like that's what's fun about growing this plant is that we
know when you give it something really unique it allows it to
express itself to its full full extent.
So so yes adding a really really live
and rich microbiology to your soil is going to really really help you know the
diversity of your cannabinoids and terpene.
And we're going to be we have been working with a lab here in B.C.
for about a year and actually they're going to be coming out to our farm and we're going to
be doing soil tests along with plant tissue tests and really trying to get to the
bottom of it because this lab is seen like Josh had said some really rare cannabinoids
and they don't even have the ability to test them all.
So we really feel like we can give a seed that's you know our own
you know that we've been breeding up here for maybe 12 years and we feel like it's a pretty
stable strain after 12 years and then we'll give it to somebody else and those rare
cannabinoids are maybe not being found and we feel like maybe more and more rare
cannabinoids are going to be found with you know building of soil.
So we've been on our land for now 11 years and you know what is it going to be like 15
years from now when our soils are built up to even more maximum are we going to be able to
get cannabinoid profiles that are really rare.
We believe that we will.
And we and we have you know a long time strain that we've been using and last year all of a
sudden we had 10 percent CBD and out of nowhere.
So we did have CBD show up and for sure there's a relationship within the soil and
within the roots growing together.
So we really envision that when we're growing and in the teas and everything that we're
making we're thinking oh how is this going to affect our rhizosphere and that community and
that that neuro communication that happens within the soil and it's super.
I mean we really love thinking about the roots and when we see the hyphae and how it all
goes together and you really are.
And people have even proven that there's electromagnetic you know pulses going through
there. So plants communicating with themselves in the soil allow them to be healthier and
once again express themselves to more diversity.
And we believe that you know cannabis is a social plant.
And the reason why we believe that is because it drops its seeds on the ground right around
the plant. And then all of that mother plant then drops all of the mulching leaves and
actually feeds it to her next generation.
So all of those seeds will sort of grow close together in a natural setting and that makes it a
very social plant.
And that's something that we recognize if plants are in pots and then we put them out into
the ground we immediately see that there's some kind of a completion of the circuits the
completion of the electricity a completion of the communication between the plants so that they
and they can help each other out.
So you know that's definitely a part of the cannabinoid profile as well is how happy is your
plant.
If your plant is incredibly happy then it's going to be able to show its full capabilities
for the medicine and the terpenes that it puts out.
And it's also why we we really you know we really condone having your plants in the earth
and not in pots above the ground.
And that's part of our pure certification part of the farms that we work with and stuff
everyone is building you know beds connected to the earth and it's better for water water
retention.
You in Australia you know you guys have a big huge water problem you know a lot of times in
the year and you know you know learning about those techniques is going to be extremely
important for you all too.
Yes I've got a whole bunch of questions related to that but I just want to jump back to
something you referenced a moment ago where you said you wonder what the soil slash your farm
will be like in 15 years from now.
Something I wanted to ask you specifically was do you know if the concept of probiotic runoff
exists so to speak.
Let's just say you know your beds are just pumping it out for the next 15 years.
Do you think at some point you reach saturation the microbes then start to leach off to
elsewhere and you kind of buy a remediating elsewhere or do you think it's going to be quite
localized.
Well I'm going to reference Paul's statements on this and I mean and his studies is his is that
there was cow farms above the oyster fields out in Olympia and the oyster fields and oyster
farmers in the water were you know losing or their their their crop and not being able to the
oysters weren't growing and they were losing their crop.
Oh my God what's happening.
We're getting poisoned by cows.
And so what they did is they inoculated bales of hay with oyster mushrooms and they built
channels for the runoff.
So the water when the rain came in when and when extra groundwaters came the the
groundwater could filter through the bales of hay which in and in the end did save the
oyster fields.
And that just goes to prove and we talk about this a lot with land formation when people are
doing earthworks on their property is to build burlap balls and inoculate it with with
biology because we know that you do affect the area around you through biology.
So having really dedicated beds or swales around your property that have really live mycology or
biology in your soils it does affect your your neighbors and it does affect your water and you
have to be really careful about you know you know building your property properly.
So it does affect your neighbors in a positive way.
And I answer that problem.
And if there is going to be runoff you know with your beneficials or your microbiology in your
beds then if it's on your land that's nothing but you know awesome.
As far as like reaching like ultimate peak of microbiology microbiology is just constantly eating and
colonizing and dying and eating and colonizing and dying.
It's just part of what it does.
It changes seasonally.
It'll change on a hot day.
You know if we're having blazing hot days then all of that beautiful microbiology that might be in the
first inch of the soil is going to go down quite deep.
So not only does it ebb and flow in numbers but it also ebbs and flows in in depth and also how wide it is.
So we really encourage people that you may start with one garden bed but the view is to see a beautiful
intelligent microbiology biome that you know expands out from your garden and then it goes out to your
property.
And then if it attaches onto your neighbor's property then all you're doing is creating a beautiful safe
haven for a lot of microbiology that's dying in the world today with all of the different toxins.
So if microbiology can have beautiful islands of health and well-being you know in people's farms or even
in a garden bed or or in a large farm then it is a positive impact for the whole world.
And the beds are never done so we're always adding to them like Kelly said.
I mean in 15 years we'll have to add to our beds 15 times at least.
Yeah.
So I know that you guys are big advocates of the use of IMO and as we just heard microbes in general.
However I was wondering you know obviously you've never said it but are you against kind of bringing in
external microbes you know or are you okay with that but you just prefer to use indigenous ones.
And I guess the most notable example of this would be mammoth pea for example.
Where do you sit on that.
Well I mean we do we have our own products that have a different array of bacteria as well as endo
mycorrhizae fungi as well as different glomus species.
We feel like if you can introduce something that's really beneficial and it's going to take then that's
absolutely fantastic.
It's really no different than adding probiotics to your to your body.
You know if you add different types of probiotics you know the lactobacillus or the bacillus is then that's
just going to inoculate your body.
It may only inoculate your body for 72 hours and then you have to re inoculate it because it's going to
stay in the upper respiratory tract.
But some of these soil microbiology that we introduced to our body which we know as human beings were
completely deficient in which has had so many health issues on the planet today.
IBS and colitis and I could go on and on leaky gut syndrome and all of these things even even clear
thinking brain capabilities you know all really are based in microbiology.
So in the same way that maybe we're going to be deficient in some type of a really important microbe you
know you can introduce it to your body in the same way that maybe your farm is deficient in microbiology.
You can also you know introduce it to your farm.
But the most important thing is when you introduce it you can't be introducing it in a way that it's not going
to be colonizing.
So to really look at what kind of microbiology that you're bringing in to create a beautiful environment so
that it will colonize right away is the real goal so that you're not continually buying this microbiology to
inoculate inoculate inoculate your soil.
It's great to re inoculate your your teas and maybe Josh will talk a little bit about that.
Well another thing that we think about when it when it comes to biology is that our number one question is what
biology and where did it come from.
And there's a lot of biology companies out there that are rooted in GMO companies and ones that do are involved
in a lot of practices worldwide that we don't agree with.
So when it comes to even predators you know if you're getting predators for your garden you have to be really
careful of you know where you get your predators from because some of those companies are involved in really you
know large scale you know GMO products and and and farms that we don't agree with.
So that's a number one question.
And some of it's produced on substrate that's GMO and you have to know what the biology substrate is that it's being
colonized on.
So those are some of the questions I mean mammoth P you know for example if you know we don't like to talk about
any in particular companies a lot of people use that you know and products but you know if you're shipping liquid
around the world and stuff you know you think about the container that it's involved in and stuff and if you can
try and even with our products you know we try and you know tell people how to make it locally because it's better
for the gardening and better for your environment.
So biology is best being tried to be made in soils you know and then bringing it in the teas you know that's where
where we have our products and stuff like that.
Our products represent herbs and herbal medicine which is is certified organic herbs with a certified organic
bacteria account.
And when we make a bacteria colony and when we make teas out of it the herbs just go through the tea and when you
water the beds the herbs go on to the top of the soil so you can colonize them in the tea and then you can they
continue to colonize when they're in the soil.
And we're talking a lot about our products but more importantly we teach people to not use products at all.
So you know all of our products have every single recipe on it.
We really we really encourage people to grow this herbal biomass themselves.
Then it becomes closed loop.
You also can inoculate and grow out all of your own species of different types of inoculants whether that's a fungi
or a bacteria.
You know we utilize a tremendous amount of lactic acid bacteria cultures here as well as different types of soil
bacteria to help break down the raw plant mass.
So we grow a tremendous amount of herbal biomass on our property here that then gets chopped up and broken down into
a tea container.
And then you add all of that microbiology so that it eats it up at a very rapid rate.
And then you aerate it.
So that's a really an anaerobic beginning stages of that because those anaerobes are incredibly you know ferocious and
they eat through things that are very rapid rate and their digesters.
So when you have that in an anaerobic and then you switch your anaerobic fermented teas into an aerobic compound by
adding you know air to it then that gets all of your anaerobes away and then it's ready to drench and then it will be
fully full of all of the great microbiology that you're looking for that's going to continue to break down that material
in your soils.
So a question kind of relating to the teas that I wanted to ask you is do you see any downside to artificially extending
the life of your tea.
So for example maybe you know you've had a brewing for a few days and you haven't used it all so you just throw a bit of
extra carbohydrate source in there or something along those lines.
Do you think that that's like you know detrimental.
Would you avoid doing that or how do you feel about that.
I mean it's not going to be the best way to build the colony of your tea.
I mean you know the purpose of having a tea to begin with is to build mycology essentially and not mycology but
microbiology.
You know I mean you start with one thing and you add a little bit of molasses or something to it organic or not and we
can get into that whether to use organic to use organic molasses or not.
But you use the aeration to charge up the tea.
And when you charge up the tea you know you're building the colony and that's the point of it.
So if you if you just extend that you're just losing the colony that you built because they're not they don't wait
around there.
They're just live and die you know fast organisms.
So if they've eaten up a lot of the nutrients that you've already put in there and then you add more inoculants in there
then it's not going to be the same colonies that have eaten up the initial foods or nutrients that you've put in there.
It's going to be sort of a different colony that takes over.
And it's really interesting because colonies can change in a tea brew from hour to hour.
You know they can change depending on how warm the weather is how much humidity is in there or you know depending on
what you put in there.
So it's a really we really don't look at our teas any different than you would like a stomach or a digestive tract.
We want to make sure to put everything in there and then give it the ability to be able to digest it fully with all
beneficial microbiology.
And we really don't separate it between the human digestive tract and and a tea brew as far as that.
Yeah.
The teas we just do it a little differently.
I mean we do it kind of like the art of fermentation on one side and then we activate it on the other.
And that's different than a lot of people.
So I think a lot of our listeners will probably kill me if I don't ask how long do you brew your teas for generally and
do you use like a kind of a rule of thumb to see when they're ready.
Like you know a lot of people will say when there's a nice healthy froth on top but then you know you'll have other
people who will say that's not always indicative that it's done things like that.
Like where do you sit on that.
Well most importantly you know the very end I could go through the beginning of it but the very end is taste it.
You know really if you're utilizing things in your tea that you know are good for the soil and good for the
microbiology you know of course you can get a pH meter of course you can look at the bubbles you can smell it.
But when you taste your tea it's totally inert.
It has zero flavor at all.
It's crazy.
You could put a tremendous amount of of biomass in there chop up all of your plants and in the anaerobic part of it
which usually is between five and seven days.
It can go up to 10 days during really cold cycles.
If it's more warm then it's going to be faster to five days.
That's your anaerobic brew.
And then when you take that anaerobic brew and then you put it into another container you know by straining out all of
the biomass and the herbs and everything you put it into another container and you aerate it.
It should have zero smell and the taste of it should be totally inert.
And for us that's saying it's done.
And then that gives a really beautiful color to the tea and everything.
And our aeration usually is between 24 and 72 hours depending.
Well 12 actually 12 and 72 hours depending on you know what cycle our plants are in.
I mean the general rule of thumb you know is 12 to 24 hours tops.
I mean that's you know you're then you're going on just you know compost tea knowledge is you know basic compost tea
knowledge you know which is a certain you know a third of a tablespoon of a pound you know per gallon or and then you
and you bubble it overnight you know or 12 to 24 hours if you do it longer than that you lose your colony.
But there's a lot of reasons why you know even just steeping it overnight makes a lot of sense.
So you can take like herbs like dried herbs and some compost tea and you can just steep it overnight and then just
drench it onto your soil and then that's really good for your soil microbes.
So there's really a lot of different ways to make teas.
And I think that you have to really think about you know what your goal is and are you in or are you soil less.
Do you have you know outdoors.
So there really is a lot of questions on how you're growing on how you're going to talk.
There's not just one way to do a tea from our perspective.
And we really like to you know us personally just like Josh said there's a lot of different ways to make teas.
But we really like to have control over you know what's in our tea brewers which is the reason why we work with herbal biomass
and our inoculants.
We're not really working with compost because you know the variety of differentiation of microbiology in there is so huge.
It's so vast.
So we really like to have control over what's in our tea brews so that we know what's going to be the end product that we're
not going to have anything anaerobic in there.
We're not going to have anything I mean unless it's a facultative anaerobic and then that's really awesome.
But you know nothing that would be detrimental to the root system.
So we really like to have control over what is in our tea brews and we pick and choose particular inoculants that we make
here on our own property to make that happen.
Yeah well you just read my mind because I was going to ask you about facultative anaerobic.
I was going to say I was talking to Mr. Bob Hemphill and he's saying he's a big fan of adding Bokashi or you know EM4,
IMO4 or whatever you're making it with.
Do you feel the same way like do you like adding Bokashi like where you kind of incorporate that you know the anaerobic
with the aerobic or do you prefer as you referenced a moment ago to have you know like your ferment stage and then your
activation stage?
Well I think with Bokashi and different things like that you have to be careful because it's acidic in nature.
So really using less of it is using more and we do like Bokashi because we like lactic acid bacteria because it's
you know the main you know fermenting microbe and sauerkraut and most of the foods that we eat.
So we do like propagating lactic acid bacteria on our property and we usually do that through making teas.
As far as you know our soils go and our beds we treat them like a compost pile.
So we're kind of always adding stuff and it creates like a healthy gut for the plants and we you know we're slowly adding to it
all the time. So our IMOs are basically attracted to our beds and we don't feel we need to go collect IMOs even though we'll
bring handfuls of dirt from different environments that we think are really healthy and maybe we'll propagate those through
teas and drench them onto our beds to to spread the microbes.
But we we generally use mulch and biomass and covering our beds to attract the indigenous microbes to our beds and we have less
and less compost piles and more and more just our beds or our compost.
And yeah to answer your question the facultative microbes are just totally imperative for the beginning stages of the
fermentation. Those facultative microbes are the ones that are just so hardcore and quick digesters and they can make you
know the difference between a pretty pathogenic tea and a totally beneficial tea.
And the end facultative means that they can can propagate in an anaerobic condition or an aerobic condition. So you know we're
attracted in our life we're attracted to microbes that we that to us that's adaptogenic there. They adapt. They're able to to live
and propagate in an anaerobic situation. And then when you go to what we say activate the tea then they change with that. And we
like having those kind of microbes that can that can adapt and we want to propagate that and put those that into our soils because
you know the environment is ever changing. Our bodies are ever changing and we just want a really healthy you know biome around us.
Of course. So I noticed on a few different Instagram posts sometimes people will ask you maybe like what you're using in a specific
picture in relation to say a top dress or like something along those lines. And the general answer you kind of give is like oh you
know like we're just using stuff that's around the place. Would you try to maintain that philosophy everywhere you go or is that
more so applicable just because you know like obviously on your farm you've got access to a lot of this stuff. So you are able to
just kind of use what's around but maybe somewhere else. Like I guess what the question is is do you think that there's stuff people
can use no matter where they are or do you think you guys are a little bit lucky and that you do have stuff laying around so to
speak. Absolutely. It's totally important that people utilize what they have around their own environment because that own and
whatever they have in their own environment is is intelligent to that area you know to utilize plants that are growing really
well and that are super healthy. We also you know with our pure certification we have to have you know people are looking for at
least six closed loops and creating your own nutrients and growing your own biomass is a really big part of that loop and that's
ever changing depending on where you are. You know if you're in Arizona you're going to be utilizing a tremendous amount of
prickly pear and cactus and different types of sagebrush. And it's incredible the nutrients that are available in those in those
plants and also the cyanobacteria that's on the outside of those leaves are there for a reason. They're there to keep the plant
healthy during its life but they're also there to help digest it in in the time of its death or when the leaves drop to the ground.
So when you're collecting biomass in your area you're also collecting microbiology on the leaf structure as well. So you know your
tea should be absolutely as intelligent as they possibly can be. And that's going to come from your own property. So we've we or
we definitely have chosen the area that we live in for a reason because it is rich in biomass and we do really resonate with this area.
So that part is true. We are really lucky where we live. But like Kelly said and we have traveled the world to a lot of different
places. We've worked on a lot of you know international projects and disaster projects. And we went to Jamaica for a month this year
and and worked with the Rasta village there. And we worked with with you know making biomass gardens everywhere that we've gone in
each country that we've gone to. So we don't think that it's it's something that just we do on our property. We say it's absolutely
imperative for people to do it everywhere they are. And every time we go somewhere we really you know really look to the area as soon
as we get there and say oh what can we use and what can we use there. So I think that you can get really creative. And that's the
thing about our pure certification as well. And all of the farmers that that we that are are part of that movement and that
regenerative movement of cannabis is that you know it's part it's part of connecting with your environment. And that's the way that
you can really really ensure that you're you're getting clean inputs into your farm. And we haven't talked about that yet. But having
clean inputs onto your farm is absolutely imperative. And moving forward in the new legalization paradigm of cannabis we have to be
extremely careful about the products that we bring into our property. And I think that's been a big part of this regenerative cannabis
movement is people. That's why people have have started to grow more diversity on their property. I mean part of being pure certified is
you can't just have a cannabis farm. You have to grow other other biomass like like Kelly was saying. And and that's part of
connecting with your land. So trees and bushes and food grass and and even you know local livestock and stuff are a crucial part of
building life on your farm. Even if you have an indoor operation you can still use you know the edges of you know the land around it to
to make you know mass for your gardens. And part of being regenerative is understanding the botany that grows around your region
in your area. And a lot of people that call something maybe a noxious weed that's come in from an outside source. Those noxious weeds
are there for a reason. It's because they have found a home that is going to be able to help them express you know their true health and
well-being. And those can be utilized so much. And then that helps down the noxious weeds in your area. But then you're also utilizing them
in your teas. And we suggest to make sure to utilize those noxious weeds you know before they seed so that you're not continuing you know
the propagation of them. But if it's something that you have on your property of course use it. You know in Oregon and in northern
California they have a tremendous amount of Himalayan blackberry and an alpine blackberry. It grows there like crazy. But when you start
looking at all of the nutritive capabilities that this plant has when you chop it up or you put it in a tea the amount of growth
hormones that are in it then you have an understanding of why it's so noxious because it has such incredible capability to grow so fast in a
really small space. So we really encourage people to look around and understand the plant life that's around your area and then start picking
and choosing what you want to propagate and also what you want to put into your teas or into your compost or chip up or put on the top as a
mulch. You know you could go on and on.
So I got a question where it's kind of like the devil's in the details but I guess what I'm wondering is would you want to say not use
something which is kind of external but it would have been a waste anyway. So what I'm getting at is I love to go down to my local coffee store
and grab the coffee grinds you know it's just my plants love it when I top dress it with them. But I understand it brings with a myriad of
questions you know like where's the beans is it GMO like you know all that type of stuff that comes along with it. For those reasons is it just
something you would look to avoid or are you OK with something like that where broadly speaking you are kind of using what would have
otherwise been wasted.
Well I mean we're living in a world of international products and in an international world of food and if there's something that you feel
like wow you know this would be really good for my farm definitely find out what the source is go all the way down with it. But if you have
an intuition that those coffee grounds are going to be great for your farm and you feel like it would be really helpful then it's good to
take in a small amount of whatever said thing that you're bringing into your property and utilize it in a small area. Give like a trial of
two to three weeks or something like that. Have a look at it and then say yeah my intuition is right because I believe with science and
and all of these tests and trials that we do involving science it's starting to take away you know our basic innate understanding of
intuition and gardening is such an intuitive thing. You know humans are of the earth. Plants are of the earth. Of course we communicate with
each other. Of course we're having conversations on another level and we really encourage people to have those conversations with your land
and your soil and the plants around you and also the inputs that you're going to be able to bring in. It's a really an individual matter but
also whatever inputs that you're bringing in make sure that you feel really good about it and that your intuition is right and it is sound to
create a good ultimate immune response and wherever you're putting it. And for me it brings up you know another question is number one where
are you in the world. And of course we always you know we always talk about being crafty and you know you know we have to be resourceful and
use you know what's in our area. And depending on where you live in the world and with cannabis especially it is a dynamic accumulator
accumulates stuff out of the soil. So depending on what level of scrutiny you have I mean there's some farms that can't use you know
municipality compost like from different cities because of different sprays that might be used you know on the roadside. If they used that
compost thinking oh geez you know our city produces compost and I just want to use compost from my city it just only makes all the sense in
the world like on a human level. Yeah it does make sense. But if on an actual reality of testing you could potentially fail tests with
cannabis by using bad inputs. So I mean you have to be really pretty mindful in certain places and other places. You know it only makes sense to
use what's around you. And also to add to what you know Josh was just saying is that there's a tremendous amount you know in North America
right now and also in other parts of the world of the use of glyphosate and glyphosate is not something that's even being tested because
you know the US Department of Ags all over the world in these really large multinational multi international corporations feel like glyphosate is
totally healthy and that you know we should be able to drink it. So why is it a problem. But we're finding it more and more along the roadside.
We're finding it everywhere. And then prolonged use in your soil beds is going to kill your microbiology. It is an herbicide and an herbicide you know
kills all different types of microbiology. And it has a huge long life. You know the half life they're saying now you know they've already
negated at least 10 times over. So the truth is that we don't really know how long those half lives are. These horrible chemicals and over
prolonged use in your gardens you're going to be killing all of your microbiology which is going against everything that you began by being able
to bring in those inputs. So if you it's a really it's a difficult question. Yeah. If you have an indoor garden you may not have a soil that's as
vigorous as an outdoor garden and outdoor garden. You have the ability to create a ton of biomass and a ton of microbiology. And if you're if
you're positive microbiology outweighs the little bit of toxins that you might be getting from an inorganic coffee thing that it would probably
might invite remediate it. But if you get anything out of balance you could throw that off and kill the microbiology like what Kelly is saying.
And we're not really believing that you know nature and microbiology you know are not very good at remediating horrible toxins on the planet any
better than we're able to remediate those toxins when we ingest it. And we always go back to human health soil health plant health. It's just all the
same. So whenever there's information out there in the science world and you're looking up a particular product or something or some kind of an
input look at all of the human health that it has attached to it as well. You know take the time to Google all of that information and go
deeper pollinators and it affects pollinators or how it affects our own immune response. Yeah. OK. That's very interesting. So I want to know
then if I was so for example here in Australia glyphosate is incredibly widely used. There's almost no concern about it at least in the sense
that way isn't in the States which is a little alarming. But essentially if I was to buy a new property and move on there I would bet my left
leg that it's been sprayed down with glyphosate a lot. So you know obviously you know the details would give the specifics of this situation.
But if you had to give a rule of thumb how long would you think it would take for me to kind of buy or remediate that kind of land I bought. And
more importantly would you be OK with say consuming the first crop produced on that land or would you want to do some work first before you were
feeling comfortable about that. I would I would start to sort of begin the question that where you started at the end there was I would
definitely start by a remediation with plant matter that wasn't vegetables that I would be eating as far as a time period of how long that would
take to remediate it. I mean possibly your whole lives and your grandchildren's lives. That's something that we just don't know because the
information that we're getting is so one sided because it's all being put out by the makers of this particular product. So they've got you know
a real investment to make sure that the scientific research goes along the way that they would like it to go along. But we know for sure that
heavily laden glyphosate areas you just simply put a pea in there or a bean. It won't grow. They don't. You know those are kind of plants that
don't do very well with the side before you buy the property. Go try and plant peas on it because peas are one of the there. They're what they're
one of the most susceptible things to herbicide. So you just be like you know I just can I plant a row of peas here right now and come back a week
later and if they've sprouted then you've got something you can work with. But if they don't sprout and there's no reason for it you might
seriously consider it. And we and we totally tell people to test the soil for sure. If you're going to buy a piece of land you can test it in and
with glyphosate like I know I'm not sure exactly about soil tests in Australia but they'll be soil tests that have you know 30 different
you know pesticides and herbicides that they test for. But glyphosate will not be one of them. You have for the same reason that you just said
because you know they think oh you know you can dump you know glyphosate in your Cheetos in the morning and it's totally fine. But so you really
have to be you know very mindful of what you're using and get a soil test.
So the kind of in related to all this stuff. The first thing I'll add is that I think unfortunately in Australia soil tests are quite cost
prohibitive. Like I think to get a fairly basic one you're probably looking at around 150 to 200 dollars which I think that's some tests in
the States are like that expensive. But it certainly seems very expensive here especially considering you know we're in like an illegal market.
But something I did want to ask you guys about was just the interesting range of soil additives you have in that excuse me the cocoa.
That's the one which the cocoa sorry. That's the one which grabs my interest the most you know because it's like you see alfalfa you see you see a lot of
stuff being used by a lot of people and I think that you guys use all of that stuff in a really interesting way. But the cocoa the cocoa was the one
which really grabbed my interest because you just you don't see it outside of your products. So how did you come up with that and what was kind of
the rationale behind it.
Well the rationale is when you look at a plant and you see a plant through its whole cycle it starts out as a sprout. First of all it starts as a seed
and the seed has all the vast nutrients that are available. It almost becomes like a micro superfood a seed does because it contains everything
that that plant should contain in it. And then once it grows out then it starts to have other different kinds of nutrients like say nitrogen and
calcium. And then as the plant starts growing out even more it's up taking different minerals and different nutrients from the soil throughout
its entire life cycle. And we know that for cannabis you know we add a lot of nitrogen at the beginning and then we move to their phosphorus and
potassium and phosphorus and that sort of thing. Well plants are no different in in the wild. So they're up taking you know basic nutrients at the
beginning. And then when they turn into a seed form like the cacao then it starts to become a very nutrient dense
product or you know in this case it was a product but you know a nutrient dense part of the plant. A cacao mines a tremendous amount of
magnesium and manganese and copper out of the soil and a million other and a million other things. So we utilize the raw cacao because when you
test raw cacao it has a tremendous amount of nutrients that helps a plant finish because it's the finishing part of the cacao tree. It's no
different than say you know you're utilizing maybe sesame seeds are going to contain a lot more finishing compounds and minerals and
nutrients in it than the first sprout of that particular sesame. And that's why we use spirulina in our radiant green and in the vegetative
one because you know nothing's more nutritive than one celled organisms and algae. So you know the raw cacao has a wide variety of trace
minerals and nutrients and vitamins at the very end. And also the wild yam is one that you did. Did you want us to talk about more of the
ingredients. Yeah yeah I'd love to hear more about it. Especially what I wanted to hear was what organic ingredients you look to for
phosphorus because phosphorus is one of those ones where it's a little less common to come by.
Phosphorus can definitely be mined up in a plant. There's lots of different plants that are going to contain phosphorus and like I was saying
before it's going to be the ending part of the plant that's going to have the most phosphorus. So tubers wild yam has you know phosphorus as
well as like yams that you eat out of the ground. Potatoes have a lot of phosphorus in our products. We utilize burdock root. And the reason why
we utilize burdock root is just 5000 years of ancient Chinese history you know of of of healing of the body. And like I had said before we
always look at the healing of the body the same as healing of the plant. And burdock has so many healing modalities because of the
tremendous amount of nutrients in it. And one of the nutrients in there that's so rich is phosphorus. So rather than getting mined phosphorus or
phosphorus that really leeches out into the soil you know you can add rock phosphate and you're going to lose about 80 percent of that rock
phosphate. Whereas if you feed phosphorus rich plants tubers seeds finishing parts of the plant and you feed it to the microbiology then it
becomes immediately available to the plant. And phosphorus is one of those ones that you know can be found like I said in the finishing
parts. And also a big a big part of our you know practices that we that we promote is is having you know a type of soil that has a lot of
compost in it that's composting and living. And the breakdown of of of leaf mold leaf matter and different stuff like that produces phosphorus
in the soil. So we really believe that you know having an active soil that's being that's breaking down is producing enough phosphorus. We
don't actually we never use more phosphorus ever on our property than what's produced just by our soils and these plants and the seeds and the
roots that we use. So and Turkey Rue bar another one in there for the last 20 years we've been growing you know in a way that we don't utilize
any of those bat guano phosphorus is and it's like this thing which is rock phosphate anyway. Yeah. Actually it's not in the back.
So just having a really active soil and then using roots and seeds which is the ending product of the plant provides the phosphorus potassium
being a manganese and all that stuff that we need. And Josh just create the flower. Josh has touched on something that we feel is like incredibly
important is the use of trees the use of tree leaves trees the ultimate miners. They send down their roots as tall as they are. You know
they're mining all kinds of things in the soil and then they bring them up into their leaves and then they drop their leaves. And I'm talking
about deciduous trees in this particular instance. Eucalyptus of course don't use any eucalyptus anything. And so they they take all of the
nutrients up into the tree and then they drop all of those. And then the cycle continues again. So utilizing tree leaves you know
contain an incredible amount of term minerals and phosphorus is definitely one. And is that something when you say the tree leaves you're
referring to like a leaf mold type of thing or just a direct top dressing type of situation. Yeah you can direct top dress because it's
going to turn into leaf mold immediately anyway. We we now look at our beds like these living beings like I we had opened up the
conversation to begin with. You know so we're always layering things on top of our beds making sure that we're not layering anything that
would turn it hot. You know we don't want necessarily hot composting to be happening in the beds but we certainly want cold composting to
be happening in the beds. And the beautiful thing about nature is that especially when you're in an area that has seasons everything is
available all at the right time. And then when the seasons come it provides the nutrients that your gardens need at that time. You know all
of the flowers start coming out and the seeds and the tubers start coming out right at the same time that your plants are needing
phosphorus that your tomatoes are needing phosphorus to produce juicy tomatoes. There's some kind of a beauty in the cycles of nature.
And if we just pay attention then it's all there for us. I mean you know permaculture did come out of Tasmania in so many ways and in
Australia. And there's there's plenty of examples you know across the you know across the country there in the in the continent that that
show is really similar to what we're talking about.
Yeah definitely definitely. There's a lot of really good gardeners. Shout out to Steve Solomon in Tasmania. So yeah he's a big guru. So
something I wanted to ask you is I'd noticed that over say the past three or four years there had been this kind of unspoken trend within the
no-till scene so to speak that there'd been there'd been a move away from animal products and especially you know in terms of like
amendments. And so the question which I was wondering is do you think that it's the case that we've just found better replacements or it's
more a case that there's also an underlying objection to you know like the raising and the slaughtering.
Well all of it. So to answer that question I always say to people OK so what does it look like on a hot summer day when you throw a
steak out on the lawn that's raw and then you leave it there for a week or if you throw an apple out on the lawn and then you leave it
there for a week. What kind of different bacteria and fungi are going to overtake that to be able to digest it down and basically turn
it into soil. The meat is going to have incredibly aggressive anaerobic fungi and bacteria bugs and worms and maggots.
Yeah I mean it can be fun. It's going to draw a tremendous amount of pathogens in order for it to become beneficial whereas the apple that's
being digested on the lawn there in the hot summer day is going to just start drawing all of these beautiful things that turn white and you could you
know things meaning microbiology it's great fungi and and different bacteria and you could almost take that rotting apple and you know put it right
into your soil. You know I don't necessarily suggest this but then that would be come you know a beneficial colony. You really couldn't take
the stake and put it into there at all. So we haven't used animal products ever. It's just not. We've been growing for almost three decades
and we haven't utilized any animal products other than manure. That's you know from our own farm here. You know that's all grass fed no
grain because we feel like the pathogens that break down that animal matter is just not something that we want to bring into our gardens and nor do we
like to support something that is unkind or harmful to the planet. Yeah. And through soil testing I mean you when you're doing no till you're
doing something that's that's continuous you know we're using the same soil for a long time. You know you do have to be mindful of what you put in
there. And just like Kelly said you know certain animal products just don't have the same kind of longevity that you're going for. And that's why the
forest is so beautiful because you know it really shows the power of of plant medicine and how well it can do. And also you know organic farmers
here in North America to be certified organic on a vegetable farm. They use a tremendous amount of blood and bone meal like a tremendous amount.
And when you test that blood and bone meal the glyphosate levels are really high because the cows are eating the grain that's glyphosate laden and
also they're eating the grass that's glyphosate laden. And that's bringing all of that into. So you're not only bringing possible pathogenic
nutrients into your property but you're also bringing a tremendous amount of glyphosate and who knows what else. So you know really
supporting the slaughterhouses is not something that we feel like we want to touch at all. We don't want to support those slaughterhouses and
we really don't want to support the microbiology that it takes to break down those slaughterhouses.
We're also really careful with plants like neem and caranja and different you know seed meals that haven't also lasted very well in soil.
That's interesting. So you guys are not big fans of neem?
Well I mean you know there's neem. The neem tree is phenomenal. And so of course you know we love the neem tree. And you know to take neem
you know there's neem teas and neem medicine is a good thing. It's just also you know it's it's it's not something that promotes you know
by microbiology in the soil. And it's a volatile oil. So you know anything that has any plants that have large aromatics you have to be
really careful about what those aromatics are. You know if you're going to break down a ton of geranium you know you might really want to
think of putting a ton of geranium into your soils because it contains high geranol. And geranol is great to get rid of pests and you know
pathogens possibly on the leaf source or maybe in the soil. But if you're utilizing it over a long period of time then your beneficials aren't
going to be like yay this is an awesome soil to be in because there's just such a vast amount of volatile oils. So we really stay away from
you know eucalyptus or black walnut or even neem in large amounts or curran jar. Any of these like super volatile oil. It's not a way that we
want to deal with the pathogens that those are trying to kill. So that we're we'll use predators for that instead. So we don't need to top dress
with neem and those kind of things because we know that the neem is going to kill other microbiology because we work with you know a lot of
people that you know do soil testing all the time and and and we've that we've shown that you know. And so that's not a thing that we use
and we've always felt like that kind of weary about it.
Okay. And so in general do you veer more towards wanting to have say a bacterial dominant soil a fungal dominant soil or just a kind of a one to
one type of ratio.
Always a blend. Always a blend. You definitely want to have your bacteria is just going to last in there for a short time. So it's awesome that
your bacteria that your teas are super bacteria rich and that your soils are really fun fungi rich so that the bacteria is going to stay in
there long enough just to break down that green material the leaf material light material and then be able to give it to the plant. But you know
the prolonged breakdown of the soil is definitely you know our fungi friends. It's almost easy to get the bacteria. So it's not you know it's
it's you. We with hugel culture and with you know carbon sequestration and carbon farming is really to attract fungi. So we're really kind of
doing all we can to get more fungi and into our soils because through a lot of soil testing you know you'd find that there's lower fungal mass
and there is bacterial you know mass. So we you know that's why we're adding biomass so much to our soils is the fungi really interact with
the roots and directly feed the plant. And you're feeding a lot of soil fungi by feeding it bacteria. So there's a whole lot of really
awesome fungi that eats bacteria directly that have you know this beautiful relationship with the top layer is totally bacteria rich. And
then as you go down lower you've got more fungi. So that's why adding more you know bacteria rich compounds throughout the time to make
sort of a calm cold composting in your in your soil beds is a great idea because then in time that bacteria top layer is going to turn into a
fungi rich lower layer. Yeah. I mean you can add anything hard and you're going to get more carbon more sticks you know a little stick
maybe stocks from your previous harvest. You could work into the top part of your soil.
Not or even adding for you know pre-made soil of people that have indoor adding sawdust to your to your soil is great as well. You know when
you're having a pre-mix soil or some wood chips. Yeah deciduous because then you're not dealing with the acidity. But but if it's really old
then the acidity you know goes away as well. That's a whole other conversation. There's so much. Yeah. Yeah. I mean something which kind of I
think is an overall topic of this whole kind of thread is and I've seen you reference it on a few different YouTube videos is kind of this
conundrum of organic certification organic labels you know just that the whole the whole I think it's like it's like a minefield these days. So
with that being said are you happy to use something which is not strictly organic so long as you're confident it's kind of beneficial in some
way or another. Yeah absolutely. There's a lot of people and a lot of farmers out there in the world that don't want to have anything to do
with a certification even if they're an alfalfa farmer because they don't feel like their regenerative practices are representative that
certification. And unfortunately it's like there's not many certifications. And that's the reason why we came up with the pure certification
is because we just felt really sort of angry really upset with what the commonality of what people saw as organic and it had that label on
it then. Oh that's good enough for me. But when you start reading into it you know 30 percent of your inputs can be non-organic and then
there's a whole list of pesticides you can add and a whole list of herbicides and fun all different kinds of things that are underneath that.
And like you said yeah it started out like in the US with the Oregon till and they did a really good job. But now they can't utilize that term
organic unless it's along with the USDA organic or the Canadian organic standards and certifications. So yeah I say it depends because it's
kind of a know your farmer situation. I mean if you find yourself in the countryside and you've got in your area someone who's been farming
you know the certain way their whole time and they just didn't want to go bother going through and buying the certification and getting that
kind of you know validation then I mean we would say use that because that farmer is probably just more radical to keep it natural than
someone who's part of the system. It's almost like when you're part of the system is that you have to question it more. So it's kind of really
knowing your source of where it's coming from. And now there's been this incredible movement of power in the pure certification because pure
farmers are now joining together and going out on the farmers plots and saying hey we'll buy all of your hay or your straw every single bit of it.
If you don't spray it and you add these things to it and you let all of the weeds grow. So now the farmer is getting a higher price from pure
farmers. And that's just like sacred commerce that creates knowing your source. You're actually creating knowing your story powers your
alfalfa farmer and empowers your field farmer who may not have had a reason to care. That person might have just been like oh you know what the
farmers these bigger companies are just they just pay me and I just do it and they give me a seat. I don't have to think about it. But you might
have farmers that you know if they were if they had a community of people that were like listen we value you not using any chemicals on your
products or on your field you know we'll pay this specific price. Then farmers now have an incentive to to to grow you know their their
their their alfalfa in a good way. And that's why the pure farmers are making an impact not just on their farm but but even way farther. And
we encourage the listeners to look up D.M. pure farms dot com which is a Web site that we've created which highlights close the closed loop
practices that we talk about and the farms that that do those practices and shows those farms in the different states. So when you say is it just
us on our farm. No you can see you know close to 80 different examples of other people doing it in different places in the world. There's mostly
in the US and Canada at this moment. And this certification you know that we're talking about is a movement. It's an activist movement. It's not
something you can even buy. It doesn't cost anything. It's free. And it's in its community run in that we don't decide the final you know if
somebody is looking to be pure certified. We set the standards and we and we sort of set it out. But it becomes a community brain and a mind so
that say somebody in Humboldt is wanting to be certified. Well all of the pure farmers in Humboldt are the ones that go to that farm and make a
decision on whether it is matching their farm and whether they feel like it's the same standard as their farm. And in that it creates community
and more of a conversation so that we can all get better. And that goes into your conversation about sourcing. Just right back at it. If
there's more people trying to source the same thing then we know exactly where we're getting it from and we know exactly what it can. And you
know I'll just I'll just make the point that you know we we we love ganja and we smoke it. We feel like in harmony with nature and we have
that connection of naturalness and to be a naturalist. And so we really it is an activist movement to just make the impact as widespread as
possible. And that that's really what this is. And it is really exciting. And it's nice to have something exciting in a time when you know there's a
lot of doom and gloom. Yeah of course. And so I think the thing which you touched on and which appeals to me the most about the pure
certification is that yeah there's there's the kind of community responsibility slash aspect to it all. Do you think that that same kind of
philosophy needs to be extended to more parts of the movement. And I guess the thing which jumps to mind to me the most is kind of the
activism within say the legal sector. Do you think there needs to be that same kind of onus on ourselves to kind of take responsibility for the
things we want to see happen in a way. Absolutely. Cannabis is not just a plant. It's a culture and it doesn't matter where you are on the
planet. It's so cool. I mean so many listeners out there and I'm sure you would feel the same way. You know you could go anywhere in the
world and you're seeing somebody that's totally different from a totally different place from a totally different you know whatever a
different age group or a different socio economic group or or possibly a different race or whatever. But if you have cannabis in in
common all of a sudden that they're a dude that's like great. You know you're just like all of a sudden friends with that person. And I
believe that that camaraderie and that family energy and culture of cannabis absolutely needs to be in the forefront. Having a rightful
voice for this plant that has given us so much you know when we ingested it gives us you know a higher understanding of nature and more of
a community mindset. And I think that that community mindset is everything that we need to be able to move forward both in the political
sector and also all the way down to the cultivation sector. Yeah. And then and I will and I will say that this this movement has gone
you know political and we do have friends and family that are working in in politics and I don't want to say that we're politics but
influencing laws and and and you know give thanks give thanks to them and regulations and stuff. And so and it's also just in cafes and
even beyond like midwifery is something that's really important to us you know. And there's just a lot of things that see this kind of movement
this pure kind of movement as more of a lifestyle. And that's why regenerative is a word that's being used a lot by us in the community is
because it makes sense to to use a regenerative lifestyle because we really do need to regenerate. You know we can't sustain you know
where we are in this world or in this in this path. We have to go beyond sustaining and regenerate. And so the pure certification is it
is cannabis and food based but it goes way beyond. It really does. And we're in an international you know community now. I mean it's perfect
example. We're talking to you in Australia as if you're here in our front room. And what a wonderful opportunity to be able to reach out to
the whole world. And I think that cannabis needs to be seen as is international. Now you know we all need to join together. We all need to
be on the same page. And that's the way that we're going to be able to have the rightful voice like I was saying before for the plant. And I
believe that you know so many investors we call them outvestors but just for fun so many investors and so many different you know
corporations out there trying to own it. But nobody brought a seat up for the plant in that conversation or in that conference call. Nobody
is having a conversation you know if they're in that corporate mindset. And I believe that as we move forward into the rules and the
regulations and into our own use and you know into the health and well-being of of introducing our cannabis culture to the whole world we
have an incredible responsibility to have a rightful voice for the plant and that she's always part of our conversations and how we move
forward.
Yeah. OK. I can definitely agree with all of that. So I had one question which I was actually struggling to think of how I was going to slide it
in. But you guys just gave me the perfect segue when you mentioned that midwifery. I know that you guys have been toying slash you know 100%
doing like a kind of pregnancy brew for a while. I was interested in that. Like how did that start. And like can you just give us a bit more
information about it.
Well I'm a midwife and I've been in the natural health field naturopathic medicine, herbology, Chinese medicine since my early 20s. And I was
you know mid to early 90s. Yeah. So early early 90s.
Yeah. And from our perspective. Yeah. And we're still learning.
Well the veterans are really around us. We like to give like a lot of respect to the veterans. Yeah. The true elders. Yeah.
But I I've always utilized you know a beautiful tea blend and I've thought that herbs and steeping and brewing herbs were just a really good way to get
immediate results in a human condition. So any maladies that anybody had you know whether it was a body wash which is like a foliar spray or
whether it's like in you know drinking it and you're drinking it for your kidneys or whatever different things that you know utilizing herbs for
that and pregnancy tea is is really close to my heart because I feel like you know you can take pregnancy supplements and because it's like
mind minerals and it's very difficult for your digestive tract to understand herbs in the same way you know like pills in the form of capsules
or something like that you know like a supplement food capsule wouldn't be the same as a whole food you know coming out of your garden.
So and then we know if you steep those teas then it starts to extract the minerals like overnight and you can grow a beautiful healthy you know
mama and baby with with great breast milk after the baby is born just off of herbs. And that's where we took that whole ideology and started
putting it into soil. And I had an old tea brew blend. You know I grew all of my own herbs and then give them out to all of the ladies that I work
with. I had one that was a year old and the new crop was coming up and I just thought hey you know what I'm I'm just going to steep this. We've
always just steeped nettles and horsetail before. I'm going to steep this entire pregnancy brew and see what happens. And it was like as if the
plants were just screaming out the next day like this. This is it. You got it. You know it's it's herbology for plants. You can help us and treat us
and help us grow and help stimulate our immune response through other plants because it's something that they understand. And we've always had a
really spiritual connection with our gardens and with our gardening and with our wild crafting and foraging. And we've always had a you know a
spiritual connection. So you know we definitely recognized of course that we're growing a female plant and the female cannabis plant. So it was a
natural connection to using herbology for women to using herbology for female plants. And so that's why there's like wild GM which is a feminine
you know hormone herb which is in our fat flowers blend. And that's why people we feel get such a great response in their flowers and in their
terpene response by using you know the products and our in our blends we put together or also utilizing even flowers. You know when you see
things that are flowering it's a great thing to utilize in your flowers. So that's a you know a feminine quality to a feminine quality. So that's
why we utilize a lot of flowers on our property and we suggest for people to do that. It's just been an intertwined you know let's say work of life
that we've intertwined you know the gardening with the human health and it's been extremely beneficial and we feel like it's timeless. It's something
that doesn't go away and it's it's almost like it awakens something primal inside people and when they learn about it you know they just want to do
and it just makes so much sense. Yeah of course I can relate to that. So when you say you use say things like even flowers from other plants in
the teas is that kind of like the more terpene rich the better. And the reason why I ask this is because I've got this frangipani tree in my
backyard and it smells so much and it drops so many flowers on me and I've been looking at it for so long going I need to make a ferment out of
this. What do you guys think. Oh I think it's fantastic. It's a great idea. You're just taking all of those terpenes and then making them
totally usable for your microbiology and then uptake into your plants. It's great. And frangipani. Oh I mean I just had a big whiff of it go
through my body when I said that. Another thing is as far as you know fermenting it and extracting that there's really kind of two ways to
ferment biomass and I think it's good to touch on it which is you know using sugar to extract it and make a concentrate with the biomass or
using let's say water and doing more of an herbal juice. And so we've we've touched on this in this in this in this discussion already but we
really we really prefer the juice the water version as opposed to the soil one. It does depend. I mean you may live in like in your area
near sugar cane or some kind of like sweet crop or something that you can use sugar really easily and it might be a crop. It might make a lot of
sense in your area. So once again you know farming is a bio regional thing and it really you can't say one thing for all areas. But in a lot of our
areas in the northern hemisphere you know sugar doesn't do well you know up here it doesn't grow. And in our bodies it's like a hot it's a hot
thing that goes through our body and it burns out quick. So we don't really want to use that. It's not good for our health. So when I'm
extracting with sugar and when it doesn't come from our area it doesn't make sense. We really want to try and make a tea that's from our area
which empowers us to not have to bring something from far away and using water and just chopping up your herbs and putting herbs in water and
letting them ferment and juice you know with the lactic acid bacteria mother culture and fermenting it and juice and then straining it out and
activating it is our favorite way to extract biomass. Yeah. And what Josh means by juice is the natural plant sugars that are already
present in the plant. And you know also the reference to hot you know sugar sugar is something that when you eat it in your body it creates
immediate energy. The energy is quick. It's fast. And then as we all know that's why people call it a sugar high because there's a downside to the
sugar high and microbiology has that same thing. So if you add a whole bunch of sugar to your tea brews it's going to spark an immediate
microbiological like effect that then burns out very quickly and maybe sugars are OK to add a tiny teeny tiny bit to maybe start spark that
microbiology. But you want your microbiology to be subsist off of the plant material and the plant sugars and the plant extracts that are already
within there. So you know we we don't utilize sugars in our tea brews because we really don't eat sugar in our home either. You know people
utilize some of these as an extract. I think that maybe it is it is a good idea if you have an opportunity to buy a product at a store or you have an
opportunity to make your own extract and concentrate from plants that are say seasonal and then you bring it to your indoor you know operation
then that makes a lot of sense because the more homemade things the better. But fresh is always going to be best. And we feel like utilizing the
plant sugars over any type of processed sugar is going to be the best. And also to interject here really quickly sugars are very different.
You know evaporated cane juice is very different than sugar. And you know you have to be very careful what you're eating and also what you're putting
in your tea brews. A beet sugar is a monosaccharide. You know your your microbiology doesn't recognize it. It just starts killing things. It's the
same within your body. So when you look at a label that just says sugar it's mostly going to be beet sugar because that's a GMO crop that they're
producing on a mass level. And it just produces a lot of candida and yeast things within our body and also within our soil. So looking up what a
polysaccharide is and the more saccharides that are in within a sugar is definitely what you're looking for because that's going to be a prebiotic to
certain types of organisms that are beneficial. And yeah cone is one thing that's came and that's come into our life which is from South
America. And it's a watery tuber and it's really really sweet. And it's a really really good companion plant. It aerates your soils and it's a really good
thing to use for. And a great prebiotic and also polysaccharide. It's high in inulin as opposed to insulin and it's just a prebiotic. It's a prebiotic for
good microbiology. Yes that's all really interesting stuff especially with that inulin comment. I've been looking into that a little more myself
recently. Something I wanted to ask about the evaporated cane sugar. This may feel like a little bit of a redundant question but I noticed it's in some of
your products. And so I guess the question is do you find like that's the one you would pick if you had to use one or is there something maybe a little
better. But you know for whatever reason you don't put that in the products like where do you sit on the sugars like which is your personal favorite.
Well we put that in our product because we know the source of that. And so the source is always really important. We know that that farm that makes
that sugar is of ups you know standing value. It's a smaller you know farm. It's a good product. It contains a lot of polysaccharides. It is from
cane sugar. And we put a tiny bit in there just to spark the microbiology to wake them up to then have them start eating the herbs. And that's exactly
what we do within our tea brews as well. But when you've got fresh plants then you're going to be having a lot more sugars that there's no need to add
any other extra sugar because we notice the microbiology is sparked up right away. But in our product there is dried you know herbs in there. So to spark
the microbiology immediately is a good idea. But you don't want them to sustain off of the sugars because then that's just creating
you want to use this thing on fungi that's pathogenic. The herbology that you put in there.
Yeah. Perfect. Makes sense. So if we just loop back to one or two questions ago when I was talking about the kind of the onus on the community to be you know
more solidified in a legal sense I guess. I just wanted to ask a few quick legal questions like I guess the most kind of relevant one to me is if you could
kind of just change one law or maybe a few which ultimately just kind of change one thing ultimately. What's the one thing that you feel is most
pertinent to get fixed or changed or whatever you know set right so to speak. I mean right off the bat I would love to see cannabis decriminalized and
not legalized because legalized means that you're immediately going to have rules and regulations and all different kinds of conference calls and
people and money and investors and corporations and big bucks and everything is coming in and it really has a negative connotation. But when you
decriminalize something that allows people to go on about their business and lots of herbs are you know decriminalized you can't really like go and make a
whole bunch of them or whatever you know say like poppy or something you can grow them in your garden and it's up to you as to what you want to do with
that. And just right off the bat. Did you. That's really you know radical. Did you mean agriculture laws. Yeah. Like anything really. I mean maybe
maybe a better example would be maybe something a little smaller than like a broad scale decriminalization like because I hear a lot of people
complain about lots of the smaller like kind of sub legalities of the legalization like whether it be limits on how much small producers can grow or
just you know like financial hurdles for certain people to get into the game. You know all those types of things. Yeah. Well I mean capping capping you
know the your farm canopy your canopy is I think is a great way. A great law because when you don't cap when you have a legalization structure and
you don't cap what farms can do then you just get crazy farms like in Canada and different places in California you get these farms that are like 20
acres and there are a million square feet and all of a sudden it's like how many million square feet companies do you need in a country or in a
legalized area. So I think capping it and having more farms is going to give more you know ability for more farms to grow. And really what we need
is and I think this is a problem in a lot of agriculture is is the corporatization of it and the mass scale of it all. I think we need a lot of smaller
farms producing more intentional products. And so I think that capping it would be one thing. Another thing with with as far as agriculture laws and
organics goes I mean I would like to see organic mean absolutely no chemicals used. And another one plastic mulch not allowed plastic mulch not
allowed with organic farming. Sorry it's not organic. Sorry organic. Not OK. Yeah. I mean every single year you're going to throw away your plastic
mulch because you can get your zucchini out two weeks earlier. Not a month earlier. Yeah. And so when you say that are you referring to kind of like that
shredded poly pipe stuff or more of like just a general plastic cover type of thing. It's a polypods we don't agree with either. It's a sheet of plastic that
goes over the ground that people utilize for weed control. It burns out any kind of weeds and seeds that is there. And also of course it's going to burn out a
tremendous amount of your microbiology. And also it makes the soil warmer and a lot of regions so that you can push a crop earlier earlier earlier
harvest out of it and it keeps the moisture in there. There's tractors that have you know giant rolls of plastic. I know I know people have to
acres there. They're there. Organic farmers have acres of of of earth covered in black plastic that's covering their mounds. And every year they
throw it away. And this is like this is the majority of the US is you know 88 percent of the organic market in the US comes from California alone.
And then like over 90 percent of that comes from like the Salinas County and you know all of that area and region and all of that is covered in black
plastic and they can still put an organic standard on it and they can use glyphosate as well.
Another thing I remember you specifically referencing Kelly was in one of the talks I saw on YouTube you mentioned that there's an increasing amount in
terms of say your percentage or composition of your products which can like be kind of ambiguously labeled or just blatantly not organic but still gets
that label. Do you think that that for example is kind of like the ultimate nail in the coffin for organic certifications and labeling.
It is. It definitely is. Yeah because you'll get farms that use things. Well OMRI is something in America that people use. North America. Yeah. And
they will use a product that's registered and then they'll find out that it wasn't even what was on the label. It was something that was a carrier in the
product in the liquid that maybe makes their their their product fail in a test. So that's that's kind of your big problem. And also the you know the fine
print you know will say that this product is registered for use in organic agriculture. It is not saying that it is organic. The language that is
utilized is utilized and geared towards big ag no matter what country that you're on. Department of Ag the EPA whatever your
standardization names are they're all under the same umbrella. And that's big agriculture big agriculture makes up those rules and regulations
and they're the ones that have all the way down to the labeling. I mean you would not believe we need to change our labels for every single state
like practically every other month because they because they can see toxicity levels. Well and they continue changing the language. We can no longer
utilize the term healthy on any of our labels because the term healthy implies that you have used a pesticide on the pesticide list. So if you
have a pesticide then you can say this pesticide will bring health to your garden. So they've taken away that ability for us to be able to use
language in a way that is actually educational. Labels are not education. We need to look further than labels to be able to get our education because
they're out there trying to trick us. And part of looking further is you know when you get organic liquid fertilizers of any kind liquid itself is a
problem. I have to have some type of stabilizer within that and a preservative that preserves it in order for it to not explode on the shelves. And
if it's not exploding on the shelves then how much is it really doing for your microbiology to begin with. Because microbiology has to live or it
dies. So different things that preserve liquid are a problem. Phosphoric acids and different things that can be in there. So you have to be you
have to be a little bit. You have to be aware of the companies. There's there's even different things in sprays and foliar sprays that that are in
the in there that are not on the label that can be a toxic residue on your plants later. And that's why we use only powders in our products because
then we put the power in the farmer's hand to make liquid out of it. And then you're not saying that we have everything in glass and not in plastic. So
there's no plastic garbage. And we encourage people you know to grow your own biomass and not buy our products. So that's the ultimate goal is that
everybody is closed loop and that you're creating your own nutrients. And wow that is just like the best middle finger in the world to big ag. There's no more
power than we have than to grow our own seeds and propagate our own vegetables and our own medicine on our farm with the nutrients that we grow there.
So if we just kind of reference the comments you made about encouraging people to close the loop where do you ultimately see Dragonfly Earth
Medicine if that were to happen for example let's just say you know there was a substantial number of pure farms and you know we had reached that goal.
Would you would you kind of launch Dragonfly as you know like a slightly different direction at that point or do you think there would still be a need for it in the way it
currently operates so to speak.
I mean you know Dragonfly I guess a lot like the species we're just all over the place. We feel like education is number one. And you know we're farmers
first and we came up with our products after we were farmers for 20 years you know. And then then the education started sparking out because we came out of the
closet and we realized wow we're doing things really different than everybody else because we had to hike you know seven hours out into the bush or a two hour
hike straight up the mountain you know from our property. We weren't able to bring anything. And because we didn't share with other community cannabis
members or anything we didn't know that we were that different. So when we came out of the closet we started thinking wow this is actually really unique and we
maybe have something to share with the rest of the community. And it turns out that people all over the world are hungry for this knowledge. And it's not even
really that we're teaching people. We're just reminding our basic human instinct of our relationship to the earth.
And as far as Dragonfly and Dragonfly Earth Medicine in the world and as we're really proud of our products and they do we feel like they'll always have a
place because there's always going to be someone on earth or in a place that you know doesn't live near biomass or or even farms that we work with.
We'll use the products because it makes a really quick and nice and easy tea so it's not safe and it's easy and you can do it. The plants respond to it
right away. So we see our products as timeless. We have human health products as well. You know our raw cacao. And so are that part of our way.
And we've never taken you know we've never done marketing with with with any of our business either. So we've taken this unique stance of showing a
lifestyle and having you know products as well. So we will always be connecting with farmers in the world. And that's that's I think our true love.
Our true love is is homesteading and working with raw materials and and building and doing timber framing or or or or midwifery. It's a home birth or
or gardening. And I'm on that level. We always want to expand with that kind of direct contact with farmers.
And at the end of the day you know if the business fails and you know it all goes to hell in a handbasket we're just going to be humble farmers because that's what we do.
So I'll be helping catch babies and we'll be humble farmers because that's our true love and everything else is sparked off of that.
Well it's a good thing I don't think that'll happen. But one thing I did want to specifically inquire into is will there ever be a point where you know dragonflies seeds will be commercially
available for people to buy.
An interesting question about seeds is that the answer is we don't know because we've been giving away our seeds and we give them away to people that we see and we never felt like you could put a monetary number on a seed.
So it's really interesting that it involves ethics and involves you know getting it out there to the public. It involves exchange between two people. There's so much you know with seeds. It's it's it's sort of the essence of of all of this.
And we've always just given them away. So we don't really know what's going to happen. We've just been breeders because that's part of our closed loop and we're breeders because we didn't have tests
you know and and facilities to be able to tell us. So we went off of smell. We went off of how it made you feel. And now we've been breeding for almost 25 years now off of what it made us feel. And now those genetics are being tested
and they're awesome. So here's a really beautiful you know focus on intuition then matching science and maybe the intuition was always right. I know I'm going off of subject here with the seed.
We've definitely you know we like we have seen our seeds grow in a lot of different environments and we've gotten a lot of feedback from people that have gotten our seeds and there really is a really strong vigor that goes through the seeds are like the first ones to pop and they'll be you know big leaves and everything. So I mean what we can say is we will always breed. We always will be making seeds if if it does become available to the world is because all of a sudden there's so much more to it.
There's this crazy world demand. But but for now it's just it's just a labor of love and anyone who comes in contact with us we are pretty damn generous about it. So it feels good to exchange. Yeah of course. And so if we kind of look at your specific situation I know that you guys do all your breeding outdoors and you don't use clones or anything. One of our viewers had submitted the question of wanting to know do you feel like that makes your breeding a little harder in that you know.
Sorry I keep saying you know it's such a pet peeve of mine I'll cut that out. But basically they were wondering do you feel like it limits you in that because you've got a male outside there's say you wanted to do a few different projects you may not be able to do as many as you wanted because you have to be mindful of you know the pollen may carry and we only want to do so many and not risk having too many males around. Is that something which ever goes through your mind or is it's just not actually like that in reality.
No we feel like the best breeding is done in nature and that's just been proven you know to do fast cycle breeding is not something that we want to do because we want to see the full expression of the plant. We want to see it from seed all the way through. And we do take cuttings sometimes we do take a cutting off of like if we have a bunch of plants and we're growing them out long season and we've got one that's like oh my goodness this one is so beautiful we're going to have to keep it.
We don't even think about keeping it until the very end maybe when we're harvesting it you know so that will be like an extenuating circumstance but some of our breeding has come off of that but long season you know when we call it an F1 it's a true F1 that's a full year.
Well I mean for sure you know if you're going to start a genetics company you know I wouldn't necessarily do it the way we did it. I mean we're doing it because yeah you could get you know you could stabilize a strain you know technically you know by you know doing it five or seven you know generations which no one does but you know so yeah.
Well we've gotten to 12 and it's still not stable.
Of course if you're going to start a genetics company you know you can get a lot more out of it but I will say this I mean our breeding is a labor of love and it's an expression of ourself and we think that there's an incredible amount of strength that comes from breeding underneath the sun and we've grown seeds from other people that grow underneath the sun and we've seen that within other people's genetics as well.
And so you know we feel like there's an incredible vigor that comes from creating seeds outdoors and we put a lot of intention into you know choosing the right male and we grow that male outside you know all the way out until the very end and then we bring it inside like the room of our house in order to keep the pollen from going all over the property.
But yes we think that it's a good way to breed because we've seen a lot of good results from it.
And then when you get our seeds and our genetics it's a full expression of our microbiome here on our farm.
It's a full expression of the flowers and the plants that we grow here.
Yeah well I think that's probably why the seeds are so healthy because there's certainly an increasing demand I should say for seeds produced by growers slash breeders who are breeding in you know as much of an organic environment as possible because you can kind of see you know the seeds come out really healthy.
But I wanted to ask one other quick question about in regards to you said if it's a keeper you know you want to hang on to it.
Does that I mean I guess the implication is you re-veg it.
Do you find that that re-vegging process is detrimental at all or not after you've got it back to where it needs to be?
No we haven't seen that you know a really really beautiful healthy plant can definitely produce a healthy clone.
Zellies gift is a plant that we cloned in 2014 and it's still going really strong for a lot of people.
So the initial stages of cloning you know a flowering I mean the Zellies gift we cloned it the day we harvested it.
So when we then these were big plants these were like you know 10 10 12 foot plants that we're that we're talking about.
And on the inside part of the plants there's a lot of you know inner branches that will leave some of those inner branches on the inside part of the plant during the flowering phase and not we won't clear out everything in there.
Just in case we do find a plant that's just like amazing and then we can clone it.
So it's not like you're cloning like a bud.
You know you're cloning like an inner branch that has less of a bud head on it and has a little bit more leaf matter on it and that's going to be you know way more likely to re-vegetate.
So you have to have a little bit more patience with it you know it's not going to be like a typical clone that you're getting off the end of the marist stem you know of the plant.
And also you know you can get a clone.
We've noticed we've gotten clones before and then if we put them in a full outdoor cycle then it really rejuvenates the clone.
You know so many of our genetics are getting either watered out or we're losing the vitality of the genetics both with inner breeding and also just over breeding.
And if you have an amazing clone that you just love to bring it outside and let it go full season and then re-clone it you're really going to reinvigorate that strain and we've done it over and over again.
We've even taken like a clone that tests out something and then put it into the ground and had a full season and then it tests out something totally different.
So you know that's where we were talking at the very beginning that microbiology does have a tremendous amount to do with the health and vitality cannabinoid ratio cannabinoid profile terpene profile.
And another thing is you know we would never grow a feminized seed.
We just don't believe in feminizing seeds and we don't smoke tobacco around our plants.
I don't have a problem with tobacco and people smoking it.
It's not healthy to have tobacco smoke around you know cannabis plants in there.
And you know you have to be careful with you know just breeding and breeders and knowing your breeders and knowing you know what kind of environment it's you know being grown in because the plant is up taking like information as it's growing.
And when it's growing in a totally healthy environment the information that it's up taking is just full happiness full expression no barriers.
So a question that we kind of normally start the interview off but I mean we were having so much fun talking about other stuff we didn't get to it so let's go back.
What was your guys first introduction to cannabis?
Well mine was in the formation of my seed and creation.
So my very creation on earth has been me being surrounded by cannabis.
So my connection was being born into it and I really have always felt really a beautiful connection to it.
It's always been you know good quality around and it's it's it's always something I felt really called to and connected with in my life.
And Josh is from Southern Oregon.
So you know one of the weed capitals of the world.
And it's just yeah.
Yeah.
So I add that.
Yeah.
Forget it.
It's been a huge part of my life and I feel really blessed to be able to have such a you know to still have such a connection with it and stuff and everything.
So it's multi generational and even for you know our kid too and and his partner the Snodgrass family.
And my my connection to it was I was definitely not born into it.
Quite the opposite.
You know family that believed in the just say no campaign you know was real.
And you know anything outside of you know copious amounts of alcohol you know shouldn't be done.
And so I was raised in a very conservative family Catholic you know just all of sort of the pointing fingers at what to do and what not to do.
And I tried my very first joint that worked.
I think I had to try it a couple of times.
But the first joint that worked was actually up on top of a mountaintop skiing backcountry with eight of my really good friends.
And I got high for the very first time when I was 16 and it was a whiteout and I had to get down the mountain with all of these amazing hot shots.
And I just thought had I not been totally baked I would have never gotten down the mountain.
So immediately I had a relationship with it.
And then from there I worked in 1988 up in Alaska and I was blessed to work with a man called Johnny Appleseed who literally during festivals and midsummer would drop cannabis seeds out of his airplane.
The Matanuska Thunderfuck.
Yeah the Matanuska Thunderfuck which was the original.
Alaskan bush weed that was awesome and super flavorful.
Yeah and he did a lot of his cultivation practices were then what I took on later on in my life.
But that was my initial introduction and I just started working there almost full time around the clock in a big cannabis field when I had just turned 18.
And luckily.
And then it's never ended.
Yeah luckily Kelly and I we've been together for 25 years now.
We got together when we were really young.
27 now.
And you know we have a 21 year old son now and we've you know it's just been a part of our whole entire life.
And it's given us that's why we have so much respect for it.
We feel like it's given us you know everything that we have essentially.
And I feel like you know just first being introduced to cannabis then it opened up my eyes to the whole cannabis culture and for the first time I felt a belonging.
I felt like you know I went to my first Grateful Dead show when I was 17 years old in 1986 Alpine Valley and I was immediately around all of that culture.
And for the first time I felt family.
So not only has cannabis given me a tremendous amount of education and health but it's also given me family.
Wow that's an amazing answer.
This is a quick little side point that may upset some of my close friends.
Do you agree that the dead fell off in like 90?
90 onwards so to speak?
The dead fell off when Jerry died.
Yeah.
That's just that's when we moved up to Canada.
When you say the dead fell off in 90 that means that you love Brent.
Yeah.
Really you should love Brent because there was like a fire that happened within the band when Brent was around and that's just a real thing.
And it had a lot to do with crosstops and really strong LSD as well.
So you know as the drugs changed things changed as well.
But as far as the culture of traveling and being like what the dead represented which was more than music I mean for sure that did nothing happen to that.
It only got more strong and all the way.
We would have never moved to British Columbia if it wasn't for Jerry.
And honestly I was able I made my way through university by swinging kind buds at dead shows.
That's how it all happened for me.
So I have a double major in university and almost a master's because you know cannabis gave me that at a very young age.
Fantastic.
And did you have any of the kind of how should I say like deeply meaningful experiences which so many people say they have had at the dead shows or was it as you said more of just like a welcoming community and things like that.
I mean there's no other church.
Absolutely.
Jerry just going off and the whole crowd elevating a foot off of where they're standing and every single person having an unbelievable group experience of total oneness.
You know I have yet to experience that at any other place.
And you know that goes into all of our psychedelic use that we have taken on throughout our adult life as well.
You know all of them very important but there was something about sharing that experience and that high with the same like minded people.
Yeah I mean there's nothing more.
We've had the most mind blowing you know transforming experiences that Grateful Dead shows and then it just goes into the parking lot afterwards and there was camping afterwards.
And there was no Internet at the time and people weren't just like buried into their phones and stuff instead they're buried into like their each other and hacky sacks and guitars and drums and drum circles and disco buses.
And you know you would get to like know people and you would hear about people communes and people living a certain way and you would.
And it was the most amazing thing in the world and a lot of the Grateful Dead family are still really really close with us and we're really blessed to have a close relationship with a lot of them.
They live in Eugene and in Oakland and stuff and we have a lot of respect for them.
Huge amount of love huge love big love to the Merry Pranksters and and Mountain Girl and every everything that the whole family has done and still do they still rock our community with love.
Those are our elders.
Those are our elders.
That's when we were saying at the beginning you know we really don't feel like we're elders in this community.
Those are the real elders.
Those are the ones who are in the 70s that you know helped bring this plant forward.
You know Mountain Girl she wrote one of the first cannabis books out there that are totally relevant.
You know the primo plant today and those are our real you know teachers and guides that have helped us catapult forward to then catapult into the next generation.
Yeah I was about to say wow it's been a minute since I heard of the Merry Pranksters.
So I guess with that all being said at what point did you kind of have the initial thoughts to start Dragonfly and what was the ultimate catalyst?
Well we we moved to another country in 98 and lived the way that we lived for a really long time and we got we became citizens of this country through doing imports from Indonesia and then that we started transforming out of that after you know a while and started feeling like we were a family.
We really wanted to do a service you know to the earth and a service that really represented our lifestyle and it became you know and by 2007 we formed Dragonfly Earth Medicine as a representation of our lifestyle.
Yeah and I think that also as a representation of our direct you know of our recipes.
So it was the first time that we were able to share our recipes and it didn't start out that we just had Dragonfly Earth Medicine it started out that we were just making a ton of stuff for all of our friends and then they were getting it from us and oh my God you guys this stuff is so amazing and you know teaching them how to grow it and then them drying it out and then you know taking all of the different herbal concoctions and then it really became about sharing our recipes and we're working on a book now.
It's been several years working on it's just getting bigger and bigger and bigger because there's so much information but it is it's really that same thing it's sharing the recipes of our life and of our cultivation practices.
That's a really good answer and so something which a lot of people have asked us questions about is your recent trip to Jamaica and you referenced it earlier but I wanted to do a whole bunch of questions on this.
I figured we'd kind of dedicate a little block to it.
First of all what was the I guess you know the inspiration to do the Jamaica trip?
The inspiration was we had been reached out to by certain parts of the community and you know they had to come out and to collaborate with them and work with them on their project and so.
And they were needing you know some help and some some ideas and some changes they wanted to make changes to become you know more closed loop and they had been asking us for you know maybe a whole year to come out and we finally said yeah okay we'll do it now and that's just sort of how it all began.
And it was an opportunity for us to bring together our community and theirs and for us to learn from their community and from us to and for us to teach them you know from our community you know things that we had learned and stuff so it was we felt like it was a really beautiful information exchange.
Yeah and so when you got there what were kind of the first or I shouldn't say with the first like what were some of the initial styles of gardening slash principles slash methodologies however you want to classify it.
What were the main tools you used when you were kind of revitalizing the land?
It's from from a third from like an outside of point of view it looked like you were using kind of you know the use of IMO some kind of KNF style principles is that how you would describe it or how would you describe what you did essentially?
Yeah well it's the same you know you just go into an area and you just try to figure out.
Doing a lot of really good practices on the property and building soils and stuff and when we got there we were able to you know continue the work and and connect more with the surroundings and you know using a chipper was a big part of it you know.
Yeah and just seeing what was available in and around the property and what it is that they had available so you know we had talked to them at the beginning and they had gotten a chipper you know and we just started you know talking about you know what type of ratios of chipping that you can utilize and you know within two to three days we had massive piles of soil that we just planted directly into.
And it's amazing how when you just utilize what is there around you it's great to go to the tropics too because it's a whole different like reality of what we deal with up here but really it's the same in that you just look at the biomass that's available but there's not like a lot of earthworms there you know when you go to tropical climates you're you're dealing with massive amounts of microbiology you know tropical regions.
You know rejuvenate themselves so quickly you know jungles are just eating themselves and regrowing themselves you know so quickly and in Jamaica really has like that jungle feeling so the microbiology is so much you know finding indigenous microorganisms is like if they're everywhere you put something down on the ground you add a little bit of water to it and it's going to disintegrate within a day.
So what kind of things could you lay on top of the ground that could become soil really quickly and we just sort of got into the brain of the microbiology there and went well yeah I mean for example I think a regular bale of peat moss like a four cubic yard bale of peat moss is like $70 or something it's like some crazy amount of money you know what I mean.
So you really can't take the mentality of oh I'm going to make soil for you know a ganja garden or something or you know buy it from the store type thing so you know you could get a bale or have a couple bales and then you might maybe want to like you know extend that as much as possible.
So one thing is we started digging around on the property and saw other areas on the property that were dug out from greenhouses and stuff and we started realizing you know on the property what parts of it had really good deposits of earth.
So there was I mean like soil usable soil some of it was kind of like clayish and had like a tendency to want to bind together but so what we did is we just would take wheelbarrows of that and just start mixing it you know with the biomass that we were collecting from different places and we were basically aerating it.
Aerating it with biomass and stuff so it was it was a hands-on collection and we walked around with the you know with the people from the friends from the village and and we really connected with what vegetation you know was good to use and we would reach our hands into the ground and see what kind of you know dirt there was an earth and we would see how we could bring that up and propagate it and stuff so that that was our you know that was how it started.
This is an example of really a lot of the island being full of a lot of clay very hard stuff to be able to work with and just getting out of the mindset that you have to go in the ground you know that you can come up and out of the ground and that soil is available everywhere you look because things grow so voraciously everywhere.
You know the same as in Australia there's so many northern regions and areas that things are just growing so much that is your soil and if we start looking at what is above is below then it it just makes it really easy to adapt to garden very quickly even if you don't understand the surroundings or you don't even know the vegetation.
Yeah yeah some really pertinent points there. One thing I personally noticed from the the images that I saw on your Instagram for example was that the soil itself didn't look all that aesthetically pleasing especially if you come from like an indoor setting where you know it looks all nice and homogenous however you couldn't deny like what you said you know they're planting straight into it there was no issues all that type of thing.
What I ultimately am interested in though is how do you think that soil would have ultimately compared like do you think that it was kind of like you are making the situation work but at the same time there's kind of you know a bit of a honest truth that you know maybe it's not going to perform as well as the peat but you know given the situation the cost all the rest it's clearly the superior option.
Well it's definitely clearly the superior option no matter what even if I had available soil to be buying from the store what we were making.
If it comes in a bag.
On that land was absolutely superior. And I mean if you look at the whole island of Jamaica I mean you know there's a lot of different kinds of soil on the island there's red soil there's black soil there's hard soil and stuff so it is extremely dependent on where you are.
And it's amazing you know when you go to even Hawaii and different places you know there's the red dirt is an incredible dirt that grows you know plants amazingly so really you can't really go on visual what you really need to have in there once we what we say all the time is just biomass.
So I mean that's how we're aerating the soils and that's how we're attracting more worms. There wasn't there was worms around but there wasn't a ton so we were trying to like just gather them from wherever we we found it.
But you find that it's they're not the big digesters you know of soil the big digesters is the microbiology in the soil.
So the soil that we were digging up in the soil that we made we made a whole batch of soil you know within the first week that we were there and planted seeds that we brought in that soil and you know we had gone on some other farm tours and went around and but we got to see those seeds germinate out of the soil that we made and got to see the health of the seeds and stuff so I do believe that you know the soil was really really powerful and good.
Yeah that's awesome to hear so you I mean you just tapped on the genetics point the question I have is because I've seen other other people go to Jamaica most notably Sonic Seeds a UK based breeder he's been there and done a bit of a land race hunt type of thing and obviously you would have been exposed to different genetics on the island.
What did you see when you were there because a lot of what people say is like it's a lot of really acclimatized Dutch stuff from years gone by and that the general consensus is there's not really any pure land race anymore would you agree with that?
Yes definitely as far as like climatized I don't know I don't we didn't really see too many climatized patches you know they're all really short and there's even an eight week can be flowering out in five weeks it forms the tiniest little bud on it you know it's not something that's all hybrids that you know have a lot of maybe the high Himalayan cold climate.
Northern Cali or European strain.
I wouldn't say Dutch, all Dutch I mean there's a lot of California influence in there for sure I mean there's you know I'm not I have no idea about percentage wise and stuff but I would say that we found with the Jamaican farmers that you know they were very similar to any one of us who really want the best flavor and the newest genetic and the newest you know best crystals and hash making things so over the years they've met people who are really interested in that.
But the focus.
Over the years they've met people and people have come to the island and they've you know would be gifted or something and so what you find when you go to the farms is a lot of small plants which are mostly hybrid from a lot of years of people you know yeah breeding from other places in the world and it's really you know there is that farm or that place that has land race and if they're off the beaten track and you know it's really not a big deal.
You know it's really not a sought after thing on the island really because it of you know what they they feel like they can grow now let's say.
And we we felt like it was really important you know that that the genetics that we brought there were very thought out and we brought genetics you know from Bodie and from coastal seeds and Bob Penn pill you know that were climatized that were more like Thai varieties that we know that maybe they could start interbreeding and trying to find you know a biologically intelligent tall long flowering because anywhere you go.
You know it's a 12 12 and that's the genetics that we you know search for in our realms is that you know two month eight week plant.
But when you're there you know you put out a really small plant and immediately just starts flowering you're not going to be able to number one it's not going to reach the full potential.
I mean waste if you're lucky we saw you know whole fields of just like me high and it's because these these plants don't have the intelligence of a 12 12 cycle they don't have the intelligence of an equatorial you know region either.
So get a really sweet producing sativa that does take longer it makes their plants you know bigger and nice and really expressive.
I mean you know that's so that was a big thing.
Yeah we went and talked a lot about breeding and went and talked to a lot of breeders a lot of open breeding happening by a lot of farmers where you know they just let you know a few males you know pollinate gardens in certain areas and stuff.
So you know that is a really good way of breeding from from their point of view and it gets a lot of different flavors and their flavors are all you know they get through them they sell them and do it you know it's so it works in that climate.
But yeah.
So like when on the island itself if you had to take a guess does kind of marijuana make up a large part of the economy or it's relatively a smaller part nowadays like is it a big thing for him.
Well back in the 80s it was huge.
And you know they were cutting out swaths of jungle and landing you know big airplanes and then all of that you know gone Joe was brought out all over Europe especially UK and Holland and all of that and then turned into hash.
So there was a really huge economy for you know weed growers on that island because not only did they have the culture of weed but they also had the know how how to grow it and it was really good and they were already growing you know pretty large amounts of it.
So for them to be able to expand was really easy but now they're seeing the same thing as the whole cannabis industry you know anywhere that it's been legalized you know with legalization comes regulations that then make it really difficult to be able to have an economy off of that.
So now all of a sudden through legalization you know they're keeping all of their weed in her island and there's not enough people you know.
Well and they're looking to be able to get it out for sure.
But that's a whole other conversation with pharmaceutical companies.
I mean you know every for sure.
For sure most people grow I mean smoke cannabis on the island and you know it's it's everyone smoking ganja and it's not a thing at all to worry about and it's it's definitely a huge part of the thing.
It's not valuable on the island.
I mean it's it's valuable.
I'm not saying you know there's there's farmers and they and they sell it.
They make money.
You know it's it's it's it's inexpensive you know on the island type thing.
So it's you know to make a lot of.
So I'd say it seems like cannabis is definitely in a really big transformation in on Jamaica because of of legalization like Kelly said.
But with legalization is becoming international.
You know farming is what you're starting to see on Jamaica and other countries.
And I think Jamaica's big you know goal or thing in life is I mean they've helped bring cannabis culture to the world through their practices and through their love of Rastafari and reggae music.
And so they want to still save their culture and save their farms and their way of life and growing.
And they they do want to see legalization but they to see legalization meaning a bunch of international companies coming in and using their island to grow a bunch of weed like say for example Canadian companies could potentially are you know working in Jamaica right now.
And a lot of weed on Jamaica really to be valuable has been exported over the years even in the 80s.
So now that export market is now transforming to a legalization market.
And you know I think that there's a there's a cultural thing at stake there and I think they really want to save their culture.
And there's also a health stake there you know.
So these large can't corporate cannabis are coming to the island you know not to spread doom and gloom but to give people an education out there.
We think that it's totally imperative once it becomes federally legal then there's a play in the international market with all other federally legal countries.
And then all of a sudden now it becomes pharmaceutical.
So it's going to be really easy for large pharmaceutical companies to to to partner with large cannabis companies and those large cannabis companies not even grow the cannabis because they'll get cheaper cannabis with the labor.
And also you know the dollar exchange in Jamaica or say in Colombia you know the cut flower market is a huge industry.
And now the cannabis big corporate cannabis is starting to have massive takeovers in Colombia and in Brazil.
I mean most of the farms we visited in Jamaica even you know ones that were like roots farms that have been growing for a long time had been visited by these international companies that we're talking.
Yeah this is happening.
We go there this winter and as of us going there this winter all of the farmers have been visited by international companies.
I mean that's that's a that's kind of a generalized statement but that's that's what we found is that they've been and they want to make deals with.
And they and they say that you know they don't care how it's grown and other countries don't have the same restrictions with pesticides and with fertilizers and with herbicides and fungicides and on and on.
So that it opens up and it opens that they either irradiated or they say they're going to wash it with petrochemical solvents and then they think that they're washing out all of you know any pathogens or purities that are on there.
It's a really big conversation you know this could be a whole other podcast that we do.
Yeah well I mean the exact same thing is happening in Australia in regards to the international you know kind of companies moving in and doing their bit.
But something I would love to ask first though is do you think part of this problem arises from the increasing demand from the consumer market for concentrates or products which derive from concentrates and thus you know there's maybe not demand but for example the stat I heard was that something like 50% of all cannabis sales in the States are related to like vape pens or car trademarks.
Or like something along that line and if it's true it just goes to show yeah like there's just an exponential growth in the demand for these cartridges and so do you think that's a problem because it facilitates you know like just these kind of you know shady concentrate deals going on?
Well there's that's a whole other conversation too as far as like concentrates and the cleanliness of concentrates and the importance of the cleanliness of concentrates because it's not just a concentrate it actually has the name of what it is.
You're literally concentrating everything that's in that flower you know so utmost respect for cultivation practices all the way through is imperative for concentrates.
And then to look at your other question about it taking over the large market is that you know now that pharmaceutical companies are going to be entering into the cannabis market of course they're going to be concentrating it.
They're going to be getting a product that has the same exact cannabinoid ratio no matter how or where they put it out and it is a way of dosaging and it's something that they understand.
That's not you know it's taking it out of sort of the organic you know world that we know of looking at flowers now it's going to be you know going into different types of supplements and in all different types of you know pills and caps worldwide.
So that's definitely going to take up the majority of the market.
I think that you're right to say that you know the demand of the people to buy oils is part of it and it's driven you know farms to make concentrates and it's a convenience thing you know it's not as smoky and everything.
So what you find when you talk to dispensaries and you talk to you know who's the you know the people that are buying in the dispensaries they want something super easy that they can drive around in their car with and stuff.
So there is an ease that comes to you know having a pen pre-rolls is another thing that sells you know really really well in dispensaries which I think is another thing of ease.
You know it's just easy to get pre-rolls and stuff and you know it's always a better high I think in a lot of ways to have like the full flower and I think that from a farmer's point of view I think it's almost good with the concentrates in a way because you don't have to grow all clones you can grow you know a bunch of seeds, seed plants and have different varieties and then do batches of your flower and make a good oil batch and it's going to be all that.
You know number and everything so number of cannabinoids and everything so I mean it's kind of an amazing question you know that you know on which one came first essentially.
Yeah and so what do you think then is the necessary steps for us as either a community or just as a scene so to speak to get things back on track and do you think that it's a knee-jerk reaction to say just try to push people to go back to flower?
I think the most important thing that we can push people to is know your farmer the most important thing and understand where your flowers are coming from understand where you know what dispensary that you want to go to what breeder that you're working with you know really finding out and understanding their practices.
An extraction company you're using you know and what so I know we're not saying everyone should only smoke flower you know we only smoke flower and we have some you know really amazing you know extract companies that we work with.
We work with Ice Water Hush too.
Yeah well I mean there's some really really good good companies out there that do extracting and stuff but so what we want to say is you know yeah it's totally it's totally fine to use but we don't we as a certification and as a community we don't use any petrochemicals when we extract our materials.
So that's what's really really important to us and I think that customers and people that are out there that are consumers should ask you know what did it come from was it made from propane or butane and then or hexane even that white powder CBD that you're talking about is a hexane product and those are just coming from petrochemical companies and they're just coming from from sources that we just don't want to be involved in.
Which goes back to what you were talking about with animal products it's the same reason it's the source of what happens within the animal product industry the source of what happens within the petrochemical industry as well as the final product.
So you know all things need to be looked at and unfortunately you know education is paramount.
How are we going to share education with each other in the importance of being really open and that hopefully dispensary is getting more on their game and that you know more growers are getting more on their game because it's really important because so many of the people that are going to be listening to this podcast and us having this conversation you know we're a different group of cannabis enthusiasts of cannabis cultivators of cannabis you know business people.
Then the other side that I'm talking about with this massive cannabis corporate model that is the other side of cannabis so it's so important to have education on this side so that we can share and really get the message out.
Yeah 100% and so this is a bit of a doom and gloom question but what's your prediction for what would happen to the high-end market so to speak if all of the small producers were kind of pushed out phased out whatever you want to call it.
Well what you're going to get is a bunch of irradiated weed.
What you're going to get is you're going to get basically the same thing as going and buying packaged processed food.
So by pushing out the small farmer you're pushing out the intention and that'll never happen anyway.
There will be a resurgence no matter what right now is a hard time but a lot of the true sole growers you know already had their properties and are trying to navigate their way through.
And I think that you're going to just like craft beer and craft wine and craft food you know you're going to find you know regions where it still works to have small farms and the small farms are just going to have such unique flavors and such unique strains that you know those mass-produced farms will they'll never be able to produce that.
I mean the large automated farms that are happening up in Canada are talking about being no people grow the weed.
It's all automated the whole entire thing that all the watering all the spraying all even the harvesting is it's done like robotically.
And I'd like to think I'd like to think that you know the cannabis plant you know has her own intelligence.
And the reason why I say she is it's just a feminine energy plant.
It doesn't mean that there aren't males and females.
But you know she will probably I hope have the last laugh because we're learning that the happier she is and the more grown with better intention and in you know beautiful soils.
She's going to produce the well-rounded cannabinoid profile that really puts out the medicine that science is going to soon come to.
It's what we as old school growers already understand.
We know what strains made you feel good.
We knew what was going on already before.
So if we can just keep that intention moving forward then the voice of the plant will continue to be moving forward.
And I just hope that the same thing won't happen to this sentient being that has happened to tobacco.
You know tobacco is a plant and it's been taken over by corporate tobacco.
But in everybody wants to maybe deem it and say that it's bad but it has such a sacred amazing master special plant medicine for the rest of you know the world.
And I just am hoping that through science and through our intuitive processes bringing it forward that the plant will have the last laugh and she will demand to be grown in a way that is respectful.
Yeah and it's in a soulful living soil you're going to find more diverse cannabinoids so they'll never be able to produce that.
Yeah of course.
So with all of that being said though do you ever foresee maybe a bigger facility or operation adopting approach similar or maybe even the complete pure certification?
Oh yeah we have just large dispense I mean large facilities.
You know Green Life Productions in Nevada is an indoor operation that does fully no till soils and has expanded in a hard market.
That's you know they're one of the only organic cultivators in all of Nevada.
So that's one example and you know there's a lot of examples in Colorado and Oregon California that we work with that have adopted it.
We work with really large facilities and turning over that you know the idea of just all bottled nutrients and NPK ratios and sort of dead soil and growing plants that really don't have the liveliness that the market is looking for.
And also we're going to be coming becoming smarter as consumers.
You know we're going to start having an idea you know as a larger group of consumers of what makes us feel good.
Oh yeah that made me feel really good I had a great day on that.
And oh what was that and that's going to start you know more and more conversations for people.
We're working behind the scenes with you know facilities all over the place.
I mean really over the last 10 years I mean we've talked to you know seems like you know a whole hell of a lot of people.
And there and there's more you know coming in and different states are still opening up and different places in the world are still opening up.
So we've always offered ourselves you know for for you know information and how to.
So you know whether they're a pure farm or not you know they may have taken on some of the practices that we're that we're working on.
Yeah of course.
And I think that's maybe more of a realistic end goal anyway right.
If everyone could adopt most of it rather than expecting.
Yeah I mean you know yeah I mean once again you know we we never claimed you know there's a lot of the people make it what it is.
You know all the farms are so unique and stuff and everyone brings something unique to the table.
And you know there's the regenerative farm award and permaculture institute in a high tie permaculture different people that are doing amazing work on farms and and helping people adapt their farm to natural cycles.
And you know it's it's it's really an amazing expansion of consciousness right now that's it's really amazing to be a part of and to watch.
And we get people you know emailing us all the time that talk about you know us and this changing their life and and just us talking about the things that we talk about them you know opening their eyes to like making changes on so many different levels.
So there's been amazing you know positive feedback from it.
And just the each one teach one you know when you go out and educate a group of people and those whole group of people are then going to educate other groups of people that can then educate other groups of people.
And we just feel like free it up free up the knowledge and we're never going to be those people that are like this is the way to do it and this is the only way to do it.
There's so many different ways to do it to where you're practicing conscious cannabis.
And I think that you know any any way that works for you and your environment whether it be indoor whether it be outdoor how you know whether you're up in Antarctica or whether you're in the tropics or wherever you are cultivating your cannabis just do it in a conscious way.
And that is going to get out better education to the people that then utilize your product because we're the shamans of this medicine we're affecting somebody's day you affect their life you could be affecting their health you're affecting their family.
It's so important to have that feeling of every single flower that you touch and every single plant that you grow that that is going to have an effect on somebody else's life.
And that's what real conscious cultivation is about so important.
Yeah of course.
And so if we just look back for just two seconds to how we were talking about the automation that's going on in Canada kind of you know on that same train of thought.
How do you feel about certain types of automation.
I mean the one I'm most most interested in is like the automated watering systems like you know the blue mat or the floor of flex.
I'm not sure if those are the brands in America.
Those are the major ones in Australia.
But essentially is this a type of technology you advocate for or do you feel like it's kind of removing a certain level of connection with the plant when you say hand water.
We advocate for more mulch and hand watering.
You know I mean I'm not going to say that you know having one of those systems doesn't doesn't work because it does.
It works.
And if you can't be there and you really want to have a garden I mean use one.
You know what I mean.
It's just involving more plastic into your gardens as well and how your teas and what they're running through and all of that stuff all the way down over time.
And then really you think that you might be helping yourself but how many times do you have to fix that system and then order out parts for that system.
It is like oh God.
There's a lot of pathogens that build up in the hoses too that you have to be careful of.
So and it's taking away that human interaction with the plant and anyone who is out there and is a cultivator totally understands what that is.
You know you can have an ailing plant or a garden and all you do is just give it some attention by giving it good energy and it turns everything around.
I mean you know sometimes that's not enough.
Of course you have to go you know into the deep dredges of education and try to figure it out.
But oftentimes just giving good good energy is enough.
So if we're going to become you know automated the more and more automated that we become the less and less that we're having an interaction with the soil.
And this is why we choose to build you know soil the way we do.
You know like whether it's an indoor bed and you keep you know wood chips in the bottom of it to keep soil down there or you know cover the sides to keep you know the humidity in there.
You whether you're outside and you use rocks like thin rocks across the top where you use like a rock mulch.
You know there's there's a lot of ways to keep the water in there and just using.
We've never used one of those systems and one of the reasons is it's kind of a shallow watering.
Yeah you know water it's and it does keep biology nice when it's always wet and there's you know there's a lot of reasons why it can make sense.
But from our point of view you know deep watering you know gets it you know to the lower parts of the roots and that really gives a true watering to the root system.
And when you start getting down into the sub layers of your soil that's a lot where the clay is and the minerals are.
And then your plant has the ability to sort of break down those you know when you have really long tap roots and you're you know planting them into the earth.
You're going to want a deep water because you don't want your plants just to have shallow roots and then a big wind comes along and then you're done with.
So you know deep watering has a lot of values more than just you know a system or whether it's easier.
And we don't use a lot of trellis you know systems on our plants.
We let them blow around in the wind and having you know a more saturated root system that has you know more ability to to give it's you know stock strength and to give you know the lateral capillaries and the branches you know more strength and stuff without we believe.
To grow you know you have to think of everything.
So we we look at our soils and we build our soils in a way that that we it's going to enhance our watering for the season.
You know it's kind of it's not just putting a soil mixture together and hoping it's going to like hold water for the season.
We got way off track on your question but.
No that's good because I got another one related to exactly that.
So what I wanted to know was is you know if you could kind of choose so to speak do you prefer your soil to be like more of a water retaining soil or would you prefer to water more frequently because it kind of you know it's it's dries out a bit quicker.
Well less frequently is better because your microbiology is giving a chance to be able to colonize.
And when you have soil that doesn't hold any water then when you water it it's you're actually losing your microbiology there out of the bottom of your pot or into your subsoils.
So you know it's really good to have good water retention but we believe in layers.
So there's different layers.
Some of them are water retention layers and some of them aren't.
And another one may be rocky and another one may be this.
So then the roots can make a decision you know on where they are and maybe if they want some dryness that they're going to be able to find it in a layer that has more aeration.
And if they want more water then they're going to be able to find it in an area that has more moisture.
Yeah I mean your soil has to drain.
There has to be a good you know cat ion exchange and there has to be good you know.
Aeration in there and aerobic you know qualities and breath you know in the soil and everything.
Hydrogen and carbon.
So you know we do build our soils though to retain water and we think that's important because water is a huge commodity on earth and there is a ton of areas that are in drought and that's just a reaction.
So I think anything that we can do to build you know soils to save water even if it's indoors I think it makes all the sense in the world.
And I do think it saves your microbiology to stay wet but dry out all the time.
Your biology has to like wake up and go to sleep all the time and that doesn't truly serve the rhizosphere.
Okay and so what's your thoughts on rock dust then I'm wondering and do you believe they're as vital to the soil as some people make them out to be?
Well I know that Steve Solomon has talked about rock dust over the years a lot and he said that he's you know not seen a good balance out of a true glacial rock dust that's a true balance in the stuff.
So you know we've always used different rock dust that were available you know maybe the paramagnetic rock dust basalt or you know glacial rock dust and you can use a little bit of you know those powders.
But really you know our main mission in life is to try and get the minerals from our plant life in our area.
And that's so our big thing is once again it goes back to building soils.
So our big thing is to try and is to think about the trees and the different stuff that ways that we can build the soil to get minerals in.
And in each different you know different plant species uptake different types of minerals and you know that certain plants are rich in certain types of minerals.
And if you're looking for that in your garden why not feed your biomass all of those minerals and then cut your biomass down and then feed that to your garden because then your biomass has a long time to be able to uptake it in the bio microbiology in the soil has more time to uptake it.
So we really believe in if you're going to bring in rock dust or if you're going to bring in you know ocean salts or or different things that might make sense and have a lot of mineral content feed it to your biomass rather than feeding it directly to your plants in your soil because then it just makes an easier exchange into your soils that what you want to grow.
If you can get dehydrated ocean water I mean it has you know 84 trace minerals in it and stuff but you know the oceans are really toxic in the world right now.
So you'd have to have a toxicity report you know if you're going to use any of that.
And mines are are so sketchy you know we really again you need to look at from where all of the inputs are coming from.
We know that we're reaching a phosphorus ceiling right now because of rock phosphate on the planet and all of those mines that they've totally depleted and now all of the big ag that's totally dependent on it you know and people are feeling like oh without it what the heck are we going to do.
This is the only way that we know how to get phosphorus.
Well it's a really shitty way to get phosphorus truthfully because it's being mined and all of the people that worked out of the mines what kind of health problems are they having.
You know if you just start looking at all of it it's like we've overthought ourselves.
Humans do that consistently.
We just have like this big you know ability to mess up stuff.
And this is just a perfect example of that we have to go and get mined material from somewhere else to be able to get our mineral content.
I mean if you're building an indoor soil from you know cocoa coir and stuff I mean you have to have something.
For sure.
So you might as well get you know as many different kinds of dust as you possibly can.
You know what I mean.
And better.
You know what I mean like glacial rock dust in our area.
There's there's tons of it.
And then there's there's tons of volcanic ash and there's tons of you know basalt you know core and you know basalt that doesn't take you know very much to create powder out of.
So there are areas where it can make sense.
And we really encourage people when they're making these soils and we do work with people that have to make soils from scratch is to what kind of native soil in their area can you mix into that.
That's going to have all of those you know minerals already there.
And it doesn't mean you know you can make a soil that's intelligent enough that it will be able to unlock that you know all of those minerals pretty easily.
So again just being conscious about where all your dusts and things are coming from.
Yeah.
So this is going to be a bit of a weird question but it's just kind of when we were mentioning Steve Solomon it jumped to mind but Steve's got this idea that he he thinks that you can use nutrient density as kind of like an overall parameter to quantifiably test things on their quality.
So you know I think I'm right when I say this but I think if you asked him he would say something like if you got two different bits of cannabis and you tested the nutrient density between them he regards nutrient density as that quantifiable kind of parameter.
And so he says you know if you just tested a whole bunch of cannabis the one with the highest nutrient density is going to be like the most enjoyable so to speak put aside maybe personal preferences.
Do you have any thoughts along those lines or would you maybe disagree with that and I guess maybe overall do you think there is like a one quantifiable parameter we can use for testing.
I don't think I think you could utilize a lot of things you know as much little things that you have in your basket to help you out along the way little tidbits of information or little testing things that you have along the way is great.
But I absolutely believe in that idea.
You know the healthier your plant is the better it's going to taste as far as food is concerned.
Your medicine is definitely going to be better more terpene rich.
The plant was able to fully express itself and health.
You know the bricks reading is something that I know that he utilizes.
We utilize bricks testing here refractometer refractometer to test the sugars and stuff in the plant and we analyze our plants in as many ways as possible under microscopes and laser.
And we analyze it through pests.
You know knowing whether your plants getting eaten by a pest is one way of seeing whether it's healthy or not.
So in some pests we're finding like aphids and stuff have been attracted to healthy plants.
So there's always an exception.
But you know a lot of times you know a healthy plant repels pests and that's the goal of it and stuff.
So yeah.
Yeah definitely health health and well-being of the plant is going to be the best.
Looking at the plant and seeing it vibrate and seeing its leaves extended out and not constricted.
I mean you know there's that's the emotional touch that goes into looking at it.
So kind of on the same topic we referenced it earlier and I was going to bring it up but I forgot to.
But I was talking to Jeremy from Builders Oil and he said that one thing he was interested in is that there's the development of new organic IPM based products.
A lot of them have microbes in them.
You could look at one say EM5 perfect example you know microbial based IPM product.
The interesting thing about it was he was mentioning that when people undergo testing these same probiotics like the CFUs the colony forming units get counted all the same and you can fail tests because of it.
Is that something which kind of is a bit concerning to you like the fact that I guess maybe we're not able to use microbial products in an IPM remedy in that way or do you think that there's a way around it.
What's concerning about it is the testing.
The testing is what's failing us.
It's not it's not the problem of what we're spraying on it and if we're utilizing an IPFM we always add the F in there because it's integrated pest and fungal management program.
It just is like it adds.
I forgot what I was doing with that.
We're just talking about the testing.
The testing.
Sorry.
Thank you.
I was like off on another tangent.
But is is that they're not testing the differentiation between the DNA so that they can they can but it's a very expensive test to be able to find out you know if it's a bacterias for is it a bacterias for that's healthy for you or is it a bacterias for that's not healthy for you.
It's unhealthy for you.
And they're just doing a full round spectrum of just like putting it all together in one basket.
And they're just saying it's all fruit.
Even if it could have like you know 50 different species of fruit and some of them could even be poisonous to you.
They're just saying it's all fruit.
And if there's any fruit in the basket then you know it's no good.
If there's any type of microbiology even dust spores that are perfectly fine and healthy we breathe them in all the time.
You know that it's going to fail a test.
So the problem is really the testing.
The problem is not so we were trying to get smarter to the test.
But this is a huge conversation in the industry right now.
Several states have let go of the microbiology the microbe counts.
This is what it's called.
Microbe counts.
You have to talk about testing a lot because you know that's what like the recreational scene brings and that's what farmers have to deal with.
So the answer is if you have a microbial test that you have to pass then you can fail that microbial test from using healthy beneficial probiotic organisms.
So does that make sense.
No it doesn't make sense.
But the answer is you can fail your test with those things.
So you if you live in an area where you have to basically pass the test I mean you have to do what you have to do.
So a lot of people will stop spraying.
Is it healthy for you to use bacillus you know strains and even trichoderma and other you know things on your on your plant.
Absolutely.
For foliar.
Of course it is.
EM5 is it is it beneficial for you.
Yes.
Does it make a better flower.
Absolutely.
Yeah.
And I think that we've touched on this already but I'll say it again I mean our body needs to be able to process dust and and probiotics and and without like having a sterilized product for our body it does our immune system no good it does our health no good.
So those laws are prohibitive laws put in place to make it damn near impossible for an organic farmer to do what they have to do.
And it puts out the differentiation of what is the word clean to you.
You know is clean hospital clean.
Is it a sterile clean.
Because some of the worst most horrific diseases come out of that height you know parentheses you know clean.
So it's just a really interesting topic.
Clean the way that we see it is beneficial microbiology everywhere that you're dealing with you know beneficial microbiology that if a pathogen is even coming in the door at all it can't come in because you know there's totally so many beneficials that are holding it back to us.
You could even taunt the pathogen because you're so strong with good microbiology.
You could taunt it.
Yeah and it would never you know be a part or or come in as a pathogen.
Yeah I think that's a great way to kind of I don't know visualize the situation or approach a situation.
I noticed on the site it says you have had you know really extensive range of trialing various different mycorrhiza and micro microbial products.
Is there any kind of little tips or tricks you've learned throughout that process you'd be willing to share with us you know like certain things which maybe indicate you've got a good micro product beyond the obvious you know like are there certain things you can kind of you know share from your both trial and error with all the different microbial products.
Well it's really fun to get a microscope.
We really encourage people to get a microscope.
I mean you just learn so much when you start to enter that world of you know little things.
You don't have to be a professor or anything like that in order to get a microscope.
You can just learn after you get the microscope and just start seeing.
Yeah and you don't have to buy an expensive microscope.
You can buy you know one that is used for like high school or finishing school science class or something like that.
There's so much out there and you can actually look at the teas that you make.
You can look at the soil that you're making and also looking at the plant and what kind of reaction you know of course that you said you know under except the obvious.
That's that's the most obvious is how does your plant react.
Because unfortunately you know these Department of Agriculture regulations and big ag are going to be giving so much different information you know.
If you go on threads out there in the cannabis world.
Whoa the crazy stuff that's flying around is just difficult for people to determine.
So you know do your own science learn your own ways you know well define your intuition in your own gardens.
That's going to be the best way to find out if products are working for you.
And you can trust good companies like ours and others that have been tried and tested through the community.
I mean the community does not stick with companies that don't have integrity.
So a lot of the companies that have been around for a long time around because they have you know they are our products have been tested by you know a million different people.
And there's so many other companies out there with with beautiful integrity.
You know we really want to highlight you know those farms that are making good products and also those companies that are making good products for the farms.
You know we're out there and there's lots of us and we're all over the world.
Yeah most certainly and I so strongly agree with that that final point about you know the community doesn't trust brands that integrity.
And I think you can look at that especially if you look at you know the people who are using your products.
It's some of the most you know like the leaders of the industry but also that not just the leaders you know but the ones who are viewed with integrity themselves.
So you know it's almost like a twofold.
Yeah and that's just a big part of this culture to begin with.
It's just word of mouth and everything.
And trusting in each other.
Yeah.
So something I wanted to run by you is what's your thoughts on throwing mycorrhiza into a tea specifically before you brew it.
Because you know in the I refer to it as the Bible of organic gardening you know teaming with microbes by Jeff.
He says very very clearly in the book you know if mycorrhiza doesn't come in contact with a root within 24 hours it dies.
And so I always see people throwing mycorrhiza into their teas and then they're going to bubble it for presumably at least 24 hours.
And I'm like does that not all just die.
Makes no sense.
It will.
A lot of them will become dormant and they'll just sit in there until they reach a root if they do.
So it really doesn't make any sense at all.
You definitely want direct contact onto that root.
And one of the best ways to get direct contact is because so many of our gardens were growing fast plants and we're having fast turnover with cannabis plants is that your cover crop can grow the endo mycorrhiza on it.
And it can propagate it.
So when you're feeding your soils different types of mycorrhiza make sure that you put you know great cover crops like clover is an awesome one for it's so many cover crops.
I could go on and on and they're going to help propagate it for your your cannabis plants.
So that's one of the beauties of really utilizing a lot of different species in your garden.
So you can put mycorrhizal spores in water and drench it into your soil.
That is an application that does work.
It's not going to be as good as direct contact.
It's direct contact that really you know propagates the spore to come to life.
But we always suggest to people that if they're going to do a tea brew do the tea brew and then just put the mycorrhiza in like right at the last second right before you're about ready to drench your gardens.
And that's a good application.
Yeah that's definitely what I always thought was like kind of the optimal.
Yeah it does not grow in an aeration setting.
So another little point I wanted to swing by that Jeff made in one of his Verde Natural Talks was that he said that there'd been some kind of you know newer discovery around how it was just kind of one of the subspecies of myco that was responsible for the bulk of the work.
And I think he said it was the glomerous type.
Do you know anything about that?
And I mean like if so would we not expect all myco to switch to that one subtype essentially?
Well the glomerous intradices is the one that's been known to be the supposedly the one that you know communicates and bonds with cannabis roots.
Do from our point of view I mean fungi is made to break the rules.
I mean there are no rules.
There's the most adaptogenic thing on the planet.
It's a lot of different things to you know petri dishes and science and and maybe like soilless mediums and different things like that.
You know if you're at a soilless end or medium and you're just getting like two months cycle or something you're not going to get a lot out of a two month cycle with mycorrhizae.
It kind of has to live longer than that to be truly beneficial to the root zone.
But you know diverse microorganisms communicate with each other in garden settings.
So you know we we have four different ones that we work with right now and we just always enhance that type of mycorrhizal growth in our gardens just because we know that all the answers are not there.
And biodiversity is so incredibly important in your garden.
So you know being able to have you know the classic endo mycorrhizae you know that that's out there in the market that's grown organically and consciously which is really important can also speak to the other root zones going on in your gardens which is just like your cover crop.
And and and I don't know you know the whole thing of just that it's singular species.
I'm not really sure of that yet.
I can't say one way or the other.
It doesn't make sense of nature at all.
It goes against all of nature's rules where she's just like so full of diversity.
Why is it that we're separating out and concentrating and isolating and the more that we do that we bring it away from its nature which really doesn't involve the entourage effect of everything that's going on in the rhizosphere.
And I mean it's been proven that you know it's entered that species of difference different types communicate with each other and share food like a pine tree can share food with a birch tree and there's no like law in there that says that they can do that but they do it.
So enhancing you know biodiversity in your gardens is a big part of cannabis growing and you would want to enhance as much different species as possible so they can communicate with each other.
So did that make sense.
I mean yeah you can just get a glomus introduce these and put it in there and yeah you could just be off to the races with that one.
But I think in life we should try and get you know more dynamics happening than that.
Okay.
And so I mean I guess the thing I'm interested in is overall you would kind of say that you don't think that you would get better results from just exclusively using the one.
Yeah we think that diversity is key in all aspects diversity in microbiology and diversity in nutrients is key.
Can you guys hear my cat meowing.
Okay great.
Sorry I just had to make sure otherwise I was going to go tell it to go away.
So yeah she's got a mouth on it I'll tell you that.
So something I saw on your site which I was super interested in because I am a self-professed coffee addict.
You guys say that you know it's a bit taxing on the adrenal system you're not so into it for that reason.
Do you guys think you know like that there are actually some long term negatives if you know kind of bludgeoning your body with coffee over a long period of time.
Absolutely.
Yeah I mean it stimulates the parasympathetic nervous system.
And if your parasympathetic nervous system is stimulated all the time which unfortunately you know everything that we do is stimulating that nervous system and then it starts to drain the adrenals.
And when you give your body a false sense of stimulant then it starts to kick into action.
You know that all of those different systems which makes a depression in the immune system.
And then you have things over a long period of time that you know just start breaking down.
The other thing about coffee is that it's incredibly acidic.
And you know if you're drinking it often then it's really changing the acidity of your body.
And you know more alkalinity you know contains more beneficial microbiology than acidity.
So if you're constantly acidifying your body then you're not only killing beneficial microbiology but you're also breeding pathogens.
Yeah wow.
And so the solution to this or maybe not the direct solution but you know instead you guys have the cacao and mushroom kind of tea you make.
How did you stumble across that one?
We just you know we work really long.
By studying ecology.
Yeah.
Ecology has been a really important thing in our lives.
We've been mushroom collecting for a long time and health and well-being has been you know a big part of what we do.
And also incredibly long hours of work.
We put a lot into you know our property here on our farm.
We put a lot into the education that we put out to other people.
We put a lot into our business.
And we need something that is going to work for us long time.
Josh and I have always been joking that we're just in training to be 90 year olds.
So we just want to make sure that you know everything that we're putting into our body is going to have incredible longevity.
It's going to be adaptogenic and it's going to decide what our body needs rather than depressing it.
And we recognize you know the first thing that you drink in the day you know really kind of sets the tone for your body for the rest of the day.
So we you know have been really wanting to drink something really powerful and potent for our body.
So every morning you know we're drinking the raw cacao with you know the medicinal mushrooms in there.
We're just slowly building up our immune system with the mushrooms every day.
And it doesn't drop us you know in energy levels later in the day.
So it's kind of like our secret seer.
It's like our secret recipe and like our secret life force is just to smoke doobies and drink cocoa all day and work on the farm.
And then have a good meal in the afternoon you know.
And it's like it's a good way to live.
Recently we've been you know making new recipes with our essential six which is six medicinal mushrooms.
And making a golden milk which has the turmeric, cinnamon, ginger, black pepper.
And then we've also fallen in love with Moringa over the years.
So my kind of big secret thing not secret my big like thing that I love lately is just Moringa, our golden milk, the Dragonfly Earth Medicine golden milk and the cacao together.
And oh and maca.
Well and we drink nettle tea all day too during the season that it's nettles.
And then we'll drink comfrey tea during the season that it's comfrey.
We're drinking super foods all day long.
Yeah.
And we love the antioxidants.
My dad died of cancer.
Kelly's mom battled cancer her whole a long time.
She beat it though.
Yeah and but we so we've been you know propelled on health through that and you know also our way of life.
So you know it's again that's a representation of our lifestyle.
Yeah that's that's so awesome to hear.
And do you guys kind of advocate for people to look into say maybe taking medicinal mushrooms on like a regular kind of schedule thing.
Or do you think maybe not that broadly applicable to everyone.
Yeah I think that it's important.
Everyone.
They're adaptogens which means that they go into your body and they decide what it is that you need.
You know they're sort of like a higher intelligent being.
Mycology breaks all the rules.
Fungi breaks all the rules.
You know I'm fruiting bodies you know are here to help us.
You know they they exudate CO2 and intake oxygen just like we are.
We do.
So they're just sort of an interesting anomaly.
And we know that prolonged use of mushrooms is what's the best.
So you're not going to really notice a difference if you start doing mushrooms for a week.
You'll definitely notice an energy increase.
Absolutely.
You'll notice a more mental increase.
You know your words will come to you quicker.
You'll have sort of like you know a better memory base immediately.
But the long term effects are you know over a long period of time and we feel like years of mushroom use is what people need to be doing.
And let's let's let's get more specific.
I mean chaga is you know one of the most powerful if not the most powerful antioxidant of any herb on earth as we know it.
It has more SODs in it which is superoxide dismutase which is a longevity enzyme.
It's got one of the most you know highest amounts of longevity enzymes in it.
The Siberian shamans you know have done a tremendous amount of work and in teaching the world about it and Russian and and Korean Chinese you know have done a ton of work on medicinal mushrooms.
Cordyceps builds your blood and builds oxygen in your blood.
And you know there's they've been used by Olympic athletes for years to enhance their performance you know in their daily routines of working out and everything.
So there's a lot of you know the agaric on worse the lungs and also nootropic medicine is is part of what mushrooms are in nootropic means that it generates cell life.
So it helps you.
It's a smart drug particularly in the brain.
So it helps generate brain cells and also helps generate the for the cell to be able to propagate itself in a memory of a healthy cell rather than in a memory of a non healthy cell because that's that's the goal is that you know in cancer any kind of malaise or people that have ailments.
It's that the cell is reproducing and it will reproduce an ailing cell or it will reproduce a healthy cell.
So what is it that you're going to be able to give your body the memory of reproducing a healthy cell.
And we feel like mushrooms really help give that much higher intelligent intelligence of the body to be able to produce the healthier cell because we know that nothing fights cancer other than the immune system.
Of course cancer can be diminished along with everything else through chemotherapy and radiation but the immune system is the only thing that transforms cancer cells into healthy cells again.
And that's something across the board.
And we also went into you know we were talking about the intelligence of trees and a lot of these medicinal mushrooms come from trees and they're taking all of the minerals and all of the intelligence and they're growing directly off the tree.
And we can't eat the entire tree but we can eat the mushroom that's coming off of that tree and it has all of the nutrients that that tree has.
So like chaga comes off of a tree and a garric on comes on the tree and the lion's mane and the turkey tail.
So many are wood loving mushrooms and we live in a toxic environment in general.
You know we're just it's just the way it is and it's fine.
You know we have toxins around us so we should be ingesting things that rid ourselves of those path of you know of those free radicals and that's what mushrooms do.
We raised our son like this.
He's a professional athlete you know so you know it works.
That's awesome to hear.
Yeah I definitely believe that.
Something I wanted to touch on though.
Bodhi made a comment about how he loves to do both gardening as well as breeding while under the influence of psychedelic mushrooms.
Is this something you guys have experimented with at all and did you find it was productive or maybe counterproductive?
Extremely productive.
Some of the most important information that we've gotten from the plants.
One of the most life-changing experiences that have ever happened to me have been in my greenhouse with my plants on psychedelics.
You know it cuts through stuff.
It leads you it breaks the veils and it gets you to the point of importance.
It puts aside the ego and what you think is happening and it really allows you to see what is happening.
I feel like responsible use of psychedelics is absolutely imperative and you know a lot of people say that you know that kind of use could be checking out.
We call it checking in and checking in is so important especially when it comes to nature.
You know these mushrooms have a higher intelligence that they're there to teach us.
They've helped transform our whole entire evolution as we know it to begin with.
So you know and psychedelics for some is like a big scary thing and psychedelics really shouldn't be.
They shouldn't be thought of as insight and spirituality.
I mean nothing in this world is easy to explain.
So having insight you know makes a lot of sense and micro dosing is something that you know a lot of people are doing nowadays.
It's a lot.
It's not something that people are really checking in on and you know you can create medicine where you're just micro dosing and having a little bit of a check in and it can be extremely not only positive for gardening.
It can be extremely positive on your well-being and you're you know some people have problems with depression or anxiety or attention deficit disorder and sometimes it's just a neurological connection that they need.
PTSD.
Yeah.
So many.
So we highly suggest it once again.
Know your source.
Mushrooms in particular take up a lot of toxins from the environment.
So know your source in that area but yeah it's a good check in.
Yeah nice I dig it.
And so you kind of answered it but just to get a final clarification.
I had someone talking to me saying that like they were mixing in like I'm just going to say Cubesense or whatever like just because you know it just jumps to mind like a micro dose of that with say like their regular dose of lines main thing like that.
And what they said was that it was they felt like it was acting as like a potentiator.
Do you think that's the case or maybe it was like they were just maybe feeling some of the effects of the cubes or whatever it was they mixed in there.
I mean you know mushrooms are a catalyst.
They're a catalyst for all different types of well-being.
They're a catalyst for mineral uptake in our body.
They're a catalyst for so many things and Cubensis is is one that you know is sort of a master of the mushrooms in in the way that when we take it and how we perceive the world.
So that wouldn't surprise me at all that it's a catalyst for the uptake of the nutrients as well as a cognitive understanding of it biologically.
You know and when you sit with Chinese herbs and you mix it with other different adaptogenic herbs then you're going to get full spectrum uptake.
And we don't you know we do do lipid extraction concentrates with our CBD and we would never do that without a huge array of mushrooms and different adaptogenic roots and herbs non psychedelic non psychedelic for that.
Yeah but as far as the psychedelic ones go it makes sense to use them with other herbs for sure that support your your system while you're in that state.
And we do know that that's hard on your liver.
So you have to have things that are supportive of you know the uptake of the toxins as well.
Yeah so questions a little off topic but I remember I think you've even said it a few times in a few different little talks that you kind of wanted to remain like kind of like a mom and pop type of company where you are still really hands-on with things.
Is that still the case and do you foresee that you know like a point where you ever might expand your network beyond say what you could physically deal with or is it very core to you to remain kind of that hands-on approach.
It's awesome because we are expanding and we're expanding through other farms and they're expanding through us and the knowledge is being passed on from one farm to the next.
And it's just becoming like we're able to almost be everywhere and the information is able to be everywhere and that's the real power.
And I mean hands-on experience yes absolutely it's just totally important to us to have relationships with people and community.
And we feel like this is a way that we can have relationship with a greater wider international community is through like-minded and like practicing cultivators and extractors and business people and yeah everywhere.
We've not taken on major distributors or major investors in any way with our company and so no it's not a goal for us.
It's not a goal for us to sell our company to you know say a global distributor type thing and you know get it into every growth store worldwide.
You know do we you know would do we want a successful company.
Yeah. Do you know if it happened to where it all went into all the growth stores and it was somehow a magical and all in beautiful hands you know an organic you know expansion.
Yes we want that which is what it is now.
You know like Josh had mentioned really you know briefly we don't do any we don't do any marketing marketing like at all.
We haven't spent any money ever on marketing because we just feel like pass the information on and then the good information will rise to the top.
And and you know it's more important for us to be walking forward with integrity than walking forward with anything else and having the voice of the plant you know always in our mind and being able to share that voice so that other people can also have it within their integrity and their intention as they you know grow their business.
Grow their flowers in their gardens.
So this is kind of an interesting one because we've been talking a lot about the immune system about the plants immune system the human immune system.
I'm really interested in you know I call them the immunomodulators that's kind of I guess more of like a human term for these types of molecules but things which activate the SAR response systemic acquired resistance like your chitin salicylic acid jasminic acid these types of things.
What are your thoughts on these ones do you kind of play around with insect frass or chitin or any of these kind of immunoboosters for the plant and do you advocate for them.
Well interestingly enough one of the highest forms of natural chitin that comes through the plant form is in a mushroom.
So we utilize lots of mushrooms we utilize mushrooms as biomass you know we chop up some of the tree mushrooms that we have here that we would use in a medicinal lipid compound you know that we make here.
And also put it into our teas.
So chitin is definitely something that we utilize.
We utilize white willow bark.
We make it here on the property.
We put that in our teas for the acid acid acidic acid.
You know we always look for the plants yet again.
We have a lot of aloe growing on the property.
Yeah.
And we're always looking towards the plants to give that information to us because if we're feeding plants we feel like plants understand plants the best they communicate the best with each other.
So we're looking for the plant version of it.
You know we don't get the other part of it like the powderized version.
And what's interesting is all the pharmaceutical companies that have had like hexane extraction on a lot of these you know say aspirin.
I mean it originally came from a plant or all of these different compounds that we see in pharmacies and also you know vitamin supplements.
They originally came from plants.
And we've also we've we've made them like synthetic to where our body can't necessarily break it down.
That's why you know plants and teas and these things are just so incredibly powerful for boosting the immune in the immune response.
Yeah I can definitely agree with that.
Have you actually done any like toying around yourself so to speak with like chitin and its effects on the immune system because I know it was used in traditional Chinese medicine for a long time but I couldn't really find any clear evidence of whether it was like you know because it's not it's not offered as like a supplement.
So I kind of was thinking I don't know how effective it is.
Well right now it is being offered as a supplement.
There's a lot more things coming out now with cricket powder.
So you can you can buy cricket powder and they're taking crickets and that are problems in areas and they're turning it into a supplement.
And I think that that's great.
One thing that we know for certain is that you know there's been test studies done in India and they couldn't really figure out why is it that certain Jane regions you know that only eat certain vegetables and certain types of vegetables.
Beans and a certain thing.
Why is it that there be 12 rates were still pretty high in their blood counts.
You know where is it that they were getting that B12 to be able to uptake it.
And after you know several years of research and study it was all of the small bugs that are in the grains and in the lentils that they're eating every day.
So that's a perfect example of you know that sort of like bug and insect.
We call those macros you know can be a part of our diet as well as our as our plants diet.
Yeah.
Makes sense right.
Just the holistic approach.
So you know you feel free to you know we can cut this one out if you don't answer it because it's I don't know is maybe not in your style.
But I've noticed that there's kind of like this cyclical wave of like fad products on the market and like the one that jumps to mind to me is like fulvic acid you know fulvic acid has always been around.
But recently we had like the Sheila's eat surge you know kind of came back with a force and then it's died off again.
And what's your experience with the fad products like are there any ones where you see it just like so my example was the fulvic acid where it's like you know it's just a basic product but it just keeps getting recycled and rebranded.
And you know kind of I guess maybe tricking some people who aren't familiar that most of the time it's just fulvic acid in that in that example.
Do you have any kind of products which jump to mind which are like this for you where you know like they get this surge of popularity and it's like it's just the same thing that's always been there.
Well we I think they will probably pass on that question because we wouldn't want to you know point out you know a name of a product and then maybe put that down or make a fad of it you know what I mean.
I think that it's important that you know in it's all about the way.
Yeah it's about the evolution and again the community gets to decide.
So they're going to be lots of things thrown at the community and how is it that the community is going to sift through it is more important than focusing on the company that put out some kind of a fad product.
It will be up to the community to decide on what's going to have the longevity.
Yeah of course.
And so are you familiar with tricantinol or tricontinol however you want to pronounce it like the natural growth hormone.
You mean alfalfa?
Yeah yeah so definitely in that.
So what my question is basically there's now like more refined versions of it coming out and it's kind of slowly getting some traction in the market as far as I can see.
Have you looked into those more purified versions because obviously a lot of people maybe knowingly or not engage in it through alfalfa top dresses things like that.
But what about a really kind of purified version would you be in favor of that if it works similarly or is it kind of you know down that same school of thought we don't engage in.
Well the idea of it really would be is how is it purified how is it concentrated.
And really you get such high levels in super healthy really awesome alfalfa.
And if you're only going to use it once you know you know one time a cycle are you going to use it two times for a whole cycle.
Well you can use alfalfa in every one of your feedings and that's just going to be prolonged over time.
It really goes back to you know sometimes we overthink ourselves sometimes the basic raw whole food is really what's best for us more often rather than less often and a bunch of you know pre-packaged stuff in between.
And then people are going to want gibberellic acid because it makes their plants grow you know super tall and you know you might just find out that you can just use your urine with water.
And you'd be like oh my God this works a hundred times better than anything I've gotten from the store.
I mean seriously it feels like we could go right back to the basics on almost everything and it really works better.
It just does.
So no we're not really down with all the new and improved.
Not saying that there's not a place for evolution and not saying that there's not a place for all things and all good times.
You know what I mean it's just we constantly look towards nature to be our mentor.
So maybe what we'll find is a new biomass bush to grow.
You know maybe we'll find a new you know tree that blooms all summer for the bees.
Now we're talking about a product you know what I mean.
Yeah totally.
A grass that propagates mycorrhiza you know what I mean like now let's talk you know.
Yeah so this is a bit of a weird one but a lot of people commonly will say that you can't do kind of like a no-till type of philosophy unless you're in a certain size pot.
I think the commonly referenced number is about 30 litres or so.
Do you jive with that?
Like do you think people using small pots can successfully underdo kind of nutrient cycling and the concepts of what no-till is advocating or do you think there is that requirement for a certain size pot?
I don't like to limit people.
Yeah.
But you know it's going to work better in a bigger pot.
But the plant's going to grow better.
The plant's going to grow better in a bigger pot and the plant's going to grow better in a bigger bed.
And it's easier to keep your biology happy.
There's options you know.
But some people only have small pots and if this is the introduction that they're getting for them to be able to grow really awesome medicine to share with your friends or you know if they're needing it.
Then that's awesome.
And like Josh said we just really don't want to limit.
You just do your very best.
There's so much conversation out there right now on what the word regenerative is.
You know for us it's like if you're creating more balances than checks you're doing good.
And we all can't just automatically have some closed loop regenerative farm where everything is just running perfectly.
You know some of us have to start in a closet with a couple of you know one gallon pots.
Do your best.
Yeah.
You have to have really small plants for that.
You know if you're going to do you know a small pot you'd have to have really small plants.
Otherwise the roots would colonize the root zone too much and it would just it would choke out the life that you're trying to do in a prolonged environment.
So you know the smaller pot you have the more you know thought out intention you're going to have to put into it.
You have a little bit room you know in a bed you know.
Yeah.
It's like a safety net in a way isn't it.
It is.
Oh it's a huge safety net.
We always say that you know a soil less medium is like the plant up taking through an IV.
And then a plant a soil that just has a little teeny tiny bit in it is somebody who you know a person that may have you know not a very good digestive tract.
But when you have big heaping soil piles and you've been working on it for a really long time it's the same as that person that you would call that has an iron gut that they can take anything and you can throw anything at that person and they're not allergic to it.
They've got nothing because they have such a tremendous amount of microbiology.
And that's it.
You know the more you build your microbiology the more you're going to be able to throw at it.
The least amount of microbiology be very careful what you throw at it because your plant can't understand it.
Yeah.
Yeah I can definitely see that.
So on a lot of your products they use for teas and for top dressings.
However I have seen the odd person just using it as a straight soil amendment just mixing it in or like kind of like a revitalization thing after a cycle.
Do you find you get pretty much the same results doing that or do you kind of you know if possible advocate them to be used as teas or like the way maybe you marketed it.
It's just valuable you know.
Anyway it's fine.
It's an absolutely amazing soil additive.
It's just phenomenal what the roots do with it and even in.
And it's really just.
Even just in the transplant.
And it's really not just you know our products.
It's the idea of just bringing in green material into your soils you know making sure that you've got some herbal compounds and some plant material and they're more than just kelp.
Like take all your sun leaves from your previous harvest and put them in your soil.
And that just really helps increase the bacteria you know breakdown and then the bacteria then starts to feed the fungi.
It's just you know when you up it all it's best.
And in nature you know when you go to the most beautiful pristine forest it has varying amounts of decomposition from the leaves all around it.
And that's something that's really easy to mimic in your garden and it's easy to mimic even in your first soil mixes.
You could mimic that by adding more leaf material.
Yeah okay.
I think that's actually something people are a little scared of at least mixing it into the soil.
I mean I'm a bit I don't mind tall dressing but yeah I think there is a little bit of yeah I don't know what the word is better than yeah like really mixing it in you know what I mean.
Yeah.
We utilize all of our hash leftovers you know all of the green material from our hash.
We make sure to make it at a time that we're mixing our soil for our nurseries.
So you know we make sure that that's all like cyclical and all that green fresh material just goes right in and it's amazing.
Even carrot pulp.
We'll be making carrot juice and we'll put carrot pulp in there too and it can be really good.
Just the idea that you can utilize so much different vegetation to help spark your soil.
Yeah definitely.
So we kind of indirectly touched on this question but I just wanted to get the final ruling on it.
What type of IPM or sorry IPFM methods do you guys use throughout kind of the more flowering phases if you had an infestation let's just say a mite you know a lot of people kind of deal with that.
What are the types of things you'd be looking to use or to like you know kind of philosophies to utilize.
If you're in flowering cycle which is always the most difficult definitely bring in your rooms up to 120 degrees Fahrenheit 50 degrees Celsius.
Kills all fin exoskeleton mites as well as aphids.
They'll literally explode.
So utilizing heat treatment is fantastic but making sure that your root zone is damp and well fed because your roots need to stay very moist and they need to stay cool.
And it's not it's not heating up your indoor rooms through lights.
You can't have your lights on high and heat it up that much because the pores of the leaves are going to open.
And when the pores of the leaves are open they're very susceptible to like UV light in greenhouses.
You can get it up to 120.
No problem.
It's really easy.
You can watch the buds actually swell.
You'll get more yield.
We're really noticing that with the resin is really coming out and you're being able to kill off really the fin exoskeleton.
You'll be killing off your predators as well.
But you put your predators on afterwards.
It certainly doesn't kill things like wasps you know and plants love 50 degrees.
You know people say oh is that so hot.
Well you look at where the plants actually come from and the season that they grow in.
They just love heat.
So it's not something that is going to stay in your room.
Have a glass of water for you and you're sort of like taking a sauna either in your greenhouse or in your room or wherever you are to try to reach that 50 degrees.
And we use Swirsky and Cucumeris together for broad mites and russet mites and you know a Persimilis or a Californicus or Andersoni for the spider mites.
And to have a good predator colony on your plants allows you to not have to use the sprays.
So and usually use like two to three times the amount that they that they suggest to you.
And not two to three times as often.
Just two to three times the amount.
So you do the heat treatment.
If you're infested in later flower you do the heat treatment.
And then you just bombard your room with predators and hopefully you know you've got enough enough time that the predators will eat all of the rest that's there and then they just leave.
They're not interested in staying on your plants.
They don't colonize on the plants.
They don't breed on cannabis plants.
They're just going in and they're eating.
So a lot of people worry about oh geez am I smoking predators.
No they're eating and then they're leaving.
So that's just really helpful.
And we love the use of predators.
And in vegetative times if there's an outbreak we love botanical washes and not utilizing you know essential oils or volatile oils in heavy amounts.
You know I don't really like my skin covered in heavy oil.
Neither do the leaves.
If you want to you know wash them you can take fresh neem leaf and fresh rosemary or fresh you know eucalyptus or fresh lavender and make a nice tea brew and steep it with horsetail or with another herb that you want and make it a botanical wash that isn't good for pathogens.
It's healthy for beneficials and it's also healthy for the flowers.
Literally like washing the plants down.
They just love it.
And that's a really good preventative as well.
And also to help get rid of an infestation.
You want to follow that up then with predators.
Yeah sounds like a pretty good little IPM regime there.
So last question before we hit the little short fire ones at the end.
You're going to have to forgive me I'm going to mispronounce the name but I have a feeling you guys will know exactly what I'm talking about.
One of our viewers wanted to know what are your thoughts on the sealed wallopini greenhouses.
Is that how you say it wallopini?
I don't know.
Wallopini.
That's what we have on our property.
When you say sealed you know we like to have a flow through design because.
The humidity stays nice.
Stable.
It's stable.
You know the temperatures are more stable.
The plants love it.
Everything just grows.
It's like a biological sink.
Yeah it's a huge biological sink.
And we have them now all over.
So we've been working with wallopinis for a long time.
You've inspired other people to do it.
We have lots of designs that we've just freed up and given out to people.
We've been working on it.
Anytime we do consultations we always talk to people about you know wallopinis and bringing that in.
And then you're utilizing all beneficial things.
You're utilizing the geothermal from the earth.
And then you're utilizing the heat you know from the sun.
And that's just awesome.
It's a great way to grow.
Yeah fantastic.
So we're on to the last little quick fire questions.
So the first one.
We'll probably get two answers here.
What's your favorite strain?
Well.
I'm going to have to say the homesteader.
Because that's what we're doing right now.
And it's been really amazing to me.
And I've been only wanting to smoke it.
So I'm going to go with the homesteader.
And that's got its roots in let's see a Jack Herrera.
I really love that Jack Herrera.
A40.
Yeah.
Which is like a purple tie times the god bud times a really awesome Afghani.
Zelie's gift we'll say.
I'll say Zelie's gift.
She'll say homesteader.
Yeah.
They're so uplifting.
That's great.
That's a good answer.
I'm just out of curiosity.
That Jack Herrera that was used in the Zelie's.
Is that that famous one that goes around or just a different one?
It absolutely is.
It was a well-known clone that came from Oregon.
Yeah.
It came from Eugene.
It was really special.
One of the best ones.
So it was really special.
And now it's in a lot of our genetics.
So that was a really wonderful mother that we got.
Jack Herrera and super lemon haze are a big part of our genetics.
And we like that lemon.
Yeah.
See that's great because those are like two cuts or two strains I should say specifically
where if you get that cut that's on the money, you know, like it's just it's almost unbeatable,
isn't it?
Yeah.
I like it a lot.
It's so true.
Or when you find that one seed too that you're just like, whoa, this plant is amazing.
You just want to be able to propagate it.
Yeah.
Finished outdoors for us really nicely.
Yeah.
So slightly, you know, derivative question.
Instead of favorite strain, what's your favorite land race?
Acapulco gold.
I'm going to go with Acapulco gold too.
Damn.
Which has fruits in the Jack Herrera.
Although the chocolate tie, I'll go with chocolate tie since she went with the...
Yeah.
And I could go with chocolate tie second.
You should just both switch to chocolate tie now.
That's good.
Did you guys...
Sorry, I was going to say, did you guys see any of the pearl tie that Bodhi had?
No.
I haven't seen it.
Not yet.
But we were...
Oh, we had brought down some of his tie strains to Jamaica.
Okay.
Yes.
You would have seen them there anyway.
And the Pakistani Chitral.
Yeah.
That's another good one, which probably would have done well in Jamaica as well, wouldn't
it?
Because they flower a little later, don't they?
Yeah.
But they're brought down.
So that's going down there.
So we'll see how they go.
Brought down so many different types of varieties.
We'll see what comes up.
We're excited to see what happens out of it.
So excluding your own work, who's the breeders work who you're most excited to pop next?
Oh, that's so hard.
I would have to list the top 10.
That's tough.
I mean, we really like the people that we've already mentioned, which is, you know, Mr.
Bob Hemphill, you know, but the two of them, Graham and Darcy are both, you know, they're
amazing people.
They have a connection with the plant.
You know, beautiful.
Bodhi for sure.
He's always like such a higher level of things.
And absolutely Tommy Bigups.
The connection that he has with the plant is so kind and true.
Green Source Gardens.
Green Source Gardens.
Makes amazing seeds.
Jesse from Bio Vortex makes making really, really beautiful intentional seeds.
Kush Kirk, our friend, our family down in southern Oregon, you know, they're not they're
not selling.
He's not selling seeds actively, but it's the people that have the really intelligent
garden beds.
A lot of the pure farm.
The Snodgrass family genetics.
Snodgrass family genetics.
That's going to be a top one.
That's going to be something to look for.
Everyone should look up.
Such beautiful intention there too.
Yeah.
Yeah.
There's so many breeders out there that are just now stepping in.
You know, we've been trading seeds for three decades now.
We've all been working together.
And if we weren't working directly with the person, then indirectly we were working with
them.
And now it's like all of everybody's work that they're able to put forward.
And aficionado mean gene.
Amazing.
Yeah.
Aficionado.
Those guys.
Can we keep talking?
Yeah.
Keep going.
Yeah.
That's a really amazing experience.
Yeah.
And I mean, I know that.
Yeah.
Evolved.
Evolved Oregon.
I mean, he's been to amazing.
Lion tree.
Lion tree farms.
They're really doing awesome stuff with THC.
Lion paw.
He's also working with like CBG.
People are starting to specialize in different like cannabinoids.
And then you want to make sure to get those.
So then you can interbreed because they've got like really super high CBG or THCV.
House of Harlequin.
Yeah.
House of Harlequin.
Wade Laughter.
Big ups to Wade Laughter.
Thank you, Wade, for bringing forth all the Harlequin.
What an amazing, humble, beautiful person.
I mean, he is of the earth.
You know, if anybody gets to grow some of his strains, we're only lucky.
Yeah.
Well, what a testament.
So moving on to the next little question, though, kind of similar to the first one,
but you get a few choices.
Desert Island strains.
So I'll let you take two.
I find two is a good number because everyone wants three.
So it makes it that little bit harder.
You can only take two strains with you.
Oh, two strains with you.
That's all you got forever.
I would probably take the healer as the seed, a strain that we've created.
Yeah, I think I would go with the healer.
That is, you know, the half CBD, half.
Yeah, they're beautiful one to one.
I would do that because it's really good if you don't feel good.
So that one to one is super awesome.
If you're having a hard day on the island, you know, if you're feeling like,
wow, this day is hard.
I got sunburned.
I'm going to go for the one to one.
I'll take like a golden pineapple.
Like I think I would go with the gold.
I think I would go with an Acapulco gold.
I think I'm going to go with a healer and an Acapulco gold.
So one to one, which is an ACDC cross with like a really awesome 840 AFKU type,
super high mercy.
I'm going to take the homesteader because that's the reason why we created it.
So I'm going to take the homesteader and the healer because after I'm done
homesteading, I need to do some healing.
That's good.
Telling a story.
All right.
Sorry.
The next one is what's your.
As long as there's lots of it, there has to be lots of it.
Yeah.
Infinite.
Infinite.
Okay.
There's plenty.
Okay.
That's the question.
Quantity probably was the first question.
So the flavor of the month, so to speak, tends to be very much a cyclical thing.
What's your prediction for the next big flavor of the month?
I think it might be the hemp.
I think the flavor of the month is going to be a super high C.
Cherries are coming on strong.
Yeah.
And I think that just cherry wine, like there's a lot of cherry sherberts and
puffs and cherry diesels.
It's amazing.
The sour diesel and the chem dog and the OG.
I mean, there's so gnarly and so good still.
And it's like you can have all the new varieties.
And I mean, the cookies have taken over, you know, in a lot of ways.
There's like a certain spice that you get from that that people like a lot.
But, you know, I think that people are going to go for the more lemony
uplifting stuff personally coming up here in the future.
I think that we're seeing an uprise in the grapefruits too.
I think that the grapefruit strains are going to start going through the roof.
But I also think they're going to see a huge surge and really low THC and super
high CBD full spectrum cannabinoids.
And that will be in like the hemp work that has been done in Colorado and
beyond.
Yeah.
Cool.
I like those predictions.
One other thing is there's definitely going to be like new cannabinoids that
we learn about.
So it's going to be a lot about learning those cannabinoids.
And I think the strains there's going to be a lot of specific strains that
are going to be the future.
That's a that's a that's one I kind of thought about myself, actually.
So lucky last one.
Here we go.
If you could go back to one place in time anywhere, where would you go and
what seeds would you collect?
I think I would have gone back to 1982 in South Africa and I would have
gotten the Durban poison.
Darn it.
I missed out.
Have you tried a good Durban that like, you know, and it's won you over type
of thing?
Well, we've we've got somebody in South Africa that has sent us seeds that
he's saying is definitely the best.
But I've yet to see the Durban that I smoked in the 80s.
That to me, what I had seen was a beautiful Durban poison.
I have not seen that since then.
So, yeah, I think I would definitely like to go back like pre-1982.
Pre-industrial revolution, probably mid, you know, anything before, you know,
1800s, maybe let's say a thousand years ago.
And I'd like to go into the Pygmies, Pygmy tribes and smoke Pygmy weed and
build like Pygmy bridges and and villages.
That's what I'd want to do.
And their rhythms.
I'd want to play drums and sing with Pygmies and grow weed in the jungle in
the middle of Africa.
That's a good answer, Josh.
I say that's the best answer I've ever heard.
Yeah, I think that one's really good.
All righty.
Well, I think that one might bring us to the end of all the knowledge and
information we've been able to get from you guys.
Is there any comments or shout outs you wanted to make?
You know, shout out to all the people that are working really hard to bring
this medicine forward to the masses.
Shout out to you for putting this type of intention into the community and
education.
Shout out to all the pure farmers out there and all those people that are
still working within and within integrity.
And and the biggest shout out, thanks to the plant.
The biggest shout out to the plant.
Thanks for bringing us together and helping us.
You know, I mean, I know that she's made my life so much better and all of the
people that we have, you know, been a part of.
I like to give a shout out to the earth for for giving us a place to do all this
magic on and the stars and the sun for giving us a cosmic connection.
Yeah, pretty much.
So thanks so much again, Josh and Kelly for coming on the show.
Thank you so much for having us.
Yeah, take care.
Thanks so much.
What a great fun this was.
So there you have it, guys.
A huge thank you again to Josh and Kelly for taking the time to talk to us.
A huge thank you to you guys for listening through to the end.
And a huge thank you to our Patreon gang.
These guys are the MVPs.
As always, thank you to Organic Gardening Solutions, 420 Australia and Seeds here now.
Best sponsors in the game.
You know, you love them.
I'll see you guys next time.
See you.
Bye.
