Alright, alright, alright. Welcome back my friends for another episode of the podcast.
The Cannabis Podcast for budding enthusiasts. As always, you're joined by your boy Heavy
Days here from the Upside Down Library and we are hugely appreciative of our fantastic
sponsors. You know them and love them. Seeds here now. Number one seed bank in America.
Not just a guarantee on germination, guarantee on satisfaction. If you don't like it at the
end of the grow, hit them up. They will make it right. They will sort you out. Why would
you go with someone who doesn't have such a guarantee? If you're in the UK though, hit
up our buddies at Simply Souvenirs. With a hand-selected range of boutique breeders and
smoking apparatuses and apparel, Simply Souvenirs offers some of the best customer service in
the game. You will absolutely be looked after well by our friends there. Please check them
out in the UK. International and local UK breeders, huge thank you to Simply Souvenirs.
Likewise, huge shout out to our friends at Copert Biological Systems. For all the best
predators and predation technology in the game, you have to check out Copert and their
products. If you've got aphids, get the Api Par M. If you've got spider mites, get the
Spidex Vital. How many times we got to say it guys? A clean garden is next to godliness.
What more could you want than peace of mind knowing that your plants are pest and pathogen
free? Check them out, Copert Biological. Thank you so much guys. Huge shout out to our friends
at Pulse Sensors. If you've got one room, three rooms, multi-stay facilities, you need
Pulse Sensors. The reality is there's many variables that can hold your crop back and
you may not even be aware they're not optimized. Get yourself a Pulse Sensor, dial in your
parameters, increase yield, resin, flavor, all the information at your fingertips. Check it out
guys. Pulse Sensors. Get serious. Get a pulse. Shout out to the crew at Purple who create the
Purple Pro, a modular handheld unit capable of giving you accurate flower and concentrate
cannabinoid tests from THC to CBD, water content, water activity and more. Grab yourself a Purple
Pro guys. They were kind enough to send me one. I've been playing with it. It's fun. I think you
guys will like it. And last but not least, the Patreon gang. Thank you so much for your support.
You are the lifeblood of the show. We could not make episodes without the support of the Patreon
gang. We are hugely grateful. If you want to help support the show, get access to early content,
unheard interviews, exclusive Patreon-only episodes, as well as monthly genetic giveaways,
check out the Patreon, www.patreon.com. The podcast.
All righty gang. Welcome on back guys. Today's a big one. You know it. You saw it in the title,
the man himself, Tom Hill. Here to talk all things haze, deep chunk,
X18, pine tart cush, so much more. A real breeder's breeder. Let's get into it.
All righty gang. We're back for another one. Thank you so much for joining us. And on this episode,
we have a much anticipated guest, possibly one of the most requested. A huge thank you to the
land race legend, master of both the hash plants and the hazes, Tom Hill. Thank you for joining us.
Happy days. How are you, sir? I am very good, my friend. Very grateful to be chatting to you. Tell
me, what are you smoking on today? Something a neighbor brought by.
I don't even know what the hell it is, but it's really, really good. And I'm going to have to ask
him. He's one of these guys that knows what he's doing. Neighbors are always bringing over their
best buds to show off around here. And when this guy comes over, you know it's going to be really
good. And it is. That sounds incredible. I know that you live in NorCal where there's a lot of
serious growers. Do the growers out there grow a variety of different strains or do they tend to
stick to the tried and tested things? Well, I think the majority of anybody that's doing any
growing these days is unfortunately trying to grow for the market, the buyers and such.
And that's getting a bit old. Yeah, I can imagine, especially given your history of lines. So,
is it sativa dominant? Is it indica dominant? Give me an idea about it.
Oh, it's probably some hybrid of unknown. It's probably unknown.
But it's certainly sativa leading in its head. Very, very heady, the cerebral high.
That's interesting. I like that. And I mean, out of curiosity,
have you tried any varieties in the recent past that are like newer creations that have impressed
you? Sure. Some of this Gelato 33 that I just smoked, it doesn't taste very good. It's not
super loud or anything. It doesn't taste bad. It's just, it's not super flavorful, but it has a
really good heady, cerebral high that I liked a lot. The OGs, I love the Triangle Kush and
that can be some pretty impressive herb as well.
Beautiful. I'm so glad to hear you mentioned the TK because that is also definitely one of my
favorites. Have you ever wanted to work with some of those more modern lines, not just to grow them,
but maybe toy around making some seeds with them? Oh yeah, I grew up with the TK.
I know those guys, some of them personally, that kind of circle that's been holding it up there in
NorCal for a long time. I grew it out, I don't know, maybe 10 years ago or something. I tried
to flip it and failed. I had them in a greenhouse and it was just too humid. I was busy with other
stuff and I didn't really probably try as hard as I should have. But yeah, I couldn't get any
pollen off of them. Ah, okay. Yeah, cool. So you wanted to reverse it onto some other stuff.
What do you think it might pair well with? Oh, damn near anything. I think my friend up there
at TSI has it right. It seems to be an excellent parent, excellent general combining ability across
a broad range of other plants. Yeah, hugely. I think TK is definitely up there with some of the
best breeding plants I've ever heard of or come across. What do you think a hybrid with Hayes
would look like with the TK? I'm not sure if it's been done, but it would be cool in my opinion.
Yeah, it would be worth a look for sure. I'd cross Hayes with anything now.
And Nessie at the same time. What a great answer there. So let's go down that rabbit hole a bit.
A lot of people are very keen on your Hayes and your Hayes experiences. Can you just to start off,
we've had a number of guests over the past few episodes talk about Hayes and one of the common
things they talk about is that there's so many different Hayes out there. So what to you is Hayes?
Well, I mean, I know a lot of them. There's one, the old one that I grew up from,
Positronics, that's Hayes to me for sure. But it's very different from like the Northern Lights,
Hayes and stuff that's, and that stuff can be just killer and rip your head off too.
You know, some of Neville's work, but they're both Hayes to me and I like them both. And,
you know, I just, I work with the one that I prefer the most.
Yeah, sure. And in terms of like the effect, is it like that really stimulating cerebral?
Is it like paranoia? Like what sort of effect do you like the most out of Hayes?
It's very, very potent. And to where you have to laugh at yourself, you know,
because you're tripping, you know, peeking out the window and stuff and hearing shit. And
it's a shockingly, incredibly potent and cerebral high. And I enjoy that, you know, I mean,
that stuff's going to disappear before I even touch anything.
I love that, right? Like the first jar to go empty, that's a sign of true quality.
Oh yeah, I'll take that over a lab any day.
Beautiful, beautiful. So, I mean, it's probably a hard question to ask, but
what is your favorite Hayes hybrid you've done thus far?
I've seen some really good, when paired with the Deep Chunk, the X-ray,
the F2s are worth looking through. My neighbor gave me another guy gave me some of that a couple
weeks back that was incredibly good. Beautiful. That's the monkey Hayes?
Yeah. Yeah, the DC Hayes crosses that I think we did in, or we started anyway in Spain back in 09,
I think it was. Ah, that infamous Spain run. Can you tell us about that? Because I think a lot of
people, including myself, saw the forum posts and were really captivated by the documentation you
did. How did that all go down? Oh, let's see. You know, Rocco, my friend Rocco there in Spain,
always been a good friend and Charlie and Doobie and all those guys, you know, in Spain. And at
the time, I had passed out a bunch of seeds and, you know, I've been just giving away seeds and such.
And I got tired of that. And it was just kind of a way to, you know, to not have to go to the post
office anymore. So we made a bunch of seeds and had Gypsy and others distribute them. And it
allowed me, you know, to not have to worry about that. Ah, okay. So, let's go, let's rewind a little
bit then. So, what was your introduction to the online community? Because as you just mentioned,
you know, you were giving out seeds to people. How did you discover the forums and come to be
a part of the online community? Oh gosh, I don't know. But it was, you know, cannabis world and
overgrow, I guess. Maybe a friend showed it to me or something back, I don't know, 99 or whenever
it was, you know, 2000, whenever those things were. Yeah, sure. Okay. And prior to that, were you mostly
just, you know, mingling with the locals and sort of just doing your own thing? I don't think I had
a computer or something prior to that. There you go. Truly a mountain man. I love that. I love that.
So, let's go back a little bit before that then. What was it like living in the area where before
the online communities, you know, because this is largely regarded by a lot of people as like
probably the golden era of NorCal cannabis production. Is that how you would describe it?
Oh yeah, I would for sure. It was such a really great and different group of people that settled
this area, you know, back in that original rush, you know, late 70s or something started probably,
you know, early 80s. You know, there was every hash smuggler and, you know, hippie and weed dealer
from down in the city started buying property up here and came up and there's people up here
from, you know, all over the United States. And it was a really interesting community.
You know, a lot's changed from since back then for sure. There's a lot of
newer people up here, the new guards we call them. And the vibes probably not what it used to be,
but I still love it up here. I've been here for 37 years, I think. This is my 37th year
and I'm not going anywhere. Ah, incredible, incredible. And I guess a lot of people
currently are discussing the way farmers are being pushed out of the industry with
the ever increasing legalization and the like, you know, the more corporate farms coming into
the space. Is this something you're concerned about or do you think like it sort of doesn't
affect you? Well, it doesn't concern me too much and yeah, it doesn't affect me really. You know,
I'm going to do what I've always done and hey, you know, there's not really good folk going to
jail for a long time like it was back in the old days. And that's a win. And nothing else,
you know, this other stuff, there was no money in it back in the beginning, you know.
And, you know, there's not much money in it now. It's kind of like we've come full circle.
Yeah, there you go. That's a good analogy. I like that.
You know, there's lots of people who kind of rode this gold rush in and there was a lot of
undesirable, you know, entities out there that came with that. And I'm kind of glad to see them
go to be honest. You know, a lot of these big farms are closing up shops, you know, they can't
even make it work. Yeah, true, true. I've heard a lot of them, yeah, just putting out a lot of
volume but not a lot of quality. Yeah, and they just, you know, they can't deliver to their
lenders, you know, what they promised back when, you know, back when it was worth more,
a couple of years ago. Yeah, certainly. I mean, I guess an interesting sort of direction to take
this in is that a lot of people would look at many of your offerings over the years and sort
of think to themselves, these aren't necessarily the most commercially orientated plants. Have you
found that you are able to grow your strains and offerings in a way that they are viable? Or are
they more of like a unique tool that's not necessarily for production in your mind?
Sure, you know, you could probably grow deep chunk in a, you know, light a single
1000 watt light over an area like 12 feet by 12 feet or something. And you'd probably get a couple
of pounds out of that light with that set up. And it'll produce out on the edges because it's a low
light plant. You know, we used to grow it under the trees. Let's see, with haze, you could find
a killer clone and, you know, sell ounces for $400 or something. Both of those can be commercially
viable. Yeah, wow, that's two sort of totally different ends of the spectrum, but you're making
it work. I really like that. And I'd love to hear a bit more about the deep chunk because I think I
read a post where you said a similar sentiment about, you know, lower light levels. I guess
sort of the implication is that you could maybe run like, you know, twice as big of a space with
half the lighting. So, you know, the same sort of power bill, but get twice as much yield sort of
thing. Is that sort of what you're getting at? Yes, exactly. You know, if you can, if you can
fudge with the inputs, then you can definitely make it work. Remember, this is an old plant.
And up here in the old days, we were growing under the trees, you know, we had helicopters all up on
us. And so for a plant to do well underneath a manzanita or my drone or, you know, under a
fucking tree, it has to be able to boogie down in some lower light levels. Yeah, of course. And look,
I, in the past, I've grown deep chunk inside a tent and I actually found it quite challenging.
And I think this may well be the reason I was probably suffocating it with light.
Yeah, yeah. It's a low light plant for sure. Like, you know, and it works really well. Like,
we try to grow all that stuff under the trees up here. And that shit comes out so wispy that
you're just not even going to sell it. You know, you're going to be working at 7-Eleven or something.
But that deep chunk is going to throw the monkey balls in the shade no matter what.
Yeah. Okay. That's interesting. That's interesting. And when you just referenced
haze and you said, you know, you could find a really nice pheno, you could do really well with
that. I was interested to ask you, do you find that you're able to get enough yield off the haze
that it like it makes up for the spindly sort of structure or the quality is enough that it equals
out that way? Oh, I mean, I've never grown them commercially by clone. I always grow from seed.
And, you know, a seed plant in a greenhouse or something, it'll do a couple of pounds,
it'll give you a kilo or something. If the smoke is right, then a kilo of haze is extremely precious.
So, yeah, it yields enough because it's just so much better than everything else. It's really
priceless. Yeah, sure. Okay. And out of curiosity, have you ever been tempted to pass out a clone or
a seedling or you just, you don't really take cuttings at all of it? I'm probably going to run
a haze run pretty soon. You got me thinking about it. It's funny. But yeah, I would love to have a
haze clone. You know, if you can find a good haze clone, buddy, you can change the world.
Yeah. I think that would be a really, really unique sort of offering to bring to the table
because although there's like a lot of focal discussion around haze, I don't think I've heard
anyone sort of float the idea of doing that in the sense that you might. Yeah, that's real high
up on my project list. I can't wait. You know, I've been growing all this stuff for the market
for so many years and now's the perfect time, you know, because the prices are down and everything
else. You can take a vacation from what you're doing. You're not getting paid anyway, right?
So, now's like the perfect time to do something exactly like that.
There you go. That would be interesting. And out of curiosity, you know, a minute or two ago,
you mentioned Gelato 33. Do you think a Gelato 33 haze hybrid would be interesting or it's a
bit too muddled? Yeah, no. Every time I find the cerebral, you know, fast flowering hybrid,
I think about haze. You know, this one might squash the high, might not squash the high, you know.
Ah, okay. I get you. I get you. I'm always on the hunt for that. And I do think that the OG would
probably be an interesting one because OG is a plant that has proven itself to breed true for
this high resin content and quality resin. And that's a pretty rare thing. Those are some
pretty important boxes to be checking out. And it certainly does that as a parent.
Sure. And I think with haze, you have this like sort of notable 5% rule. Would you be able to
run over that one for the listeners who aren't familiar? Yeah. I mean, about 1 in 20 is going
to be really exceptional. You know, you'll get a few that are okay, but you'll get this giant
percentage of them, more than 50, then you'll be, you know, at least I would say, oh man, this is
hay. This is horrible. You know, so it's a real pain in the ass to grow. You have to rifle through
all these undesirable plants. But you know, if you find a good one, it makes it all worth it.
That's for sure. Yeah. Okay. Beautiful. And to you, the ones that are truly the keeper ones,
what sort of traits do they embody in terms of a lot of people talk about hazes as like this
Phenus maybe Colombian leaning, this one's more Thai leaning. How would you describe the ones
that you feel are the ultimate keepers? I like the Thai side of the family. It's kind of a citrusy,
probably lemonine or something thing going on. Kind of a sour apple. It reminds me of like,
back in the early eighties, like some of the last Thai shipments that were coming in,
we called it chocolate Thai here in California. It was really, really good stuff. But if you
grew that stuff out, you would get this very similar thing to the haze that I grow.
And it's kind of makeup. Yeah. Nice. And I mean, as someone who unfortunately has never been able
to try any like Thai stick or anything like that, were there any other Thai varieties that left like
a lasting impression on you? Oh yeah. The earlier Thai stick that probably was the foundation of
Hawaiian weed back then. It was a real spicy thing and it would blow up in your lungs. You
couldn't hold that stuff. And they called it expando bud. Right. This is most certainly
Thai hybrids that were grown in Hawaii. Some of that stuff in the early eighties was just
insanely potent and just ripped your head clean off. Yeah. Wow. Interesting. That's really
interesting. I think I'd only ever tried like a Hawaiian lime once and it kind of weirdly
reminded me of sour diesel. Have you ever had that sort of experience?
Well, I wouldn't be surprised if it was sour diesel these days. But Hawaii got hit hard.
I'm sitting here whining about camp and all that in NorCal. Hawaii got it much, much worse,
with this Operation Greensweep, whatever they called it. They'd have guys hanging from
helicopters off a rope and combing the forest just a few feet from the ground. It was really
hard to grow for a long time in Hawaii from Reagan on for a long time. And a lot of the old
stuff just got wiped out. Yeah. Okay. Interesting. Have you ever tried to grow any Hawaiian or it
was always sort of like just adjacent to what you're interested in? No, there's a neighbor here
that used to grow some Hawaiian. He might even still, but it just wasn't very good. It wasn't
like the stuff I remember. Yeah. Sure. I don't suppose you ever had the mythical Maui Waui?
No, none of the stuff that we got from Hawaii had names.
It was brown or green, baby. Take your pick.
That's what it was. And we knew back then the brown was fucking good.
And there was another Thai trait, I reckon. Yeah. That does sound very Thai-esque, doesn't it? Like
the more brown, quote, it goes, like the better it gets. You don't hear people saying that about
many varieties except for Thai. Right. There's, you know, I mean, there's some of my favorite
modern varieties will go brown too. You know, Chem 4 doesn't hold on to its color for very long.
You got to move that shit quick, you know, for four months after you take that stuff down, it's
going brown no matter what you do. Ah, look, you just said one of the favorite varieties of the
show, the Chem Dog. What's your experience with the Chem Dog? Have you grown many of the
different cuts or just the four? I've grown the 91, the D and the 4. Yeah. And any one of them
sort of more of a favorite than the others or they're all just sort of good in their own way?
Yeah. I like that Chem 4 the best. I wasn't a very big fan of the 91 and the way that it grew,
you know, it just doesn't do a lot. The D is pretty good. It's a little earlier outdoors and
it makes a nice bud and does all that stuff. But I think the 4, all things considered how it grows
and how it hits your head. I think the 4 was probably the best, my favorite anyway.
That's all I care about. Yeah. Look, I can understand where you're coming from,
especially being outdoors. You know, I think the 91 does need a lot of,
you know, babying, a lot of coddling as we might say. So that sort of all checks out. One of the
focal discussion points on the show we talk about with guests is what do we think the lineage is?
Because we still don't really know what Chem is. A lot of people say, you know, Northern Lights,
something like that. Do you have any sort of guesses?
No way. No way. I don't know either. It's really good though. It's a combination of what came
before it. It's what it is. It's probably some, you know, awesome transgressive segregation up to
bag seed from some dude's closet back in 82 or whatever.
Yeah. Yeah, it could be. And look, I love that term transgressive segregation. Me and you have
spoken about it a bit in our personal chats, but I have a feeling some of the listeners may not be
familiar. Can you give your sort of basic description of what transgressive segregation
is for the viewers? Well, there's, you know, there's hybrid bigger,
heterosis and the F1 where you kind of have weaker traits of one parent being masked by the
input of another. And so, you know, everybody likes F1s because they kind of, you know,
they're not weak plants. They're nice and uniform. It's kind of mid parent values mostly. It's
predictable. You know, that's why seed companies used to do it and such. But it doesn't really
fly off the charts in any category. That doesn't happen until you get into the F2.
And that's when you get very extreme phenotypes that you haven't seen before in either parental
line. And boy, that's where the fun begins too, whether you're just, you know, selecting clones or
selecting breeding prospects. Yeah, brilliant stuff there. Okay, because this is sort of a
topic we talk about on the show, but have maybe never actually correctly labelled it as transgressive
segregation. But just so I'm trying to get in the mindset of the listener, you're sort of saying like
it's when you get a result that you wouldn't be able to predict from either parents. It's like
something totally left of field, so to speak. Correct. It's a measurement that this thing is
doing in some category where its measurements lie outside the range of either parent. So,
we're talking about, you know, faster than a speeding bullet, right? You know,
frostier than the DC and more cerebral than Hayes, okay? That's a possibility. And that would be an
example of transgressive segregation. And it's not something that doesn't happen often, you know?
It's actually more of the rule than the exception. Yeah, okay. That's a great answer there, because I
was going to ask, some of the most exciting results of a cross, in my opinion, are exactly that, you
know, when you get something very sort of unexpected. And so, when you use more land race or
pure breeding strains, I think you tend to see this occur more. But my question is, do you feel
that transgressive segregation can still occur with two polyhybrids? Like it's just harder to
come across? Or do you really need that pure breeding strain to do it? No, no. It can happen
with any introducing any new, you know, new germ plasm. But the more divergent the original
parental lines are, the higher the incidence of transgressive segregation that you'll see in the
following populations. That's brilliant. Okay. So, if someone's looking to, like,
get them, put their name on the map to establish, you know, some reputation for themselves,
do you think this is a good route to travel? Like, do you think this might be sort of good
advice for an aspiring breeder in terms of how you can make something unique?
Well, yeah, sure. I mean, that's where, you know, new starts. And then you would take,
you know, you would pick several, you know, let's say candidates or, you know,
from the F2 generation, set them aside and then breed them. And then you'd rank their progeny and
say, okay, this one was worth breeding with, and this one wasn't. And that's the way it goes. But
this is pretty standard stuff. I mean, this is how, you know, corn breeding is done or anything
else. I mean, that's what breeders do is, you know, try to slam two things together, get into
the, you know, the later generations and find something, you know, exceptional and
try to make families out of these like, you know, individuals. And some of the families will
succeed and some of them will fail. And it's just, you're just crunching numbers, really.
Okay. That's so interesting. Yeah. There's definitely a lot of things the cannabis
community can learn from like modern agriculture that we're sort of only just picking up. So,
let's use the monkey haze as a sort of reference. How would you go about finding that unique
phenotype? You've got your F1 seeds. Where do you go from there? Do you just pop those and try to
find that pheno? I just use, no, no, F1 seeds, I would breed them into themselves and come to the
F2 before I'd even start looking for anything strangely new and excellent.
Ah, fantastic. Okay. So, if someone wanted to really try to do this, they really need to be
in the F2 or beyond. Correct. Beautiful, beautiful. So, the goal of this F2 generation is, as you,
I think you mentioned earlier, something more resinous than the deep chunk, but with that haze
effect. Is that correct? Yeah, it could be S2. We're just talking about recombination generations.
After the F1, anything after, it could be a first generation back cross. Just the next step after
F1 is when you're going to get some recombination happening within the genes and when you reshuffle
the deck like that, that's when shit gets interesting. Ah, beautiful. And out of like
a personal curiosity, when you've done this in the past, phenotypically, do the plants look
like they might look like one parent, they might look like the other, you just got to hunt them
through? Or is that sort of keep Athena looking like a 50-50? The F1 will be 50-50, but the F2,
it's all over the board. You have massive variation, but that's what you're looking for.
A seed buyer would probably hate it if he bought a pack of seeds and it was all across the board.
But if you're going on the hunt, that's what you're looking for, aren't you?
Show me as many different cards as possible. Yeah. So, with the monkey haze, I think there's
a really notable photo online of this beautiful looking plant. And if I had to guess, I would say
that it sort of looks like a slightly more haze leaning plant, but it's obviously got that resin
from the deep chunk that we talked about. Has that been your experience in the past,
because you're looking for that haze effect, you're sort of looking for a haze type plant,
or not necessarily? You could get a full deep chunk, squat, indica looking plant that had that
haze effect because it's just the one. Yeah, I don't know. I've struck out until now. I haven't
gone through a bunch of them, but that's a hard thing, because haze by itself is really, really
excellent. And let's say deep chunk threw a bunch of extra resin on it to the naked eye or whatever,
but then when you start examining the resin head size and stuff, it just doesn't measure up to what
haze was doing by itself already. Deep chunk can have incredibly big resin heads too, but
getting to find those plants is always tough, because it could look more frosty. You were
telling me before about some plant that, oh man, it's just a resin bomb and stuff, but
I want to look close. Is it a bunch of stipe cells? Is there a big head size there? I want to see that
big head size with anything that I'm doing. I think that those are the storage containers of
what I'm looking for. The bigger the vessel, the better. Yeah, beautiful answer there. And I agree.
Just for anyone listening, we were talking about the mack, and I think you actually, without
knowing much about it, hit it perfectly on the head. A lot of people say that there's a lot of
resin stalks, but not necessarily the heads. Is that really useful? Not really.
Yeah, no, there's no tourists. My train wreck was like that. Northern Lights was like that.
There's a big, long list of plants, and modern plants too. Modern clones that are all hyped up
and stuff. And then you get them and look at them, and it's an empty vessel. They have a
really small heads and just a bunch of a forest of stalks. And they don't get too high.
In my experience, that the big head individuals do. Yeah, totally. Obviously, a lot of people
listening are very keen to hear about some of the old school days, some of the history. But before
we get there, you just referenced the hype strains. I want to quickly touch on that first.
I think a lot of people listening to this would be keen to hear what you like out of the more
modern genetics. So, I'm wondering, out of say the past 20 years since like OG Kush,
what has impressed you? What do you think is good weed?
The chems and the OGs and, gosh, that's put me on a fucking... There's a bunch of them. The haze,
all the haze stuff that people are hunting down, that East Coast haze and stuff, that stuff's
pretty good. A lot of these northern light haze type things that are around.
Gosh, if I was growing outdoor, I'd be saying something like Salmon Creek or
something. There's some plants here, and even Blue Dream. But I think everybody's just kind
of growing for this market and not growing for themselves. And you try to be honest about what
you really like, and you should stick to that because the market is ever-changing. People get
burnt out on really good plants. A really good plant comes along, everybody grows it. The market
gets burnt out. Demand something else, everybody stops growing this really fucking good plant.
It's like, hey, dude, what are you doing? Don't fucking shit can this thing. This is a fucking
fabulous plant. But their buyers don't want it anymore. They've had too much shoved down
their throat. And they move on and nobody keeps it. And really good plants get lost like that.
Yeah, definitely. Look, how about I narrow it down for you? Because I know that you are a
very talented outdoor grower. So, let's talk outdoor varieties for a little bit.
What are some of the MVPs for you? What do you like to grow outdoors?
Blue Dream, Salmon Creek Big Bud, Trainwreck was a good one outside. Just any plant that can get
really big. We were messing around. We used to be able to grow 25 or something in Mendocino County
here. And so, everybody finally poked their head out from underneath the trees and started doing
these big plant grows. You want the plant to be as big as possible. I've made the mistake of
growing sour diesel and stuff. And the same outdoor thing. And that stuff doesn't grow very
well at all outdoors. Blue Dream was fucking good. And I even liked Blue Dream as a smoke.
And my friend up at CSI, he laughs and laughs and laughs at me about it. But that's my honest
opinion. That plant was a pretty good smoke. And it was fucking absolutely bulletproof in a host of
other categories. And that matters. That matters a lot when you're evaluating plants. And what
doesn't fucking matter, at least to me, is whether or not the fucking market wants it or not.
Not going to grow for that anymore. I'm full of shit. I have been doing exactly that. But
shame on me for doing it. Don't worry. I think we can all relate to that in a sense. You did
reference the Salmon Creek Big Bud, which is a very interesting strain because it's hard to get
information on it. I guess I would be interested to hear what was your opinion on the high? Because
a lot of people like to barn humbug Big Bud and say it's just a cash crop strain. It wasn't good.
But there are a lot of people who say, well, the Salmon Creek one was actually really special.
What's your thoughts on it? I'd probably say it was like a high B and go with the former opinion.
It was just a cash crop thing. But it was acceptable and stuff. But yeah, it just grew
really, really well. And it was just absolutely bulletproof. And it could come out really well,
a lot better indoors and stuff. I've seen it look really, really good. But yeah, it wasn't all that.
Maybe a high B. Certainly not grade A weed. No. Very interesting. Okay. And out of curiosity,
you said that sour diesel doesn't grow particularly well outdoors, which that's
definitely something we hear around. Were you a fan of indoor sour diesel? Because there was
certainly a time where it took everyone by storm. Weren't the chems around by then?
Yeah, they were around before. Yeah. I like sour diesel. It's a good high,
but it's like a 30-minute high, man. After 30 minutes, you got to smoke more.
It's probably great for the guys out on the block, slinging 20 bags or whatever.
It wasn't something that I would want to keep around because of the duration of the high.
However, that fucking plant processes better into concentrates than any other plant I've seen in
decades. Decades. Yeah, that's interesting. Are you a big concentrate guy or more into flower?
I'm more into flower. If you got a toothache or something, you're going to reach for something
stronger. I'll do that. If I'm in massive pain, I'll turn to hash.
Yeah. Nice. Okay. So with the sour diesel, and you just referenced its ability
to make really good concentrates, are you a bubble guy? Do you like BHO or sauce or whatever?
What's your thing? I don't have a preference, really.
But that plant, sour diesel, is the first one that I've seen go through all of those things
you just listed and still be able to be identified. So many plants, you run it through water
extraction, and it tastes like generic hash after. It smells like generic hash, all this other stuff.
I've seen sour diesel that was BHO propane and smoke like sour diesel. Its essence just comes
through with flying colors. So for all of its faults as a grower, as a plant for growing,
it makes up for it in that, for sure. And it's a good smoke. It's a good smoke. Just a flower
doesn't last long of a high. But otherwise, it's a good plant. But the bottom half of it's going to
be empty, usually. It's just got such an inter-nodal length and all these other things that go
against it when you're trying to grow it outdoors. It wasn't a contender for the big pots, no way.
Yeah. I like that classification system. Not a contender for a big pot. That's a good way to put
it. Out of curiosity, on the other end of the spectrum, you were saying it doesn't last very
long. What are some strains to you that you feel really have the legs and go the mile?
Oh, this one I just smoked. I wish I knew what it was. I'm going to get with my neighbor and ask
him what the hell it is. But yeah. Hazel put you down for like four hours. A really, really long
high. OG. OG will knock you out for a couple hours. There's a bunch of them. I think the
chems, too, are real good. But most varieties that I've tried recently, nothing stands out like
the old Thai or anything or haze. You're going into four or five hours.
Not as modern stuff does, but I've tried recently.
Yeah, certainly. With the haze, let's go back to that. What was your introduction? How did you get
the haze seeds and what sort of stimulated you to do it? Did you hear magical things about haze and
were like, hey, I got to check that out myself? Yeah. Well, that's a funny story.
In, I think it was 93 or something, I got camped on up here. Helicopters came and took all my shit.
So they could see it through the manzanita. It was packed full under there. Probably changed
the color of the green of that manzanita for those helicopters. Stuck out like a sore thumb.
The plan was to go deeper in the shade, right? So I wouldn't get camped on. I was taken in by
those damn brochures from all the seed banks back then about how Derb and poison will produce good
chunky buds even during the worst season and all this other stuff. I'm thinking Amsterdam. In fact,
that's a place is a foggy, cloudy mess, isn't it? Do they even get any sun over there?
I'm like, if it produces good there, maybe I could take that shit under some deeper cover
and still be able to produce it. So, you know, away I went on my seed journey to go get all this
awesome variety that I was reading about in these brochures and such. And I got there and,
you know, and I would go out and I would go get samples from all the different coffee shops and
have them all labeled and stuff and try them out. And then if I liked one, I would find out where
they had these seeds for this thing in town and, you know, I'd go about it like that.
Well, the haze, they were selling. So there were some really good haze. This would have been the
winter of 94, 95. You know, I was there over Christmas and all that and New Year's. There
was some really good haze from one of the older coffee shops at the time. I forgot who had it,
but it was and it was kind of brown. But that stuff was really, really good and really trippy.
And I already had haze seed on my list. I needed to find those. But even though,
even after I got it, man, I kept going to buy more of that haze for the rest of my trip. It
kind of fucked up my testing, you know, of all these varieties. I was supposed to be supposed
to be testing all these varieties, but it's like, heck, haze was all I wanted to smoke,
you know. And I finally found it, you know, they had it all over town and various hybrid forms and
stuff. And I bought a few of those too. But I could only find it at Positronics then,
they said it was in pure form. Ah, very interesting. And out of curiosity,
did you end up picking up any other seeds on that trip that ended up being like a memorable variety
or was it really just haze that cut it? There was 27 varieties I brought back, I remember.
And it was just a haze that I ended up keeping in the end. My friend liked one of the early skunks
that I think Sam had at the time through Positronics. And that was a plant that delivered
up here. You know, most people are harvesting beginning to mid-October and this thing was
out of the ground by mid-September or something. And that meant a lot up here, you know, an extra
month of not having to evade camp and stuff, you know. So, he really liked that one. It wasn't
particularly good smoke or anything, but it made him a lot of money, you know. He was certainly
a good grower. Ah, interesting, interesting. Okay. And so, when you got back and you're growing them
out, what was it like that first time? Do you remember like the Pheno Hunt?
Oh, my friend still has... The songs were created about it. Like I said, you know, we tried to grow
these things in kind of our normal shady spots and stuff and none of them produced anything
close to decent bud, you know. These things are used to being selected under lights and stuff,
and you know, they work really well indoors, but you can't take that shit under the shade, man.
It just... You grow stuff that buyers would, even back then, you know, would turn their nose up at.
And back then, people would take anything, you know. They were lucky to know a grower kind of
thing. But yeah, oh, it got me mad, you know. It was horrible. It was a horrible experience. I've
hated everything from Holland since. Just kidding.
So, what was it like when... So, I'm assuming you like F2'd them and then grew them again,
and like that was when you found sort of the magic? Or how did that happen when you actually
were able to get something good off it and were like, this is it?
I think I had like 60 seeds or something. I don't know. I think Positronix sold 15 seeds per pack,
and I had like four of them or something. So, I had 60. I think I grew up 10 the first year,
and I found a really fucking good plant. And I was like, holy fucking shit, you know. This stuff
is really fucking good. It was nothing like the haze I was smoking on the street in Amsterdam,
though. You know, that was more of the one that, you know, that Chanty and Neville and all them
work with, which is a... It was more of a kind of leathery, incense-y thing going on, teak wood,
kind of a flavor. And the one I had grew was totally different. I was like, what the hell
is this? This isn't the shit I was smoking. But I'd say, you know, double take, fuck,
but it's really fucking good. And so, I knew that there was good stuff in it, but I didn't save a
clone. I didn't do any breeding. I was like, fuck, later I was like, I wish I didn't even grow those
out. I immediately went to open pollination out of that and made more seeds with the 50 or so
seeds or whatever I had left. And I've, you know, I've just open pollinated since then. But it did
start with a population of 50, I think, or something like that.
Oh, lovely.
Something like that. But I've always open pollinated them, and I've tried to grow it in
various, you know, I've done half-seed selection on it, and I've tried to, you know, collect seeds
only from my favorite, you know. So you're basically saving seeds from, you know, your
male pollen mix on all these different haze girls in a greenhouse, and whichever your favorite is,
you know, set aside those seeds from it and stuff. So it'd be half-seed because of the male
pollen mix. But, and, you know, I don't know. I've never really made any progress with it,
to be honest, you know. It still sits there kind of right where it was at 5% kick your ass, and
a whole bunch of hay, and, you know, a few other ones that aren't worth writing home about,
but you thought were going to be good. But that small percentage is awesome. So because I've
never made any progress with it, if I'm, you know, going to grow some out, I reach for the
open pollination shit, you know, because it's less bred, and it has the same damn ratio as anything
that I tried to make any progress with. I hold more value on the open pollination seed dock
pace than I have. That's brilliant. Before we jump into some open pollination stuff, I've got to ask,
that first time you ran them, that killer plant you got, how would you describe that? Because you
said, you know, it was different to the Amsterdam stuff. How would you describe it? And have you
seen that phenotype pop up again since then? Sure, yeah. I mean, when it's on, when it's good,
it's a really, really good smoke. It's just incredibly potent. Like, you know,
geez, I've walked into the bathroom and looked at myself in the mirror and like,
talked to myself and said, I'm high. I'm so fucking high. Oh, my God. And, you know,
and that's really silly shit, you know, and there's nothing else out there that'll make you
do that kind of stuff. And, and you'll be, you know, looking around for your telephone,
using the flashlight on your fucking telephone, you know, where's my phone?
It's in your hand, right? And you're fucking, and then you'll just have these moments of holy
shit, I'm fucking high. And haze is really, you know, it's number one at doing that to you.
That's brilliant. What sort of flavors and terpenes did it have?
Well, it's like, I just, I just call it really Thai-like. It's kind of citrusy.
There's some, there's a bunch of weird stuff going on in haze. I call it a high school metal
shop. Like their stems will smell like, almost like metal, like a high school metal shop,
like oil, you know, machine oil and stuff. It's got some really weird, evil kind of smells going
on. But the ones that I usually gravitate towards will have a, have a citrusy kind of,
you know, dominant profile. Oh, lovely. That sounds right up my alley.
I wanted to delve into the open pollination stuff, because as you mentioned, it's one of your
preferred breeding techniques, at least with the haze. How do you go through and do an open
pollination on the technical level? Do you, do you cull any plants? What sort of criteria would
you use if you were going to cull anything? Sure. Yeah, I would, I would, well, I would say
I try to shoot for, you know, at least a hundred plants in an open pollination.
So as not to back yourself in too much of a corner, or as many as you can, you know, if you
could do more, great, you know, more is better, you know, so you're not, so you're not losing
anything that you want to keep. But, you know, there's a couple of instances also where, you
know, you don't want the, the population to sway in any one direction. Like if I have an early male,
that's coming along, right? And this guy's about ready to shoot his load, and every other male in
the damn room is behind him. I'll go ahead and top that male, and cut his input back, you know,
lessen his, his effect. I don't want him robbing them, having a lion's share of pollination in the
room just because he was earlier, you know, that, that, that's, you know, it's leaving out too,
too many other plants that you probably are going to want there in the end, you know.
Yeah, brilliant, brilliant. That makes sense. And do you pay much attention to like,
runts or anything like, you know, things that are like, sort of lacking in compared to the others,
or you're not too fussed about that? You just let it all go?
Yeah, I include them. I include them. You know, they might, they could, who the fuck knows,
you know, they, there might be correlations that we have no fucking idea about. And it's, you know,
I've had, have you, has anybody in the world ever that, you know, seen this massive,
yielding, perfect plant that also happens to rip your head off? You know, and it seems like they
shouldn't be, you know, it shouldn't, you know, I mean, it's not even like hitting the lotto,
you just don't see them. You know, they're fucking unicorns. So I don't know that I'm not going to
leave them out. I'm gonna, I'm gonna let them, I'm gonna let them do their thing. And, and,
you know, their, their input would be small, right? Because they're just a fucking runt.
Yeah, that's an interesting way to think about it.
You're not too worried about fucking up the population at all. What you're, what you're
worried about when you're doing this is including everything that you possibly can, as big as
numbers as possible and just stand back and then just, and just let that happen though, too. You
have to kind of, you know, like I said, you have to guard that like an early male doesn't pollinate
everything, you know, or, you know, weeks before the other males shed any pollen. That would be
catastrophe, you know? So that's the one thing I do keep an eye out is early males, and I'll just
cut them back a little bit. I'll turn them into a runt. I'll say just because you're early, you
know, doesn't doesn't mean you get the lion's share of being a daddy, you know? And I think
that gives you a nice, you know, mix of genetics and the open pollination.
Yeah, definitely, definitely. That's good to hear that you keep them all in. And yeah, I think a lot
of people would sort of cull those early ones. So that's, I'm going to give that a go next time I
do an open pollination is just topping it, but leaving it in there because you still get that
mix. I like that.
Yeah, you can, you can mess with their, if anything's, you know, looks like it's going to
get the lion's share of pollination, you know, you can just, you know, lessen that plant's input
really easy with a pair of fucking scissors in the room, you know?
Yeah, yeah, yeah. Just to loop back to haze for a second, you know, it seems like it's had this
massive resurgence probably around the time Neville passed, it started to gain a lot of
traction. And I think we're now starting to see more and more hazes come out of the woodworks.
Why do you think haze is becoming so popular? Do you think it's just people are realizing there
are these really special phenos?
No, the market's just coming around again, you know, we probably, you know, it was, it was been
super popular before, but then everybody fucking had it. And then the fucking buyers said, Hey,
man, we don't want anything but fucking this, you know, great plants come along and that's what
happens to a man. They get shit canned because there's pressure coming from outside to deliver
something else. But here's what happens with the really good ones. They come back, you know,
a couple years later, when everybody gets sick of whatever the newest kid on the block is,
these buyers and customers, so they'll come back and they'll say, Hey, man, you got any of that
fucking old shit still? You know, they miss it. They have to, you know, come around in their head
that this was a really fucking good plant. And haze is, it really is, you know, it's one of the
best plants in modern history, for sure, with zero doubt, maybe the best.
Wow, I like that. I love that you have such a passion for it. And a little bit earlier,
you did reference NL5 haze. I would love to hear your thoughts in terms of like,
do you think they're comparable or are they just totally different beasts in your mind?
Well, in most categories, they're better. You know, I mean, they certainly,
any hybrid will certainly yield better. I've seen them have big giant heads, you know, our friend,
the community, which is an obsolete. I've seen some incredible macros with these big giant heads.
So there's some great parents in there. There's zero doubt. And I've smoked some that completely
ripped my head off, too. I think they're both great. I think there's great stuff. And all of
those haze lines, you know, you just have to be willing to run the numbers.
Have you tried any of the current popular ones like the PIF or the Cuban black haze?
No, I haven't. Neither one of those that I know of. I know a couple of people who have had it
and have been meaning to. But when I hear the stuff described, it sounds a lot like the stuff
I was smoking out of the coffee shops in Amsterdam in late 1994, early 1995.
Yeah, definitely. I think you mentioned it being like incense and that is how
these haze cuts are described. Yeah. And the stuff was really spacey, too. You know,
it's a really cool visual and audio kind of trippy high.
Interesting. And can we maybe expect to see some haze seeds being offered from you at some point
in the future? Well, I like the idea of finding a... Yeah, I'll be running haze always. You know,
I mean, I'm not gonna not grow some haze. And now, like I said, now's a great time to do it
because the market is so fucked up anyway. You know, you can kind of take a little vacation
and do what you really want to do. But I'm actually I'm more care about finding I have
plenty of haze seed. I'm more excited about finding a clone, you know, because I've never
really done it. Never, never saved a haze clone. And I've seen so many of them go by
from seed that I should have saved, you know. And, you know, it'd be a pain in the butt to grow,
even from clone. But why not? You know, why not? It's pretty fucking special. I think
it stacks up against anything, anything when it's on.
Ah, okay. And like, is your idea to breed with it or like sort of disseminate it out to the
community? Yeah, I'd love to have it, you know, out in people's hands. And I don't know if I would
breed with it. I think I'd stick with haze. I'm just and all my old lines, I just stick with open
pollination as least frequently as possible. And, you know, the best possible storage,
you know, in the interim. Yeah, definitely. I've seen you post about your seed storage online.
How do you like to store seeds long term? Well, we don't have much of a choice up here.
We bury them under the frost, under the frost levels, under the, you know, the frost level in
different areas will be different depths. Here it's about, I don't know, two and a half, three feet.
So you dig a hole about three feet deep and get an army, you know, ammo can has a good seal on it
and such to keep ammunition dry. Those are good storage containers for for burying seed. And it's
about, you know, it's not as good as a refrigerator, but it's about, you know, I think 55
degrees Fahrenheit or something, earth temperature. And it doesn't vary a lot from summer to winter.
It doesn't freeze and it doesn't bake during the summer. So it's about like burying them in King
Tut's tomb, I guess. It's a pretty good option. But refrigerator would be better. But we were
always concerned about getting busted, you know, back in the old days, you'd get busted and they
take everything like that. And so you didn't want to have them around the house. You want any,
nothing's safe until it's in the bank of the woods around here. We bury everything that has any
value. And my seed stash is always coming to that category. I keep two of them. I keep another ammo
can that's not buried, that, you know, kind of a remnant seed thing that I use for handing out
and sending out and stuff like that. But it doesn't keep as well as the stuff that I bury
and let set there. And do you have like a certain time frame you like to, like, you know, every five
years I restock it or like what, how do you do it? Do a germ test, you know, germination test and
and write down what percentage you got up, you know, every five years or something.
I, you know, stored well, they'll go 20 years at least. I usually try to open pollinate after
about 10 years when, or whenever you get close to 50%, you know, you have a germ test that's
down to 60% or something, you better get going again. Yeah, sure, sure, sure. That makes sense.
And you referenced a few questions ago, you know, that like popular strains come back in fashion,
and I wanted to know, it seems like the peak or maybe just over the peak of the roadkill skunk
obsession. Did you ever have any experience with it? And if so, do you think it's worth the hype?
Oh, these hills were filled with all that stuff back in the day.
It was super, you know, it was everywhere, you know, most of the Ghanis and Pakistan,
we came up in here, the broadleafs that came up through here, most of it, I would say, was skunk,
was very skunky, you know, old school, and old school wet manner, or definition rather.
But, you know, everybody bred away with it, away from it, you know, that that's the reality.
And, and they wouldn't have, if it was worth the hype, now would they?
I think that it's just not a very exciting profile, really, to be honest with you, you know,
because other ones in the end, for the most part have won the day. And, and for one reason or
another, you know, there's only a few of them around today, you know, they can,
and there's like chems and, you know, diesel and stuff like that. It's getting close to what
these guys are talking about. But it's different, it's way more evil. You know, the old skunk,
what wasn't so evil as any of these new popular cuts.
Yeah, interesting. Okay. So, because like, what I've heard a lot of is that
the the TERT profile, some people have found things similar, but they're often like not
super potent. Would you say that was your experience with it?
Yeah, I think that that's the reason that everybody, or you know, the majority of it got
bred out of the gene pool, because it wasn't the bag that got emptied, perished, you know,
out of your samples. Just it didn't, it didn't tick some important boxes.
That back then, we weren't growing for the market or what the buyers said that they wanted back
then we could grow whatever we wanted, you know, because buyers would come up here, they would
buy whatever the fuck you had, they were lucky to know a grower, you know. So back then we had
this freedom to grow what we wanted, you know, what we liked, and we could sell anything that
we wanted, no problem, that shit's gonna sell. But you could actually grow what you wanted,
you know, and that's, that's kind of like what I'm excited about the way the industry is now,
and the prices are so far down. It's getting really close to that again, you can just,
you just grow whatever the fuck you want. You know, I like that.
Yeah, yeah. And I mean, I remember you, you said a comment to me that sort of left a lasting
impression, which was like, the bag of weed sets the ticket. And I think the question for a lot of
growers and what they're wondering is, like, what can I do to find something that's going to be
able to do that? Like, what's going to be impressive enough that it sets its own ticket?
Do you have any advice?
I think, well, I think, historically, you know, Thai weed did it when it started getting imported,
you know, by ships into the harbors here on the West Coast, you know, back in the late 70s or
something. It came along, it was like $1,800, when everything else was like, you know, $200 or $300
at the time. Thai weed certainly hit America by storm, and it was able to ride its own ticket
as far as how much it's worth. I think Hayes can do the same. And I don't see anything else doing
it, really. But certainly, you know, that whole New York, that back East Hayes stuff, you know,
that stuff could be pretty expensive, you know. Certainly, it was pretty elite stuff to get a
hold of, and people were willing to pay a lot of money for it. You know, you'll hear Clark talk in
the old days how, like, even way back when, Hayes was going for like $400 an ounce or something,
something like that. I think you can do that today. I think if you went out and found a
kick-ass Hayes clone, you could pretty much just decide what you were going to sell it for,
and people would buy it. That's really interesting. I really like that, because it sort of flies in
the face of what would intuitively seem like the right thing, which, like, you might think to
yourself, oh, I need to, like, make my own thing and, like, become unique through that. But it's
sort of, like, not necessarily going to guarantee you're going to get, like, a really good end
product. Whereas with the Hayes, as you said, like, it's tried and tested, and no one's filling
that niche right now. So, it's almost like a space in the market waiting to be filled.
Right. Well, I'm not thinking about it from that angle, really, about the market. But,
you know, the reason that you could do that with stuff like this is because it's just so much
better than anything out there. And introducing seed is one thing, but when you introduce Hayes
seed, you're introducing this big, giant percentage of hay to people. It's like smoking rope.
And that's not so valuable. But if you introduced a Hayes clone that was just epic, well, now you're
doing something for society, you know. Now you're doing well. Definitely. And for anyone out there
who's feeling particularly inspired by listening to this, do you have any recommendations for
growing Hayes indoor? Or, like, do you just, like, I don't recommend that? My good friend,
I guess, CBF, he grows it. He's been growing it indoors. So, I never have. I've always grown it
in a greenhouse. But CBF grew a lot of my seed indoors over the years. And I think he just tried
to plow it out as fast as he can. And it's still going to be, you know, six foot plus, two meters
plus, no matter what you do, kind of thing. It just becomes a jungle. Just good luck, you know,
I guess. Now, from clone, you know, if you just started flowering a clone, a rooted clone,
that's probably where it's at, you know. Then I bet you could finish it up under five feet or so.
But growing it from seed, good luck. Because that thing, it's not, you know, it's not even
going to start flowering for, what, two months, if you're lucky. And then it's going to
keep stretching for like two months after that. And it's a nightmare to not just let go, you know,
go for it. Wow. I can only imagine just these most monstrous trees at the end of it all.
What about outdoors? It'll go 15, 20 feet, you know. I've never even really grown it to try to
see how big I can grow it. But that type of plant, they get so big, you know. It'll get, you know,
huge in six months, a life cycle if you start it in the summer. I can't imagine what it would be
like, like, you know, starting it in the spring and letting it have all summer and then stretch
out through fucking September and October and all that. And then, you know, finally come in and
probably November, late November, or even into December, the plant would be huge. It would be
huge. Several meters. Probably four or five, I don't know, six meters maybe. I can totally imagine.
Tiger like that up here too. It would get huge. Setting records. And I mean, you grow a lot of
outdoors. So, I'm assuming you're growing in soil. Can you give us a bit of a rundown of how you grow?
What sort of amendments do you use? Anything interesting?
I've always been a big fan of chicken shit outdoors. It's a very balanced food. And it
lasts about three months or something, you know. And that's a pretty good amount of time.
I like bone meal and chicken shit. But I haven't grown these large outdoor plants. Most of everybody,
including myself, has just been doing depths for years, light depths and greenhouses.
And that's an even shorter lifespan. So, that would be different. But for the long outdoor
season, I like chicken shit and bone meal. Beautiful. Beautiful. And do you do like a
super soil sort of thing in the sense that you put that at the bottom and then some regular
soil on top and then the plants on top of that? Or is it just that's the whole medium?
No, that's just kind of what I start out with. And then I'll do some feeding of fish and
liquid, various organic bottled nutrients a couple of times on the outdoors. But
in the... I've got to spend years since I've really grown outdoors. My outdoor pots now are
filled with mama plants to take fucking cuts off of for the second run on the light depths.
So, what sort of feeding and soil regime do you use for when you're doing light depth?
Oh, like you use these injectors are real popular where you just grab some age old organic or
something, one of the liquid organic fertilizers and use these injectors where it just auto mixes
with the hose. And you can just feed really easy that way. The old days of running around with
granny cans and dipping them into a slurry of 55 gallon barrels filled with stud tea are over.
I love it. Modern problems require modern solutions.
Yeah, exactly. You're asking about soil and stuff. Yeah. I use grow bag. Some people use to make
beds and stuff. But my beds have always scared me a little bit. I mean, they're really easy to
prep and stuff because you can just run a rototiller over the thing and until in some
amendments each year or whatever. But pathogen ripping through there or vermin ripping through
there, you get a vol or something ripping through and they're like, you'll be like,
gophers tearing up your Bugs Bunny cartoons. Any type of soil borne pathogen or critter
can wreak havoc in a raised bed once he gets in there. So I like to use grow bags for that
reason. But I do use soil. But if I get a problem in grow bags, it's isolated to that one singular
bag. But then feeding it becomes a nightmare because you can't just run drip tape or whatever
over grow bags. You have to get a hose on it or drip line or something else.
So those injectors work out really well for that. Yeah, definitely. The automation and the
reduction of labor is hugely important. I was curious though, in your depths, do you use any
external lighting? We always used fluorescence in the past. But everybody's using these string
lights now and they seem to work as dim as they are. They hardly give up any light and they
use almost no electricity. These string lights are like LED strings for having cocktail parties
in the suburbs or whatever. An amazingly low amount of light. Yeah, we'll keep them in bed
when you get that early jump in the spring. And then the second one, the hours are long enough
that you're not worried about lighting. Everybody's talking about mixed lighting these
days and stuff where if they try to go too early or something, they'll have some bigger lighting
systems in there to help it along and play it off like it's some hybrid system of indoor.
But you don't need to do that if you grab a bigger chunk of the good growing season.
Yeah, definitely. So, I would love to jump into some of the older history and the early stuff.
So, let's go back to the start. Tell me, what was your first experience with cannabis?
Oh God, I was 14 years old and I smoked out of a can pipe with a couple of my friends
who I've known since junior high and brought both of them up to the mountain and we've all
done the same thing. I've known them forever and they're still up here or one of them is,
but they both own property up here and such. And that started when I was 14. Probably Mexican weed,
some shitty fucking northern Mexican weed, you know, brown town back in the
suburbs of LA or the South Bay on the coast there.
Los Angeles, that's all you had back then. So, you'd get some good green bud occasionally,
but most people were smoking Mexican weed back then.
Yeah, interesting. And did it have a memorable impact on you?
Well, I liked it. Yeah, I liked it a lot, you know, and I would probably smoke the next day too.
The day after that, the day after that for a long time. That was 40 years ago now, I guess.
Yeah, wow. And then, so, what was your progression like then? Did you just begin to smoke more and
eventually you decided you wanted to start growing? Like, what was the transition from
casual smoker to the next level for you? Being impressed enough by that Thai weed,
that chocolate Thai that used to go around in Los Angeles, probably came into Long Beach Harbor,
I think. And it was around those beach cities of Los Angeles and it was good enough. And
at the same time, books were coming out to teach the backyard growers of the 70s to actually how
to grow some bud. Before that, they were like smoking leaves and shit. It was pretty funny.
But it was a book, the Primo Plant, Jerry Garcia's wife, we called her Mountain Girl back then,
had written this book, The Primo Plant, that ran through how to grow and
how to, you know, call the males and all that. And along with that Thai weed,
you know, that's what I wanted to grow. And so, yeah, I was over it. I used to work for this guy
that had this Thai weed. And he had this big gardener, you know, it was a landscaping business.
The guy loved flowers and all that. And he had this big giant rooftop deck and we would grow
a few up there. It was what we called chocolate Thai at the time. And that's why I say that my
favorite is haze. It's just the same as that. You know, the difference is that chocolate Thai,
that seed was, it was predictable. You know, like you grow a couple of those plants, you know,
and they were all good. You know, it was amazing. Wow. What a brilliant introduction
and growing your own chocolate Thai. I bet it was delightful. Yeah, it was. So,
what happened from then? Did you begin to start growing in LA? No, not really. I started,
I knew, I happened into somebody who was a friend of the family who was selling this really killer
bud in Santa Monica. And I was 17 years old. And he said, Hey man, I've been, you know, I've been
growing, I was probably 16 actually. He said, I've been growing this stuff that you've been
buying. I got this place in Northern California, you know, you want a job? And I said, hell,
hell yeah. And that's, that's when I came up here as a winter of 86, I think.
My first crop was in 87. So yeah, and I've been here ever since. Oh my Lord. So much to go. What,
like that's such a cool opportunity. When you got up there, were there plants there? Did you pick
the seeds? What were you growing? Oh, all the varieties that he had and everybody else, you
know, around the neighborhood had, you know, the chemist was one guy that had a particularly good
variety of seeds and, you know, everybody in the neighborhood back there, they would, they would
share what they had. And, you know, you grew a little bit of everything, check stuff out and
stuff and developed your own favorites. And, and that's what I did anyway. And I think that's what
everybody was doing back then. But yeah, there was no shortage of variety, you know, and lots of
that gone by the wayside too. And it's, it's because they were, you know, if they were somebody's
favorite and they didn't save him, save him, well, that's on them. You know, you should,
should be honest with yourself about what your favorite. I still got deep chunk and hay man.
That's my favorite. If the whole world, if the whole world did that, you know,
uh, cannabis would be a lot better off. Uh, cannabis culture would be a lot better off.
Uh, you know, we would have this awesome gene pool that was incredibly diverse and that had little
pockets of, of homozygosity and, and such. You'd have true breeding lines that would develop because
they were, you know, that's all they had to your favorite, you know, that's what, that's what you
should be growing. You should be growing what floats your boat and you should be doing something
about that to keep it, to keep it alive. We'll come back to that topic. Cause it is one worth
visiting for sure. But you mentioned the chemist. I think a lot of the information online says the
chemist was your father, but I think based on what you just said, he wasn't. No, he's,
he's just a friend and neighbor. Um, he's in until this day, uh, he's still up here.
Just one of the original guys that, you know, that were up here when people started coming up and,
and, you know, realizing, you know, that they could get that, that they'd get that same price
for that California green, but up North that, that tie was fetching, you know, it started out about
1800 bucks. You could get a pound of tie or Northern California, since the media, um, that's,
that's really what changed everything into, into something that where people could make the money
up here before that, uh, it was just back to the landers that were, yeah, they were growing some
grass, but it wasn't really for profit. It was for, you know, putting away over the winter.
Wow. Okay. And so what was it like for you to begin to acquire some of the strains you're known
for? Cause you know, there's the X 18, the pine tar hat. What was the journey like to pick some
of these strains up? Were they just things that went around or did you have to go out of your way
to get them? Well, I used to grow with the chemist. Um, you know, we, we were partners on a few things
and that, so I knew all of his lines really well and I just hit him up, you know, Hey, give me this,
give me that. Um, you know, and I was already into the, into the science of it at the time,
which he, and he's a real chemist, you know, he's an, he's a side in his previous life. You know,
I think he was making the flavor grape or some shit in a lab somewhere, but, um, but he is a
scientist and kept really, really good notes. And that impressed me. Um, and, and I had a good grasp
of breeding and that impressed him. So he, so he's been pretty open with his lines, but he, you know,
he's a friend. He just visited me a couple of weeks ago. We had dinner. Um, he's still around,
he's up in the seventies now or something, but, uh, he's real healthy.
Ah, that's fantastic to hear that you're still in touch and that he's doing well. That's amazing.
Like, I think I might be wrong here, but was it the pine tar kush was the X 16?
15, I think. Okay.
Actually it's D 15. The chemist we call it is, you know, other nickname is D and it was number
15 from the chemist and I asked him and the 18 was to 18. Yeah. Okay. And so it sounds like there
was a number of interesting strains. What was it about the other ones which made you think they
weren't quite worth looking into more in the way the ones you picked were?
Well, I snagged, I snagged the Indian off of him too, which was his number nine. Um,
and, uh, these were, these were all of my favorites. Um,
he's had a bunch of hybrids and stuff, but I wasn't interested in that. These ones were
the ones that went back to their parentage and that because the hybrids were really nice too.
I was like, same thing. Like when I went to Holland, I want the fucking parents,
I'll make my own hybrids. Thank you very much. I love it. A man that knows what he wants. Okay.
That makes sense. If the other ones were hybrids. Interesting. Okay. So in that case,
did he ever tell you where he got some of those things from?
Well, I go where you go. Yeah. I think the, uh, I think the North Indian Indica come off of Bell
Springs road here in Mendocino County. And then the, uh, the, uh, the PTK and the X18 come off of
another grower that's still with us in here in the neighborhood too. Um, same guy that used to
grow some Hawaiian, um, that, that, that he got off of him when he did some work with him. Um,
you know, back then people used to have little projects together and such, and they would share
and then the neighborhood, we all know each other and, you know, it's like this, this stuff
that I'm smoking today, the neighborhood, you know, comes over and he wants to show off this,
check this stuff out, man. And, uh, that's where it all starts. It would, so, you know, I mean,
imagine it's the same as now that online shit, you know what I mean? But, but a whole different
thing, you know, before there were, before there was an internet, but it was the same. It's always
been that same shit. Somebody's got something there like, Hey man, this is really good.
You know, and they went and they want to show somebody, you know? Yeah. That's awesome. That
it was sort of like this tight knit community of people collaborating together. That's really cool.
And you mentioned it a few times. So we'll dive down this rabbit hole now, the North Indian,
it's got a cult following, I think mostly because it never really got released. And so people have
always felt like there was this mystique around it. I certainly have. I've seen you talk about
it online. And I think you said like, Oh, it's people might not like it as much as the other
lines. How would you describe it? And how come it never really made it to market in the way the
other lines did? Well, it's a smaller budded plant. It's one of these ones that have, you know,
little wrap, you know, a little pup, pup, pup, pup, pup, all the way up the stem. It doesn't
throw together a cola, um, really at all. And the buds are kind of this uniform, but smaller,
size. And, and it's not incredibly resonance, you know, nor, nor particularly, you know,
incredibly potent, you know, but it had this flavor that just that just crossed out so
fucking good with everything else that I that I got from the chemist, and, you know, I was growing
out the hybrids that that he had made, you know, when I was working with him. So I knew it was a
excellent parental input. And occasionally that thing will throw out some of that roadkill skunk,
you know, that super, super skunky stuff. And then and a job says it's not incredibly potent
or resonance. But it's a valuable plant to me. I really liked that plant when it's on
and hybridized crosses out real well. I did an open pollination. I remember I was going to get
them out there and I got super busy. This is really a sad story, but I'm going to tell it
anyway. So I did so I did this open pollination and tell and tell the actually I think I think
CBF was maybe with me that year. He could my friend CBF online he I know him in person and
he's a good friend and he came out and spent a summer with me. But so anyway, at this net
Northern Indian indica greenhouse filled with 100 plus plants and did this open pollination and
dried dried the seed and stuff. And I just got, you know, I got super busy with harvesting other
things. I just chucked it in a in a contractor bag, you know, you know, a big black garbage bag.
And I threw it in the shed. You know, it was dry. I just kind of put it away. I'm going to go.
I'll deal with this later. And I kind of forgot about it in the middle of hard, you know, in the
midst of harvest and the chaos and everything. And when I did go check it out, mice had gotten
into this fucking bag and they just ripped through this and they ate every fucking seed.
And and they and they left a bunch of my shit in its in its path, you know, so I bet you're
we're all shred, you know, just turned to powder and just a pile of my shit kind of thing as they
ate through the plant and ate up all of my my precious seed. I mean, I still have it. You know,
I could just do another open pollination and I just saw the chemists the other day and let them
know I'm going to be raiding the stash and all that pretty soon because he's not because he's
not growing anymore, you know. But but it was it was brutal. It was brutal. I just spent, you know,
months and months and months on this open pollination. I chucked it in this fucking old
shack and the mice had got into it and just went for the seed straight for the seed, you know,
and just ate very efficiently every fucking seed in this hole. And, you know, this is in a, you
know, several pounds of weed, you know, probably 10 pounds of 10 pounds of seeded weed or something.
You know, this is this is a lot of seeded weed, you know, over 100 plants in a in a greenhouse.
So but yeah, so they went through a lot and they didn't miss any of them seed either, man. I went
through that stuff hoping and I'd find at least something, you know, underneath the shake that
these mice had turned all the seeded bud into. And there was nothing but my shit was a real drag, man.
Oh, my God, that's absolutely heartbreaking. And I can only imagine how efficiently they went
through it. So yeah, that's why it never got released, because that's what happened, you know,
when I had that in mind. And so it just got eaten. And it's like, you know, I still do it for myself,
but it's not really high priority to like, do it and get it all out there and stuff. People probably
won't like it anyway. You know? Yeah, I mean, I'm interested to know your thoughts on why we don't
see Indian more prevalent among users. Do you think it just does relate to the yield thing?
I don't know. I think that, you know, I think India has certainly done its fair share of passing
some really good grass around the world. That's for sure. Everywhere from, you know, probably
Colombia, Jamaica, all that. I don't know. You never know what happens. You know, I think that
it's probably all crap right now. That's what I'm hesitating to say. But that's kind of what I
suspect. You know, you could say the same thing about Thai. You know, all of these honeypots
scattered around the world, it has another factor involved. And that's like, you know, by time,
you know, you can't keep something great forever, man. And I think if there was a bunch of great
stuff in India right now, we would see great India. You know, I could say the same thing about
Thailand right now. You know, there's just not a lot of great stuff there. Or I think you would
see all that stuff. I mean, I think it's there somewhere. I'm a believer. But it's hiding in
somebody's attic, you know, somewhere. Old seeds that Uncle Joe forgot about.
Yeah, I can completely understand that. I think a lot of people are hoping we find some gold from
that. I'd be interested to know your thought because you have grown out a bunch of Indian
and a bunch of haze. In your experience, do you see any Indian in the positronics haze,
for example? Oh, I probably wouldn't know the difference between, you know, a Mexican or an
Indian if I saw it growing, you know, certainly some of the, you know, more tropical Mexicans
or, you know, which I would probably wouldn't know the difference between any of the inputs of
except for maybe a Colombian that was purpling up, you know, of any of the inputs. But I don't doubt
that the southern India, mind you, it's not just Indian, it's South India, you know, and it's like,
wow, that's pretty goddamn specific. And that was the description that I was looking at at the time.
And we've seen Rob Clark write it, and he's a damn good friend with Sam, you know. I don't have any
reason to doubt that it's exactly what they say it is. You could trace the lineage back, too, and
say that it originally was a Colombian, you know. They may have been selling it already as haze by
then, too. But I allow for all of it, you know. The description of the four-way hybrid didn't
come out of thin air, you know. And when guys like Rob Clark have written it and other people,
you know, who I think were probably around back then, I would call that haze, too. It's certainly
one of the hazes that was known to Amsterdam and Holland, you know, at the time.
There's just too many descriptions from back then. I was there, you know, to change it now.
Yeah. While we're on the topic, though, I wanted to touch on, are there any other sort of underrated
land race or genetic hotspots in your opinion? And I guess, to me, India is sort of one that
comes to mind, that, you know, you don't hear about it quite as much. Are there any others in
your mind that you think are a bit like that? Oh, yeah. Well, certainly Southeast Asia, right?
I mean, that's probably the biggest one in our life, you know, that cranked out more quality,
I think, than any other place. When you talk about India, boy, that's going back hundreds and
hundreds of years. That place has been, you know, putting out quality. But I don't see it probably
doing it, you know, too much today. I don't know what I would call hot today as far as land race
varieties. I think, you know, that's a real tough one. I would say Southeast Asia. I think there's
still probably some, you know, even in Thailand and bordering countries and neighboring islands,
you know, all through that region, that's still holding gold. There might be some good
shit in Australia. You guys have smoked some, your fair share of some good Thai bud, too.
I know that's true. Yes, most certainly, I believe. At the time, yeah, Australia was
privy to some nice import from Thailand. I'm very jealous of all those who got to try it.
So you don't get it anymore. Yeah, we don't either.
Unfortunately not, no. Are there any spots that you think, like, really don't get enough attention
for what they merit? Like, for me, I always think, like, Korea never really gets discussed much,
but I hear from some old timers that, like, land race Korean was really nice. Anything like that
for you? I've grown one. I've grown a Northern Korean, broadly here, that was going around the
neighborhood back in the mid-80s or late 80s or something. And it was very unique in flavor. God,
I don't even remember. I just remember it really stood out in flavor. But, you know, it didn't,
it wasn't as good as a deep chung, so I let it go. It wasn't my favorite. But it was super
interesting, you know, weird, spicy, incensy, kind of evil thing going on, too. It probably
would have been a great thing to have today for working in hybrids. Yeah, look, I saved the best
for last for this reason. Tell us a little bit about how you came to acquire the deep chung.
I think one of the memorable stories I've read online, though I have some suspicions about its
authenticity, is that the seeds came out of a brick of hash. How did it actually go down?
No, it was in a pound of seeded weed that sold for like, you know, sold for like $5,000 a pound
when pounds were $1,800. It was one that, you know, these growers accidentally seeded their crop,
but it was so early and everybody was just getting exposed to broadleaves up here. You know,
they were all growing early Mexicans up here before, you know, the broadleaf, before the
Afghan and everything else started coming through when everybody started rolling in here up to grow.
And so, yeah, it was a pound of seeded weed. The guy actually, very entrepreneurial,
he seeded his crop instead of saying, oh, fuck, you know, he went and sold the seeded
weed for like way more than he could have got for seedless weed at the time. And it was super unique,
you know, and it was like new and exciting. And somebody up here bought a pound of seeded, yeah,
that Afghan for $5,000. And that's how it got introduced to the neighborhood.
And it's floated around in a few people's hands back then. I got a hold of it and I just held
on tight. You know, most other people have lost it. There might be a couple of people that still
have it from the old days. Yeah, wow, interesting. And what was your thoughts when you first grew it
out? Were you like, wow, this is something else? Yeah, it really stood out, you know, to pretty
much everybody that sees it for the first time. They're like, what the fuck is this?
You know, because it's so, it's like cartoon-like in its Jurassic-ness.
It looks like something out of a different world, you know?
Yeah, it truly is something very unique. I think another one of the famous sort of anecdotes that
goes around online is that some people have noticed that there's a slightly thinner leafed
Pheno that sort of pops its head up and it tends to be a very, a slightly more cerebral sort of
high. Have you ever experienced that? The thin leaf deep chunk? Obviously, it's still not thin
by like equatorial standards, but the thinner leaf deep chunk Pheno? Yeah, I've always kept an eye on
them. I like that. I like those because I think that they have more room for cranking out resin.
And I've come across a lot of really, really, really good ones like that in my day. And,
you know, a narrower leaf, I can say it might correlate with a higher callus to leaf ratio,
you know? So I think they're worth keeping an eye on. I'm not trying to grow a bunch of
leafy fucking bullshit, you know? I'm trying to grow the best resin that I can with that plant.
And the ones that come out the best flower, you know, are often a thinner leaf.
Interesting, interesting. And have you ever had any ideas or thoughts about
where the deep chunk comes from, like specifically?
I was, you know, in Afghanistan, I know that. There was a million of them around here, you know,
at the time. But it was one of the more extreme ones, you know? And I found it really cerebral
too. And so I kept it. And pretty consistent, you know? And, you know, it could, like I said
earlier, it could do really well in the shade. Because those fucking leaves are great solar
panels. Yeah, amazing. I mean, out of curiosity, were there ever any other things that went around
back in the day, like sort of around that time that were maybe unique in a sense or memorable
for some reason? Hundreds, hundreds, you know? So it's hard to even talk about them. But
except to say that I cry myself to sleep at night for, you know, fucking up and not keeping more of
it, you know, even though it wasn't my favorite. But I'm happy that I've kept my, you know, what
was my favorite, you know? So I kind of feel like, you know, I'm off the hook. Yes, trust me, I'm
going to give you the all clear. We're very grateful for what you've given us. So, I mean,
while we're on the topic, we had Gypsy Nirvana on not long ago. And he told me that you had this
interesting story about like winning the Cannabis Cup with deep chunk. Do you remember that?
I just remember that, you know, he was the first guy that kind of jumped away from, you know,
the politics of the, you know, the whole politics of the Cannabis Cup there. You know, the high
times when people were paying to enter, paying to win. And it was kind of a kind of a shifty scenario.
And he just, you know, he wanted to, you know, make it more of a, you know, anybody can come
over here and enter the contest. You know, I think I sent him a couple of ounces.
And I've won the fucker. I couldn't believe it. Pretty funny.
There you go. That's incredible. I mean, they probably never had anything even similar remotely.
I don't know. There was, you know, I mean, I think there was already diesel and stuff by the time,
by that time, you know, available. I think it was there. It was, I think it was 04 or something
like that. You know, there was some, there was probably some good smoke there. But I had just
done an outdoor grow of like 50 plants. And I had a couple of ones that I was keeping an eye on,
you know, because they were like fucking resin bombs halfway through flower. And I think, you
know, I had a few of them tagged. I was keeping an eye on and I grabbed the best two of 50 and sent
them in. Wow. Okay. Yeah. So some nice ones by the sounds of it. Yeah. Yeah. Well, apparently so.
They were my favorites. That's why I sent them in. And, you know, and it hurts a little,
because, you know, those are the ones that you want all of that weed.
Now I got to send this guy in out, you know. But I did. And I don't regret it, I guess.
Oh, that's funny. I like that. He spoke pretty fondly of his recollections of you. And
he said that, like, initially, before he was like stocking your seeds, you were just sending
them to him. Is that true? That sounds very interesting. Yeah, well, you know, I mean,
it's kind of been what it's all about. You know, I didn't want to handle all the PMs and all that
stuff, you know, so I figured I'd just give him the gypsy. You can fucking give him out,
because he was doing freebies at the time, you know. I'm like, okay, well, you know,
he can do something like that with ease. And that way, this dude has to go to the post office and
not me, you know. It's just the way to make it easier to, you know, to have done what I wanted
to do without actually having to do it myself. There you have it, gang. What do you think?
Huge shout out to Tom for taking the time to come by. Hope you're excited for part two.
As always, huge shout out to the sponsors, guys. We couldn't make episodes happen without them.
Shout out to Seeds Here Now and Simply Souvenirs. If you need seeds, whether you're in America or
the EU, they've got you covered with all the biggest names, hottest drops, Simply Souvenirs,
Seeds Here Now. Shout out, guys. We appreciate you so much.
Likewise, shout out to our friends at Copert Biological Systems. All the best pest and
predator technology. Get their stuff, guys. You won't regret it. Just like pulse sensors,
you need to get your garden dialed in to get the optimal yield. If you want to get serious,
get yourself a pulse. A shout out to the Purple Pro team, sending me a Purple Pro. I've been using
it. It's a very fun, accurate handheld result. Flower End Concentrate. I'm using it to pheno hunt.
Check it out. Last but not least, the Patreon gang. We love you so much. Please consider
supporting the Patreon if you like the show and want to ensure it continues to happen,
all while getting some cool benefits. That's about it for this one, my friends. I'll check
you for the next one. We'll see you.
