Alright, alright, alright.
Welcome to the next episode of the podcast.
You're joined as always by your boy Heavy Daze here from the Upside Down Library, bringing
you all that inside information.
But guess what?
We couldn't do it without our amazing sponsors.
Huge shout out to CT now, number one seed bank in the game.
All the best breeders, all the best genetics and the latest drops.
If you're not satisfied at the end of your harvest, hit them up.
They'll sort you out.
Best in the industry.
CT now, thank you so much.
But in order to be able to properly evaluate the crop, you've got to make sure you have
a good harvest free of pests and contamination.
And for that, you need to check out the good people at Coppert Biological Systems.
These guys have all the latest and greatest predators and technology to ensure that your
garden is happy, thriving, pathogen and pest free.
If you got spider mites, check out the Spidex Vital with proof of predation technology built
in.
They turn orange in front of your eyes to show you that they're killing bugs.
What more could you want?
Well, you got aphids, check out the Aphid Pyramid, another killer product.
Both of these specifically designed for cannabis crops, going to help you to have the most
successful harvest to date.
There's nothing better than knowing that garden is free of pathogens.
Guys, get on it.
You won't regret it.
Likewise, huge shout out to our friends at Pro-Mix.
You've known them and loved them for years.
They make the most killer mediums in the game, already inoculated with microbes, Trichoderma
and Mycorrhiza.
But guess what?
Now you can get their standalone Pro-Mix Connect, a Mycorrhizal product designed to improve
the yields, increase the resin, increase the weight, terpenes, flavonoids, all of it's
going to the moon.
Do your garden a disservice by not using a high quality Mycorrhizal product.
Truly the best in the game, guaranteed score viability.
It's going to improve your crop, no second thoughts about it.
Pro-Mix Connect, thank you so much.
Get on board guys.
It's going to make a huge difference.
Finally, shout out to our friends at Charlie's Cannabis.
You know them and you love them.
Oklahoma-based, veteran-owned, producing some of the most fire, top shelf, commercially
available cannabis you've ever seen.
They recently started making their own missiles.
You will not believe the quality of these products.
Phenohunted from scratch, using new, exciting genetics, all in-house.
Any product you get from them uses a material they've grown.
None of this passing through a million hand stuff, made from trim from God knows who's
growth.
Everything in-house, high quality.
Charlie's Cannabis.
Just remember guys, Charlie's your bug.
Finally, a huge shout out to the Patreon gang.
You are the lifeblood of the show.
You guys help to ensure the episodes continue to be made.
If you want early access to content, you want to hear unheard interviews, get access to
exclusive giveaways, prizes, discord, so much more, go check out the Patreon.
www.patreon.com.au
On this episode, we're joined by the head honcho behind AG Seed Co., a man who's been
in the industry a very long time and has a lot of wisdom to share.
We're incredibly grateful to have Todd McCormick on the show.
Here to talk all things history, Northern Lights, skunk, haze, old school genetics,
and so much more.
Hope you enjoy.
Let's get into it.
Alrighty gang, we're back for another one.
And today we are both excited and grateful to have one of the true cannabis historians
of the scene on the show.
A big welcome to the editor of The Emperor Wears No Clothes, as well as the man behind
AG Seed Co., Todd McCormick.
Thank you so much for joining us today.
Good afternoon.
Thank you for having me on.
My friend, first question we love to ask our guests.
What are you smoking on at the moment?
That's funny.
This is actually a haze combination.
I have a lot of the original older genetics and I really love original haze and I've kind
of crossed it with everything I have.
And this is one of those concoctions.
It's an on-haze, which is an old Neville's haze that I used.
I crossed it against an original haze male and I made something called on-haze.
And then I took that and I've crossed this with something called superglue, which was
like an Afghan Northern Lights.
It's really nice.
Some ways I was trying to recreate that old NL5 haze that we all used to love so much.
Oh, lovely.
And how do you feel this one compares to the old NL5 haze?
It's different, you know, because every phenotype we pick are different.
Even if the plants are brothers and sister seeds, you can still get a lot of variation
between them too.
You can have one brother or one sister who's kind of overweight, another one that's really
skinny, another super smart, another one that can't do math.
So it's like that with plants.
And it's similar.
The original haze is really the smell and the taste that defines haze.
And everything else is like fruity or gassy, that leathery kind of Afghan, sticky, skunky
smell, we call it in North America, is very different from the terpenes that you find
in that Colombian original haze mixture.
It's truly unique and I love it.
So I really like it, however it comes out, because I just favor the scent and the flavor
so much.
Yeah, lovely, lovely.
And do you find incorporating some of those more modern genetics brings a little something
extra to the table or it maybe just takes it a little different place, so to speak?
Well, it's kind of the other way around, because original haze is really the first hybrid.
It was the first bred in the Sinopis Mountains over here, near where I live, back in 1969.
It came along around five, six years before skunk one, which is what I would call the
second real hybrid that was bred and then became kind of famous.
And later on, when I first got exposed to haze, it was in the early 90s.
I visited the Cannabis Castle in 1994 with Jack Herrer.
I was standing next to Jack when Ben Dronkers gave the Jack Herrer variety its name and
christened it.
And I was able to smoke some of the Northern Lights and the haze crosses that were at the
castle at that time.
I also lived in Amsterdam for over a year after that and visited numerous times after
this.
But it really was different for me because I had been growing for 10 years at that time,
but I'd never experienced haze.
So it was just, it was a wow.
And I had never experienced cannabis that gave me like a coffee, a morning coffee effect
where I felt like invigorated and talkative and engaged.
I was usually a lot of the varieties of cannabis are more like, you know, you relax, you nod
out, you know, you're in your own little world, but not so much with haze.
And I was really intrigued and it took me years.
I picked up seeds.
I grew Northern Lights No. 5 by haze.
I grew the Jack Herrer seeds that they gave Jack at the time.
I wish I still had them.
And when I lived in Holland, I was able to get a really nice Northern Lights No. 5 clone.
It was technically the plant that won the 1996 Cannabis Cup as a dirt grown pot, but
as a hydroponically grown pop, it was really dirt grown.
It was truly exceptional.
And I loved it.
And then years and years go by.
2012, I was in Amsterdam receiving the Cannabis Culture Award, along with Dr. Lester Grinspoon
and Sir Richard Branson of all people.
And Skunkman Sam came to the event and I used the opportunity to ask him, and I'd known
him since 94.
I actually was very silly and was like, hey, will you sell me the original haze seeds that
you sold Neville?
And after he got finished laughing at me, he told me that he'd consider it.
And then he asked me what else I wanted.
And I felt like a dummy.
And I was like, I don't know what to say.
He says, I think you want all the seeds I save for myself and I don't sell to anybody.
And I was like, oh, that's exactly the seeds I was looking for.
And he said, bring over your best hash and come over and we'll talk about it.
So I went over there and it was really a wonderful experience.
Skunkman Sam is credited with saving original haze.
His home was next to the gentleman who I only know as the letter G, who was the surfer who
first bred haze.
And they were neighbors.
And the guy down the street was his two initials were RL.
He went on to make the 1976 original haze poster that became really famous.
And also the other neighbor they had down the street was the guy that wrote the psychedelic
encyclopedia.
So it was quite the block over there back in the day.
But he, Skunkman Sam, realized that the original haze was a unique cultivar.
And he saved it by not losing it.
Most breeders cross what they have with what they've got.
And they make new varieties.
And they think they're improving it.
But they get further and further and further from that original creation.
And it's not always for the better, unfortunately.
So what Sam did, which was unique, is he kept it through IVL breeding, which is only allowing
the males and females from that particular variety to breed with each other so that he
could capture those genetics and work with them as the generations passed.
He took selected plants.
And he created varieties like Skunk by Haze, Bye-Tie.
He calls that one.
Then he has a whole shitload of them in all reality.
I feel like a fool listing them all off.
But what he did is he gave me the original haze seeds.
And then he gave me all of his favorite outcrosses with it, which was really quite beautiful.
Because think of it like colors.
It's like getting a primary color and then all his favorite secondary colors.
You can go home and do art.
So I was really happy.
And when I realized this, I realized that I had brother and sister seeds of the plants
that Neville had.
Neville had two male haze plants that he used to breed with everything.
It's quite famous.
He had a haze hay and a haze seed.
Those two plants came originally through Skunk Man Sam.
And the seeds that he gave me were essentially brothers and sisters to those males.
So when I got home, I took a cutting I had of Neville's haze and then back crossed it,
if you will, to a male original haze plant because I wanted to turn up the haze.
I wanted more haze.
So I liked it.
And what made Neville's haze unique to original haze is that touch of Northern Lights, which
was a little bit of Afghan that it had.
Because the recipe for Neville's haze was Northern Lights number five by haze,
haze C, I think, crossed back to haze A, which was his other or not crossed back to but crossed
out to his other haze A. And that was what he called Neville's haze.
And then he took that plant later on and crossed it with Skunk One and called that Super Silver
Haze.
But that little bit of Northern Lights really is something that I always just loved.
And at the time, I didn't have original Northern Lights.
I just had things like OG Kush and Super Glue, which are very reminiscent.
In all reality.
So what I was doing is trying to kind of recreate what I had with some of these genetics.
Because going back to Skunk Man Sam is like going back to the original source.
He's the guy that initially sold the seeds to Neville in the first place.
And he's really the genius behind Skunk One and quite a few other varieties,
even hemp varieties such as vanilla, which is really quite incredible.
Yeah, I mean, the breadth of his work is phenomenal.
And I mean, on a personal curiosity, how did your haze back cross end up turning out for you?
I loved on haze.
I've used it quite a bit.
In 2019, I used the male from that variety that I created.
And I crossed it against most of these like clone only cultivars floating around California.
Because when I was working with it, I was realizing that, you know, when you do a breed,
when you're breeding with cannabis, a lot of times the female is a more dominant
in the prodigy than the male.
So I was able to kind of use my own haze as almost like a neon filter, where you where
there's there's no real color neon.
But you because when you take red, blue, green, and you want to make it neon,
it's still red, blue, green.
And what I wanted to do with a lot of these clone only cultivars, such as Green Crock and OG Kush
Trainwreck and others is I wanted to retain that red, blue, green,
but I wanted to add a little bit of spiciness to it, which was on haze.
And I'm happy 420 from California.
And I always stop at 420 and in light of joy, take a little breath and a little moment of
meditation.
But but that's what I did.
And it worked out really well.
And then, you know, as twist of fate would have it, I, you know, after Neville passed
away, I wrote an article called Legacy of a Legend.
And because he most certainly was a legend.
And I got this comment from a guy named Greg, and he alluded to like Northern Lights living
on through Neville's work.
And I, I knew Greg's name.
I knew that the guy that supposedly brought Northern Lights to Neville was named Greg,
and that he was from Seattle.
And we've heard the story.
And I couldn't imagine he was commenting on my, my post.
So I messaged him and said, Hi, and tried to introduce myself.
And he just said, you know, Todd, I've been following you since the 90s, you know, like,
like, I know exactly who you are.
It's why I'm following your Facebook page.
And we started talking and, and it was really nice.
And he told me that he always wanted to get original skunk one, and he always wanted original
Hayes, but he couldn't get them through Neville.
And that, unfortunately, him and Neville had a falling out, I'd say about a year and a
half after they started doing business, you could say, Neville kind of went behind his
back, try to buy some of the seeds from another party.
And, and that was that was that.
And it's interesting, because I am a collector of books about cannabis, and I have all the
old Neville catalogs.
And there's actually a paragraph in one of the pre catalog letters that he wrote saying,
bad news, my Northern Lights supplier is cut off.
And I was just, it just stunned me a little to get it from Greg, you know, and what had
happened and why that happened, why he got cut off.
And it's just like, wow.
And at the time, I sent Greg over the original Hayes and skunk just to be courteous, you
know, he's a legend, he deserves it, let him enjoy these genetics, for sure.
And then about a year, maybe a year plus later, almost two, we'd been staying in contact.
And he called me and said, Hey, my, my sister passed away.
And I said, Wow, I'm really sorry.
And he said, Well, thank you, but not why I'm calling.
I wanted your address, want to return the favor, my family found some of my old Northern
Light seeds in one of our freezers.
And they're from the early 80s from even before I met Neville, and I'm getting germination
out of them.
And I'd like to see what you get.
So I was like, blown away and sent him my address.
And he sent me Northern Lights number two, he sent me Northern Lights number five, he
sent me what is called purest indica, which is the Afghan that he got from this gentleman
named Murphy Stevens.
And he Murphy Stevens wrote a book called how to grow marijuana indoors under lights,
one of the best cannabis cultivation books.
And I literally have every cannabis cultivation book from the 70s.
Really quite incredible.
He explains, like cloning, he explains CO2.
He explains some of the things that have become mainstay, like taking mothers and doing
selections in our work of today, but was kind of unheard of back then.
And they were friends because of this under indoor sun shop, it was called.
And he'd go in there and buy equipment.
And I guess, Steve Murphy, Murphy Stevens was his pen name, but his real name is the
other way around.
Murphy gave Greg some of these Afghan seeds, give him four of them in the 70s.
And that is what became the Northern Lights lines.
And then so what he did is he, you know, Greg F2 them, you know, which would be to mix the
brothers and sisters seeds together and made a whole bunch of them.
And he called that purest indica because that was the one he got from Murphy Stevens.
And then what he started to do is cross it to other Afghan city got from Oregon and
California and then more tropical plants.
And I asked him what the numbers represented when he sent them to Neville.
And he said the numbers were one through like 11 or 12 were based on how close they were
to that purest indica, you know, one being like purest indica would more be like zero.
Because if you're counting, it would be like, oh, comes first purest indica, first high
bred is number one, second high bred is number two, third, fourth, and so on.
Like number five, he told me was actually crossed with what at the time they thought
was a Hawaiian, but he has always believed was a Northern Mexican variety.
And it was a little more tropical.
So each of the plant numbers became more tropical and truly fascinating.
I mean, from my perspective as a historian and just an overall cannabis geek, you know,
I started growing in 1984 and I was reading High Times back then, like we all were.
And I don't know, it just like a little boy's dream to now be in communication with this
guy.
And, you know, he's in his 70s, a retired Marine.
He's, you know, just incredible.
And so I started growing them out and I have these old books and I have these old photos.
And later on, I'll send you some pictures.
It's truly remarkable because it looks exactly like the first page in Murphy Stevens' book.
It just blows, blew my mind.
And so it's been really wild to now have these original Northern lights.
And now I'm starting to play with those and the original Haze and the original Skunk.
And it's quite the palette.
If you were thinking of it like art, it's quite the color palette to start with.
And I actually have more of these original colors than even was given to Neville at the
time because Neville never received all of Skunk Man Sam's favorite out crosses with Haze.
He never received a batch of original Haze seeds.
He only got a couple males.
So he was unable to do what I did, which was reproduce as an F2 or an IBL original Haze
and basically unlock it and share the genetics.
He had to actually use them as hybrids, which started appearing in the Holland Seed Bank
catalog in 1988.
Prior to 88, 85, 67, there's not even the word Haze mentioned in any of those catalogs.
And there's not even the word Haze isn't even mentioned in the super long High Times article
that was published in March of 87.
Because I came to the conclusion that Neville just didn't have Haze at the time.
And Greg told me that too.
And then I've heard it from other people as well.
But I think it's a real opportunity.
I mean, there's been a lot of breeding done in the past 30 years plus since the 80s.
And unfortunately, I don't think a lot of it was for the best.
I think that a lot of people were breeding for yield and for quickness rather than overall
quality and terpenes.
And unfortunately, I think we somewhat lost our way with some of these older varieties.
And now that I have the original Skunk One and original Haze and original Northern Lights
in various forms, it's like a time machine to me because I was growing back in the 80s.
And now to be able to grow these again, it's just truly quite remarkable.
Sorry, that was so long-winded.
That was incredible.
And I already have that feeling in the back of my neck.
I'm like, this is going to be a good one.
I can tell.
Really, yeah, a myriad of different avenues we could choose to go in after you gave me
so many good little leads I could pull on.
I guess something I wanted to discuss is this topic of Neville being a bit disliked.
It's an interesting one because I've spoken to a lot of people who know him and the most
consistent thing I hear is he was a bit disliked, that he was a complex man.
And although undeniably, he did some of the best breeding we've ever seen, he also burnt
a lot of bridges.
And I guess my question is, do you feel like in a case like Neville, he's sort of one of
those people where you've got to separate the art from the artist?
And did you ever have any personal interactions with him?
That's a beautiful way to put it.
I did have interactions with Neville.
He was always nice to me when I met him.
I played chess with him once.
We smoked haze.
I enjoyed it.
You know, I grew up around drugs as a kid.
I was a little biker kid.
And my cousin, Kathy, died from a heroin overdose way back in the early 90s before I ever met
Neville.
And I grew up around people that unfortunately did abuse alcohol and were flirting with heroin.
And when you grow up around it as a little kid, you kind of feel it.
And I don't do hard drugs.
I don't drink.
I smoke hash.
I smoke grass.
Kind of square in a way.
But other than cannabis, we didn't have what we get high on in common.
And unfortunately, you know, Neville, you know, what I respect about Neville, and I'd
like to say up front, is when you read that article back in 1987, he's not a victim.
He's never been a victim of his own circumstance.
He doesn't portray himself as a victim.
He deals with his addiction issues like an adult.
And, you know, he's remorseful for him.
He's realistic about trying to struggle to deal with it.
I have nothing but empathy for someone who's dealing with alcohol and drug addiction.
It's like a disease.
People say, well, it's a consensual disease.
You smoke the stuff.
You drink the stuff.
This is your fault.
But chemically, it gets a little deeper than that.
And unfortunately, I believe that, you know, his substance abuse absolutely compromised
his personal relationships with a lot of good people.
And unfortunately, when I was writing Legacy of the Legend, I know a lot of people that
knew Neville that was in business with Neville that like really close to Neville.
None of them wanted to say a damn thing.
And unfortunate, you know, because, you know, is it so much he burnt the bridges or it was
his addictions that caused him to burn the bridges?
I mean, you know, but he did burn bridges.
I've interviewed Skunkman Sam.
I've interviewed Greg.
And they told similar stories around the same time about how Neville ripped them off,
knocked off their seeds, went behind their back.
It killed their relationships with them.
And, you know, Greg and Sam don't know each other.
So they're not there.
They didn't meet until recently when I gave each other their numbers and said, hey, you
guys, you know, you're both in your 70s.
You're both legends.
You should talk to each other.
But up until now, they never had communication.
So it's interesting for me, a journalist, to hear these unedited, you know, versions
of events from the people who were really in touch and have the genetics now and had
the genetics then.
And, you know, and then, you know, and as far as Neville, and I don't mean to bash,
you know, as someone who grew up in the 80s, he was a hero to me in all reality, like a
rock star, Led Zeppelin.
There was the Holland Seed Bank.
And unfortunately, though, the more you get into the history of it, you know, like Neville
only picked up a Mel Frank grow book in 1981.
He was inspired by it.
And he started the Holland Seed Bank in 84.
Initially, he started selling seeds he was collecting from Dutch coffee shops that he
hadn't grown.
And he literally had a disclaimer saying, I can't vouch for these.
I didn't make them.
I think he was selling for like 25 cents each.
And his world changed when he met Skunk Man Sam and got that whole catalog of really worked
California genetics, California Orange, Skunk One, Hindu Kush, Afghani One, Durban Poison.
None of those.
Neville had anything to do with.
And realistically, at the time with the drug war and everything, you know, a lot of people
weren't really stepping up to say, oh, yeah, that's me that I did that.
And he he begot these genetics 1984, 1985, and kind of took credit for the work of many
people that came before him.
And I don't believe now in today's cannabis economy or or community that if somebody was
growing wheat for two or three or four years, even let's give him 81, which I understand
he wasn't growing in 81, 82 or 83.
He did grow in 84 outside of his apartment before he got the cannabis castle and it didn't
work out.
It was outdoors.
It you know that the winter came.
It was just in the backyard type of thing.
And it wasn't until he moved into the castle that they started growing indoors and he started
getting help from people that went to the university.
So really, he had no experience breeding.
He was a heroin addict who was trying to get off heroin, got a loan from the government,
started selling seeds, bought seeds that were really good.
And started mixing them together.
And I don't want to say I mean, it's like these DJs that take really good music from
one artist and really good music from another artist and mash it together.
And it sounds great on the dance floor, but they're not musicians, man.
They can't they can't write Love Me Do.
They're not making these beats that they're just taking somebody else's work and jingling
it together.
And they're little rock stars on their own merit, but on their own, they're really not
musicians.
And I hate to say this, but I don't see Neville as much of a breeder because he was handed
such fantastic varieties and he crossed them together, mainly because he wasn't paying
the people for their seeds anymore.
So unfortunately, we saw things like Skunk Number Two and him selling a half price seeds
from and then literally in the catalog, it says, you know, there was like an unexpected
pollination and I'm selling these at half price.
And, you know, if Mr. Jack Daniels went to a distillery and sold them his number seven
whiskey recipe and then, you know, a year or so, the distillery realized, you know what?
Don't need Jack anymore.
We can knock off this whiskey recipe and send it out the door.
I tell him to beat feet.
I don't think it would be a good energy.
And that's exactly what Neville did to Greg.
It's exactly what he did to Skunk Man Sam.
So unfortunately, yeah, things went the way they did.
And then when you get into the handover of the Holland Seed Bank to Sensey Seeds, it
was continued in all reality.
I mean, you know, initially when Ben bought the Holland Seed Bank, he attempted to trademark
all of the Super Skunk, Skunk One, Hayes names and sent cease and desist letters to other
seed companies telling them, you can't use my names.
And Skunk Man Sam got a letter and unfortunately for Ben, he had already registered these varieties
with the plant registry and technically was the legal breeder of them in the EU and sent
Ben a letter saying, no, you don't have the right.
You can use the name Skunk One on a lighter or on a T-shirt, but as it comes to cannabis,
I own that.
And if you try to stop other people from using a name that I came up with in the 70s, I will
go into court and block you.
So Ben lost the ability to basically trademark and register these names that are now very
much public domain, as were the genetics in all reality, because Skunk Man Sam had been
selling seeds by the kilo long before he met Neville.
And plenty of people had Skunk One seeds and California Orange.
Originally it was Mel Frank who made Durban Poison and Afghan Number One.
So it was really a lot of other people that really were the reason why the Holland Seed
Bank had such great varieties in the first place.
In one of his last interviews, if not his last interview, Neville is in Mishka's book
and he talks about how he was never able to make anything worth anything from land race
varieties of cannabis.
And he gives credit to the breeders who came before him who took things like Afghan, Colombian
gold and Acapulco gold and turned it into Skunk One and Colombian genetics and turned
it into Haze in the first place.
And I honestly don't know how spectacular the Holland Seed Bank would have been if he
hadn't gotten those American genetics from Sam and Greg and others through the 80s.
In reality, if he was just left to the Jamaican, Colombians and Thai seeds coming in through
the coffee shops, it might have been a very different story.
Yeah, very, very intriguing and very interesting to hear sort of a more inside take on it all.
Because I think that was, I wouldn't say a pet peeve, but something which I always felt
uneasy about was how people always said, oh, Neville's had a shady past, but no one would
ever say to me what.
So it's good to hear like, this is some of what it boiled down to.
And I guess the natural question which comes to mind for me is, in my mind, I always thought
a lot of those raw base genetics Neville used to make the crosses came from like one of
those mythical land race trips he did.
But are you sort of more of the opinion that it was more given to him for the most part?
Well, Northern Lights was sent to him as seeds one through 11, I believe one through 12.
And he made some of them very famous.
The number five he used, the number six he used, the number two he used extensively.
Greg did tell me that he never sent Neville the purest indica, the zero, if you will,
the original egg of Northern Lights, because he didn't want Neville to have something better
than what he had.
He sent Neville the hybrids.
So I think that growers in some ways have been wise to the fact that they're going to
get burned to a degree.
They've wanted to protect their IP in various ways.
Simon Schmidt, who's Dutch and owns Serious Seeds, he's a good friend of mine, absolute
hero of mine, really.
But when he first started Serious Seeds, he only started with three varieties, AK-47,
Chronic, and Cali Mist.
And they were all F1s.
And he held the parent plants to each of those three varieties.
And he could make those seeds forever and ever and ever.
And if somebody bought those seeds and then crossed them together or outcrossed them,
now you've got something different.
And because of that, you would always go back for that F1 Cali Mist from Serious Seeds,
because it was exactly what it was last time you bought the seeds.
And that was a way that he protected his intellectual property, if you will.
Nobody could really make an F1 of Cali Mist but Simon.
So when you look at it that way, that was happening even with Greg.
That's why Greg didn't send him the original Purist Indica.
That's why Scunkman Sam didn't give.
That's why Neville never got original haze seeds, is because he didn't want them to be
able to F2 them and make seeds of them.
He wanted to kind of keep control of the variety a little bit, because, you know, I get it.
And in all reality, Neville had to wait for the haze.
He didn't get it.
Even offered to him in 85 or 84 when he first bought the seeds from Sam.
But also, there wasn't much desire for them, because here there are these long flowering,
you know, not even great yielding comparatively.
You know, the Dutch and indoor growers were looking for quick flowering short plants that
yielded that heavy resin that made indoor growing practical.
And haze, sure the hell, didn't make indoor growing practical.
It was quite the opposite.
So not there wasn't really a demand for them.
Even when I was living there in 1996, people, I mean, Cali Mist, sure, NL5 haze, sure.
But were people growing original haze?
No.
And very few people were actually breeding with it, because not that many people actually
had, you know, an interest in dealing with these long flowering finicky plants.
In 1996, I was living in Amsterdam and I was working at Positronics, which is owned by
Wernard and a gentleman named Old Ed, who originally taught Wernard how to grow seedless
cannabis in the 70s, was over there.
And he and I worked together for a year growing out various varieties of posise genetics.
And unfortunately, you know, after 10 years of, you know, politely, I'll say, haphazard
breeding or breeding that wasn't for, let's say, overall potency or flavor or scent, but
instead quickness and yield, a lot of them didn't have that.
They weren't that, they were kind of watered down or muddied up would be a polite way to
say it.
And what me and Ed were trying to do was make selections and then try to make some F1s that
could kind of bring back some hybrid figure and uniformity and consistency to the seeds
that Posi was selling.
And, you know, I, part of what I wanted to do when I started my seed company was jump
a way back and get seeds directly from Skunkman Salmon, skip Neville, skip Wernard, skip the
whole Dutch scene, you know, because nothing against, I mean, I got nothing but love and
respect for a lot of my friends in Holland, but realistically the purpose of what they
were making seeds for was not necessarily the purpose of what the California people
who were breeding, which was quality over quantity and everything else.
Then they got out there and it was about, you know, quantity, quickness and quality
kind of went down.
And I think a lot of people that were visiting the Netherlands coffee shop scene through
the nineties would attest that the cannabis wasn't getting better over the years.
It was kind of getting more and more homogenous and lackluster and just very similar to each
other.
And a lot of that was because of a lot of inbreeding.
And, you know, hopefully what I'm doing now is kind of taking it back to the heart
of it and going for the quality and going for those terpenes and going for that scent
and that taste over the potency even, because like, I feel that if you have a good joint,
like this one is getting me totally stoned and I'm having a hard time getting through
it.
But if you have a good joint, even if it's not that potent, you'll go back and roll a
second, or if it's good hash, you'll go back and pack another dab.
But if it's not that good, it doesn't matter how potent it is.
You know, it's like when you drink, you know, you don't drink straight alcohol to get drunk.
You kind of like the nuances of the wine or the beer or whatever it is you're drinking.
So I think that's the same with cannabis.
And I think as we get back into that quality over quantity and quickness, we're going to
see a lot better cannabis hitting the scene.
And unfortunately, because of like that quick, you know, mindset, all the varieties that
were 10 weeks and, you know, 10 to 16 weeks really don't get grown by people anymore.
But they're still around.
And think of it like a box of crayons that have 16 crayons.
We're only playing with the first 10 crayons.
There's crayons number 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, and 16 there.
And people aren't even doing art with them yet.
And that's in a sense why I'm really excited to be bringing the original Haze genetics
back and kind of moving towards these equatorial varieties that used to be shunned because
of bag appeal and growth characteristics, but were really great.
I mean, once you started smoking it, you'd love it, you know, but would you get past
the bag appeal to get your joint rolled up?
And a lot of people don't, they eat with their eyes rather than with their taste buds.
And I think that that's going to change as we move towards concentrates and extracts
and people are doing dabs and you're feeling the terpenes and feeling the synergy of cannabinoids,
if you will.
And I think people will start buying cannabis based on how it makes them feel over how it
looks in a bag.
Yeah, I certainly hope so myself.
And, you know, so many avenues we could go off onto with that one.
I guess the first thing I wanted to quickly run by you was, you mentioned this idea of
growers protecting their intellectual property.
And I think that's still a relevant discussion in today's market.
Specifically, we hear some breeders, not many, but some who are quite vocal about,
even if you buy their seeds, you still need to ask them if you're going to breed with
it or something to that effect.
Whereas a good number of breeders take the opposite point of view and they're like, man,
if you bought them, they're yours.
Where do you stand on that issue?
I'm strange.
I stand on both sides of the fence.
I completely, I call it public domain genetics.
Nobody invented cannabis.
I wouldn't have this wonderful joint of haze if it wasn't for some guy named G that was
playing with it a year before I was born.
So I'm grateful for the shoulders of the giants I stand upon.
And I try to give credit where credit's due at every corner of this.
But that said, when somebody like Simon, use serious seeds as an example, wants to put
a company together and put out a product like Cali Mist or AK or Chronic, I think they should
have a right to be able to try to make something unique.
And by doing it the way Simon did it, which was so intelligent, it gives his customers
a reason to go back and get those F1 seeds from him because they know why they have a
reason to because they know it's authentic.
And he's the only one that held the parents.
Now, the way it works in plant breeding, if you buy seeds and you outcross with them,
the prodigy is your creation.
OK, but to take somebody's seeds and just mix them together and to do what so many did,
which is to F2 them without permission is not so cool.
I had original haze from 2012 to 2019, and I was growing it and playing with it.
And it wasn't until I started my seed company that I called up Skunkman Salmon and formally
asked his permission to make seeds of it.
And, you know, within his good graces, I did even consulted on how he recommended I
reproduce those original seeds that he gave me so that I would get the best quality out
of the prodigy and have the most variability and selection.
And I appreciated that.
And he did, too.
And when I got the original Northern Light seeds from Greg, I again asked his permission.
And not only did he give me his permission, he gave me his encouragement.
Because his goal has been to share the genetics with people and, you know, to spread the medicine.
And and it's beautiful.
I mean, a lot of people don't know Skunkman.
Sam's goal in 1970s was to create a true breeding or a relatively true breeding variety
because he was an acid eating hippie and he wanted his friends to be able to get the seeds
and to be able to mix them together, the brothers and sisters together,
and to have the prodigy come out relatively close to the parents.
And normally that doesn't happen.
Like when you mix closely related genetics together, you get like a dog's breakfast.
You get, you know, a lot of variation.
The haze has got a lot of variation in its genetics.
It's not relatively true breeding at all.
It's the opposite of Skunk One.
And when I asked Skunkman, Sam, you know, how did you do that?
He said, I didn't.
Nature did.
He said, I just had to cross together enough plants to find the ones that when I crossed
them together, they had the effect of being able to be a relatively true breeding plant.
And I was just like, wow.
And it kind of went to show how humble he was.
There's a great article that we republished in our magazine Grow called Sun, Soil, Seeds,
and Soul.
And he wrote it for what was called Blotter Magazine, which was an LSD magazine that was
published by the gentleman who would go on to publish the psychedelic encyclopedia.
And he wrote this really long breakdown of how people can learn how to breed and how
he created things like Skunk One.
And he was trying to share the information.
I mean, anybody who's done a lot of acid would understand that kind of like feeling the oneness
with all of humanity.
And that was his goal.
His goal was to turn Skunk One into this massive public domain genetic that would only create
good cannabis for the rest of the world once they got the seeds.
And that's why Skunk One has been bred into everything, because it adds this consistency
and uniform to practically everything that you cross it with.
It's unique in the cannabis kingdom.
And yeah, that's in a way why it became so famous.
Yeah, truly one of the most famous strains of all time.
And interesting to hear the backstory.
Yeah, that's cool the way Sam's quite humble about it.
I was interested to quickly loop back for a moment and ask you, you spoke about the
Holland Seed Bank and Positronics and Serious Seeds and one of the seed banks besides the
seed bank itself, the Holland Seed Bank, like yourself, a lot of reverence for them.
I also really, really looked up to Super Sativa Seed Club.
Where did you rank them?
You know, I believe that Carl got the inspiration to create SSSC out of what Neville was doing
with the seed bank.
And Carl also went and purchased seeds from Skunk Man Sam as well.
Everybody did really.
When Sam moved there and started working with Renard on the green team, they were providing
seeds to all of these, you know, the Flying Dutchman and others that started up even before
Scentsy Seeds was Scentsy Seeds.
It was the Scentsy Seed Club.
It was technically SSC and not SSSC, which was the Super Sativa Seed Club.
And they were all doing this to a degree.
And SSCC was cool.
I mean, they got, you know, some of the haze genetics and some of the skunk and some of
the stuff that Sam had at the time.
And they made some cool things with it.
But I would say they probably lost most of it like many of my friends did over there
by not being mindful like Sam was and keeping it isolated from all the other work he was
out crossing and making sure that he created an IBL line that was vast enough that he could
go back to the original genetics and they didn't have Afghan and they didn't have
Hindu Kush and they didn't have Thai, didn't have anything else.
It was just that three-way Columbian.
And unfortunately, a lot of them lost it.
And when I started up my seed company, one of the first orders I received was from SSSC.
So I, you know, they wanted the original haze back.
And unfortunately, their seeds got sent back to me because I didn't have a photo sanitary
certificate.
Amsterdam was being kind of rude that day, I guess.
It cost them.
But I'm sure I'll be able to get them the seeds in the future.
You know, but I think they played a great role in this too.
You know, I think these seed banks were the first heroes because they were the brave ones
that made them available to everybody.
And we all benefited from it to a large degree.
You know, unfortunately, Neville worked with some, you know, shitty people.
And he was turned in by the guy that was actually sending his seeds for him from Michigan.
So the story in a short way goes that somebody called Neville up back when Neville was answering
the phone and drummed up a friendship over the phone with Neville from Michigan.
And Neville invited him out to the castle.
And this guy, Anthony Ray Kogo, went out there numerous times.
And something happened with the seed sender that Neville had in America.
Neville would send cans of seeds to the Americas and then in bulk.
And then somebody in America would get addresses and quantities of which variety to send to
these addresses.
And they would package it up in America and send 10, 20, 15, whatever seeds out at the
time.
And unfortunately, Anthony Ray Kogo was jealous, was angry, was something at Neville.
And unfortunately, he had been sending Neville seeds for about 18 months.
And he got busted for bringing, from what I understand, Hashish into a jail to one of
his friends in Michigan and got arrested for it.
Neville sent money to him to help him on the bequest of his wife.
I've read this in the court paperwork.
The interesting story is a little bit is that after Neville passed away, right before he
passed away, actually, about two weeks, I was arguing with somebody on Instagram that
was claiming that some man, Sam, turned in Neville.
And it wasn't true.
It isn't true.
There's no truth to it whatsoever.
And the guy that I was arguing with that was making this point fancied himself an attorney.
So he went to a court website and downloaded Neville's paperwork.
He downloaded the two indictments.
He downloaded the statements from the witnesses and the police and contacted me and said,
hey, you're right.
Skunk Man Sam had nothing to do with Neville getting busted.
It was this guy named Ray Anthony Kogo that used to send his seeds.
And I said, how can you be so certain?
And he said, I'll send you the paperwork.
I paid $29.60 and I downloaded all the paperwork.
Anybody can.
And I was a little shocked.
So he sent over the court paperwork and I'll send it to you afterwards.
Actually, it's quite intriguing.
But it was the whole statement of Anthony Ray Kogo.
The statement was taken in January of 1994.
And it starts in, I would say, March or April, May of 1989 when Anthony Ray Kogo willfully
went into the DEA with all of these addresses that he had saved, even though Neville told
him to destroy the addresses after he sent the seeds.
This SOB saved the addresses, brought all the addresses to the DEA, and turned in Neville,
turned in all these people at the same time, and cut a deal for himself.
Incredible.
And truly amazing.
Unfortunately, Neville was paying him to send the seeds, but they made a deal that Neville
sold him the recipe to his nutrients.
And this guy came back and started selling Kogo's nutrients.
This is still for sale today.
And brags about the fact that he got the recipe from the Netherlands.
Once he had that recipe and he was making the fertilizer, he really didn't need Neville
anymore.
He didn't need to work for Neville anymore.
So he turned him in.
And he acted as an undercover witness, if you will, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993, because
they didn't take his sworn statement until January of 1994.
So poor Neville didn't even know who did it at first.
You know, you take 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993.
It was a mystery to Neville all the way up until the case was dismissed in, I think,
2002.
And only then was this paperwork made public.
And then there was no internet like this.
So you couldn't go to pacer.net or .gov and download the court file.
So it took a long time, I think, for Neville to truly find out who was really behind turning
in the seed bank and what the real story was.
But unfortunately, it was this guy, Anthony Ray Kogo.
And that's inevitably what took Neville down.
It's so interesting.
What's the saying?
I remember Skunk VA said it.
Real life is always more interesting than fiction or something like that.
But it sort of holds true.
And the general question that comes to mind for me after hearing that is we often see
a lot of people blaming a lot of stuff on Dave Watson.
And I've had Ryan Lee, Chimera, who you're probably familiar with.
I like Ryan a lot.
Ryan stayed at my house before.
There you go.
Right.
And Ryan is adamant that, you know, the same as you, Sam's never done any of this bullshit.
So my question is, why do you think he's the scapegoat for all the bad stuff that happens?
You know, and I don't think he is a scapegoat for any of it.
I think Neville, you know, to put it in plain English, I think Neville's a fucking asshole
for starting the rumors he started about David Watson.
You know, calling somebody a DE agent is akin to calling him a pedophile.
It was the most horrible thing you could do.
It's the biggest traitor in the world.
And he knew it wasn't true.
He knew he was lying.
He knew it.
He knew it.
And he lied anyway.
And he did it to bolster his own reputation.
And he was bolstering the work, his own work based on the work of us, of Sam, David Watson.
I mean, there's no two shits about it.
I mean, David was the genius.
I mean, David still is a genius.
I mean, you know, talk about stability.
He just celebrated, I think, his 52nd wedding anniversary with the same woman.
I mean, you go back to David's history in 1970, him and his girlfriend sold all their
personal possessions and took a hippie trip from London to Morocco to Germany and hitchhiked
all the way across to India, through Afghanistan, the Hindu Kush Mountains.
And they lived in India for a year.
David collected the genetics.
He brought him back to Santa Cruz.
He started his breeding.
Three or four years later, he came up with Skunk One.
And all along the way, he was collecting genetics.
If it wasn't for him, I wouldn't be smoking haze.
It would have been log lost 40, 45 years ago.
You know, he was really a savior of the seed and on a level that no one else really has
ever reached.
I mean, to me, David's one of my heroes.
I mean, people don't really know the depth of the genius he was, but more people are
starting to realize it.
And, you know, for the longest time, I respected his wishes and didn't.
I separated his hippie identity from his professional identity because his skunk man, Sam, was the
acid eating hippie, you know, that was trying to make the world better, getting him good
seeds.
And then when he grew up, had a couple of daughters, you know, became kind of square
and started following the progress of Maranol, which is a synthetic version of THC and saw
there being an opportunity to create a generic version of THC.
He literally country shopped, realized he could start a company in the Netherlands called
Horta Farm, and he could become the very first private commercial cannabinoid pharmaceutical
company in the world.
And he did it.
And, you know, part of the anger that my Dutch friends, Ben, Bernard, Neville, a few others
have had against him is that they didn't understand how he got a license to grow cannabis
in the Netherlands and they didn't know how to.
And the truth is they could have all gotten licenses to start a cannabinoid pharmaceutical
company if one, they knew what they were frigging doing or if they saw the market, the international
market for medical cannabinoids, but they weren't on that trip.
You know, I'm actually writing an article called Ants Under the Skyscraper, which is
actually about the formation of the Dutch seed companies.
And I and I labeled it that because I feel as if these guys were like the ants under
a skyscraper that cannot comprehend the engineering or the building that they live under.
They can't comprehend the sophistication that's happening on the penthouse floor.
They just don't get it.
And those guys didn't get medical cannabis for a very long time.
They didn't know what terpenes were.
You know, look at the pollinator.
Nothing against Mila.
I think she's incredible.
But she named her resin extraction machine male pollen because I lack of better understanding
should have been called the resonator because realistically, she was tumbling female flowers
and extracting the resin heads from it.
She wasn't tumbling male flowers and extracting the pollen from it.
But that's the kind of misunderstanding I saw when I moved there, you know, and, you
know, and I and I got where why there was a mystery.
And unfortunately, you know what people don't understand, they often condemn.
And I think that a lot of these people condemned it.
And when Horta Farm hit the scene and suddenly there was this David Watson, a lot of the
people that had met skunk man Sam under his fake name Sam and his last name was his hippie
acid nickname Jingles just spelled backwards, which is really kind of funny.
So he's a big dude.
He's over six foot tall.
And he used to wear these gesture hats that had bells on it when he would.
There'd be these like legendary acid parties in the 60s before it was, you know, illegal
and in the 70s still.
And they were heavy in a psychedelic.
This is where the Grateful Dead was born.
These are the Santa Cruz Mountains where Ken Kesey was and the Merry Pranksters were.
This is this is what was going on back then.
And he used to wear a gesture cap that Jingles.
And so his nickname was Jingles.
And when he moved over there, it was also skunk man Sam.
And when he moved over there, it just became Sam Selnidge, which was Jingles backwards.
And I get it.
I mean, my friend who publishes Grow magazine, when you meet him, he usually says his name's
Guy.
It's not.
It's Steve.
But he has a wife and kids and he's, you know, trying to create a little bit of division
between his family and the BS.
And I get it.
And it was no different back then.
And then when people discovered that skunk man Sam was David Watson, they turned it into
a big conspiracy.
And it really wasn't.
And, you know, unfortunately, just because of their own lack of imagination, they didn't
start cannabinoid research, you know, companies because they didn't know anything about it.
And they didn't see the market potential.
They didn't have multimillion dollar investors that wanted to invest into what could become
a multibillion dollar company in the future.
I mean, I think these guys were forward looking.
And when you look at the work they put out, like hashish, hemp diseases and pests, later
cannabis evolution and ethnobotany, you know, even the hemp industries association that
put out a peer reviewed journal printed on 100 percent hemp paper and provided educational
kits made out of like hemp wax crayons and plastics and like you name it, hemp seeds,
fabric, all of it, paper, and then sent it to universities so that the academics at the
universities would get a better understanding of cannabis.
Like to call these people DE agents is the most ridiculous shit you could ever call them.
If you think the DEA is going to let their fucking rogue agents write these incredible
volumes of cannabis history and practical utility, you're crazy, man.
I mean, they're spending billions of dollars to go against cannabis.
And you think they're going to plant these two guys in the Netherlands so that they can
pursue cannabinoid research and then write about it and then send this damn information
to the universities, which is only going to work to subvert the propaganda that the DEA
is putting out in the first place.
So I take great offense at the lies and the rumors that were not only started by Neville,
that were continued and circulated by Ben Dronkers, by Bernard Bruning and others who
knew that they were fucking lying, but were lying to benefit their own reputation.
And I still think they should be condemned for doing so, because I wouldn't want somebody
calling me a DEA agent after I self-surrendered and did a five-year prison sentence rather
than cooperate.
I mean, it's the worst thing you can say to somebody that has a clear conscience.
You know what I mean?
And now I'm glad that skunkman Sam has outlived a lot of these people and that the truth has
come out and that his reputation is being, you know, for what it really is, you know,
not based on some heroin addict's fantasy of what he wished it was, but on the reality
of a lifelong's worth of work, basically protecting the seed, sharing the information and doing
good for the world around him.
And that's, I feel really passionate about skunkman Sam and David Watson.
He's one of the nicest people I've ever known.
I've known him since 1994, one of the most solid people I've ever known.
You know, I mean, a lot of us don't have relationships with our loved ones that last
51, two years.
And, you know, it really goes to show what kind of a person he is.
Everybody that I know that knows him really loves him and has respect and admiration for
him.
And, you know, I, after knowing him for so long, I understand why he's never done a
bad thing.
He's never said a bad thing.
He's never lied to me.
And to me, that matters.
Yeah, very impassionate and informative answer there.
I would agree.
Everyone who I've spoken to who knows him personally has echoed your sentiment.
And I guess I've just got two final little questions on Neville before we sort of talk
about some other stuff.
And I guess I'm interested for the last few years before Neville passed away, because
he did pass away a few years ago now, he was actually a little bit active on the Mr. Nice
Guy forums and he was causing a bit of waves over there with some of the stuff he posted.
I was wondering, did you ever get around to reading that?
And did you have any thoughts on any of it?
Because some of the stuff he posted went very much against the grain of what the stories
that were circulating sort of said.
Do you think maybe he was just a bit unwell or do you think there was maybe some truth
to it all?
Unfortunately, I think Neville was one of the, you know, first cannabis people to like
reinvent the stories and put out misinformation to benefit himself.
And, you know, when he broke up with Arian very publicly, you know, for those that read
forums back then, it wasn't a pretty divorce.
He took his genetics and he sold them to Scotty.
He didn't move to Switzerland.
He didn't follow Scotty.
He didn't go do breeding.
He said, here you go, give me money.
And he helped market the genetics that Scotty was making in Switzerland until the point
where Scotty got busted.
And unfortunately, Scotty also went to jail for five years.
I believe it was quite a while.
And, you know, Neville was already out of the picture at that point.
And I don't know what of those genetics were saved or lost because I wasn't there.
Scotty is Shantibaba, by the way.
I mean, I knew Scotty as the guy that worked for Arian when I first went to Amsterdam.
Arian and Scotty were, you know, Scotty was like his assistant, if you will.
And I like Scotty.
I've always thought Scotty was really cool.
I didn't know him around the name change.
I'm, you know, I don't know where the Shantibaba came from, but whatever.
You know, and I think Scotty's a good grower, man.
He's got a lot of experience and stuff.
But he inherited the genetics that he got from Neville.
And, you know, Neville pulled the same thing with Arian that he pulled with Ben.
I mean, when him and Ben broke up, he took his genetics.
He had people that he knew that worked it since he destroyed the genetics.
And even worse, I mean, I know firsthand that the person that supposedly was supposed to
destroy the plants stole the plants and then years later offered them back for sale to Sensi,
which is just such double cross.
That's just like, but you saw a lot of it back then.
And, you know, but he broke up with Ben and, you know, talked shit about Ben.
And then he broke up with Arian, talked shit about Arian, you know, and I don't know what
his relationship with Scotty was towards the end, but he was using the forum as a soapbox.
And unfortunately, a lot of the stuff that I've seen, it doesn't go with the stories
Greg's told me, the stories Rob Clark's told me, the stories that Skunk Man Sam told me,
the story that Ben's told me and Alan Dromper's.
I've spent time with all these people.
And, you know, unfortunately, they sing a similar song and they're not in the same room together.
And unfortunately, it doesn't paint a very pretty picture.
You know, it paints a picture of people that were disappointed in somebody that they
tried to like a lot, you know, but somebody that was dealing with the demons of addiction.
And unfortunately, that was spilling into the rest of their life.
So Neville was haunted in a polite way.
And who knows what kind of a person he would have been if you take the heroin and the alcohol
that way, you know, could have been a whole different world for him.
He could still be alive today, but it's not the Neville that he was.
And you just got to accept people for what they are and, you know, give sympathy and
pity where it belongs.
Anybody who's a drug addict, I feel for them.
I'm unfortunately not one, but I have nothing but empathy for people that are struggling
with addiction.
But it doesn't give them a free pass to be able to try to destroy the reputations of
good people, especially when they know they're lying, you know, especially when they know
what they're saying is not true.
In that form, I kind of condemn them.
Yeah, no, I understand where you're coming from.
And I think maybe the saddest part about what you just said is that I think you banged it
on their head in that Neville probably likely would still be around if he didn't have those
demons.
On the other end of the spectrum, the question has to be asked, would we have had the same
offerings from him?
And yeah.
Well, it was the addiction that caused him to start the seed company.
Don't forget, it was a grant from the Dutch government because he was dealing with addiction
maintenance and they were trying to get him onto starting a business.
And the Dutch government gave them a loan to start the Holland Seed Bank back in 1984,
which is quite astonishing.
You know, only in the Netherlands could this story be what the reality is always much stranger
than fiction.
Yeah.
Well, to loop it back, I guess I sort of wanted to end the Neville discussion on a more brighter
note and something which I've always suspected is that the point you made about how he's
like a DJ, you know, he's sort of mixing and mashing other people's work, that kind of
resonated with me.
And what I thought is if we're going to use those terms to keep it simple, I sort of get
the feeling there haven't really been as many DJs on the same level as Neville.
Like as much as I agree with what you're saying, he didn't create the music, so to speak.
So, he shouldn't be credited with that.
But I also feel like he did a pretty darn good job as a DJ.
Would you agree with that?
And do you think there are any other people who are in that same echelon of mixing and
matching and creating really standout work?
Sure.
You know, Kenny, Kenny Morrow, Trichrome Technologies, that poster behind me over here,
Kenny Ultraviolet, which was what became Purple Passion, Grandaddy Purple, everything else,
was his work back in the mid-90s.
He released that.
He's released quite a few varieties over the course of time.
Simon Schmidt, I think, is a phenomenal breeder.
I mean, he went to school for plants.
He's, his company has been around now, I think, 30 years almost.
94, I think it started.
So, he's coming close to around his 30-year anniversary.
And, you know, there's Skunkman Sam, who's really a god over Neville.
Neville used to really kind of attack Sam all the time, but Neville never made a Skunk one.
Neville never made any of the varieties that Sam gave and sold to him and that he built
his business upon.
And he always tried to steal the credit from where the credit was due, which is something
I don't do.
But then again, when you look at a lot of these California varieties, you know, Sour Diesel,
Trainwreck, Green Crack, God Bud, you know, I could go on and on.
Who made California Orange?
I don't know, but it was really good weed.
And, you know, unfortunately, through the drug war, we didn't get a lot of people who
had the courage that Neville really had to stick his head above the water and say, yeah,
I did that.
And I'll give him credit to this day.
I mean, I think we should, you know, I wanted to emulate him.
I was, when I met him, he was still a hero to me.
His courage to do something that was, you know, wrong was right.
You know, he is selling the seed to the community was a good thing.
Unfortunately, Operation Green Merchant came out of it and he got a lot of people busted
because of his poor relationships or his poor picking of relationships.
But, you know, you can't go back and fix the people that screw you over.
I sometimes wonder if that guy was a cop the whole time and that that was a full engagement,
because why else would he have saved all those addresses if he didn't plan on using those
addresses at a later time to his benefit?
So there was clearly a backdoor that he was leveraging.
At the time, he was also growing and doing his own thing.
So maybe he just felt like if he did get popped, he would just turn over, which he did.
But if you read, when you get it, you'll see what I mean.
When you read it, he went willingly to the DEA and turned in Neville and turned in all
of his customers.
So, you know, there's two sides of every sword, I guess.
And unfortunately, a lot of people got sliced by it, but it created a new opportunity.
And look at all the seed companies, SSSC, the Flying Dutchman, Paradise Seed.
Luke is awesome.
You know, he's a really good one, too.
Luke has maintained a long time since.
He stars a great variety.
You know, there's other people like, you know, the guy that made White Widow, his name was
Egmar.
Not much of a greeter, but he made a variety that a lot of people, you know, to this day
recognize, you know.
So I think there has been a lot of people on the way.
I mean, Greg is another one.
The guy, Murphy Stevens, that really started all this with his afghan is also very underrated
to a large degree.
We're all smoking Prodigy from what he started, you know, way back when.
I asked Skunk Man Sam before what would have been the most popular cannabis variety had
you not released Skunk One.
And without a hiccup, he said, Oh, Northern Lights, you know.
So Northern Lights was that impacted.
And it was, you know, those afghans that Murphy Stevens Indica was floating around in the
70s and 80s, long before Neville ever started a seed company.
So how many of these other varieties also have it?
We don't know, you know.
And, you know, the truth is, is that unless we really get good genetic testing, DNA testing,
and we get better samples in, we're not going to know the relations of these plants.
And, you know, I once asked Ben Dronkers, I said, Hey, are you going to send your samples
in to get DNA tested?
He looked at me, we were sitting together getting high.
And he said, Why?
So we can prove all these genetics came from Robin Dave.
And I was like, I get it.
I get it.
And I get it.
I get it.
If you've made a living making millions of dollars selling Jack Daniels whiskey in your
distillery, and you never had to pay Jack, I don't think you want to, I don't think you
want to, who is the daddy test?
You know, because do you really want it to come back and say, You're not the father,
Ben.
Actually, it's him, you know, and, you know, and I think that's what a lot of them don't
want to see happen.
And, unfortunately, when you even look at phylos, which is interesting on a lot of levels,
I don't agree with what they did with community and conception nurseries and all that aside.
But when you look at what they were doing, and you look at them using OG Kush as like
a backbone to all these other varieties, I think it's misplaced.
If you take out OG Kush, and you put Northern Lights number two, then it would make sense
because I remember life before OG Kush, it was it was Northern Lights.
And because phylos didn't have a good Northern Lights sample, they didn't have anything other
than OG Kush forward to go on.
And it's for those I mean, OG Kush is 1996-1997.
It's not that old.
I mean, OG, original Hayes 69, Skunk One 76, a lot of you know, Northern Lights, Northern
Lights was named Northern Lights when he sent the seeds to Neville.
Up to that point, he was just keeping track of the crosses being made by the people within
the circle that he was sharing the Afghani seeds from Murphy Stevens with.
So he Greg does not take credit for making Northern Lights number five, he said that
it was a herby, I think, that worked at the Sunset shop, the indoor Sun shop that worked
for Murphy Stevens made it but because they were all sharing genetics.
Greg had some of those hybrid seeds.
And, and initially when he sent it over as Northern Lights, he he spelled it L-I-T-E-S
like a light bulb, like turn the light on, because it was all being grown in the north
under lights.
And, and, you know, because, you know, L-I-T-E is more like illumination, L-I-G-H-T, more
like the weight of something.
So he was going with L-I-T-E-S.
And Neville changed it.
Neville changed it to L-I-G-H-T-S and called it Northern Lights.
But the little, the little funnies in the story have always intrigued me.
But these genetics were floating around quite a while before Neville took them and broadcast
them.
And realistically, I don't think Neville was so much a great DJ, as he had a great
platform.
I mean, he was like, the first dude at Ibiza with, you know, two turntables and a microphone.
And everybody's like, whoa.
And, and, you know, a lot of people have come since and probably been better DJs, but he
was the first one to seed Bankit, turn it on, print catalogs, and send seeds all over
the world.
So he deserves credit for being one courageous person.
And unfortunately, he paid dearly for his courage.
Yeah, a brilliant answer there.
And I might just take us back a little bit, because you just brought it up.
We'll talk a little bit more about the Northern Lights stuff.
And I guess one of the questions I was wondering was, as you mentioned, there were sort of
different tropical males being crossed to this purist indica and that's generating the
different numbers, one, two, three, four, five.
Hold up.
It's not just a female because they had the seeds of the purist indica.
So as they would grow the purist indica seeds, I have boys and girls of purist indica downstairs.
So I can go either way.
So it wasn't just girls being married to tropical males.
You know, and when I interviewed Greg, he's really humble too, man.
He's like Sam.
When I asked him, you know, what the genetics were, he's like, well, we'll never really
know, will we?
And it's just a beautiful honesty that I really appreciate, because one of the things I don't
like about the Canvas community is how certain people are about, you know, things they don't
know.
And even now, everything I'm saying is just from my journalistic research.
Some of it's from my personal interactions, but, you know, most of it's from research
and me trying to gather stories from different parties and finding the thread of truth through
it all.
That's always been my goal.
I'm really not biased to what the truth is.
I just would like to know what it really is.
Yeah, beautiful sentiment there.
I guess it did make me wonder, did Greg ever mention anything about any of the other parents
being kept in a pure form?
Was it just the purest indica and then they would just cross it but never keep the other
things pure as well?
Well, you know, the way I look at it is this.
If you had groups of people, like, you know, you have one guy playing with what was a Hawaiian,
maybe Northern Mexican, and crossing it with it.
And he had his genetics.
And then there was the guy that they referred to as the Indian who lived out on an island.
He had his genetics and he crossed it together.
So what I see is like a pure color, a primary color, and then the color is shared.
And then some people are mixing a little yellow, some people are mixing a little blue, some
are mixing a little brown, some have yellow, and some have orange.
And they're all coming out with something slightly different.
And then they're sharing again.
And that's how Greg kind of described it.
And it makes sense to me as somebody that has friends and loosely shares genetics and
then gets them, go, you've got to have these seeds back.
I made them from your variety.
It's kind of like that.
And, you know, Greg initially sent seeds to Neville because he wanted to trade with Neville.
He wanted some of the varieties Neville had.
He made a comment, though, he goes, Neville never sent me back anything nearly as good
as we sent him.
And I get it.
I get where he's coming from, too, you know, because if he's experiencing the F1s from
his friends who are first making them, he's going to get more robust prodigy because they're
going to have the hybridized effect of, you know, consistency, uniformity, and bigger,
more so than the plants that are being maybe inbred and inbred again, or being bred with
genetics more closely related to one another.
You know, which I'm sure Chimera talked about when he was on because he's brilliant when
it comes to breeding.
But, you know, normally, like humans, we're not trying to, you know, have sex with our
cousins because, you know, babies don't come out so good.
And it's kind of similar with cannabis.
And, you know, I think this is also why a lot of Neville's initial offerings were so
good because he was making these F1 hybrids with distinctly different genetics.
Original haze males and Northern Lights females or skunk, which didn't have any Northern
Lights in it.
Skunkman Sam never had Northern Lights genetics.
He never got them.
He never worked with them.
And on the other side of it, Greg never could get his hands on original skunk and never
got his hands on original haze until, you know, some fucking kid like me comes along
and sends him to in his retirement sometime in like 2018.
I think I sent him those seeds, you know, so, you know, it's you never know how it's
going to work out.
But, you know, Greg was in Vietnam from 1965 to 1969, joined when he was 17 because he
was going to be drafted and started smoking cannabis when he was in Vietnam and brought
back the habit or the hobby and started growing in 1969 as soon as he was 18.
And he was taking horticultural classes at the University in Seattle and the University
of Washington.
And it's funny because he's in his 70s now and he is still taking university courses
online.
And he shares with me links constantly about, you know, testing sugar content in your plants
and like how to avoid different diseases like light penetration.
And he's such an avid learner and I absolutely adore it.
I absolutely hope I have his vigor for life when I'm his age.
I guess it's not that long.
I'm fucking 50 now.
So I just keep up with the health food.
But it's really cool.
And he just kept it up.
I mean, I think he met Murphy Stevens and around sometime in the 70s, mid 70s, after
the book came out.
And it was one of the best Afghans that he had ever gotten up to that point.
Because a lot of the hippies initially were breeding with more tropical varieties that
were coming in Thai, Vietnam, Mexican, Colombian.
These are all semi-tropical.
It wasn't until the hippies started coming back from the hippie trail with Afghan varieties
and then the Afghans came in and started breeding with the African varieties.
Until the hippies started coming back from the hippie trail with Afghan varieties in
the mid 70s that these skunky, stinky, earthy tones were kind of brought in.
And these fast flowering, heavy yielding, broad leaflet varieties were starting to get
brought into it.
Original Skunk One started as one of these Afghans crossed with Colombian gold and that
was skunk.
And then he took that plant and crossed it with everything he had until he realized that
when he crossed it with Acapulco gold, that that combination of genetics, when you grew
out the prodigy and you bred the prodigy together would be consistent uniform.
So he did that with all of the different ones he had and threw them away.
Once he realized, oh, this is the right genetic lock in order to go with what I'm doing.
Really unique.
I mean, a lot of people won't spend the time.
You know, he always, if you ever could talk to him, you'll say, you know, he kills plants
more than he grows them.
But I get it.
You know what I mean?
Because you can't get attached, man.
If it doesn't meet the standards, out of the garden it goes.
And that's what really makes great cannabis.
And I think that a lot of the, unfortunately, you know, people that came along later weren't
really working on the scale that he was working on, you know, tens of thousands of plants
at a time, you know, 50,000 skunk seeds or 50,000 original a seeds in a single 50,000
square meter greenhouse going off at once and creating, you know, more seeds of its
own variety is something a lot of us don't get the opportunity to do.
So he was in a position to kind of maintain his genetic gene pool on a level that few
others were.
And when he, you know, from my interviews with him, my conversations when he was doing
a horticulture farm, there's no limit on seeds.
Nobody cared about the seeds.
You know, there's no drug content on the seeds.
And of course, you need to save the seeds because you need to grow more plants.
So the one thing he could do was really intense breeding and saving of genetics.
So he was in a really unique position that, unfortunately, small scale seed companies,
you know, any name, any of them just weren't in a position to do.
Yeah, a position few of us will probably ever be able to find ourselves in sadly.
I just wanted to bring you back for a moment to the Steve Murphy's Afghani, the purest
indica.
Did they ever have a cutting they kept or they just use the seeds every year?
And as a follow up, what type of Afghani do you think it is?
Do you think it was just like a hash plant or like more akin to Afghani number one?
Afghani number one, I got Afghani number one.
You know, I sell Mel Frank seeds.
Mel Frank is 77 years old now.
We've been friends for since 96.
I met him at Positronics in Amsterdam one day when he was walking through and he was
complimenting some plants and I was the one that was growing the plants.
And we got to talking and it was just a really good connection and we became friends.
We're best friends to this day.
And the Afghani number one is OK.
It's not.
The Northern Lights, purest indica is really exceptional.
And the Afghani number one has, in my opinion, some more tropical influence in it.
It's not pure Afghan like the purest indica is.
And it's OK.
Maybe I'm really sticky, too, though, because like, you know, like,
you know, when you have one thing and you think it's great, it's because sometimes you
don't have things to compare it to.
And then when I had other thing I when I had Afghani one initially, I thought it was great,
you know, but then I got all these Northern Lights plants and these Afghans, the purest
indica from Greg and I thought, wow, that's really incredible.
So it changed my perspective of Afghani number one.
But, you know, I'm going to sound like a jerk, too, but I don't really like Durban poison.
I sell the seeds because it's authentic Durban poison and it has a real it's got a great
structure. It's super fast. It's got great resin. A lot of people smoke it. Love it.
So, you know, screw my opinion, but it's not one of my favorite varieties.
But, you know, what I've been trying to do at the seed company is really
make these available to people because I don't know the, you know,
the cannabinoids that will be fine or the terpene combinations that will be found.
And I think there's still a lot to be found in these genetics.
And I think all of the genetics are medically useful.
It's just a matter of identifying them and finding them into medical utility.
And I think that's starting to happen. And, you know, there'll come a day,
I believe, when people will go in and they'll have their endocannabinoid system tested and
they'll be able to just look like they look at your blood and they can tell you what vitamins
and minerals you're deficient in. And they'll be able to pull off the shelf all of these various
single cannabinoids, put them together and maybe add some terpenes for, you know, a bit of an,
I hate to use the word entourage, but it's more of an ensemble effect.
And the way they synergistically work together will be how we use it to
bang up our endocannabinoid system. And the more we have these genetics available and the more
people can start to grow them and test them and discover them, you know, the more we're going to
more colors we're going to have to pull from when we're turning around and trying to, you know,
color in our life and make it better. You know, because I, you know, obviously I've had cancer a
bunch of times. I'm pretty certain we're all going to die at the end of this wonderfully short trip,
but it's about our quality of life. It's really about, you know, the time you're present and
being present and treating, you know, time like it's a present and really appreciating it.
And I think cannabis plays this really key fundamental role in our wellness. And I think
this really becomes a conversation about wellness more than it's a conversation about, you know,
getting high on a Friday night, you know, and feeling good. And I think more people are going
to start to understand that as they come to understand that they have an endocannabinoid
system and that it can help balance them better than pharmaceuticals or better than heroin or
better than alcohol or better than smoking cigarettes. A lot of people, I think, are going
to turn to cannabis like you and I have and really help them help their life considerably.
Yeah. Hear, hear. Hopefully, hopefully the medical sort of improvements lead to exactly that. It'd
be fantastic. Something a little left of field, but I thought you might have a good perspective
on was often when we talk to guests about the really old school genetics, they reference how
they really liked them because there was no ceiling, you know, weed these days, it only gets
you so high. And I guess I'd be interested in hearing your thoughts on the ceiling effect and
what it is like, how does it occur? Is it just, do, is it just land races have no ceiling and
we hybridize things, they get ceilings. What's your thoughts? I get what they're saying. I mean,
I've been sitting here for an hour and 32 minutes with you and I've only managed to smoke half a
joint of this stuff. And it's a lot because with the haze, you feel it, you know, like you hit it
and you feel it and you're going to put it down for a minute because you're like self-titration
happens quickly when you're smoking this. And I get it. I mostly, I feel like with the haze varieties
that this did that you can keep getting higher and higher and higher, but I feel like you end
up doing what I'm doing, which is you hit it a little bit and go, whoa, whoa, whoa, I'm doing
an interview. I've got to keep my shit. And you end up putting it down. I find half joints of
haze all over my house all the time. And I think that's because I get really high and I put them
down and then I get distracted and I am so high. I forget I leave the joint there. And I don't do
that as much with more of the modern varieties. Unfortunately, if I go to the store in California,
buy some pot, I'm not that impressed. And I've been fortunate enough to be a cannabis cup
judge for high times for the Emerald Cup, for the Secret Cup. I've been a photographer for them,
for Chalice I've been a judge. So I've had some exposure to cannabis. Unfortunately, a lot of the
cannabis floating around California is quite homogenous and it's very similar. There's not
a lot of standouts. What they call haze isn't really haze. I was judging concentrates and I sat
down next to the gentleman that owns, I'll just say a gentleman that owns one of the bigger
extraction companies. And he always gives me what a little jar of whatever he's smoking. And I gave
him mine and I had made some extract out of haze and he opened it and he smelled it and he was like,
what is this? And I was like, that's original haze. And he was just like, holy shit. And we
were sitting with maybe a hundred plus samples in front of us. And I made the comment and I said,
you know, what's weird after smoking all this stuff, I feel like I could put this haze jar down
and it would stand out out of all of these. And he goes, oh, it's absolutely unlike everything
else here. And we had, I think 119 samples in front of us that year. And it's just because
growers didn't want to spend the extra time. I mean, you take Northern California to an example,
you know, when you get North of San Francisco, it's not the most hospitable place to grow
cannabis. Your ability and variety is limited by your early winters, your early rain, your heavy
humidity, that coastal fog. It's a challenge. I mean, I have hats off to everybody in Northern
California that can turn out really high quality cannabis. And there are a lot of people who do,
but they're not growing no three-way Columbian haze up there until December with that weather.
And so they're limited. So because they're limited to their environment, we see the limit to their
genetics that they offer as well. The Emerald Cup is my favorite event in the world and everybody
should visit it. But when you go to the Emerald Cup, most of all those varieties have always been
under 10 week varieties. Only last year when I was there taking photos for Grum magazine,
and they had all of the varieties separated by their dominant terpene. It is the future, man.
And so now you've got orange competing with orange and you've got gas competing with gas,
and you've got sweet tropical with sweet tropical, and you've got, you know, hazy,
you know, train wreck type varieties competing with hazy train wreck type varieties. And you're
not trying to compare, you know, California orange to OG Kush, which are completely different.
And by breaking it down into your dominant terpene category, you're starting to get a
better understanding of which like, let's go back to colors, which primary color groups that that
variety happens to fall into. Because if it's pinene or if it's terpene or mercine dominant,
it's going to fall into that group. You know, a limonene dominant terpene plant is going to smell
lemony, period. So group them together, judge them for what they are. And I think that's really
neat. Unfortunately, it wasn't very much when it came to really hazy varieties offered at the time,
because again, it's an organic Northern California event. And when they move down to maybe, you know,
they're not really growing it in Santa Barbara yet either. But when you see growers starting to grow
cannabis in areas that are more warm, and they can leave plants in the ground until November,
December, you know, when you start getting south of Santa Cruz in California, you start to experience
this type of, you know, summer all the time weather. And there's really two distinctly
different weather patterns in Northern California that split around Pismo Beach, north of Santa
Barbara and Santa Barbara South, you've got hot sunny days, you know, all year long, and then north
of Santa Barbara, you start to get more wintry as you get more north. And, you know, people are going
to start growing, you know, these long flowering varieties in places like Northern Santa Barbara
and Santa Barbara and LA, and further south. And it's going to be fantastic. And I think you're
going to experience cannabis, like we haven't experienced in decades, because a lot of the
cannabis coming in in the 50s and 60s was coming in from tropical semi tropical places.
That changed when we started getting stuff from Afghan and then the 70s when the hippies
and others started mixing together, hippies and the soldiers started breeding together
various varieties of cannabis and coming out with the hybrids that we the haze, the skunk, the Hindu
Kush, the Calio, the Afghani one, the Durban, you know, we could go on and on about what became of
those land race varieties that those guys originally got in the first place, and then morph
them into the varieties that we know today. And then those primary varieties were crossed together
to make a lot of the wedding cakes and the skittles and the runs and the stuff that we are now
referencing to today, because none of that stuff was bred from brand new land race crosses. It was
all bred from, you know, the seeds they got on, you know, vacation to, you know, Amsterdam or
through a friend who was already growing. And, you know, quality was just passed on, passed on,
because, you know, why go through all that shit and try to, you know, recreate the work others
have done successfully, when you can take skunk one seeds, grow them out, and then take another
variety, grow them out and mix them together. And everybody claps at you because, you know,
you're a DJ, and they didn't think of mixing together the Beatles white album and the Jay-Z
black album until they heard your gray album. And then they're like, oh, that's the shit, you know, and,
you know, again, not musicians, but still, you know, I think the best thing these seed breeders
today can do is give credit where credit's due. The reason you don't see me making up a lot of
funny names on my seed website is because I'm just trying to give credit where credit's due.
I'm not trying to come in and pretend like, you know, you know, I'm not, you know, reinventing
the wheel. I mean, I do make varieties that are unique to me, that are unique to my company.
But usually those, in those cases, I just call them what I made it out of, because I want to leave
breadcrumbs for the people who buy my seeds, so that they'll kind of know where to go with their
crosses, because then it gives them, it's like a dog or pedigree information. And if they have the
pedigree information, you know, maybe they can make a better cross after they get my seeds, and
they cross them with something they have. And I encourage it. I think it's great. Where I think
it's kind of shady is when, you know, I sent, I sent a company seeds in February, seven months
later, they knocked off those seeds, claiming that now they finally have skunk. And then they,
they told a brand new story about skunk one, said Sam, the skunk man got out of jail in 1981.
And that these seeds came to France in like 1974 kilo. And it's all bullshit, man. Like Sam didn't
even make skunk one in 1974. It didn't come around till after that. And these people that come and
they try to reinvent the history to benefit themselves. I think that shit, and I think that's
shady. And I think they should get called out for it. Because I think that, you know, the cannabis
community deserves an authentic and, and, and real history, and not a history that's been maligned by
marketing people, you know, that were trying to market their seeds or market their company,
and trying to, you know, you know, basically steal the wind out of the sails of others,
because they're still doing it to this day.
This is invariably one of the discussion points I thought we were going to have to touch on, which
hopefully give people a bit more background. But yeah, as you just alluded to, you know,
there, there has been some sort of ongoing, what's the word they use in the news, there's been robust
conversations between yourself and Aficionado around a skunk release. I was just wondering if
you could give us a little bit more of the backstory on that.
Simply put, they contacted me, actually way back in July of 2020, asking me for seeds,
because they were following what I was doing. And I told them they weren't going to be available yet.
I told them they'd be available in probably like seven, eight months. February of 2021,
they contacted me saying, Hey, can you know, we saw them on your website, can we get some?
And unfortunately, or fortunately, you know, it's weird, I almost didn't sell them the seeds,
because I, I they have a bad, they have a reputation, we'll just say of doing this with
other varieties and other people. And I, I've had words with Leo, who's Aficionado here in
California in the past. And, you know, it is what it is. But they contacted me through Frenchy
Cannoli. And I just I adore Frenchy. He's, since we met, we were friends, I got nothing but love
for him. I think he was one of the most authentic people who had such a true passion and for
cannabis, and I will miss him forever. And I am crushed that he's gone. And I, you know, I
absolutely got nothing but love for Frenchy, for sure. But they were looking for the skunk genetics.
And they were very upfront about that. And they contacted me and I, you know, this is why after
he said I was a liar, I posted the conversation up on Instagram, because I'm not a liar. And I
would never misinterpret the truth. And I'm just not it's not my thing. And I'm not afraid of the
ramifications of truth. So I don't have to lie. So anyone who has to lie can go themselves in
my opinion. So that's just how I feel. And so I got him the genetics, I sent him some seeds,
I sent him roadkill, I sent him skunk one, I even sent him extra seeds, I sent some for Frenchy,
so he'd have some to grow in his house. And yeah, and then they get the seeds like February 26.
And then, you know, end of August, end of August, they released that BAM, I got skunk one seeds. Now
they have to their 1974 seeds from a kilo and told this elaborate story that was that such
bullshit. And people in the community, I think also recognized it as bullshit and started calling
it out. Because I mean, skunk one of all the freaking varieties to lie about, why pick skunk
one, it's so documented. But he did. And, and it was weird. So I called him out on it. I mean,
I woke up that morning and called him out on it. It actually happened a little earlier, though,
because when I got the RKS, it was from that guy, Jaime in Alaska, who's another great guy.
He's an old biker that's been growing forever in a day. And people gave him nothing but shit for
saying that he had roadkill skunk, and he sent it to me. And, you know, it is it, it is it is
really what he says it is, it's just it's not as strong as people would, would, would
want it to be. And I said this to him, and I've been really upfront and honest about this to a
lot of people, I said, it's there, but you're gonna have to look through plants to really find that
one that is going to blow you away and stink out the car and you know, be smelled down the street.
But, you know, since this conversation has started, you know, I don't know how much you're
into the files. So files are what I now believe are the cause of the skunk acrid smell in these
plants. Humans can detect files and parts per trillion. And it makes it hard for machines to
even be able to detect it in measurable amounts as well. So files are what I believe a lot of
these Afghan varieties that smelled like urine, and acrid dead flesh and skunks to Americans.
That's where a lot of this came from. Because when you talk to Robert Clark, who is to me,
the foremost historian on cannabis in the world, a lot of the more tropical varieties have sweeter
scents. And a lot of these more, you know, lemony and citrusy and flowery tones we're getting are
coming from the Acapulco, the Colombians, the Thais, the Mexicans and such. So these files are
what I believe initially, when everybody started breeding with the Afghans, they all took on this
heavy scent. But because the way humans work is that this is something that when we smell
makes my our brain think, oh, this is going bad, avoid it. We slowly bred away from it and bred
towards the sense that were more appealing, which were the fruity, flavorful, tasty dessert type.
You know, when you walk go for a walk down the street, you do not stick your nose in a pile of
dog shit. You stick your nose in a rose, you smell flowers. And I think for cannabis cultivators,
especially considering that that stench of shit would get them busted, they just all maybe
subconsciously bred away from the files and move towards the more aromatic plants. And I think
that's what happened to cannabis. And I'm not even telling people this, but the purest indica,
because I don't want to see their heads explode again, really smells like fucking skunk. I grew
up, I'm in California, they get dead skunks on my street, my dogs come home skunk sometimes.
I've lived with skunks since I was a little kid. We have them in New England.
Funny enough, though, they're only North American animals. There are no skunks in Europe,
none of them. And none of my, this is what weirded me out when guys like Ben were like,
oh, I called it skunk. I was like, Ben, you've never visited America. How have you, I asked,
have you ever seen a skunk outside of Pepe Le Pew? Like you mean a person? Yeah. Do you even
have them at your zoos? No, I don't think we do. Okay. So how would you know what a skunk smells
like? And if you smelled a plant that smelled nasty, like in the UK, they refer to it as cheese,
because if you go to the UK and you smell that nasty ass shit that they probably gonna eat,
and that nasty, I didn't call it cheese. They wouldn't call it a skunk because they don't have
skunks in England. So they wouldn't call it something they don't have in the Netherlands
either. So it makes sense to an American when you smell it, it smells like shit, it smells like
dead skunk, it smells like acrid, rancid, nasty, which also contains thiols in the skunk spray.
So the relationship to me makes sense. And these, you know, the skunk one seeds that I currently
have, have only been reproduced twice since the 1980s. Skunk man, Sam gave them to Mel Frank in
1988. He put them in the refrigerator until 1996, and then reproduce them in 96, put those
reproductions in the refrigerator and left them there until he took them out in 2019 and gave
them to me. I started growing them out and realized, fuck, these things all still smell
acrid, they don't smell sweet. So I did a selection of the most acrid plants,
filled my greenhouse, reproduced the seeds. They came out great, people have been loving them.
The people who don't grow them hate on me and say I don't really have skunk. And the people who do
grow them, love them and say that skunk doesn't even, skunk smells sweeter than these plants,
one guy said. You know, so, and I get it though, because these genetics are literally old. They're
literally from the 80s. They're literally from way back when. And then I got the ones from Greg,
they're from what he says, from the earlier 80s. They still have these like thiols that are
present, they still smell skunky to me. And I think that as we do more selections, that we are
going to be able to bring the funk back in much of these Afghans, if we're looking for it, if we're
breeding towards flavor and taste and you know, trying to make dessert recipe type flavors,
we're obviously going to move away from thiols. But if people consciously do what I did,
which was throw out all the sweet plants and breed together all the stinky plants,
I think over time, just like we can manipulate terpene levels and cannabinoid levels,
we could manipulate thiol levels and raise them in future generations of plants and kind of bring
it back, bring it back, bring it back a little bit at a time. So yeah, it's been an interesting,
it's been an interesting journey, because when I first released Haze, I had a lot of people saying,
you don't really have Haze. And I was like, fuck you. And then I released Skunk One and oh, you
really don't have Skunk, nobody has Skunk. You know, and it was like, whatever. And fortunately,
now with Northern Lights, nobody's giving me a hard time, you know, but Greg is a little more
active on social media. And it's a little different. But I had a lot of naysayers at
first. And even Skunkman Sam's been on shows like Hashard saying, yeah, Todd has my seeds.
That's they're real. And you know, and I don't know why it's so hard for a lot of people to want
to, that don't want to believe that, you know, I mean, it's a little ridiculous. I actually saw
like a disparaging comment by what's the guy that got the he got the Tom Hill Haze or whatever,
he got the positronic seeds in 1996. And he brought him home, he made some seeds, and he
named the Haze after himself. And I was living practically a posi I had fucking keys in my own
office at posi. And I grew up those seeds. And unfortunately, they weren't that great at the
time. And he bought them and thinks they're awesome. And I think that's great. But then I
saw him on one of the forums basically talking shit about he doesn't know what I have, but they
can't be as good as what he had. And I'm thinking really, I skipped over 10 years of Wernards
breeding and went right back to Skunkman Sam and got the original Haze seeds from him. And you
think the ones that I got from Sam are not as good as the ones you picked up from positronics on a
trip to high times. I just blows my mind. And I doubt, honestly, that Tom picked up 1000s of
original Haze seeds at positronics at the time, because one, we didn't sell them in very big
packages. And to most of the people there were not buying 1000s of seeds when they got there.
And I have had 1000s of original Haze seeds to do my selections through. And I would tend to
believe it's like a lottery ticket. The more lottery tickets you have, the more of a chance
you have to win. If you went home with even 100 seeds, I can't imagine how you would get selections
as good as somebody who went through 1000s of seeds looking for selection. So it's what it is.
I think a lot of people want to, I don't know, they get on a high horse and they really feel
like they deserve credit for things that really they don't. Just because you went and bought some
seeds at positronics, man, doesn't mean you're doing anything. Just because you bought some
seeds at positronics and mix them together, and then sold those seeds doesn't mean you're doing
anything. And like me, I am trying to not influence the Haze genetics, in a sense, like, like I am
out crossing and making my own varieties, but that's not original Haze. And I'm trying to not
fuck it up by listening to Skunk Man Sam and doing the breeding the way that he recommends I do it,
because I want other generations to get the opportunity to go through these seeds as pure
as possible, and to be able to find their own selections and, and hopefully, you know, become
great DJs. Now, that's kind of where I'm, I'm kind of feeling like I'm the bridge between the older
generation, and the younger generation of newer breeders. And I kind of feel like I'm the anti
cannabis cannabis company, because I'm really trying to get the genetics into the hands of
of the community before these big corporates show up and try to turn it into IP. And once they get
their hands on a, you know, purple passion or a fucking OG kush, they're never going to release
it. They're not going to cut clones and sell them at the shop so you can grow the shit that they're
selling. Never in a million years. So I think this genetic preservation is super important.
And, you know, I wish more people like Tom would see that we're all, you know, trying to benefit
the community. And it's not a fucking quarter mile race. It's not about, you know, who's got
the best of what it's like, these are plants we're talking about. And, you know, they're all unique,
every single plant, in a sense, is a unique fingerprint on the planet. And you don't know
its benefits, or it's, you know, until you grow it out and experience it. And I wish more people
would be open minded to that. And I wish more people would, you know, kind of have that open
minded approach to breeding and looking for the best quality and looking for the, you know,
best medicine rather than, you know, looking for an ego stroke.
Yeah, look, I can understand how understandably frustrating it must have been to have to deal
with all the questions about validity of stock and whatnot. I mean, it's interesting and
coincidental you bring up Tom Hill because I actually had a question I was going to ask you
about him. So we may as well do it right now. On the photos I've seen you post of the Purist
Indica, it looks obviously like Northern Lights, but it also kind of reminded me a bit of Deep
Chunk with the way like that resin so thick, like you can tell like this has got some serious Afghan
hash plant type vibes to it. Have you ever grown out any of Tom's lines, like specifically the
Deep Chunk? I mean, it's not really his lines, they're just land races. But what's your thoughts?
I don't think they are land races. I mean, just because you bought some seeds from Positronics
doesn't mean you're working with land races. And, you know, the thing is, is these Afghan
genetics are dominant in a lot of this stuff. I mean, Neville did a lot with Northern Lights
number two. Northern Lights number two is one of my favorites right now. It's so OG Kush,
it's crazy. I asked Greg years ago if he ever smoked OG Kush and he said to me, he said,
yeah, yeah, yeah, it's just NL2. He made a joke. He said, Todd, we used to grow the NL5 and sell
it. We used to grow the NL2 and smoke it. And I thought, oh, that's hilarious, man. And, you know,
and it's because the NL2 was funky and heavy and fucking, you know, dank as fuck. But then the NL5
was more of that tropical kind of like, kind of light high, you know, better yielding and shit
like that. So quicker growing because it had a little more of the more tropical equatorial
genetics in it. And I got what he meant, you know, and, you know, a lot of this stuff, you know,
Neville was a blessing, man. Neville spread the seeds around and Neville got these genetics into
the hands of many people that then had an opportunity to breed with him. You know, what
Neville did, it was a beautiful thing for the world. And he should always be revered for that
because it put the genetics into the hands of many people. And I think it made a big difference
in the overall quality of cannabis, you know, in all reality by going through these selections and
getting, you know, these like Afghans and different things, you know, out so that you can mix it with
your hazes and stuff. It was just an absolute, you know, blessing to the world in the way, you know,
not having to go through, you know, land race tie or land race Afghan or land race anything, you know,
to start at the bottom and try to work your way back up. Sharing the genetics was like starting
on, you know, the top floor after all these people had done selections and breeding and made seeds
and like every single time, hopefully was an improvement. And that's why I think in a weird
way that there was the first wave of breeding was all about quality. The second wave of breeding was
all about quantity, meaning either quantity of seeds or the fastness and the amount of cannabis
you'd get in a short amount of time because, you know, people wanted that. They wanted quick,
they wanted heavy, you know, they really didn't, they didn't ask you for the highest quality,
you know, when you were selling seeds in Holland, I mean, everybody was like,
what's the fastest, heaviest yielder you got? I was like, okay, you want big bud.
So who wants to smoke big bud? I mean, I used to work for Simon at Serious Seeds in the day,
cleaning the seeds and stuff. And, you know, chronic was cool to grow, but if there was
chronic AK and Cali sitting in front of me, I smoked the Cali, then I smoked the AK,
and I'd probably give away a little of the chronic, but, you know, like that would be the last of the
pot to smoke, you know, because it was the least effective in my opinion, but it was the heaviest
yielder we offered. I mean, big bud, big bud wasn't the biggest winner of any of the cannabis
cups I ever remember, you know, but a lot of people went over there trying to get big bud seeds
because they wanted heavy, fast, you know, the prohibition market demanded it. You know, if you
could turn over six crops a year in your house, growing, you know, an eight week or you could turn,
you know, four crops or even worse, you know, two crops a year growing something that was
four to six months, what were you going to do? You know what I mean? The pure economics drove
the conversation to where it was. So, you know, the funny thing is I got, I always hoped to meet
Tom Hill, actually, when I was younger, I, you know, I had reverence for all these breeders
that I heard of, you know, I went to the cannabis cups, I used to enjoy meeting everybody. It wasn't
a big, you know, who's got the highest THC game. It was just about making friends. So I was a little
bummed when I saw him talking crap, but, and I'm sure he has good genetics. I'm sure he's done good
selections. I'm sure he's put out some good stuff. You know, if I had the opportunity to smoke weed
that he grew, I'd be happy about it. I would love to try some of Tom Hill's haze and stuff,
especially because I've been able to get original haze from Skunk Man Sam and grow it. And I,
because I've had great cuttings of the Nautilite of Neville's haze and smoked and loved it because
I worked at Posi and was growing fucking haze for the whole year of 1996 and trying to go through
different varieties to figure out which ones I like best. I have a lot of experience with it and
I would love to see, you know, his secondary color and what he's made with it. I think it would be
cool, you know, but I don't know, personally, I would rather have the seeds that, you know,
Sam keeps for himself and doesn't sell to anybody than the seeds you can buy at Positronics. So
personal preference, of course.
I think I'm there with you. Don't worry. And I mean, you touched on OG in that answer. And
I guess I'd be interested to hear a little more about your thoughts on OG in general. Is it a
strain you like? Like, would you ever grow it and smoke it? Or do you feel like it's just
superseded by the NL?
You'll laugh, but when I got out of prison in 2004, I didn't have any money,
money in debt and everything. And my friends at OG Kush gave me back because I kind of had it
before I went to prison too. They shared the clone with me prior to prison, but I can't,
I wasn't really talking about that. And I won't say he gave it to me. But then when I got out
of prison again, it was offered back to me again in 2004. And I, when I got out of prison, started
select strains, which was a little nursery and what is on the cover, but OG Kush. And it was
my number one cutting, Sensi Star, Super Silver Haze, Roman and Purple and 39.
And I sold the shit out of them. I think I was the very first person to sell OG Kush
cuttings in LA starting at the end of 2004, November, December, probably December, 2004 was
my first sale of OG Kush cuttings. And maybe a little later, maybe January, but not much later
after Christmas. Around that time, the guy that offered it to me, I inquired to my friend who
gave it to me and I went to him and said, Hey, may I sell cuttings of this? Because again, I just
didn't want to be an asshole. And he came back to me, said, Todd, the person who wanted you to have
it died. And I don't think it matters. You can do whatever you want with it. And I was like,
whoa, bro. And I didn't realize that. And then years and years later,
Adam Dunn had a show that he was doing. And he was telling this, he was letting people tell this
real bullshit story about the origin of OG Kush. And unfortunately, he had this guy that was someone
I knew, and it snitched on me. He was one of the government informants in my case, his name was Dave.
And I've known Adam since 94. And we're friends. And Adam is from the East Coast. We both grew
up a little bit in Rhode Island. We're both kind of smart asses. And while the guy was talking,
Adam joked with them that, Oh, you should have just went to the cops and told them that you only
grew it at one house and not all these other houses. And the dumb son of a bitch said, I did.
I went to the DEA and told them I was only growing a hair in Laurel Canyon,
and not to charge me with all these other houses. And I always knew that he cooperated,
but I couldn't believe that he told on himself on Adam Dunn's show. And after that happened,
I heard from all these people that were like, you got to listen to this. And I was just like,
Oh, sweet Jesus. And, and then when that happened, Josh D, who's now pretty famous for being a guy
from LA that had it at that time, he was still underground about it. He hadn't made an Instagram
for it or anything. And he contacted me and he said, you know, in a text message, like,
how did you get OG Kush? And I wasn't going to answer. So I called him on video and he answered.
And I said, you tell me if you, if you think, you know me and you think, you know how I got it,
you tell me who I got it through. And the first name he mentioned, he got it right. And I said,
whoa, wait a minute. Was there really somebody named mad dog? And he goes, Todd, that was my
roommate. And he held up this picture of his friend who passed away from pharmaceutical
complications and he didn't know D or anything. He had a medical condition. And I was just,
it was a really touching moment. And he said, you know, Todd, he used to cut out articles about you
from the newspaper, because this was before the internet. And he used to like put them on magnets
on our refrigerator. So when I would come home from work, I could read the article about you,
you know, cause we were both, you know, thought what you were doing was cool. And that's how in
the nineties, he found out I had friends and he got me a cutting through friends. But he,
but I didn't know who, I didn't know who it was. I D he didn't give me the nickname. And then after
I got out of prison he, the same dude went through friends, different friends this time, and, and
offered it back to me. And I said, I would love it. And and then when I went back to ask, I found
out he passed away, but then Josh kind of put it all together for me. And the conversation I had
with Josh was really sincere. Like there was no questioning Josh's like the authenticity of what
he was saying. I was in LA at the time, you know, I, I, I know what I was there, you know? So I knew
more than I should, you know? And and that's why I went to prison because I wouldn't talk about it.
I wouldn't cooperate, just lock me up, you know? And that's what they did. But then when I got out
of prison, all my friends were still there and I had nothing but love. So I got a lot of good
things given back to me. Like I had, you know, all my friends were still there when I came home.
So it was really warm to come home to it. And then I just, so I got OG Kush. I love it. I've
always been a fan of OG Kush. It's been a go-to mine for medicine for a long time. I used it in
the 2019 breeding against my own haze. It's done really well for me. People seem to really love it.
And, you know, but now that I have known like number two and I just did a greenhouse run of
normal life number two, I can absolutely see who the daddy, mommy, daddy of, of the OG Kush was.
And when I spoke to the guy who, who supposedly originally made the seeds in Florida that the
cutting came from, he told me that, you know, in 89, we went to the Netherlands and we bought Hindu
Kush and Northern light seeds from Neville. So that's all it can be. Cause when I talked to him,
I said, man, I think it's Northern lights. Cause I remembered. So my first experience with Northern
with, with OG Kush was in 1997. When I came back from Amsterdam and when I smoked it in January of
97, I was like, oh, this is Northern lights because I had just come back from hanging out
with Alan droppers and go into the castle in 96 and, and being there smoking Northern lights
varieties that they had stuff that they agreed with stuff that, you know, the stuff that they
grow. So, so I got to smoke a lot of different shit with Alan. Alan's a real pothead. Alan loves
to smoke, loves his hash. He's, he's, he's really into it, you know? So we used to get high. I've,
I've had the opportunity of sleeping over at the castle and, you know, getting high with Alan all
night long and smoking the stuff that was in the basement. So I, I feel like I've, I'm very fortunate
to have the experience that I've had with, you know, the cannabis that I've been around. So when
I got here and smoked it, I just thought it was Northern lights. And then when I asked Greg about
it, he kind of reinforced that. Yeah, this is just Northern lights. And now that I've grown it,
I definitely think the parents were Northern lights. So, you know, that's why I think that in
Phylos if, if, if in the six different types or five different types that they list out,
cause they lift out like hemp, wild berry skunk and something like that. And one of them's OG
Kush. If that was Northern lights, then it would make sense for me. Cause there'd be Northern lights
and skunk one, and then all the other things that came from it. But to put OG Kush up there with
skunk one, when there's like 20 years, you got to go back to the seventies. If you're really going
to get under the varieties that we have now, and those don't go to OG Kush, they go back to this
Steve Murphy, purist Indica. And I don't know if you've, have you seen the book I'm talking about?
Have you seen the picture? I mean, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, and the, and I think the genetics
don't lie when you look at the photo and you look at the 1975 photo, it's like fricking twins.
Yeah. A hundred percent. Yeah. It looks, it looks the same. I definitely agree with that.
I guess my mind then asks the question. I'm not sure how familiar you are in terms of growing
out the different chem dog varieties, but the same sort of question often lingers around chem dog.
Do you think there's NL in that? Yeah, for sure. 100%. I've often thought chem,
like chem 91, they call it and OG Kush are closely related without question. I've also
grown stuff that came from the hog farm, the wavy gravy, Northern California. And it was very
Northern Lights as well. To me, Northern Lights has been, Northern Lights number two is the,
is the mystery between Afghan and, because it was an Afghan. When I asked him what Northern
Lights number two was, he said it was mixed with the Afghans that they got from Oregon and
California. And when he said, and California, it made me think, okay, this makes more sense
because if you have zero mixed with like a California or Oregon Afghan, and then you take
number one, cause that becomes number one. And then you mix that with a California
Afghan or Oregon Afghan, you get an L number two, you're still pretty close to that purest indica.
And as they were bumping up, that's where, in his, in Greg's opinion, it was simply growth
characteristics. The leaves became narrower, the plants became taller, the finishing times grew
longer. So he just numbered them from closest to Murphy's Afghan to the most tropical ones that he
had. And when you think about it, it makes sense why none of the numbers over five really became
popular to Neville because Neville, once he got those male hazes, everything was with the male
hazes. It's as if nothing, he didn't, he didn't have any other haze plants to use. He says he had
a female, but he says he killed it because it wasn't that good. So I don't, I don't believe he
actually had it to be really honest with you. But it, it doesn't matter at the end of the conversation
he stated many times that he only had two males. And I just think that that's why, in a sense,
you get just a limited amount of secondary colors from what he could do with that primary color.
Because if that, those haze males were his primaries, it would have a good signature on
every other color he mixed it with, you know, just to use an analogy that people that maybe
don't breed can easily understand. Yeah, no, look, I agree with you. I think if he had a female,
he would have definitely made F2s and hunted through them and we would have heard about it, but
interesting nonetheless. Look, we've been having so much fun. We skipped over the question. We
normally jump back to it around like 15 minutes in, but we ask everyone, what was your first
experience with cannabis? I was sick. I was, my mom was a hippie and I was going through chemotherapy
and radiation and I have a big scar on the side of my body from, I had a tumor between my left
lung and my heart. For the first time I had it in soft tissue. Only it was inside a bone marrow
and it would break my bone. My spine is fused. I had three locations in my skull. I had two more
in my right ear. I had two locations in my left hip. I was in a wheelchair for over six months
when I was a little kid. And then after all that, I got it again in between my left lung and my
heart. And my mom had read in good housekeeping that cannabis was being used for cancer patients.
And she inquired with my pediatrician and he felt like, man, you have not the blues, Ann.
So she being a hippie already had weed. And when we drove home that day, she had me slip down. I
was only nine years old. She had me slip down into like the front seat of the car and she had the
air conditioning on and she gave me a joint and she told me to like, she told me to sip it like
it was a straw. And so I got down in the little thing and I was sipping it like it was a straw and
I started giggling and feeling pretty good. And mind you, I just went through chemo. I just not
only went through chemo, I went through radiation therapy because I was getting chemical therapy and
then they were sending me to radiation. So it really sucked. And when we got home that day,
I wanted spinach. I was a big Popeye fan and I wanted like sauteed spinach and butter.
And my mom was high and thought, whoa, what I do to my kid? And she called my pediatrician
and he said, feed them and tomorrow don't give them any and see if it's different.
So the next day we drove home and it sucked and I got home and I was being sick. I was up in my room
fucking crying and puking and having a fucking moment. And she came up with a joint and said,
hey, sip it like it's a straw. Let's try this again. And we sat on the floor in my bedroom
and I had a Don McLean American Pie 45 and you'd have to flip the fucking song over halfway through
and me and my mom sat there and she had a joint and I had a joint and I was smoking it getting
high and I got so high and I was so into the song and she hated it because they say now is a good
day. Today's the day I'm going to die. And it's my mom, a nine year old with cancer fucking
rocking out to this. We're all going to die song. But it's an American anthem and I loved it. So
it was just really amusing. And that was kind of my first real experience.
And I think it saved my life, man. It turned me into an avid student and I am grateful to this
day and to her giving it to me. What a beautiful, touching sort of story. Thanks for sharing that
with us. How did it progress from there? Did you start, as usual, sort of smoking as a teenager?
When did you develop the urge to first grow? Well, in a twist of fate, I started smoking pot
and I stopped smoking pot after the cancer for a while. But then when I was 12, my stepdad was a
biker, a big six foot five monster, you know, tattoos down to the wrist and Harley's and
everything. And when I was eight, I got a motorcycle. And when I was 12, I got another
motorcycle and I had a helmet on and my spine is fused. My first five vertebrae fused solid.
So I'm a 12 year old kid riding trails on a motorcycle that was too big for me. I weighed
like 70 pounds and they gave me 100 CC Suzuki TS 100. And I was just a terror and my head would
be bouncing around and it started to hurt. So I was in seeing my doctor and I said, hey, you got
to give me something for my neck. He said, no, he said, your neck's fused and it's not going to get
better. And the only thing I can prescribe for you is opiates and they'll become physically or
mentally addicted and it'll ruin your life. And I'm not going to do it. So you got to learn how
to deal with it. And I was like, that sucks. And I was 12, you know, and, and I said, shit, what do
I do? He goes, well, you could try smoking your mom's pot. And I was just like, ha ha. And he's
like, no, I'm serious. He doesn't mind help. And, um, and I was just like, it was 1982 and, uh, and
probably October. And I was just like, so I went to my mom and was like, Hey, Peter, Peter Smith was
my pediatrician. Uh, I said, he told me maybe I could smoke some pot and it would help my neck
feel better. And she was like, really? And I was like, ask him. And she was, so she did. Cause
she believed me though. And she gave me some on the spot, but we did have a conversation about it
when we went back to the hospital. Cause if I had lied, it would have been the end of me. And, uh,
so when we got there and she said, did you tell him smoke pot? And he's like, yeah, how'd it work
out? Did you try it? Then it was just like, okay, you weren't full of shit, you know, because like
how many doctors back then were brave enough, but he had been my pediatrician since I was like two
or three years old. So he had like, had such a close relationship with me and my family and my
mom and dad were bikers. So they weren't exactly going to go to the cops. Like, you know, they may
have been outlaws, but you could trust them. I know that sounds funny to say, but like they were,
there was like dignity within that. So like, uh, so he was cool with it. And, um, I started getting
bags of weed from my mom. And one day we were, we were, and I was sworn to secrecy, unfortunately,
but, uh, I stopped with all the big kids. Cause all the kids who had motorcycles were like fucking
17, 18, 16, at least. And I was just like the odd man out. And, uh, I walked up to them, man.
And they had a little bag of Brown pot. And I never saw a Brown pot before my life. My mom never
had Brown weed. And I was like, why is it Brown? And they were like, because it comes that way.
And I said, does it grow that way? And they were like, what do you know? And I had gotten a 20 bag
from my mom that day. And I had split it. I I'd rolled a couple of joints, split it in half,
left half of it at home, took half of it with me in case I wanted more weed and took the two joints
with me. And, uh, so I went back and grabbed the little half a bag of weed, which is now like a
$6 bag of pot and, uh, and, and a joint. And I lit it and I passed it around to all the big kids.
And every one of them, bro started coughing their ass off. And my one friend was like,
it's he's coughing. He was like, whoa, this is what it's supposed to feel like. It was just
really hilarious. And, um, the kid John next to me was just like, where'd you get this pot?
And I was like, can't tell you. And he was like, will you sell it to me? And I was like, yeah. I
was like, how much will you give me for it? And he was like, if I gave you $20, would you feel like
I ripped you off? I said, no, I'll tell you that for $20. Cause I got more than twice that in two
joints for $20. Cause it was a 20 bag. Cause my mom was a dealer. So I just was like, oh my gosh.
And, uh, right when I did that, my big friend said, can I get one too? And I had the other
half at home and I was like, yes. And, uh, so he only lived three houses away from my grandma.
So I fucking like, it was, that was it, man. And from that day on, I became, uh, my neighborhood
pot dealer and, uh, I, my poor mom, dude, I went back to her that night after hitting her up for a
bag that day and said, can I get another bag of pot? And she goes, oh, honey, yeah. I can't just
keep giving you bags of pot. You know, I was like, cause now I had like 40 bucks. I bought gas,
which my, my gas tank didn't even hold a gallon. And I swear gas was like 60 cents back then.
And, um, and like, I brought my friend to friendlies and I treated, and I think I spent $4
and, uh, we got burgers and fries and sodas and it was like $4, you know, it was 1982. So, uh,
so my mom looked at me and I was like, can I just buy it? And, and the look on her face was
sheer fucking horror, you know, but she's like, I guess so. And, uh, and I was like, cool, can I
pick? And then she was like, I put the $20 down and I went to go get the bag. And she was just
like, she knew it was like, this is not good, you know, but, uh, I started selling pot to my friends
and, uh, it worked out really well. And by the time I was like 12 years old in six months, I was
probably selling like $200 worth of weed to my local friends, you know, cause I'd buy an ounce
and I'd split it into four bags and sell for 40 each. So I get like 160 per ounce for like a
quarter ounce, you know, for 40 bucks. And, um, I never sold joints. I would only give them away.
Cause when people ask me for joints, I always felt bad that they couldn't afford a bag of weeds. So I
just give them a giant, give them a hug. Cause I felt like there was karma in the world. And I felt
like if you were giving away joints and somewhere, somebody was like lighting up a joint that they
couldn't help, but to think good thoughts of you. Cause like you just have to have the joint for
free, you know? And like, I don't know, like I felt like if a lot of people were thinking good
thoughts of you, that your life would be a little bit better is what at the time my thought process
was with that. But, um, and then I went to sell a bag of weed to my friend's older brother. He was
all of like 19 at the time. And when we got to his house, he had a Mel Frank grow book and he had,
um, he had built, he was a construction worker. So he built like this plywood closet in his living
room where most normal people would have a television and it was like four feet, maybe
four and a half feet wide. Uh, cause he had four foot lamps in it. And then he, it was like maybe
18 to 30 inches off the wall and had doors. And when he opened it and I saw her plants, they're
growing with the fluorescent light. It was like the color version of the, you know, that fucking,
um, the Emerald brick road, the Wizard of Oz, like, well, they show color for the first time,
but like my whole life changed. It was, I was fucking floored, man. And, uh, I traded them the
$20 bag of weed for that Mel Frank grow book. And I went home, I cleaned out my closet. I already
had seeds. I found the pots, the, the clothing lines that I used to hang the lights. I found
the fluorescent light. I found the timer all, it was all my grandma's. My grandmother had the light
in the basement, the timer in the front window. She had the pots in the soil in the shed where
she used to keep her pots in her soil and her watering can. And I fucking dude, it worked. It
worked so good. And I grew pot for like a year until my grandma caught me. And when she caught
me, it was fucking cute as fuck. Cause she came up, like I used to have my light cycle eight to
eight. So when I was at school, it'd be dark. And, uh, so she comes up at like seven 59 to 55 seconds
and the lights glowing in the closet. And she goes to touch me and the timer clicked off and she
freaking loses it saying someone's in your closet. Someone's in your closet. And I'm like, nobody's in
my closet. And she was like, show me. So she pushes me towards the closet and I slide it open. And I
reached down. And as soon as I clicked the timer, she heard the sound of it. She goes, Hey, that's
my timer. And then the lights flickered on and she goes, those are my fluorescent lights. And she
looks down and I had like these cool clay pots of hers. And she's like, those are my pots. That's
my watering can. And I was like, brim. The only thing I had to go by was the, was the potting,
was the fertilizer. And I've been dying to tell you why all of your house plants are dying. It's
because you're not fertilizing them. And she was just like, what? And the plants were like six feet
high. Cause I didn't know what I was doing. And I was just raising the light as they would go.
And there she was like four foot 11, she's Italian. And she like looks at this and she's like,
they were bigger than her, man. And they were in bud and the leaves were huge. And she was like,
do you bring these outside? I said, no, she goes, they grow under these fluorescent lights. I was
like, yeah, I was really surprised myself. And she was like, couldn't believe I did it.
You know, like she just couldn't, and she couldn't, she's like, cause they were clearly
had been there for a long time. And I left that day with the deal that she wouldn't hurt my plants
while I was in school. And then I came home and I was like, yo, what's up? You know? And she said,
I think they need more room. And I was like, oh, so she let me put them downstairs. She had me lay
down a pallet, put my pots on the pallet. So they wouldn't be on the concrete. And then she let me
use some of her old drapes that had white vinyl on the inside. And I hung it to the exposed wood
and I hung a fan up top and I had my fluorescent lights there. And she started watering the plants
when she would do the wash and then they finished. And I had my first grower's dispute ever because
I like one in the morning, I'm all stoned. I can cut the plants down. And the next morning I go
down there and my grandma's mad and she's in the kitchen and I'm like, what's the matter? She goes,
what did you do to those plants? I said, I harvested them. She goes, you killed them? I said,
well, that's what you do. You kill them, you know? She goes, where are they now? I said,
they're hanging upstairs in my bedroom. She goes, you just killed them? And I said, yeah. And she
goes, well, what do you do now? I said, I plant some more seeds. She said, and start all over?
And I said, yeah. And she was like, oh God, Todd, I can't, you should have left a little bit. She
goes, I've been taking care of them. And I was like, and I realized at that moment how attached
you'd come to them. And I felt so bad and it was really cute. And after that, I did my first
cutting in the kitchen with my grandma. We actually put it in a napkin with a powder, like
Formex. I still use it to this day. Number eight. It had been around since she was younger. And I
put in rooting powder, put it in the napkin and we had it like in the little, like in a little,
she had saucers for her tea and she'd put a little water in the saucer and left it right there. And
the fucking roots grew right through the paper towel and it was neat. And that's when I started
doing cuttings way back in 1984 with my grandma. And it was really cool, honestly. And other than
going to prison, I've never stopped growing since. Wow. What a fantastic, like real organic
sort of story. That's so cool. You and your grandma grew together. I love it.
Yeah. It's really funny. She took my Pringles can because I used to have these,
they like chips that come in America called Pringles and they come in a can. They're very
much like this thing. So your chips are all like perfectly formed and they don't get crushed. And
it was really funny because I had Pringles cans full of seeds. Cause when I get pot with seeds,
I would take the seeds out and just sell the weed to my friends because they didn't want seeds and
it didn't look good in my bags. So I collected all these seeds and she snatched one of my Pringles
cans and she had a garden outside of her window where she'd have roses grow up. And then she'd
prune all the roses. So they all came just to the height of her window. So when she had opened
her window, it'd be all roses. It was really cool. She was like really good at gardening,
you know, but you have to realize she was born in 1911 and her big like technological advancement
when she was a little girl was her house got electricity. So just to put it in perspective
and she grew, she grew her food in the backyard and they, they, they had to understand food
preservation and you know, cultivation was a part of human existence to her. So she's the one who
taught me how to grow a garden in our backyard. And, and she's really where all of this came from.
And I will give her credit forever for turning me onto this. It was really cool of her and,
but, but she took my Pringles can and turned the ground and then sprinkled these cannabis seeds,
broadcast style all there. And I'm in the backyard selling my friend a bag of weed. He goes, dude,
you're going to get caught. And I went, well, like I thought he meant selling in the bag of weed.
And I was like, that's what you're talking about. And he goes to all these plants. And I looked
down and they were all like knee high because as they grew up, my grandmother would take her hedger
and just snip them like, you know, with the hedger snip, snip, snip, snip, snip. So she had a little,
like, it was probably a hundred something little plants, but, or more, but it was like,
it looked like a little green hedge, you know? Cause she was just like, she did her roses.
And I was just, I went inside and I was like, grandma, what are you doing? And she's like,
don't you touch those? Those are mine. And I was like, grandma, you're going to get us in trouble.
I was like, you can't just be growing. You can't do this. She's like, why? And I was like, grandma,
is he legal? She goes, a plant? And I was like, this is going to be kind of hard to explain. I
think, you know, cause she just couldn't wrap her head around the idea that a plant was illegal.
Like she was like the drugs illegal, but the plant, like, what are you crazy? And I was like,
and it was funny. And she did cut them down, but she was pissy about it. And it wasn't until I
showed my mom and my stepdad and, and they all were like, you got to cut these plants down.
And she was just like, she was hot. She was just a cool little lady, but you know, it was pretty
funny. I got my first traffic ticket when I was 12 years old, speeding. I was doing 70 on the
sidewalk. I got arrested. They towed my motorcycle. And when they took me to the police station,
they made me call my parents and I live with my grandma. So I called my grandma and she drove a
69 Pontiac Firebird with like a souped up 350. It was hugger orange. My, my, my stepdad gave it
to her because he thought that his mother-in-law driving a fast muscle car would be cool. So he
gave her a fast muscle car. So I'm sitting in a police station, I'm 12 and, and the cop hears the
car pull up and he goes, who'd you call? I said, call my grandma. And he opens the door and there's
this little, little lady standing in front of this fucking 60s muscle car. And he says, is that
your car? And she goes, you got a problem with that? And he was like, oh, this is definitely
your grandson. And he had to come in and he says, he was doing 70 on the sidewalk. She goes,
I don't think his motorcycle can go that fast. He goes, I had it on radar. She's like,
I'd have to see the radar. And he was like, lady. And I was just like, I was sitting there laughing.
It was just like, that was my grandma, you know, she was just, she was just nails, you know? So it
was adorable. I'm grateful for it to this day, you know? And it's funny, cause I started growing pot
1982, 19, well, it was 1983, technically the end of 83, the beginning of 84. And, um,
and 13 years later, I was living in a Bel Air mansion growing fucking 4,000 marijuana plants
with fucking, you know, a staff of six. And I kind of think, you know, how weird it is to go
from living on, you know, like welfare, cause I was a preexisting medical condition and we were
poor as dirt, you know, to like living in one of the wealthiest neighborhoods in the United States,
you know, growing thousands of cannabis plants in your own home. It's, I would never have expected
that my little closet garden could end up, you know, to the places that it's brought me.
Yeah. Wow. What a wild journey it's been. So what'd you think guys? I thought it was great.
Huge shout out to Todd for taking the time to swing by and drop all that knowledge on us.
I hope you're as excited for part two as I am. As usual, we want to give another quick shout out
to our fantastic sponsors. Seeds here now, best seeds in the game. You know them, you love them.
Go check them out. Coppered Biological Systems, your number one choice for beneficial predators,
and keeping any pests or pathogens at bay. Check out the Afiparum, the Spitex Vital, both killer
products. Likewise, Pro-Mix Connect, your number one mycorrhizal product from the good people at
Pro-Mix. You know them, you love them. They've been around forever. Try their mycorrhizal product. I
promise. It's amazing. Highest spore count there is, guaranteed viability. Your plants are going
to just go insane. And last but not least, your buds at Charlie's Cannabis. Check them out. If
you're in Oklahoma, there's no other choice. Simply the highest quality available. Exciting
genetics, new phenos and new strains on the horizons always. Check them out. Our good buddies,
veteran-owned, in-house produced, Charlie's your bud. Thank you so much, Charlie's Cannabis.
Finally, a huge shout out to the Patreon gang. You are the lifeblood of the show.
You guys help to ensure the episodes continue to be made. If you want early access to content,
you want to hear unheard interviews, get access to exclusive giveaways, prizes,
discords, so much more, go check out the Patreon, www.patreon.com forward slash the podcast.
That's it, friends. Thanks for joining me again for this one, guys. Making it to the end.
I'll see you for the next one.
Transcribed by https://otter.ai
