Hello, welcome to the next episode of the podcast, a cannabis podcast for budding enthusiasts.
As always, this episode was brought to you by our amazing sponsors, 420 Australia, your
premier store for lifestyle and apparel, Organic Gardening Solutions, your one-stop shop for
organic gardening needs to grow that top shelf, and last but not least, Seeds here now, your
number one seed bank, guarantee on satisfaction as well as germination, best breeders there
are, check them out.
On this episode, we're joined by Mass Medical Strains, to chat all things genetics, mass
medical scene, and more.
Let's get into it.
Alrighty, so a big thank you and welcome to one of the fresh faces on the block, Mass
Medical Strains, thanks so much for joining us today.
Cool, thank you so much for having me, I'm very excited to be here.
So our deviant question from the first question, which is kind of becoming our new first question,
what are you smoking on at the moment?
I actually just smoked on some star pupil that I grew a couple months ago, so it's really,
really cured now.
And it's a couple of my last mugs because I took a break from perpetual harvest, so
I'm just like trying to make my last stash last me until my next stuff.
But yeah, some star pupil, I chopped it a little bit early, like eight weeks instead
of nine weeks, so it was a little bit racy, but really, really tasty.
It's pretty much been my favorite for the last five years or so at least.
And do you find that she kind of comes into her prime at that point of curing or it just
happens to be where you're at?
I like it after about a month, month and a half.
Probably closer to a month is like when it starts getting like really, really, really
good.
But it's pretty tasty right off the bat, just because like, I don't know, maybe because
there's not much chlorophyll, it's like so purple that like it's got a unique flavor
pretty much when it's smokable, you know.
Yeah, okay.
And so, you mentioned that, you know, you took her eight weeks instead of nine.
What is the range of the harvest window for her?
Like, is it like somewhere between eight and ten or just eight and nine?
I pretty much always go nine weeks with her because that's just what I've found is the
sweet spot.
And I think that's what pretty much everybody agrees is like, right on nine weeks is perfect.
But I don't know, she was going a little bit faster under the cobs.
So I chopped her a little early and it seems pretty fucking strong too.
So sometimes under LED I'll go just over eight weeks and the cobs seem to go even faster
than like the purples.
And are you fully, sorry, I was gonna say, are you converted to the LEDs now or are you
just still toying around with it before you transition?
I switched over most of my lights to LEDs and I've got a couple, I got CMHs and I got
the ceramic HVS from Ordelox that I'm testing out.
But mostly LED and I've been growing for years under different LEDs and stuff and I've just
always liked them a little bit better than the HIDs.
Yeah, okay.
So now if we jump back to our normal first question, what was your first experience with
cannabis?
Yeah, this is a fun one.
So the first time I smoked was with a friend from New York and basically me and him were
both thinking about smoking weed because at least for me I grew up in kind of that mindset
where like, oh, you know, weed is a drug and it's bad.
And they taught you in school that it's a gateway drug and all that crap.
So initially I didn't think weed was like anything I would ever touch.
And actually one of my best friends started smoking weed when we were like 13 or 14 and
then I didn't really hang out with him much after that because I was like, oh shit, he's
a bad person now and whatever.
And then a few years later I realized a couple of my older friends that I look up to that
are really smart and they're successful, they smoke weed almost every single day and
they're awesome people.
I genuinely respect everything about them.
There's no way that weed is bad.
So eventually I figured out weed is not that crazy ass drug that they tell you in middle
school and shit.
So anyways, me and my friend, he came from New York to visit me for like a week and he
brought some weed and he's like, dude, let's smoke.
I just smoked last week for the first time and it's awesome.
So we rolled up this joint.
It was Sensei Star, he said.
And I just remember like we went deep into the woods because we were all scared of getting
caught and we smoked it and we came out of the woods and I was just like waiting.
And I was like, dude, I'm not seeing anything.
Like where's the dragons and shit flying around in my vision?
We just started laughing.
He was like, you don't see things.
It's not like that. It's just a feeling.
And so I don't know, I didn't feel anything.
I wasn't like I didn't know what the hell to expect, but I wasn't experiencing what I
expected. And then I smoked a bunch of times after that and I hadn't really been taught
how to inhale properly.
And then actually I went to Europe and I smoked a few times there and still like, you
know, nothing really happened.
I was like, yeah, I like smoking, you know, it's chill, it doesn't really do anything, it's
fine. So I just smoked with my friends.
And then. This is awesome, my friend that I was staying with in Germany, he gave me this
DVD and he was like, dude, you've got to watch this video, it's fucking awesome.
And I was like, all right, sure, like I'll get to it eventually.
And I never ended up watching it.
And he kept asking me to watch it.
And I was like, yeah, I forgot.
Like I'll watch it tomorrow.
And then so I get home and I brought the video home and I open it up and there's like
two grams of weed in there and I flew back with it, not even knowing.
So and then this is awesome.
This is where I actually got high for the first time.
So I just learned how to properly inhale and I rolled up two joints of it.
And it was nighttime.
I just smoked both of them to my face by myself.
And then all of a sudden it fucking hit me like a train.
And I just felt like this feeling wash over me.
And I immediately just thought I was going to die.
And I was just freaking out like the whole entire night.
I was just by myself.
And then I thought I was giving myself surgery at one point.
Like it was ridiculous because I just smoked way too much.
And it just hit me super hard.
And that was a crazy, memorable time, just because like the music that I listened to
that night, it just like stuck with me in a special way.
And like I just realized like, damn, this is some powerful shit.
Like I stopped.
I didn't smoke after that for a couple of weeks.
And I don't know why I even tried again, but I ended up liking it a lot after that.
And so would you say that was the point when you kind of really got into it or like
were you still sporadic in your usage for a while?
It was about it was a gradual thing, like I probably smoked once a week or once every
couple of weeks or something, and then just gradually got more into it.
Like when I started realizing there's different strains and stuff and like, ooh, this
weed I like and this weed I don't like.
And like this one has a different taste and stuff like that.
Like it started getting pretty interesting.
And I don't know, I didn't really think too much about it because I was young, but I
guess I just liked it for whatever reason.
So just kept smoking it more and more.
And so outside of the the Sensi Star you mentioned initially, what were some of the
other strains that were going around in that earliest times?
Like most notably, you mentioned some of them were catching your attention.
Do you remember specifically or was it just kind of like the kind bud type of thing?
Yeah, I remember a few different times, like the best one that one of the best smokes I've
had in my life was way back then.
It was this blueberry and I got it twice.
And I never, ever got it again after that.
But I remember it so distinctly.
It just had this amazing like everything about it, the flavor, the texture, like it was
cured really nice.
And I didn't even know like anything about curing, but I just knew like, damn, the
consistency of this.
It's like juicy, but it's not wet and it's sticky as hell.
And it's like so delicious.
And I was so good.
And I've been growing blueberry plants all the time looking for this vino and just never
finding it. But whatever that was, I'm still searching.
That was one of my favorites.
And then some other, I mean, we got like Kush and Hayes, which were just called the Kush
and Hayes. Like there wasn't much of a name to it.
I remember like my dealer was like, yeah, Kush is when it's good and Hayes is when it's
not so good. And so I bought the Hayes and I was like, dude, I love the Hayes.
And it turns out now like I'm really big into Cedivas.
And back then I didn't even know there was like different Indica's and Cedivas and
effects. I just knew there was like different names to it.
And I never believed the name because I didn't know if he's making it up.
But that Hayes was pretty good stuff.
Yeah.
Some AK47.
Yeah, OK.
I mean, that blueberry comment you made is one we hear a lot.
It's almost like, you know, blueberry is so prolific, but it's also like it's no one can
really find that one cut at the same time.
Yeah, it's so elusive for sure.
And I've noticed I've grown blueberry from a few different breeders
and I got one where it had that high and maybe even had a better high.
It was like one of the best highs ever.
And it was every single time you smoked it, you just felt like how you felt when you
were like 10 years old, like so pure and so amazed and everything
so perfect and fun and interesting, like just the best mood ever and super
nostalgic. And but the flavor was fucking horrible and it wasn't
blueberry. It was just like.
Something really good, but it wasn't the plant that I'm looking for.
And now I'm digging into some clones
from different people.
So there's this one from New York, which I'm hoping is the one because a lot of
my bud from New York comes up here.
But we really know as we'll see.
Yeah, OK, that's interesting you say that, because I often have thought
to myself when DJ first made blueberry, how long
did it sit there before they realized it was blueberry?
Because I can only imagine they didn't find the insane blueberry Fino in the first
couple of seeds they popped.
And so I wouldn't be surprised, you know what I mean?
Like I think that more likely than not, they didn't know there was the blueberry
Fino in there for a while.
Yeah, that's a good point.
I'm not really sure.
Like I don't know how consistent his stock
was back then or is now or like if his goal was the blueberry or
if he just found the blueberry and then kept going with it or whatever.
Like you said, there could have been all kinds of other stuff in there, too.
Yeah. OK, so obviously topic near and dear to the heart
of this show, Chemdog, you know, you're in mass.
Did you ever say it?
Dude, so actually, I'm not that into Chem personally, but I've smoked
something grown by him apparently, and it was fucking really strong
because I smoked one hit and I forgot I even smoked and I was like,
what the fuck is happening to me?
And then like I remember that I smoked, it was just like it was such an experience.
And one of my kind of friends, more of just an acquaintance,
like a friend of a friend, apparently his dad, his best friend was Chemdog.
And I was like, fuck, I can't tell this dude that I grow
because I don't really tell anybody locally that I grow,
especially if I don't know them well or like I think they're shady
and this kid's kind of shady.
So I was like, I can't tell him that I grow.
Like, how how do I get to meet Chem without dropping the fact
that I'm a breeder and stuff?
Because I was just like, so I haven't
ran into him personally yet, but I'm growing a few different Chempugs right now.
So we'll see what's what.
But I don't know.
It's good weed for sure, but it's not exactly my taste.
So I've never been super duper into it personally.
Yeah, no, it's interesting.
It's a very polarizing type of weed, isn't it?
Like, what is it about it that you're not a fan of?
I think the most common thing people say is it's just so non-functional
in many respects.
All right. Yeah, I'd probably agree with that.
It's not very functional.
It just kind of fucks you up.
And I don't know.
There's a lot of weed that has that effect for me, where it just feels like,
damn, I'm fucked up like and that's not what I'm looking for.
I don't smoke to get fucked up.
I smoke to feel good.
I smoke to relax.
I smoke to focus.
I smoke to feel better, whatever it is.
But I don't really smoke to feel like I'm on drugs specifically.
I mean, sometimes like a real nice trippy high is nice, but I don't know.
I'm not trying to just feel like debilitated.
Yeah, I know what you mean.
It can be a bit full on.
So last one I've got to ask about.
Did you ever see the mass super skunk growing up?
I have not personally.
No, I wish.
Oh, that's a bummer.
It's still like such a small kind of select period and area
when it was around, I think.
Yeah, I'll have to ask a few people about that, but I haven't came across it.
I don't know if anybody has it around here.
It's long gone.
Yeah, I mean, people say it's around, but I haven't seen it.
So I'd love to see it.
Anyway, we kind of get back on track for a second.
When did you kind of start to grow yourself, you know?
And more importantly, what were the first strains you were growing out?
Yeah, so basically I always like like I told you how I used to have the impression
that we was like this really bad thing.
So I also thought, like, if you grow, you're just the worst.
Like you don't grow.
You're going to go to prison.
Like growing is very bad.
Like it's it's a lot worse than smoking.
So for a while, I never even thought about it.
And then one time it was funny.
It was actually my mom.
She was like, she knows that I smoke and she's fine with it.
But she was like scared.
I was going to get some waste weed or something.
And she was like, you should grow.
And I was like, you think I should grow really like I've been thinking about it,
but I thought it was like so dangerous.
And she's like, no, just grow it safer for you and blah, blah, blah.
So I ended up growing because of that.
Like that was the final push.
And basically, let's see.
Well, the first plants I grew was
the seeds that actually led to star pupil.
And my friend had given me a bunch of seeds.
And basically they were Thai and Afghani.
And you didn't really know anything about them at all.
And I didn't know anything about anything really.
Like I just like a plant them in some solar cups, like you said to do.
And I put them on my window sill.
And then eventually, like they were getting all stringy.
And my friend was like, dude, you got to get that under a light or put it outside.
And I was like, all right.
I went to a grocery store and they were like, are you a veg or flour?
And I was like, I don't know, man, I just need a light.
Like I did some reading and nothing made any sense to me.
But I was just like, you know, they're in they're in the cups and they're
five inches tall, but they're not doing they're not growing fast.
And I had them for like almost two months.
And they're like they look like two week old seedling.
So I got a light, put them in a closet.
And I only had six plants.
So I ended up putting one of them planting it out in the woods
and the rest of them are flowered out of doors.
And one of them was a male.
And by this point, I was obsessed.
Like by the time they were actually get to flower, I was reading every single day
about growing and asking my friends and learning stuff.
Like my friend told me
that you could put a fan on them to make them stronger,
like, you know, because the wind and stuff.
And that just blew my mind because I was like, people know shit about growing weed.
Like it was I didn't realize that there was knowledge out there.
And then I just started getting obsessed.
And I would like talk to people every day and read and learn.
And then I was like, all right, I'm going to make some seeds.
It seems easy enough.
So each plant, I just made seeds on like one bottom branch.
But I was mainly just focusing on growing the plants
because, like I said, I had one male.
And then.
Yeah, so one of the plants, I actually named it Star Pupil
because it was super symmetrical and it just looked so awesome.
And then I just named each plant something.
They just had funny names and stuff.
And.
Basically, I grew those out, they were awesome.
The star pupil was like this half purple, half green kind of.
It's not the exact star pupil I have now, but it's the mother to it.
But anyways, it was really nice.
It finished in 52 days.
And I remember reading that everything had to go eight weeks.
That's just what I thought was like, why is it done sooner?
And why is this tall one not finished yet?
And I had to let it go longer.
And like I was reading every day, but there was so much to learn.
And so I harvested those and smoked them, cured them,
saved the seeds off each one, labeled separately and all that.
And then my next run, I was like, all right, auto flowers.
I've been reading auto flowers are the best.
I can't wait to grow some.
And I ordered some and I grew them and I was just like,
what the fuck is this?
I was so disappointed with the auto flowers in comparison
to like the first plants that I grew that were like so amazing.
It was super strong and they all had their own unique character.
And I grew like four different strains of autos that I purchased.
So I knew the strain names and I was like,
why is Blue Dream and Northern Lights the same as Blueberry Bliss?
Like, I don't get it. They're all the same.
And I was like, I don't know if it's the autos or strains or bullshit or what,
but I was just figuring shit out.
So I was like, all right, I really like that star people plant.
I'm just going to grow a bunch of seeds that I made off of that.
And then one of them ended up being my star people.
I've been keeping the clone of her ever since.
So the star people that you offer now,
is that like an F2 of the initial strain you made or where's it at?
So that's actually an S1, the seeds that I released.
And the thing is, I have this star people clone and I've been growing it.
And it was super good.
And I was like, what if my clones don't make it?
And what if I fuck up and lose it?
Like, I better make some seeds.
And so I was like, how do I get it?
What's the best way to make seeds of this?
Like, I just want this plant.
I don't want to cross with anything else because it might be worse or better or
different, but I want this. Like, this is awesome.
So I learned about like making feminized seeds and how you could cross plant to
itself. And so basically I made S1s of it.
And some people were saying, like, if you grow out S1s,
they're going to be the exact same as the mom.
And other people were saying, no,
they're going to be all over the place and they're going to hurt them.
And they're going to suck. So I was like, fuck it, I'll just try it.
And honestly, I got really lucky that for whatever reason,
when you S1 the star pupil,
every single plant is like spot on to the star pupils, super,
super close to the mother. So that's what, um,
that's what the star people seeds are.
And then since then obviously I got into actual breeding and making regular
seeds and doing some line work and stuff like that.
But star pupil seeds they're always just S1s because it's like the
most perfect representation of the mom.
Yeah, that's awesome.
And so are you considering doing like a back cross or even like a cubing process
down the line?
Yeah, I'm actually working on some right now and they're all in seedling stage
right now. So I'm just waiting to see what they do basically and go from there.
Um,
I've done a lot of different outcrosses and stuff and I'm working on some back
crosses and some fem back crosses with a nice S1 that I found and
just messing around with different things to see what I can come up with.
And so if you were to kind of think long-term about it and you were going to
do maybe an extended back crossing project with the idea that the initial
male you use is probably not going to be really present after a few back
crosses, but maybe some of the characteristics from it could be like,
maybe things you could improve on the star pupil with that in mind,
what type of things would you be looking for to bring? You know,
if you were going to do say a cube project, you know,
what is something maybe a male could bring to the table that would be an
improvement?
Yeah, definitely. Um,
something that I like about a lot of the other plants that I've created is that,
um, like for example,
the Pooh Tang has a really,
really nice stretch where you can bench that thing to be like four and a half
tall and then you flower it and it's like four and a half feet tall with like
a fuck ton of branches.
And it's just like this monster of plant where you don't really have to budget
that long.
So I would probably put something like that into it just like some more bigger,
um,
shorten up the bench time a little just cause that's the style that I usually
breed with for other stuff. Um,
and then it yields pretty good, but you could, I mean,
I'd probably try to add a little bit of yield to it.
Is yield something you consider when you're breeding or is it really like a
peripheral consideration?
Um, yield is not too important,
but I don't want to say I don't care about it because if something yields really
low, I'm going to toss it unless it's just super, super special.
Um, like the Ritz people is my lowest yielding strain,
which I don't even offer anymore, but it's such as really good smoke. So,
um, it was worth keeping around for awhile.
And then I kind of made things that I think were a little bit better and yielded
a lot better. So it was like, all right, um, you know, Ritz people,
like people who want it, they can get it. Like I'll make more as freebies,
but I like everything to at least have like a medium to high yield depending on
what it is. But the main thing that I really breed for is like the vibe of the
plant, how it is when you smoke it, like what you've,
what you feel when you smoke it, what you experienced,
how you feel after you smoked it. Like, you know, some stuff you can smoke it,
you feel great. And then afterwards you feel super drained and shitty.
And I don't even like that.
I like something where you can smoke it and you enjoy it.
And then you come down and you can, you know, like exist.
You don't have to smoke again to feel good. Like you can,
you might even feel better after you smoked it.
Like you might have a nice experience where you're like, life is awesome.
Like I feel uplisted now, even after you're not high anymore.
Like that's the kind of stuff I like. Stuff that just leaves you feeling really good.
And so out of your lineup, what do you think best represents that?
Um, probably the star pupil,
especially from the feedback that I've been getting from people lately.
Like it kind of blows my mind because I really liked it as a plant,
but I know that everyone's different.
So every time somebody else likes it as much as I do, it's like really,
really cool. Um, besides the star pupil,
I have a couple of sativas.
Like the deadly sativa is really, really powerful.
And that one was too much for a lot of people.
But if you smoke a very small amount of it,
it's super, super uplifting and refreshing.
And then the prayer pupil for sure.
Like I still remember the first time that I smoked that 33% phenol that I got.
And that was just such an uplifting experience.
And like actually an old timer's haze too. It was a great night.
I was up all night, but I smoked it at 10.
I probably stayed up till like six in the morning from that shit.
And it was like,
I like the stuff where you smoke it and you make memories, you know,
like you remember when you smoked that strain because it was so unique or such a
good time or whatever.
Not just like something that blends in with the rest and you fell asleep on the
couch or something like that. That's no fun.
Old timer's haze. That's an interesting one. We don't hear about too much.
Do you plan on releasing any crosses with that?
Oh, I'm not sure.
So I made the cross just to see what would happen because it was a crazy plant,
you know, like took them 17 weeks of flower and then 19 for the green phenol.
And I really liked that 17 week purple phenol.
So I made a few different beans on them and I made a few different
beans on them and I wasn't really thinking of releasing them because I was just
like, these are going to be wacky or people aren't going to want this.
Like, you know, the saying, however, everyone says, Oh,
I want a really gnarly sativa. And then the other dude says, no,
you actually don't. You just think you want that. It's always true.
Like when you get to that point where you're like, here,
these seeds will take 17 weeks to flower. You want to grow them?
Everybody says no, even though they ask for it until that point.
So it's kind of like people,
people think they want it and I don't know if they actually do,
but I made them kind of for myself and for my friends to dig through and see
what happens. But I ended up getting a lot of beans off them,
off the Magoon Cross because that was a pretty big plant. So maybe,
I mean, I've only seen a few of them grown out.
I'd like to see more of them grown out and I got to grow some myself. Um,
cause my friends have been growing them. So yeah,
I want to see what those do and then we'll go from there.
They might become available. I gave out some as freebies, so we'll see.
And then the star people, old timers, those are just for me and friends.
So I've got some of those, uh,
just starting to flower now and hoping to find some cool clone only purple
haze kind of pupil haze, whatever. We'll see what happens really.
Yeah. It sounds interesting. I mean,
just out of curiosity with those old timer blue Magoon crosses,
what did the flowering time work out to be?
Cause something I've noticed from toying around with the Magoon myself is it's
such a consistent eight week plant.
And so when you pair it with that 17 week,
does it just meet in the middle or do you get some that just fall all over the
spectrum?
Um, well, like I said, I've only seen a few of them so far.
And basically it seems like there's a Magoon dominant pheno that goes a little
faster, but it's probably some kind of 10, 12 weekish thing.
And then the haze one seems to be like,
I think it's around 14 weeks or something. So it is a little bit shorter,
but it's still super long. So we kind of met in the middle a little bit,
but I don't know how much variation is going to actually be in those.
Okay. And so if we just loop back to a point you made a moment ago,
you mentioned you enjoy Professor P's photography.
Are you into photography slash would you want to get into it more so eventually?
Yeah, I'm definitely super into photography and, um,
he's definitely an inspiration of mine when it comes to photographing
cannabis plants and flowers and all that. Um,
I've just always been drawn to the way that he captures the flower and the
lighting. Like it's really hard to get good lighting compared to just like
average lighting. Like if you want to make it look like one of his photos,
you got to take a hundred shots and got to be moving two or three flashes around
and really like trying hard and like that. I like just,
when you see a flower and then you try to portray it the best way you possibly
can, that's really cool. And it's a lot of fun to me.
I'm usually taking pictures in the garden almost every day and post way too
much on Instagram, but I don't know.
A lot of times I half-ass it because I'm just trying to show the plant and I
don't want to take the plant out and put it in front of a black background every
single day. But I like the changes day to day and flowers.
I'm always shooting photos of everything anyways.
Yeah.
So do you think there's a really strong kind of link between having good
photos and like sales? Cause one might assume so,
but you also might think, Oh, well there's some pretty big name guys.
Who don't really take good photos, so to speak.
No, you know,
what's crazy is that a lot of my half-ass cell phone pictures that I post,
they'll end up getting like one or 2000 likes.
And then I'll take a photo that took me an hour to get the perfect shot and it
will get like 190 likes and like zero comments.
So I don't know, like, I don't know what people are looking for.
Cause I think they're looking for some different things in the photos compared
to what I'm looking for. But, um,
that's why I've been posting like whatever photos I take.
Like some of them are just shitty phone pictures and people love them for
whatever reason. Maybe cause it's even more real.
It's more of a real experience. They feel like, damn,
that's what it would look like in my garden. If I was looking at it,
like that's not some crazy high def camera and Photoshop and unreal expectations
like, like the modeling industry, you know how everything's like fake.
So maybe they like seeing the real stuff more.
And so, I mean, if we look at the opposite end of what you were just talking
about, how do you feel about breeders who outright Photoshop? I mean,
do you think like whatever people want to do with their photos,
that's cool by you or do you think it should really kind of be a true
representation?
Nobody should Photoshop their photos. Um,
obviously people are putting filters like Instagram filters.
You got the sharpen and the contrast and whatever.
And I think most people I would hope can tell the difference between like a
realistic photo versus like when they put it in Photoshop and they change the
hue and then you got this,
he's overly red pistols, not like the natural pink ones you can find.
Like sometimes you just see really,
really red hairs with like a brownish tinge to the bud and the leaves are like
they're not even red anymore.
They're like super just like blown out and there's pixels in the colors.
Like if you see stuff like that as Photoshop and it's just complete garbage,
in my opinion, you should be posting like realistic photos.
Um, yeah.
And I like professor P's photography and like team Terpene does a really nice
job, especially with like his studio shelves.
And a few other guys,
like I like to see the stuff where they take the time to put on a good lens and
put some nice flushes in there and get the angle right.
But it shouldn't really be photoshopping or artificially modifying anything
unless it's just like light levels to just, you know,
make the background a little darker or something like that's fine.
But that's about it. I don't want to see modified colors.
I want to see what it really looks like.
Yeah. I know what you mean.
And I mean a quick little shout out to photos I love.
I was noticing the other day is a green dot, Dave.
He does some really nice photos.
Yeah. That's actually, I was thinking of him in my head,
but I couldn't remember the name while I was saying those other two people.
Yeah. And it was only this morning I was like, yeah, I mean,
he does some good photos.
So something I wanted to quickly jump on, what is your general growth style?
Cause you mentioned you're into the LEDs and the cobs, but you know,
are you organic? Are you bottled nutrients? Give us the rundown.
Oh yeah.
I love to talk about this because to me it's so,
so important to grow organically. So to answer your question,
I grow organically in soil and in my opinion,
that's the best way to grow period for a lot of reasons.
The first reason being for beginners and I actually learned this at the
growth store.
They told me why they push organics to beginners because I was like every other
grocery I go to, they always try and sell you chemicals.
But the one that I shop at is green harvest hydroconics.
They're awesome and they teach a lot of people to grow organically even when
they're a first time grower.
And it's because it's just easier, plain and simple.
You're not going to fuck up if you are growing synthetically,
there's a good chance you can kill a plant by over fertilizing it or getting
your, whatever your chemicals all fucked up, whatever the hell they do.
I mean, I, I think it's all kind of really,
I don't know, synthetically growing is not my style.
I very, very rarely smoke anything grown with nutrients at all because I'm super
sensitive to it and I feel it in my body and I've met other people that are the
same way and some people are way more sensitive than I am.
And I met some people that are like,
I can't smoke weed because and then they'll name like something like, Oh,
it fucks with my thyroid or it fucks with my lungs or my throat and I feel it for
the next two days.
And then I'm like try organic and I give them something organic,
just a little nugget and smoking. And they're like,
I didn't have that problem I always had. And I'm like, yeah,
because you're probably reacting chemicals that are in the bud,
whether you know it or not.
99% of the weed out there is grown with chemicals.
And 99% of the growers are taught that that's how you grow weed.
And when I had my first plants that I told you about,
they were in soil from my backyard,
which I put into pots and then they were under led lights.
And at one point I was having an issue and it turned out that my life was too
close. So it was like bleaching them. And so I went to a grower store,
a different store and I showed the photos and they were like, dude, bro,
you gotta be hitting you with some newts bro. Your place is going to die.
And so they gave me some newts and I poured them in and I fried the hell out of
my plants.
And I lost like probably almost 50% of the leaves on them.
Just within a few hours were totally like crinkled and crunched and yellow and
white, like super gnarly.
And that was the one and only time that I fed them any nutrients because I was
like, that's not natural. What the hell did I just do?
And luckily they didn't die and I was able to keep growing.
But there's just so many things like that.
So if you're a beginner or if you're learning,
it's just easier to go with organic, but
that's, it's healthier too.
But I would say my favorite reason for growing organic is just getting the best
expression out of the plant.
And doing it first try doing the second try. If you fuck up a little bit,
I see a lot of nutrient growers that are like, yeah,
I'm on my sixth run with this cut and I finally got dialed down.
And usually with organic,
the plant dials itself in because the plant's choosing what it wants to take in
from the soil and the roots are interacting with all the living stuff in your
soil. There's little microbes and whatever.
And you know,
plants do really well in organic and pretty consistently.
So sometimes you run into an issue,
but usually it's straightforward. You can get a plant,
whether it's a seed or a clone,
you put it in some good dirt and you grow it and it's incredibly simple.
And it takes five, 10 minutes a day. You go water your plant,
you make sure your air is moving around.
You check all your basic things like temperature, humidity,
and it's just foolproof. So, and you can scale it up.
I actually went to this giant operation in Maine where it was no till and it was
like 99 lights or something like that.
And every single plant was organic,
just fed nothing but water and they were huge and they were doing major,
major production here. They had a huge crew.
People working every single day there.
So when people say you can't scale it up, it's bullshit.
It's just that they don't know how to do it. They haven't tried.
They haven't looked into it enough. But to me, organic,
it's just the best way to do it.
I a hundred percent agree. Just to clarify,
does that mean that you're pretty much mostly like an amended soil and you just
water only for the most part?
Yeah, exactly. So my basic growing style is this.
I get a super soil that's called Mission Mix and I've also used other soils that
are similar and they all do about the same thing.
This is just the one that I like the most,
but end brand works as long as it's specifically a super soil versus not just
like regular potting soil. That's not going to have enough stuff.
It's not going to be tailored for the cannabis plant.
It's just kind of for growing.
So you want to get something that's made for growing weed planted in there and
basically if it's an indigo plant,
I'm going to transplant it into his final container one or two weeks before I
flip to flower.
And if it's a sativa plant where the roots will grow a lot more when you flip it
into flower,
you can kind of transplant it right before flip like on the day of flip and then
just put it into flower right there.
And that's just the basic technique for growing plants in super soil,
which always seems to work good for me.
And I've also got a bunch of no till pots where I'm on a bunch of them are just
second round right now,
but then I got some other third and fourth and fifth round and I'll just add
some amendments to them each time and they have worms living in them and they're
bigger sized pots and they do awesome.
And then you don't have to throw away soil and buy new soil.
Hell yeah.
And so have you found that on those pots where you're on the fourth or the fifth
cycle, for example, that it's kind of getting better with time?
Cause that's something which is commonly, uh, you know,
spouted by the organic preachers basically.
Um, a little, I don't really know.
It kind of depends because some plants like them more than others.
And sometimes you run into a little issue where all of a sudden your plants aren't
in a yellow and then next week it looks good again.
So it's definitely kind of shifting around and constantly adjusting and stuff,
but everything ends up doing really well regardless of if it's like first round
or fifth round, they've all been doing pretty good.
Yeah. So when you do grow out those more sativa, I mean,
that's pretty much all you grow.
Do you find that they are a little more sensitive than say the odd indica that
you run?
Um, sensitive, maybe as in like hermaphroditic or,
Oh, um,
the only challenge I've had recently was those old timers phases.
Um,
they all got super deficient somewhere in week 10 or 12 of flower and they were
in a second round, no till pot. And I was just like, all right,
I'm going to save these. So I've had them with some, um,
some teas like dragonfly earth medicine.
I put some amendments into the soil and then they got way overfed right away and
they just started frying and they'd like,
it totally went the opposite direction. And I was like, Oh shit,
this is not going to go well. And then a couple of weeks later they bounced back
and they started flowering more and putting out new flowers.
Like cause Hey, it's just flowers forever. So, um,
that was definitely the most finicky thing that I've grown in a while.
Most things are fairly simple.
The only way that I've fucked up on the sativa is not enough root space or not
enough soil really. Um,
then it might get deficient before it finishes because if it's flowering 12
weeks versus eight, I need a little bit more nutrition to carry it that far.
Yeah.
So I thought I've been pondering over for a while is every now and again,
I'll talk to a newbie and they'll be like, Oh, I'm gonna grow purple Hayes.
Or like, you know, clearly like they haven't looked into the specifics at all.
And you kind of like, no, that's not a beginner's plan at all.
And you're not even going to find the thing you're looking for. But anyway,
I digress when you do grow out these Hayes plants or, you know,
something akin to the purple Hayes, so to speak, these 17 weekers and whatnot,
I was trying to think, what is it about these plants,
which specifically makes them hard to grow? And I was thinking about it.
And I think the best way I could pinpoint it is that it's kind of what you
mentioned about, if you give them extra nutrients,
they just start to bloom more growth and it can almost just stretch it out
indefinitely.
Do you think that is the primary challenge with these longer growing plants?
Or do you think it's just a variety of other things as well?
Um,
so the common thing that I hear from people is the first
concern is always space. They're like, I have X amount of height.
I got five feet of height. I can't grow sativas or I don't want to.
Another thing is just the bloom time is people don't have the actual patience to
go that long, which I do understand.
But the thing is you can put one of those in the corner and have the rest of
your tent be like an eight week Indica.
And then when those are done you try them and your old timers Hayes is still
going for another cycle or two of your next artist and then those will finish
up and then your Hayes is almost done. So I mean,
the patience thing is like just dedicate a little corner to it and get used to
it. And for me, when I'm growing long time sativas,
I'm not really thinking about like, when's it going to be done?
It's a really,
really nice plant to be in the moment with and just appreciate that plant every
day or whenever you feel like spending some time with it.
Um, just start it and enjoy it and smell it.
Because I don't know a lot of growing. It's always like, Oh,
what am I going to grow next? What's what's coming down, what's going in.
And you're always focusing on later.
And I always try to remind myself to like focus on the present and how beautiful
everything is like right now that I have.
So the sativas really teach you to do that because if you think about what's
coming down, you're just going to stress out. Cause it's not anytime soon,
but if you're looking at it and you're just appreciating it,
it's almost like a blast. Well, it is a blast to the past,
but it's like a step backwards and kind of a solution really.
Cause you see these, they're not even bugs. They're barely bugs.
They're just strings of calyxes, but they're all near each other.
And you can imagine like if you squish them next to each other,
it almost becomes like a modern bud. And I don't know,
just stuff like that. But I got a couple off topic from the question.
So what was the question again?
No, that's awesome. Let's keep going with this. Cause that's like,
you just summarized exactly how I feel.
I was talking to a friend just the other day about how I was saying to them,
I don't even get excited about what I'm going to harvest.
Cause I've been thinking about that already for so long.
And now I'm already thinking about what's going in next.
And so by the time I'm actually harvesting the crop, I'm already like,
I'm really excited for the seeds I'm germinating.
But what you said is essentially just kind of like mindfulness for cannabis
growers, right? Like live in the moment, not in your head, right?
Yeah, absolutely.
And that's actually why I took a break from doing perpetual because I've been
perpetual since my third row ever.
And I just took my first perpetual break and that was the
worst idea, but I thought it would be awesome. Cause I was like, yeah,
I'll really, well,
it was a good idea because it made me appreciate everything a little more and
slow down, which was the goal of it.
But the problem was I ran out of stuff to smoke and I'm like trying to make
these grams last a couple of months. But anyways,
it's you're always in this cycle of like you have stuff
midway through bloom and then you got this new bunch of strains that you're
popping seeds of and you have stuff that's almost ready to go into flower that
you're not even excited about anymore.
Cause you're more excited about your seedlings and you're just waiting for your
flower to come down. And that,
that's not a good place to be seeing a lot of people that are in that kind of
zone perpetually.
It's more awesome to just treat every plant as
something special that it is like when you're in flower,
go appreciate those flowers when you're in your drying or curing stage,
appreciate your work right there. And don't go up,
like keep focusing on that as if it was your only plant because in that moment
it is the plant in front of you is all you have.
So just kind of paying attention to every single stage and then you go into
your bedroom and like, you know, don't, don't just water them and be like,
all right, boring.
You got to really look at the structure and give them some stem rubs and
smell them.
Look at what kind of different funny leaves are on different plants and who's
praying and who's grouping.
And like when you got a whole bunch of the same strain be like, all right,
this one's a little stretch here and this one's shorter.
Like just spend more time staring at your plants,
like all of them and be excited for them all.
Because if you have a plant that you're not excited about,
you shouldn't be growing it.
And that's something I learned when I was like growing a really,
really a lot of weed and half of it was stuff that I was just growing cause I
had it.
It didn't even want to smoke it cause I didn't like it.
And then I learned like there's no room for those plants.
Just get them out of there, give them away.
Or if you have to just compost them and dry them out and put them back into your
soil. But don't grow something if the vibe isn't right,
don't grow it just because you have it.
Grow it because you want it and because you're excited about it and you'll have
a lot more fun.
Yeah, definitely. In the words of Mr. Bob Hemphill,
not library status.
But so then that brings me to the point then, pheno hunting.
This is something near and dear to my heart because it loops back to something
you just mentioned with organics. It's, it's so easy to pheno hunt.
Cause as you said, you do things right. The plant presents itself to you.
So with that being said, you know,
are you pretty ruthless with the pheno hunting?
Things have to be pretty good to make the library status.
And then as a followup for people out there who are in that boat that you just
mentioned where maybe they grow on some things they're not that keen about,
do you push people to pheno hunt more? Like,
what do you think?
Just find a few plants you like and then stick with them for a while or what's
your gig?
Yeah. So when I'm pheno hunting, um,
I'm super, super picky because, um,
even if I'm not pheno hunting and I'm just trying to grow like one or two plants
or something, I'm still picky as hell. But, um,
the point is like a lot of people,
I understand because seeds are expensive and whatever,
but a lot of people, they won't throw away anything. Cause they're just like,
Oh, you know, like I paid for that or like it's a plant.
And I used to like never even want to fuck a leaf off a plant in the first
place. Cause I was like, I don't want to hurt it. It's so special.
And now it's more of like, I don't know,
I guess I call a lot of fucking plants.
A lot of times if I'm pheno hunting something and I know I only have room to
flower 20,
I'll start 250 beans anyways and weed them out through veg.
Even if I'm just going to flower 10 because it's like the more of a selection
you have, the better plant you're going to find. Unless you just get lucky.
You can also plant one single seed and get lucky,
find something really awesome and it does happen.
But if you pop a whole bunch of seeds, if you have the ability to,
whether you're going to grow out all of them or maybe give some away friends,
like if I can't flower everything,
I'll give away a few nice looking ones to friends and be like, Hey,
if this is any good, just get me a cup back.
And it never ends up being anything good. But, uh,
usually at least with my own lens, when I'm breeding, um,
I know what I'm looking for. So I can weed out a lot in veg.
And then I know pretty good idea,
like which females I want to grow about just based on their growth patterns.
And then see if I find the flower, um,
flower qualities that I'm looking for after that.
But there is a lot to be said in the stem rub.
People don't really realize that, um,
a stem rub on one specific day doesn't tell you much,
but if you stem rub every plant, maybe every week,
let's say you got like 50 plants,
stem rub all of them every week and take notes on every single one because
they're going to change.
And some of them will give you that hint that you're looking for. Like,
for example, when I was looking for my prayer tower,
male had grown prayer tower a few different times before.
And I knew which female I liked. I was trying to find a male that,
that, you know, which is, you know, a little bit difficult.
And I was stem rubbing all the plants. And on one specific day,
the male that ended up being the one had the smell I was looking for,
but it never had it again, but none of the other plants ever added.
And so I went with that one. I was just like, this has to be the one.
It has this soapy,
hashy smell that I'm looking for. It's like this creamy soap.
I don't even know how to explain it,
but it ended up being the one and then it passed on the exact
traits I was looking for in the flower department. And I mean,
it checked all the other boxes too, but that's just one example of how,
like the stem up can tell you a lot, but it won't just tell you that every day,
you got to really check them out on different days, stuff like that.
Yeah, I agree. And something I'd noticed,
and I'd love to run by you is you can actually get different
smells, whether you rub the stem at the new growth where, you know,
the shoot is rather green versus say, you know, a little bit more woody,
hardened growth down low. Do you take note of the differences or do that at all?
Yeah. I usually rub probably three quarters of the plant just by habit.
And then I don't know. Sometimes I'll check different parts of it.
And if I find something interesting,
I'll I'll take another finger and rub a different part of the plan,
like really look into it.
And then if there's no smell or not much smell,
I'll try and rub like a different part of it. So definitely.
I think it's almost like how if you have a big clone or a big mom and you're
taking clones and like one round,
all the top clones root in the bottom still do that well.
And then the next round it's the other way around.
It's kind of like how the plant has different levels of hormones in different
areas at different times.
So I guess it's similar to that where like one day the bottom might smell more
and one day the top might smell more or they might smell differently at different
times. Just things moving around with the plant.
Maybe it has to do with day and night too. I don't really know.
Yeah. And I understand.
And so do you generally take clones from the top and the bottom or just
wherever it seems to work at the time?
And what do you use to stimulate rooting given that you're organic?
Oh yeah. So clones are on, um,
I always used to take from the bottom because I learned that from the internet or
from whoever it's like bottom clones root faster cause they're closer to the
roots. And then the last year or two people,
like when I started telling people about that, they're like, dude,
you got to take them from the top so you can get way better clones.
So now I've been doing a bit of both cause I've always had great plans from
taking roots, uh, taking cuts from the bottom. So I don't know.
You can do either way. I don't even think it matters. I mean,
I guess the next step would be to take a bottom clone and a top clone and flower
them side by side and see if there's a difference.
But I really don't think there's going to be as long as it's a healthy clone.
A healthy mother plant and it stays pretty healthy while rooting and going
through that transformation for being a branch to a new plant.
As long as it doesn't like almost die or something like it's going to be fine.
Um, you know, a clone is a clone as long as it's healthy and happy.
So what I do for clones is very simple. Um,
just take an arrow cloner.
Like it's a bucket full of water and there's an air stone and an air pump and
the water is bubbling around and just take some cuts. Like,
I don't know. I used to take really small cause I didn't know any better.
And now I take a little bigger ones,
but at least probably six,
seven inches or something is good. And like maybe 10 inch cut is pretty nice.
Usually the big ones are stronger plants from the get go. So, um,
you know, whatever, it doesn't really matter that much,
but basically just cut off a branch and stick it in the water.
And then two or three weeks later it's really, it's really, really easy.
You don't have to do anything.
One time I dipped them all in aloe and they all died. So it was like, all right,
none of that. Like going back to straight water, it worked for me.
Like I'm not going to change anything. And then one time, um,
I had some really difficult cuts that I couldn't root.
I forget what strands they were, but somebody was like, yeah,
just pretended to deep water culture.
Just throw in all the newts in there, like super diluted.
And I did that and they fucking rooted like monsters and they were growing in the
cloner and they had like these huge, like unbelievable overkill roots.
So if you need a boost, you can put shit in there,
but I never do because it's not organic.
Like I did it that one time when I just couldn't get something to root or
survive or whatever. But, um,
the only thing that I help them with sometimes I don't even do it every time.
But when I remember is all spraying with a foliar spray,
like the first four days or so and that'll just beat them a little bit,
but you don't even have to do that. Like I usually,
I just have like a separate layer,
like underneath one of the tables in my bedroom and I just have like lights
under there and I put my corners under there and just fill them up.
And then you just have to remember to check the water maybe once a week,
like put some, you know, empty it out, clean it out,
put some new water in or just top it off once in a while.
And it's just waiting and basically forgetting and then remembering and then
they're done.
Yeah. And heck you can't get much more organic than plain water, right?
Do you generally like to push people to constantly be popping new seeds and
pheno hunting?
Or are you kind of okay with the idea that people just run the same thing for a
while?
Um, luckily most of the people that I know, not all of them,
but most of them are pretty into popping seeds.
And it's cool because I love giving them seeds and watching them grow them out.
But in general,
I definitely tell people never stop popping seeds.
Similar to like what Bodhi said,
just every seed is its own plant and it's,
it's like such a special thing inside there. And like,
yeah, all these elite clones and popular clones are,
most of them are pretty good. Some of them, whatever. But I mean,
they're great plants,
but it's not that hard to find your own plants that are just as good or better
or different. And, um, in my opinion, when you plant a seed,
that plant, you know, it's really your plant.
It has an emotional bond with you and you have one with it.
And that plant is,
it's just going to be closer to you than a clone that you got from someone else.
No matter what, you can love a clone too.
But when you watch a plant grow up from seed, I mean,
you're carrying it like from birth.
You're literally giving it life and that plant is going to work with you.
And, um, I forget where I heard it,
but somewhere in Africa where they grow cannabis,
they say you have to grow your own cannabis for it to be the best for you.
And if somebody else grows it or if you steal it from someone or you take it or
get it from someone,
it's not going to help you the same way as if you grow the plant for you,
because that plant is working for you and you are working for it.
And it's just a special bond. But, um, anyways, yeah.
So popping seeds is like, you're going to find all these unique plants.
Every single plant you grow is going to be something that nobody else has grown.
Even though it's the same strain and maybe something stabilized and whatever,
but you have that individual child,
that's your own plant and it's going to adapt to your environment immediately
start, um, expressing itself based on what you give it.
Um, including emotions actually,
but even just down to environment and all that.
And you're going to find some really special plants.
And I never really thought it was that fun growing other clones because I was
like, you know,
why do I want to grow the same thing that the next guy has in the next guy and
the next guy and 5,000 other people also have this.
Like now I'm a little bit more open to it because I think it's cool to see what
that plant is the same as seeing what any seed is. It's like, all right, cool.
It is another plant. Like, let's see what's so good about it.
They're like, looks awesome. Smells awesome. I want to smoke it.
There's plenty of reasons to grow a clone for sure.
But growing seeds is just like,
that's, that's how all those clones came to be.
Obviously they came from seed that someone popped and you never know.
You might be the next person that pops a seed, whether it's you popped one or 500,
you might pop that next to the clone only blah, blah, blah.
Amazing plant that everyone wants to grow and smoke.
And if you don't pop seeds, you'll never know.
That's exactly it. So again,
looping back to a point you made earlier on, you said that, you know,
it's really important to you, like the, the vibe of,
if you're going to use someone else's work, like their vibe, things like that.
I guess that means that there's maybe certain people's work who you wouldn't
want to work with.
But the flip side of that is how would you feel if someone who you didn't really
vibe with,
they fell into that category of you wouldn't work with their gear because you
don't agree with maybe personal aspects or whatever.
How would you feel if they then started to incorporate your work into their gear?
Is that, you know, would that tick you off or is it kind of just a part of the
game?
Um, I mean,
I would have to be okay with it because honestly,
I believe anybody should be able to do whatever they want with whatever plant is
in their possession.
So if somebody wanted to breed with myself,
luckily everybody that's bred with my strain so far has been friendly with me,
which is really, really nice. And they've done some amazing work.
There's a stellar collision with demand seeds.
And that was something we agreed upon. Like, Hey,
grow these and breed with them and we'll do this collab kind of thing and
whatever. So that's just one of them. There's a few others out there too.
And then there's some people that bred with some of my stuff that like, you know,
they didn't ask me, but I saw it and I was just like, Holy shit,
that looks amazing. Like, that's really cool. I'm happy to see that.
Like thanks for choosing my strain versus someone else's.
Like that means a lot to me. I think it's really cool. Um,
so I don't know. I mean,
if somebody that I didn't like bred with one of my plants,
I'd probably like a little more. I don't really know. Like,
I wouldn't be mad. Like it's fine.
I'd probably still be honored because it's just like, you know,
they like that plant.
It works for them and they're going to put their own twist to it.
Maybe they'll even make something that I don't like.
Like maybe they'll put cookies into it and I fucking hate cookies.
But like if somebody, you know,
they want to make their own version of whatever,
like let's say somebody wants to make a pupil hybrid with some,
with like an OG or cookies or something. It's like, cool, do it.
Like I want to see what it comes out like.
I probably still grow it out even if I don't really like you.
I normally wouldn't grow plants from people I don't like.
But if there's like something really cool about it,
I can put things aside because I don't,
I try not to have a problem with people. Like if they have a problem with me,
then maybe I'm not going to like them so much, but it's pretty,
I don't know. There's a lot of love in scene.
So I try to focus on all the positives all the time.
Yeah, of course. And so in general,
where do you sit on the issue of say permission or good grace? I mean,
I know you mentioned earlier that you had the conversation with professor P is
that kind of ideally how you would like it to go down with,
if you were going to use someone else's work or like, for example,
let's just say you couldn't really get in contact with them.
Would you just kind of go ahead? Like what would you be your protocol?
Yeah. So basically the best case scenario, of course,
is one like that where you can talk to the person who's bred the plant you want
to work with and be like, Hey, do you mind if I do this?
And then when I talk to them, I even say like, yeah,
these are going to be for sale at some point.
They might be sold as an F1 and they might be worked. Whatever it is,
I'll explain to them what I want to do. And then if they say that's okay,
then that's like the best case scenario. And if they said it wasn't okay,
then I wouldn't even do it at all.
But there's other cases where you just can't get in contact with the people or
maybe it's something that's so used already that you're like, fuck it.
It's fine.
Like Gorilla Glue 4 is the only like elite clone that I've bred with.
And I was kind of like, all right,
I don't think they'll get mad at me.
Like there's 700 different glue hybrids out there already.
And like, I actually feel like I can make something unique with it.
So I'm just going to go for it. Like I think it's fine. Um,
and like Putin was another,
I made a pupil tangy hybrid and I was like,
I can't get in contact with the tangy dudes and people don't even know what the
hell tangy is because maybe they took California orange and renamed it or,
you know, there's that whole tangy drama.
Nobody knows the exact truth behind what they did and if they really made it or
they just have it. So I'm like, all right, tangy is kind of free range.
Everyone's pretty good with that too. Like it's fine. But, um,
I definitely prefer a lot to breed with anything from somebody that I can talk
to that I know personally. Um, or that says like, it's okay.
That's definitely the coolest way to do it because then you just know that like
there's, there's more good vibes in it.
That way a lot of my words with some of the man and stuff,
which I'm friends with him and I got to go to his place in Canada,
which was really cool. And he taught me so, so much.
Like a lot of my breeding knowledge comes from him over the years.
So it's really, really cool to read with each other's stuff.
And it just puts like an extra piece of excitement in there.
Every time you grow those plants,
it's like you have a little bit of the connection with that person too.
Like even if it's just in your head or it's in the plant, like, I don't know,
right now I'm growing some mystery pupils.
And so Mr. E is a cut from East Coaster Dam that he gave me free with.
And growing those is so cool because it's like,
that's a super special plant that my friend held for 10 plus years.
And then he gifted it to me that I could read with it because he wanted it to be
available to other people.
And I don't know it's just that much more exciting to see like my plants come
together with his plants when we're both friends and we both like our own plants
and each other's plants. Like there's,
there's a lot of good vibes bouncing back and forth when you're collaborating
like that.
Yeah, of course.
And so just kind of in line with what you just mentioned,
what are some genetics you don't currently have access to,
but you'd love to work with and why?
I want to check out some Colombian golds because I've never grown or smoked that
specifically. I mean, I've had it like in hybridized, whatever,
but I haven't had this pure Colombian gold yet. Vietnam black,
like just some different land races.
I don't know if I would necessarily breed with them or not.
It depends like how outrageously finicky they are or not.
But cause usually I tend to try to breed with something that's like pretty stable
off the bat just because it's available.
Like why would you not use something that you'd like that's already pretty damn
good. But, um,
I believe everybody should try to grow out the craziest plants that they heard of
through their like old ass uncle or whoever the hell this is.
And it's like back in my day we smoked this and this and it came off of both.
Like when you hear a story like that and it speaks to you or it just sounds cool
like seek out that plant because it's not as long gone as you might think.
Like there's somebody preserving every single land race stream.
So that stuff is just awesome.
And sometimes it can be really good breeding too. Uh, what else?
What else? Uh,
as cheesy as it sounds,
I'm finally getting triangle coach cause I've never had that going before.
And like I said, I don't usually grow. I don't usually breed with clones,
but that's one that I'm really excited to explore the possibilities because
every single TK hybrid that I've smoked has been so,
so good and I've grown a few and seen a whole bunch of them growing.
I don't know, man. Like it's a classic and maybe it's a little overused,
but I think the star people put like a unique touch to it.
And I think it's just, it's just,
I don't know,
I don't know if I've ever seen a star people put like a unique touch to it.
And I think, um, that'll be really cool. So that's coming up soon.
Well, I don't want to tell people that,
but that's coming in a year or two if it works out well, you know?
Yeah. I mean, I don't think anyone's going to look down on you for liking TK.
It's easily my favorite of all the cushions and it's just so solid. I can,
when I, when you smoke it, you can understand why it's stood up.
Are there other ultra clone only, you know,
almost even borderline hype strains that you would consider working with?
Um, I'm checking a few out at the moment. Like I said, um,
Oh, I got some clones. I'm kind of doing a run of like a ton of clones,
just to see what I like actually. I like these elites and stuff.
Just cause I recently ran into like a few different people that are big on like
having all these elite clones and stuff. And then just, yeah,
you can have whatever the fuck you want. So I'm just like, all right,
let's take in a whole bunch.
And I don't want to like tell people that I'm going to breed with them or not
because chances are I'm not gonna, unless something really vibes with me,
but I'm sure something will really vibe with me. So, um,
I'm going to be checking out, uh, I got like, so is lavender.
I got Temte, I got supposed to be chem 91, but it's not.
So I'm still looking for chem 91 real one of that would be cool.
But, um,
looking through some blueberry clones, uh,
purple punch. I mean, I don't think it's supposed to be very strong,
but it smells really good and it looks awesome.
So maybe one day I'll hit that with some heavy hitters, but I don't know.
Probably not. I don't, I don't think I need to,
cause usually when I'm breeding,
I like to find stuff from seed from strains that I really like already and then
work with that just cause it's more unique.
Like I don't want to create the same thing that somebody next door can create
or create something similar to like,
I don't want to make the next purple part of it.
If there's already 30 different purple chives out there,
I'd rather like sprout a bunch of seeds of like anything
and then find something I like.
And I'd rather hybridize with that just because nobody else has that pheno,
that strain because I grew it from seed and I liked it because of whatever
reasons I liked it for versus like, Oh,
it's that clone that you can pick up at the shop for 20 bucks.
So with that being said, are you somewhat kind of, uh,
God full of your clones, given that, you know,
you have gone through work to find the individual ones.
Are you kind of the mindset that, you know, to keep your work unique and in that
regard, you know, still valuable in the consumer's eyes,
you want to somewhat limit the availability of the parents?
So actually the only clone that I'm like that with is the star pupil because
it's just such an amazing breeding cut. Like it's just the world to me.
Like it's an amazing, amazing plant.
And so nobody has that family members have that.
So in case I lose it, I can get it back. But nobody else has that.
No matter how much I trust them,
they just don't get it because then it's going to get out. Um,
everything else I like to share because I'm really excited when I make a strain
and then I find a really nice cut of it and it just represents exactly what it's
going for. I'm happy for people to grow that.
Like especially if they don't want to dig through seeds, I'll be like, here,
try this color. This is the thing on the front page of my catalog.
Like this is that grow it out.
It's going to look just like that and it's going to smoke amazing.
You don't have to like, you don't even have to dig through it back to seeds.
It's just here.
So I'm happy to share those really awesome plants that I get.
And some of them are actually going to be available soon through a few different
clone exchanges. So you're lucky enough.
You'll be able to pick up a part of like who we're tying and these are people
people. Um,
and then others in the future as I let them out slowly.
But usually like a few of my friends will get just about everything.
Like even when I'm growing other strains of whatever,
like looking for moms and you know, hunting stuff,
I definitely pass them off to friends so that if I want to get them back later,
I can or just like, I know they're not going to get that far.
And if they do, it's fine. If I don't want something out there,
I'm not going to let it out. Like the star people clone, nobody has that.
So I don't have to worry about it. And then I can't get mad because nothing,
you know, nobody can do the wrong thing. Cause it's just,
I believe everything is for every human,
everything is your own fault.
So whatever you do with circumstances you're in,
like it's because of something that you're doing or whatever, to an extent.
So if you want people to grow your own, let people grow your clone.
If you don't want people to breathe into your clone, don't let people have it.
And that's it.
Yeah. I think that's one of the most universal truths I've learned from all the
interviews is that when you give something out, even just to one friend, it's out.
Well, yeah, because I've been given clones by people that are like, Hey,
I'm not allowed to give you this. Like I'm going to die if anyone finds out.
So just don't tell anyone that you have this. And then I'm like, all right,
cool. Thanks. And then I'm like, all right, don't trust that person with my clothes.
I mean,
I would trust them with the clone to the extent that I know they might give it
to somebody else. And usually that's fine with me. But if it wasn't like,
that's your lesson right there. You just learned that. Like, you can't,
you can't trust people because every single person's going to give you some kind
of secret or like, you know, when you tell somebody a secret,
they tell one other person.
So every person you tell a secret to you're telling 10 people or like,
if you tell someone that you grow, like 10 people find out,
it's along the same lines of that. And it's fine. Like it's,
it's not even a bad thing. It's just life.
It's like a lesson that everybody should just know about.
And you can compensate for it and make good decisions.
Yeah, I agree. So if we just loop back to a point you made, you said, uh,
you'd actually learned a lot of things from D-man over the years.
D-man well-known breeder for anyone who hasn't heard of him.
He's actually a little, he's well-recognized within the scene,
but I think he's a little lesser known,
which is a little bit of a shame because he's been around for ages.
But here's where the question's actually going. Was that initially,
when you were learning stuff from him,
was that via like online forums and stuff like we were around back then?
Or was this much more of like a personal contact?
It was a little bit more recent. I am on his forums,
but we started talking.
Basically I saw that he had Acapulco gold,
which was like one of the strands that my mom had talked about from her day.
So it was a little before me.
Like I never got to smoke it like fresh off the truck or wherever the hell it
came from in a brick, you know? But, um,
anyways, I saw that he had that and I started talking to him and like,
somehow we just started talking to Bonch and now we just like text and stuff.
So anyways,
like he taught me a whole bunch of stuff because he was like, dude,
what the hell?
Like you're a little bit younger and you're interested in like these strains,
the land races. Like that's really cool.
Like everybody these days just wants like OG push and stuff.
And you're here asking me about Acapulco gold and like growing my Panama's now.
Anyways, like we just got off to like,
we're like straight on the same foot right away.
And it was like,
but I was super well and I was already like, you know,
I was growing and making seeds a little and telling him about those.
And I sent him some of my star people, the swans. And he was like, dude,
I hate purple weed. And I was like, you do not understand.
I have something special here. And like, I'm not wasting your time.
This shit is really strong and it's really enjoyable.
Like it's not the same as most of the purple shit. That's just purple.
And that's it. Like, this is, this is something I want you to try.
You tried it. And he was like,
that's one of the first purples that I really liked.
And he ended up asking me if he could breed with it.
Cause he liked it that much. So it was cool.
Like he gave me stuff that I really liked.
I gave him stuff that he ended up really liking too.
And one of my favorite strains of all time is this Panama powerhouse,
which is a Panama red land race cross with the F6 G13 black widow.
And Holy shit.
Just I can't say enough about how fucking amazing that strain is.
Yeah. Wow. I mean, it's certainly been around for a long time.
It raises an interesting question in my mind.
Although you just mentioned you got the Panama from D-man,
where do you go generally? If you are looking to source these older genetics,
do you look to seed or just to kind of acquisition of client?
Definitely to seeds because I don't
usually take in many clones, like I said.
And when I do, it's very rare for somebody to be like, Hey,
I got this clone of like, I don't know, 1980s,
like tie stick or something. Like I never see that in clone. If I did,
I would take it for sure. So if anybody's listening,
who has some, you know, hit me up. But,
um, yeah,
I'm usually digging through seeds and just getting them from random ass.
Like sometimes there's like a random website in, uh,
in Denmark that has like all these cool land races and stuff.
And some of them are recent and some of them are really old.
They got like some Jamaicans that are 1960 cross of 1985 open pollination,
Jamaican sativa. They're like 14 to 20 week flower.
So it was just like somebody sent me a link. They're just like, Hey,
check out this website. Like all these cool things.
So I think the seeds are really, really amazing.
Cause then even if you don't find a good plant,
you can open pollinate and then eventually find something that's like a little
bit reasonable to work with and go from there.
Yeah, for sure. I mean, it,
it almost seems like you would never get off at a clone of Ty, right?
Yeah. I mean, I wonder if anybody has like,
people definitely have some, but I don't think it's that common. Like,
yeah. It just, you gotta remember most of these people are on the internet.
Yeah. Oh yeah. Especially in Europe. There's a huge,
I think I was actually talking to Kay Guy and he said there's in Europe,
there's in Spain specifically,
there's people who have like some of the best land races on earth and they hoard
it and they do not want it to get out.
Oh yeah. I bet. Especially like,
I always wonder when all that shit went from here to the Netherlands and then
it all became like the same shit. Like all those breeders,
they must have original parental stock.
That's actually a little bit more unique than the watered down Dutch hybrids of
today. You know,
like there's gotta be a lot of unique stuff still flowing around.
Yeah. Well, like, I mean,
the easiest example you can point to is that Neville has said in interviews,
he's still got lots of stock.
Yeah. I bet he has some amazing things. I know.
And I know there's,
there's like groups in California preservationists that have all these land
races and they have clones and seeds and everything and they just don't give it
out to anybody. And on one hand, it's awesome that they're preserving it,
but I'm a little like, why wouldn't you share it?
Like you know how much this means to people and like it could be kind of a
fresh start for a gene pool for tons of people that want to fuck around with it
and try breeding a little or just preserve themselves too.
Like I don't really, I don't know. I understand hoarding,
but it gets tricky when it's like, dude, you're hoarding like the last fucking
seeds of this strain that like you could just let out people.
And it's like, especially in seed forms, like why wouldn't you?
Yeah. The last pure building blocks.
Yeah, exactly.
Cause it's so hard to find anything really like pure these days.
Yeah. So something I did want to ask is like much of your work,
it draws on strains, which might broadly be considered old school in general,
things like even flow, Evelyn, amnesia, Panama.
Was this an intentional decision or it is just kind of how it worked out?
Um, I guess it's just the plants that I was me really.
I don't like a lot of the new school kind of stuff that much.
And like I grow a lot of plants and a lot of them never get to see the light of
day. Cause I'm just like, fuck this plant. It sucks.
Like I was smoking a few times and be like, no, not my bag next week.
Um, and it's mostly newer stuff that tends to blend together as like the strains
you don't even remember growing after a year because they just weren't anything
standout.
And then a lot of these standout plants that I find tend to be like,
a haze or Panama or like, you know,
just something a little bit older, a little bit less common for sure.
Um,
and it's usually because they have unique effects or unique flares or a
combination of those.
Yeah.
So do you think that it's possible to,
through breeding with these old land races to kind of create the next slice
spread, like something that's really unique, really different.
It's going to kind of spur off its own tree of lineage and whatnot.
Or do you think that you can create something unique,
but it's not going to have like the same impact as, you know,
if you created like skunk back in the day or something like that?
Um, no, you, you definitely,
you can change the world with a single hybrid for sure.
It doesn't matter what year you're in. You could do it right now.
You could do it 10 years from now. You can do it 10 years ago. Um,
like, I don't know for me,
like one example would be Girl Scout cookies,
which is a strain that I really don't like. But if you think about it,
it's in so many things right now.
There's I could name tons of companies that exist solely because of Girl Scout
cookies, because their entire line is Girl Scout cookies,
crosses something, crosses something. So for example,
whoever popped that Girl Scout cookie, see it,
and who knows what their real story is.
There was a plant, people liked it, people read it. That's plain and simple.
So, you know,
if I make something with a couple of land races in it and somebody really,
really likes it,
or maybe it's a clone that gets out that's like super exceptional,
or maybe it's just seed stock that people want to breed with.
Like it doesn't really matter if you make something good and special that people
like, then it's going to get used in hybrid. It's just like, you know,
Chemdog is in a ton of things too. And that's,
it's just because people liked it. That's about all there is to it.
And like with cookies, it's not even stable and people still like it.
Like you get so many urns off it,
but people like something about it and it made a big dent for there.
So with that in mind, would you let a plant,
which was the next slice bred to you, but it happened to throw some nanas,
would that be like a red flag or would you just still go with it?
Keeping in mind what we just said about cookies?
In what regard? Because for example, when I release seeds,
I make sure that they're pretty damn stable,
that they're not going to earn all over the place.
And I test them and I have other people test them in their environments and hear
back from them. Like, you know, I did this and this and this,
and it survived it and whatever. Anyways,
I believe first of all,
everybody should do some solid testing before releasing seeds.
Unless you're saying that they're testers, which is different, like freebies,
whatever you can say, like untested freebies.
But if I'm releasing seeds, I want to see a stable,
if the clone,
I pretty much also want to see it be really stable because I don't want to give
somebody a clone and then it turns their garden and like, you know,
somebody's garden is sometimes they're likely to go to the fall.
They're just seated and they can't make rent the next month because they had to
toss everything. Like that's not a good thing to happen. So, I mean,
you try to really minimize the possibility of like herming shit.
And I guess the exception would be like sterile manners.
If you prove that the manners have no viable pollen every single time and you
try using that pollen to make a seed and make sure then like maybe in a clone
kind of thing, it might be fine.
Like I think Chem D I was told is going to do that.
Like it'll probably harm, but there won't be viable pollen.
So don't worry about it kind of thing. So, I mean,
in that case it's totally fine, I guess.
Well, I mean, it certainly feels like the devil's kind of in the details.
And I was talking to Ming Jin about this at the Emerald Cup and he kind of raised
this interesting question, you know, he said,
what if you create a strain as a breeder and it's fire, like dead set,
the best thing ever, but like 50,
it's only like 50% of the phenos and the other 50% like will herm.
And even if you work on it for a generation or two or reselect the parents,
it just seems to be the inevitable outcome.
Like what do you do in that situation?
Um, I mean,
how much better is this strain than the next best strain that you have?
Really, really, really good.
Yeah. I don't know. I mean,
Like one solution that got thrown around was like,
you offer it with that information out there and maybe at a reduced price.
That was just one solution that got thrown around.
I usually see them at triple the price with no warning,
I see a lot of breeders putting out herm packs for 300 bucks and they don't even
have the warning on them,
but you hear it through people and then you try it and you see it's true.
But anyways, yeah,
I think the right thing to do is either you don't release it or you release it
with that warning and probably as a freebie with the warning.
Like, I don't know, even if it's really fucking good,
you don't have to sell it if it's, if it's going to cause problems.
And yeah, I don't know. I would,
I would probably say don't sell hermy stuff.
Even if you have a warning, it's probably just better not to,
because somebody is going to trade that pack and they're going to lose the
warning and the next person is going to get fucked over and he's going to be mad
at you, the breeder. I don't know, it's too much.
There's so many other good plants that you don't need to worry about.
Crazy herm rates.
Yeah, of course. It's kind of like, as we're having this conversation,
it dawns on me how like kind of funny it is. Like, yeah,
you probably shouldn't sell hermy seeds.
So what do you think about this idea of breeders who release
lions with new parents each cycle,
whether it be due to laziness or due to the fact that there could be some
advantages to doing so,
do you think any potential advantages are offset by potential disadvantages or
what do you think of that idea in general?
Um, if you're going to do that,
you just have to tell people and you have to test each generation before you
release it. So let's say you're first,
you make this new strain and then you release it and it's the F ones.
And then the next year you run out of those. So you make some F2s,
like just tell people that it's F2s and then test those F2s and see like,
okay, maybe there's a little bit different things coming out of here.
Like explain that.
Like the problem I have with a lot of seeds is that there's zero information
when you buy them from a lot of breeders.
There's just a name and the cross and that's it.
And that kind of sucks because I don't know.
I try to give out the information on my strains that I would want to see if I
was buying it from somebody else.
So like I'll put out as much information as I can think of.
And then if people ask me questions,
I'll even add that to my description where I can like on my website and stuff,
like try to be super thorough and
like, I don't know, just so people know what they're getting.
Like if you're buying a certain strain and then it's totally different from what
you bought last year,
but it's from a breeder and it's because they use different parents,
like I don't know, I would want to know that it's version two or version five.
Like some,
some breeders have like a couple of versions of the same strain and they're
labeled that and maybe there's not much info, but at least, you know, like, okay,
I grew V3 last year and now I'm growing V5 versus like just
expecting the same thing when it's not,
because no two parents are going to combine the same ever.
They might be close, but definitely not the same.
Yeah. Okay. And how do you feel about F2s that get sold,
which then are kind of, you know, crazy high pricing,
because something I hear people,
which they say to me is there's a bit of a question mark over the F2s in the
sense that from a breeding point of view, it could be more ideal,
but from a consumer point of view, it's probably less ideal.
Cause as you loosely referenced, you're going to get things popping up,
which probably not intended. Like, I mean, when you make an F1,
I don't think many people think about, yeah.
So when I eventually make some F2s,
like I definitely want people to have one of these grandparent phenos popping up.
Like I just think it's a totally not a thought that goes through your mind.
And so the, the, the, the criticism I hear is that, you know,
effectively you're going to get less phenotypes, which you would see in the F1s,
which is probably what you're looking for. Right. And, um,
and then likewise, it's kind of like,
sometimes F2s can be done quite improperly with small selection pools and
whatnot. Like, how do you feel about the F2 offering in general?
I never understood why people ask for more money for an F2.
I always thought it should be the opposite of F2s. Like, okay, you got the money,
you didn't keep your parents and you can't recreate the same seed.
So you're doing the next best thing you can.
Or you can look at it the other way and say you're taking it a generation
forward and doing more work and more selections, which is also true.
But in that case, it kind of evens out. It's like a plus and a minus,
but it really depends what your style is and what you're trying to offer.
Um,
like D-Man likes to release F2s for almost a preservation type reason where it's
like you have more phenos that are coming out and there's a little more variety
than the solid F1 where there's just like,
let's say two phenos or four phenos that are very tight.
Maybe your F2 will open it up a little bit and offer more diversity,
which in some cases is really important. And in other cases,
it is your worst enemy. It just depends what you want to grow and why.
So I think there's room for everything. There's room for like super work lines.
There's room for solid F1s that can be reproduced by the breeder with the same
parents every time. There's room for F2s and F3s.
And I like to use F2s sometimes like in an F1 hybrid,
you know, like make something, take it to F2 and then cross that F2,
like find what you're looking for in that F2 and just cross it to another mother
or something like that.
And sometimes you can pull out some really unique stuff that way. Um,
so I don't know, there's, there's, there's just a reason for everything.
So it just depends what you're going for and why.
Yeah.
So, I mean, you referenced the, uh, the $300 packs of seeds,
and I'm sure many people can think of even more expensive ones than that.
What's your position on seed pricing?
Do you think that it should just be like a capitalist thing where, you know,
people set their own prices and the market determines supply and demand?
Or do you think that there should be some sort of,
I don't want to say like pricing structure, but like essentially, you know,
you can't just go ripping people off with F1s versus maybe some other project,
which has got a lot of work being put into it. Where do you sit on it?
Yeah. Pricing is always tricky because like you said,
like you can price something and then just see if people buy it or not.
But like, in my opinion, the best thing to do is like price fairly.
So whatever fair is to you.
And obviously everybody has a different image of like what fair
means. Like for me,
my prices had to go up like a year or two ago because it just wasn't cutting it.
I was working way too hard for what I was getting and it wasn't quite adding up.
So I just had to change it a little and I felt bad even raising it.
So I was like, we'll see how it goes.
And I'll put it a little higher and that will allow me to do everything that I
need to do and bring out some awesome stuff.
Hopefully people will be happy with it.
And then I saw people charging three or five times as much as I was charging
anyways. I was like, all right, I don't feel that bad.
This is what's fair to me. This works for me.
This will hopefully work for the people that want to grow my strains.
At least most of them can afford it. I don't know. I think
that's just me. I would like every breeder has their own vibe.
And some people's vibe is like,
let me charge 500 for this pack and only the people that really want it can have
it. And like, I understand that.
I like sometimes if I have something more limited,
it's almost on that kind of, it's not going to be 500 bucks,
but it's going to be a little more expensive because there's so little amount
of packs that it's like,
this is only going to exist one time and whoever can get this,
it's like your only little chance. And then it's just gone.
But for whatever reason,
like sometimes there's a mom that you can grow her giant and you still get a very
low amount of seeds off it. And then it's just like,
this is what you're left with. And like,
or maybe you lost the clone and it gets more rare because of that.
And you can never make the seeds again.
You lost both parents and it's super out of the question or whatever.
Like if something is rare, maybe charge more.
If something is super,
like if you put a fuck ton of work into something and you can prove it and it's
really, really awesome, like charge whatever you want for it.
But the only problem I have with seed pricing is when stuff is expensive and
it's bad or it's unstable.
Like there's a couple of pretty well known breeders out there that are charging
anywhere from a hundred to a few hundred bucks and their stuff is very loaded
with Hermes all over the place and undesirable phenotypes. And you know,
there's, there's certain ones that people just know. I mean,
a lot of people don't know,
but people that know know that you got to pop five packs and you find that one
keeper that looks like the photo and then that's going to be your one that
doesn't Hermann. And hopefully from there it's good smoke if you're lucky.
And it's like, why go through that bullshit when you play,
spend 70 bucks on like a Bodie pack and just, you know,
it's almost always something good.
Yeah, I can definitely attest to that. And you,
you kind of hitting on a point which I really wanted to bring up because
something that I've noticed happens more often than not is that there are
people, maybe shady is not the right word, but as you described,
charging a lot for things, which shouldn't be priced that high,
especially given there may be Hermes or things like that.
And there are certainly lots of people within the scene and the community who are
aware of this and aware of the types of results you're going to get.
But more often than not,
nothing gets said because people don't want to rock the boat.
Do you think that it's a bit of a mistake that we're in this mindset?
Because so often, you know,
it just seems like that's the case where people know the shady things that are
going on, but just no one says anything.
Dude, that's such a good point.
And it's really tough because as a breeder myself,
I don't want to make enemies. And even just as a grower,
as a person who likes to plant, I don't want to make enemies.
And I know that if I go call someone out on their bullshit,
that really quickly it's going to be like, all right,
this person doesn't like you, but guess what?
All his friends fucking hate you too. And then, you know,
it becomes a war and there's no time for that. Like I,
I don't know.
It's really tricky because the best thing that I can do is just
do my best and try to encourage people to see that.
But hey,
here's what I stand for and this is how I think things should be.
And then if somebody asked me directly, like,
do you have experience with so-and-so a breeder or so-and-so strain?
I can tell them like, yeah, it's all Hermes, unfortunately.
But whatever, like, I don't know.
It's pretty tricky.
Just, I don't know.
I don't think everyone should be as quiet about it as they are.
I do see people commenting once in a while,
but most people do stay quiet.
And I think it's just because people are scared of getting enemies.
And then like the more popular you get,
the more you don't want to have enemies. Like, I don't know.
I totally stay out of drama whenever possible, but at the same time,
I feel really bad for like the people who just don't know that they're about to
waste their money on someone else's ear. But like, I don't know,
as my own self, I can't be like, hey, don't buy that strain.
Buy my strain. Like, mine's stable. His isn't.
Like, that just looks shitty. So I'm not going to do that.
Yeah. It's a tough one to navigate.
So, I mean, in general, how do you feel about the state of our community in general?
I think at the moment we're kind of at a bit of a low point in terms of the
internal drama. Like, I think if you look back a couple of months ago,
there was a lot of drama going on. It seems like we're kind of, you know,
things are all pretty chill at the moment.
Do you think things are better this way or did you think like that the drama
generates necessary conversation? How do you feel about it?
I don't know. I probably missed whatever drama you're talking about.
Cause I think there's certain people that need to be called out that maybe
haven't, but I'm not going to do it.
Especially cause I have no personal problems with them.
It's more of just seeing what people are doing with everything. I don't know.
I think drama is not good,
but at the same time people need to know what's going on.
Like, I don't know.
Everybody's in their own kind of circles in their own zones and whatever.
And some people have a really wide scope and view of like
what's going on with everyone. And other people are like, yeah,
I only follow like this guy, this guy and this guy. And that's all I know.
And I'm cool with it and that's fine too. So there's like, I don't,
I don't really know what's the big picture.
Cause I kind of stick with like who I vibe with specifically.
And I usually ignore the drama just cause like when there's drama,
I do know there's always two sides to it.
Like even if one of them's your friend and one of them's your enemy,
like they both have partial truths and you don't know where it sits.
So it's like,
I'm going to stay out of that personally and just go by like how that person's
affected me directly or what I see directly from them.
Take it from there.
Yeah. So one of the topics we love to chat about on this show,
the roadkill skunk, you know, very elusive origins, hard to pin down.
Everyone's got some cool stories about it.
Do you have any experiences with the roadkill skunk by any chance?
Yeah.
My opinion on the skunk is that basically like there's
everybody searching for the strain that smells just like a skunk and I've had it
a couple of times. I mean,
I've had different strains that have that quality,
whether one of them was actually called skunk and a couple others were just
other strains.
And something interesting that I noticed that I wanted to talk about with that
was a lot of times you get a bag of weed,
and it just smells like a skunk,
but that's like before you even open it and it smells super skunky
through the bag.
And then when you open it and you smell it sometimes it's totally different,
which would also mean that when you're growing it on the plant,
it might totally not really smell like a skunk at the moment.
But then when you get it in the right conditions,
whether it's in a bag or maybe in a certain temperature or something like that,
then the skunkiness comes out more.
And it seems like a lot of times that skunk smell experience is like smelling it
through a bag or smelling it from a distance or something like that.
Cause recently somebody gave me some bud and I smelled it.
Like I just smelled the bag that he gave me.
I didn't even open it cause it smelled so strong through it.
It was straight skunk and I was like, dude, this smells so skunky.
And he looked at me like I was an idiot.
Like I didn't know what I was talking about. And he's like, what? And then he's
like, dude, take it out and smell it. Like it's totally butter. It's creamy.
It's OG. It's not skunky at all.
And I opened it and I cracked it a little bit and he was so right.
It was completely different than when the bag was sealed and it was just like
only those skunk turps were permeating through the bag or whatever.
So that's definitely a thing with the skunk.
I think it's certain turpines that will come out in certain conditions
and they can definitely be masked by other ones where you're actually like up
close with the pod.
Yeah. See, that's really interesting. It's like, I, you know,
never had anyone really suggest that. So that's cause some good food for thought.
But the first thing that jumps from mine for me is that it would almost indicate
that maybe this skunky profile that people are chasing is actually a more
simplistic one, so to speak. And as you said,
the bag is kind of filtering certain, maybe more complex,
just for whatever reason, turpines that aren't making it through.
And what we're looking for is actually more of a simple profile than a super
complex one per se.
Yeah, definitely.
And it could be just a turpine that's like one
single turpine or maybe a certain combination that really permeates through the
bag. And then like you said, it's holding in all the finer, more complex ones,
which may actually smell stronger once you do get to them by opening the bag and
smelling the body.
Yeah. Okay. That's yeah, that's definitely some food for thought.
So did you ever smoke any growing up or do you have any cool stories about
anything you smoked while growing up?
Yeah. Um, I mean, I got skunk one time.
I don't know what skunk it was.
It was just skunk when I got it from the dude and it was just straight up.
That one smelled like a skunk even without the bag,
but especially through the bag. Like I was trying to hide that.
So I didn't know about glass jars yet because I was just starting to smoke and
my whole everywhere,
everywhere I went with that thing just smelled like a skunk behind me. But, um,
yeah, I got some cool stories. Um,
Oh yeah, this is a phone.
So one of the first few times that I smoked it was back when like smoking was
still an adventure. It was like not casual yet for me and my friends.
So it was like, dude, I know this spot. We can get some weed.
I was in Albany with a couple of friends,
like staying for a weekend with them and he was like,
you're not even going to believe this,
but I know where we can get this weed in the city.
There's like this house that you have to go to or it's like kind of an apartment
building and then you walk down this hall and then there's a door and you like
knock on the door and it's called a knock knock house and the dude sticks his
fingers through the thing and then he asks you what you want. And I'm like,
dude, that's so bullshit. That's not a real thing.
And basically we went and he was like, I know what street it's on.
We just got to find the right house. Like we'll just try it.
And so like give us one and uh,
we went into this building. He's like, yes, this red one here.
And we go in and then we knock on his door, nothing happens.
So he opens the door and we just walk in and we're just in this dude's kitchen
and he was just like smoking a bong. And so we're like, all right, yeah,
this must be it.
It turned out we just like walked in some random person's apartment that was
like not the right thing at all.
And he just happened to be smoking weed too. And then
we're just like, Oh, sorry, I think we're at the wrong place.
And we went back in the hall and then we went down the hall and found the actual
one. And I'm dead serious.
It was like my friend knocked on the door and this dude stuck his fingers through
the mail slot. Like, you know, those like horizontal mail slot things.
And he's like, yo, look inside, here's the menu. And it was like three things.
I don't remember what the first one was, but it was,
it was like Miz and then there was green crack and the Miz was
10 a gram and the green crack was 25 a gram,
which is the highest that I've ever paid for anything.
And my buddy was just like, dude,
I hear the Miz spray with Windex. Like we can't get the Miz.
You got to get the good stuff. And I was like, Holy shit. All right.
So we, we just got into this green crack and it was 25 bucks.
And I just remember it so distinctly because it was like some of the strongest
smelling stuff ever. It was green with like these purple streaks in it.
And basically we put it in his car and we went around the city and stuff.
And then like when we were going back to his car,
we could smell it across the street and all his windows were up and everything.
It was a single gram in there. So it was just like, I don't know.
I wish somehow I could get that because like the
intensity of the smell was so crazy. And then when we smoked it,
like we all just started freaking out and we all thought it was laced and like
they had smoked many, many times more than I had at that point.
And they were just like, I think this shit's laced dude.
Like I feel the blood rushing through my veins, through my whole body and shit.
It was just wild.
But I've had a few different times like that in New York just getting like the
most ridiculous ever. And to this day, I mean,
I don't know if it was laced or not,
but probably not because usually people don't lace me.
Yeah. I don't know.
Usually.
Yeah.
So something I wanted to bring up because I know that you do dabble in it is
like Cobb LED lightings.
Could you give us a little bit of a rundown with your experience and any
information you have to share?
Oh yeah. So basically Cobb is a chip on board.
It's like these full spectrum LEDs with a white light.
You can see everything in like real color and all of that.
And I saw these videos on YouTube where this guy was like, yeah,
I get like 1.8, 1.9 grams per watt with these.
And you have to build them yourself,
but they're better than any lights you can get out there. And I'm just like,
what? Like, that's crazy. Build a light yourself. I don't, I don't get it.
And it was super technical and all that.
But eventually I took the time to figure out what he was talking about and how it
all worked and stuff.
And basically studied everything he was saying and all kinds of things about
light spectrum for a couple of weeks with my brother.
And we developed like a really good spectrum by like combining different chips
and I built those light and I just started using it.
I was so blown away because I've always been,
at least like the last few years I've been using LEDs just because I like them a
lot more than HPS.
I always find like better,
more unique terpenes and just like less generic,
but I feel like the plant can express itself better under LEDs.
But then when I switched to the cobs, it was like, again,
it was like a whole nother level of like just the plants expressing to their
fullest potential indoors. I mean, you would see stuff like outdoors,
you see pink hairs on some strains and then indoors you almost never see that.
And then under the cobs I started seeing that like everything was praying and
flowering a little bit faster and super healthy.
And then yeah,
I'm just super hooked on the cob lighting because basically I chopped down a few
plants under it and I'm like, yeah, you know,
this looks like X amount of blood, like I don't know, a hundred grams,
let's say for example. And then like,
turns out to be like 200,
like every single time it's like double what it looks like.
It's just like super dense,
super heavy yields and like the same or better quality than we used to.
So I recommend to people try out the cob lights. They're just super crazy.
Um,
and I switched like almost all my fixtures over to cobs in the last year or so
after using that one for maybe a year or something like that.
Yeah. Okay. Um,
I recommend to people if they're growing under cobs, make sure,
or even any LEDs, keep your temperatures at like 82 degrees.
Cause if you go lower than that,
you're going to have like some nutrient deficiencies that are basically in
short, it's related to the leaf temperature. Um,
it has to do with the whole spectrum and what nutrients the plant needs a little
bit more of because of the spectrum. And anyways,
if you keep your temperatures like at least in the low eighties,
you won't have any issues. But if you keep them like 75,
like HPS temperatures,
you're going to get like magnesium deficiencies and stuff.
So something to consider just for like really good results.
Yeah. That's awesome. Info.
Have you fiddled around at all with the far red UV initiators at all?
Yeah, those are crazy actually.
So I put those in too and basically when I
started flowering with those,
they would go on for like 15 minutes, right?
The lights go out and it simulates like the sunset outside
and it puts us plants to sleep faster.
And essentially it gives them two hours more of darkness according to whoever
developed it. And I was pretty skeptical,
but it was scientifically proven by all kinds of whoever the hell studies it.
And so sure enough,
it makes your plants flower really, really fast.
And I noticed that basically I think it was like day 14 looked
like day 21 on like every plant in the room.
And I did a whole bunch of different strains in there and just everything
flowered super fast. It's basically the initiation of flower.
The first few weeks that go a lot faster.
Like you really notice in a few days, like, damn,
these things are already flowering. And then like a week later,
it's like really, really flowering.
So I recommend those if you're trying to speed up your cycle by like
five to seven days or so.
Yeah. Wow. That's some awesome info as well.
Yeah. And definitely for Sativas because some Sativas like, um,
you know, 11 hours of light or 10 hours of light.
And I know a lot of growers just want to use 12.
So if you do that and you're basically giving them,
you're still giving them your 12 hours of light,
then you're giving them the equivalent until like 14 hours of dark or something
just because they process the fact that it's nighttime sooner.
Yeah. Of course.
Killer. So in regards to your flowering cycle,
then besides the cobs and the fire red initiated chip,
do you do anything outside of the norm when you're in flower?
Yeah, definitely. So, um,
I'm always for the last few years have been flowering under 11 hours of
light and then 13 hours of dark.
And I heard it from DJ short who said like, yeah,
we'll kind of make your plants be a little bit more Sativa in
characteristics. Even if you're growing Indica,
as it will kind of give them a little energy, a little kick to them.
And I thought that was interesting because it's kind of more of a tropical
light cycle and that's where the plants evolved to these more Sativa phenotypic
expressions.
So I basically tried to side by side with a couple of clones and
one really cool thing was that this, um,
it was fighting for city OG from Moxie,
which I only grew a couple of times,
but under 12 hours of light and these are both under the same temperatures
under 12 hours of light,
it was totally green and it smelled like super generic.
I don't like nothing memorable, whatever.
And then like under 11 went totally purple with
like just insane, like really,
really nice smell and color and everything. And it was like, damn,
that's the same clone in like the same, just about the same environment,
just different light cycle. And it like really,
really improved the plant. And it went a few days faster and flower.
So it was like the same kind of ripeness on the trichomes and all that.
So that was like my first, um,
first time seeing that like, damn,
this light cycle thing makes a difference and they both yielded very similar,
but a lot of people are scared. They're like, Oh,
are they going to lose yield?
I think that might depend on what you're growing.
Like maybe some plants will like it more and some won't,
but I've been flowering under 11 hours and come
on with the cause of seeing over two grams per watt type of yield.
So I don't think it really reduces the old. Um,
but I definitely noticed that a lot of what I grow is very like uplifting
even when I grow into cause it's pretty functional and stuff like that. So,
um, I do like growing and breeding under 11 hours and then I bench under 17
because the best cycle has the same effect. It's kind of,
it's going to kind of like make your plant evolve over time. You know,
whatever conditions you keep the clone in, especially if it's for many,
many years. Um,
like if you're doing 24 hours versus 18 or 17, it's just gonna,
the plant's going to shift ever so slightly just from being in a different
environment.
Yeah. So outside of that legendary green crack,
did you ever have any other cuts which left a lasting impression in your mind?
Yeah, there was, um,
there's one time I smoked a split of white widow and I don't usually mix with
tobacco, but once in a while it would back then.
And actually I liked the thing that Bodhi said about mixing
cannabis and tobacco where it kind of gives you that grounding effect and like
that masculine effect towards like a feminine plant.
So once in a great while if you smoke a split, it can be super,
super therapeutic. But anyways,
it was this white widow who smoked in a split.
And I just remember like as soon as we were done smoking it, we're in the woods.
We just sat down on the ground, didn't talk for like half an hour.
And it was just like one of the most psychedelic smokes that ever had.
And it's funny cause you know,
white widow is like the pretty common strain I guess like in the commercial
field, whatever you want to call it.
And but it's never really that good these days.
And this white widow, I smoked it a couple of times,
but this first time I smoked it especially, it was always so good.
Like I just remember like not being able to read like letters and shit because it
was just like, I don't know.
It was just like this whole different head space that was so foreign and like it
wasn't even uncomfortable that I couldn't read anything.
It was just like every letter was a picture and like super, super trippy.
So I don't know,
like I've grown white widow and I've smoked white widow since then from plenty
of places and plenty of different seeds, dogs or whatever.
And I just never found a white widow that came close to that one.
And that was, it wasn't that long ago that white widow, I don't know,
it was probably eight years ago or something, maybe nine years ago.
I don't know. But yeah,
I don't know. Where's the white, where's the good white widow?
Yeah. I'd like to know that too.
Yeah.
All the other ones I've smoked lately either put you to sleep or they're super
bland and like not really much flavor or much effect.
Just like regular ass weed.
I smoked some white rhino a while back,
but not that long back probably about a year ago. And um, fuck, it was good, man.
It like wasn't the same in a lot of ways,
but there was a lot of aspects of it that reminded me of smoking skelly in the
States. And it was just such a mind blowing thing.
I was like, what? No way.
Oh, that's awesome. I love when you just get something that's like,
even if it's not the same,
it's like close to something you had in the past that was so reminiscent.
And that's like just amazing. No matter what it is.
Yeah.
Just bring it back.
So if we kind of jump to a slightly related topic, but a little bit off field,
living in Massachusetts, what's it like with the medical laws there? I mean,
I know things have changed recently, but for the longest period of time,
people had always said that it was, you know,
it wasn't the most friendly state to be in.
How have you found it and how does it look for you going forward?
Um, it's interesting.
It's definitely less chill than some places and it's a
lot better than a lot of places.
And I'm super, super grateful to be where I am. And at this time,
um, like it's a relatively safe environment to do what I do.
Sometimes it's a little scary and there's all this, you know,
it's definitely not perfect. Like at our weed events, you can't have weed.
You can, there's seeds and stuff, but like,
we're doing a event at CannaCon, which is like this event in Boston.
And they're like, yeah, you can't bring flower to display.
Like I wanted to bring a little branch of star pupil flowering and put in
water so people could smell it and see what it's like. And they're just like,
you absolutely cannot do that. You can't give away,
but you can't display like no THC lab. And I'm like, okay, fine.
Like whatever, you know, it's not the end of the world,
but in that kind of sense, it's a serious environment here.
But it makes sense because to me, Massachusetts, at least the area I'm in,
it's a lot of people that don't like weed and it's a miracle that we've legalized
here. So I'm pretty grateful for the whole thing.
And our medical programs like better than some places,
although it's not the best, it's definitely not the worst.
So to me it's like wherever in the world you are,
you adapt, you either move or you adapt. So whatever works for you,
you work with it or you find a way.
Our whole legalization thing is like a huge mess here.
And so something I wanted to ask you was that
we don't see you at a stack of events. However, you know,
obviously you just mentioned the CannaCon.
Is this more of a geographical location issue or are you just not so into like
the high times and all that stuff?
Actually I've been to a bunch of events, but I don't usually,
I don't want to show my face like as I don't know,
I'm the overly paranoid person because I learned from people that grew in like
total prohibition.
And I learned from the books that teach you like the craziest
ass way of staying safe so you don't get caught.
And so even like meeting people from online,
I never met anyone until a couple of years ago because I was so scared that like
the first person I meet is just going to be that agent that's going to take me
away forever from my family and possessions and just like fuck up my life.
So it's still a transition of being like,
realizing like things are okay. You can talk to people.
Like I was scared as hell to do this interview,
but I so badly want to like talk about all these things that I love.
So like, I don't know, things are,
things are safer than I thought.
But at the same time there's always that risk cause it's like everything in
Massachusetts and in this country is just gray area. So all like,
you know, everything on Instagram,
you see these people posting selfies with like 5,000 plants behind them.
They're like,
this is my full name and I'm growing 5,000 cannabis plants and look how awesome
I am. And it's like,
only so many people can do that before one of them just gets like taken to jail.
You know, like I'm like, what the fuck are you guys doing?
Like this shit's a little sketchy. Don't you think? So I don't know.
That's kind of why I've been more private the whole time just because I've
been a little uncomfortable with the whole, like,
how public can you really go before like something bad happens to you.
And so moving forward,
do you think you will be a bit more out in the open or are you just kind of
going to still kind of take care of yourself?
I mean, I'm pretty private myself.
I have a pretty small circle of people and then
I'd like to be at more events and stuff like that. I usually,
when I go to events, it's usually just like,
there's a couple of specific people I want to meet that are either at the event
or going to the event as like a person going to the event. So it's like,
you know, like someone on Instagram is like, yeah, we've been talking for a year.
Like we should link up or go into this event.
So I'll usually go to events and do that like in private,
but I'm not like wearing a huge red flag that's like, Hey,
I'm mass medical students. And the last couple of events,
some people started coming up to me and be like, Hey, mass medical students.
And I'm like, Oh shit, people are learning who I am. I'm scared,
but it's, I don't know. We'll see. We'll see where it goes.
I definitely would like to be more public because
I like talking about plants and sharing all these good things and stuff like
that. So there's like a lot of good stuff,
but just got to stay safe at the same time.
Yeah. Okay. And so the last question about Massachusetts,
do you have access to labs and the testing facilities that people in say
California or Colorado have access to? And do you utilize them?
Do you see the value in it?
Yeah. Really awesome.
So like you can just go to a lab and bring your weed there and they test it for
you like within a few days and you don't have to tell them who you even are.
Like you can, I put mass medical strains,
don't have to give an ID or my real name or anything. And then, you know,
they just put it online and they email it to you or whatever you want them to
do. But it's super relaxed in that sense.
You can learn a lot about your growing and your strains and the effects of a
little bit. I mean, effects are more subjective and experiential,
but you can still get some interesting numbers out of everything.
And then, you know, like you grow something and you're like,
why does this smell like this? Okay. It has this terpene. And then you're like,
what does this terpene do medicinally? And then you're like, Oh shit,
it boosts memory. No, no wonder.
Like this strain always like really helps me when I need to think or remember
shit. It's like, that's why.
And you can kind of learn a little bit more about the plant through the lab
results sometimes. But then other times, I mean,
I've had really strong shit test out at like 10 to 15% on occasion.
So that's THC. So, you know,
there's more to it than lab results at the same time,
but they're really, really awesome in general.
Yeah. Okay. So something I love to talk to everyone about,
clone deterioration or genetic drift, however you want to term it.
Do you believe in it or do you think it's just, it's just poor maintenance?
So all my clones pretty much get treated the same and I treat them pretty well
overall. Like, you know, keeping them healthy.
And then I always take extra clones and just keep the healthiest rooted one,
and you know,
some pretty good cloning practices and keeping it in a nice environment as best
as I can. And I've noticed most clones stay the same. And then, you know,
when you grow a clone differently,
you're going to get slightly different expressions off of it.
And sometimes you can get really something different off it if you change
something drastically. But then if you go back to what you're doing before,
it goes back to how it grew before.
So you're not really changing anything, just flowering differently.
And then on the other hand,
I had a cut of the Evelyn and every single time I grew it,
it was a completely different planet.
One time it was almost entirely green.
One time it was like totally black.
One time it was red and one time it was purple and there was a little different
smells coming out. And it's like every generation that I grew it,
it just changed. And it wasn't the environment changing.
It was just maybe it getting older or something.
And then a friend of mine said, Oh yeah,
all the stuff I've grown from that breeder does the same thing.
That genetic line, they just change over time as clones.
And so I think genetically there are certain plants
that may drift over time because they're not expecting to live for multiple
years. Because usually cannabis outside will die in the winter.
So especially like, I don't know,
I would assume something that originates from like a more
tropical, not tropical,
like a more like cold ass climate where it would never have the
chance to live a year.
And then it lives a year and might start doing some weird shit versus other
plants that they don't really care.
But then if you keep a clone in cheap condition, unhealthy,
whatever problems like it can deteriorate,
but I think you can also revive it for sure. It's pretty easy. I mean,
if you know how to grow organically, it's pretty easy to bring it back.
You just grow it healthy for a while.
You can put it outside in the sun for like a month or two and then take clones
off it and bring it back inside and obviously make sure it doesn't have any bugs
that you're going to bring in.
But the sun really does wonders for rejuvenating cuts when you need to.
And really like if I get a clone and it's grown synthetically and like,
let's say it comes in some soil or whatever. And I know there's salts in there,
like I'll grow it for a bit. I'll transplant it up to like some organic soil,
but the salts are already in there to me. So I'm like,
I'm going to grow it big and then take some new clones,
grow those totally organically and then I'll flower it.
So that is kind of cleaning up and kind of getting towards my growing style a
little bit more. And like, at the same time,
it's adapting to my led and my little bit of water grow rooms and all that
stuff.
Yeah. Makes sense. So you referenced not bringing any bugs inside.
If that were to happen, what would your IPM treatment or go to regime be?
Um,
pretty much beneficial predators have been the best thing that I've ever used.
Um,
like I used to use as a max in edge because it was supposed to be organic.
And then now they're, they came out saying like, yeah,
there's also these band pesticides secretly in here. So, you know,
stopped using that real quick. And I was like, fuck.
But luckily I had only used that bench because in flower,
you never want to spray anything. Like even fuller sprays and flowers.
Like you're going to smoke out at the end and people don't realize that.
Anyways. Um, basically my number one IPM is like,
I generally don't take in clones and I don't go in my room unless I'm clean.
Like I usually take care of the gardens in the morning.
So I'll just take a shower before I go in and I'll leave.
You have like a garden outfit that I'll wear for like a couple of weeks at a
time. Like just when I go in there and then I'll change out of it and like keep
it clean or you know, just don't go in there. Like if,
if you've been in a grow or if you've been outside,
even like if you've touched any plants, like dude,
there's gotta be some, some eggs on your skin or some shit.
That's going to like fuck up your growth.
So I just stay super clean when I go in there so that I don't have to spray
anything and I don't have to constantly buy predator bugs to take care of
issues. And then, you know,
sometimes something will come in and get like some thrips or aphids or whatever
and can get these predator bugs that will eat them all.
And they literally eat all of them until they're super gone and you won't see
them again.
And that's just the best because there's no chemicals involved at all.
And it's the most natural way. It's the same thing that happens outside.
Yeah, I agree. And just as a little point, I wanted to add in there,
I've heard a few people like, I guess like the undertone in their voices,
they're being critical of predator mites and they're like, yeah,
but what about like the predator mites pooing and stuff like that? And, uh,
the, the,
the thing I wanted to quickly point out is that the predator mites largely are
not on the buds. They're on the leaves and you don't,
you don't smoke those really.
And the amount they poo is minimal because they bio convert into like
recreating babies instead of pooping heaps. So yeah,
just a little FYI for anyone out there who's wondering,
cause that's something like I always hear. They're like,
aren't you just like solving one problem,
but it's like causing the same problem in a way. And it's like, well,
not really. But, um, anyway,
just to jump to a bit of a different topic,
what do you think will be some of the future varieties and or flavors that are
going to storm the scene?
And do you try to predict that to a certain extent? Like, I mean,
imagine if you had made Poo Tang back when Tanji had first came out, you know,
you can only assume that it would have rid that wave of popularity a little
more. Do you actively think about that at all?
No, cause honestly, like,
even though I released seeds for people to grow and stuff,
I'm pretty much just breeding for myself what I want to make and what I like and
think is good. And, um,
I don't really know what's out there sometimes for weed.
Like there was a lot of times I'll go like half a year or a year without smoking
like anybody else's weed. And then at one point I'm like,
what is weed supposed to be like? Like,
let me get some weed from somewhere else just like make sure I'm still doing a
good job. Like I don't even know anymore. Like what,
what other people's weed is like.
So a lot of times I'm in my own world with that just cause there's not that many
organic growers out here that I know personally at least. So,
um, and then like with the scene and all that, what they want,
I don't really know what the fuck they want because I feel like the people, uh,
seek out my like really unique strains or they're kind of land-raised based.
Like there are people that are looking for something different than the norm.
And then, I mean, people that are looking for star people,
they just want purple weed that gets them high and that's tasty and all that.
So like, I don't know.
I feel like I have something for just about everyone.
Like that's part of why I've read with the glue at one point was because like I
knew I had a way to improve it and a way to kind of use something popular and
good that people want to like put my own twist to it.
So usually I just kind of make what I want to see because I don't know.
Like when I go to a dispensary, it's all this,
like most of the menu is stuff that I don't want to smoke.
So I just don't go there and just like, this is bullshit. Everything's gas.
I don't really like gas. Everything's cookies.
I can't smoke cookies because it just has bad reactions.
My physiology, I just freak out when even if it's an across,
like my body's just like, no, don't smoke that.
So I've learned after 15, you know,
different cookies crosses that like, okay, it just doesn't vibe with you.
Just don't smoke that. So a big variety of what's out there.
I just don't smoke and I just smoke what I want to smoke.
And then like if I hear something cool, like, Oh shit,
like this grower just grew like an old school Hayes or like some
wacky hybrid of like Nigerian something. I'm like, dude,
hell yeah. Like I'll try some of that,
but I'm not going to go try like a wedding cake or some kind of like something,
something like that. You know, it's just not for me.
So even though it's the trendy stuff right now,
but most of the trendy stuff is like not what I'm into.
And so I don't know why, but this just springs to mind,
just kind of loosely referencing earlier on when you were talking to D man and
saying this, you know, start people's not like other purple weed.
Would you ever consider doing like a star purple, a star people, sorry,
cross to like a purple strand, like, you know,
an Urkel or a granddaddy purple, like just for the lols.
Yeah. Um, I actually have a little thing in the works right now.
Cause I found a purple that I really liked. Um,
from inspector you send me a bunch of his Mendo F1 to work with and it's a
Mendo purse crossed with his Pakistani. And, um,
they were really, really unique because to me,
at least they did not smell like a purple.
I also grew like some Mendo purse S ones just to get an idea of like the Mendo
purse cause I hadn't grown the clone, but I got an idea for that.
But then I grew up,
but F one was which were the realer seats with the Paki cross.
And I really liked them. I was like, damn, this is another purple that like,
you know, it gets you actually high. It had a really unique effect for me.
I couldn't go in the crow room when I smoke it, which kind of sucked.
But what would happen is the light is fucking do the strobing thing in my
vision whenever I would smoke it. And that's, you know,
it was uncomfortable. But at the same time, like, dude,
give that to people that want to party and they're going to love you. You know,
if it really like fucks with your vision, that's like a unique effect.
Or it's just like a normal high. It's like if there's something more to it.
And the flavor was really, really cool.
I was having so much trouble describing it, but it was a really,
really bright. It wasn't much of a purple smell until I cured it for like two
months, but it was really bright and like,
I don't know,
creamy vanilla was a little tiny dash of lemon in the background and
like, I don't know, it just smelled like the color white for whatever reason.
It was like, didn't smell like the color purple.
And those were really, really cool plants. So it was like this,
and they're beautiful. They look a little like star people,
although the flower structure was very different.
It had the same kind of purple that starts in the center and it's just purple
the whole time. It looked pretty similar. Um,
and it has its own unique leaf structure that I hadn't seen in other stuff.
So it was just like,
this is unique enough to cross with the star pupil and to see what purple
craziness comes out.
So right now we're plowing a few of those out and somebody's been a hunting like
a hundred of them.
So I'm going to see what comes out of there and grow a few more of them and
hopefully that'll be a release in the future.
I want to call it the ballot Victorian if it's as good as I expect.
That's a good name. So what would be your advice for an aspiring breeder?
Oh yeah, that's a fun one.
So I love when people want to breed because like breeding is a huge part of
growing for me. It always has been just cause like,
I always ended up just like making a little few seeds on the side while I was
growing stuff for smoking. I think it's a really important part of growing.
Um, if you want to read,
I think you should have a goal to start with.
Like that goal just has to be a vision of like what type of plant you want or
what you want to see happen.
Let's say you have like two strains you like and you just think like,
what if I combine this? Like that's a goal already. Like you're thinking,
you're getting somewhere. Like you have to have a reason to do what you do.
Not just like, all right,
I picked up these 10 clones and like I popped one seed out of a packet and
it's a male, so I'll just hit everything. Like that's not the way you do it.
Um,
you gotta have a little bit of a goal and then a little bit of a plan how you're
gonna like do a decent job versus doing a shitty job, you know?
And to me I tell people like usually like grow some plants that you know you
like.
Let's say you buy a pack of seeds from breeder and you like that strain.
You,
let's say even you pop half the pack and you liked them.
You found that they were all pretty similar and they smoked good and whatever.
And you're like, damn, this is awesome.
And then I have like this female of this other strain that I really like and
like I see them matching up nicely.
Like this one has this trade and this one is that trade and I think it'll
combine good.
And you know,
maybe revisit those seeds maybe buy another couple of packs if you can afford
it.
Um,
and like look through all the males and find a male that you can cross with
your other female of a different strain that you think will work well.
And then just be like, all right, I'm done.
Like grow them out.
Don't just grow one,
grow like as many as you can and give them to people to grow because you're not
going to be able to grow a lot of them.
Give them to people to grow because you're not going to be able to grow
probably all of them.
You know, you're probably going to be able to grow however many fit in grow room.
But if you can pass them out to 10 friends,
you're going to start seeing what's really in there, what you created.
And to me,
there's like nothing more beautiful than combining two plants and then growing
them out and seeing that combination like that you did and seeing like,
Oh shit.
Like there's the benching in the smell from the star pupil,
but then there's like the overwhelming sativa effect from the amnesia
haze and the flowers are purple, but now they're smelling like haze.
But the stem road smells like people and blah, blah, blah.
It's like super fucking exciting when you're growing out your crosses and
you're just seeing the best traits of all plants that you found and put into
that crosses.
And another thing I would say is like research the genetic background of your
strains and take some time to learn which strains have Hermes tendencies and
which don't because sometimes like, I don't know,
you might find something that you like as a plant and you don't realize like
three generations back it has cookies in it.
It just because the F1 cross you got was stable when you grew it doesn't mean
that there's Hermes disasters waiting to happen in your next out cross because
chances are that's what's going to happen if you work with sketchy things
sometimes. So I don't know,
doing some research behind everything like learning the lineage really helps you
get a feel for the plant and kind of expect what you might find,
especially if you dive deeper into more generations and stuff like that.
And I like to look at like seed finder is a pretty good website.
Like I know some people say like they're not that accurate,
but a lot of their stuff's accurate. And then go, you know,
go to a second or a third source and see if it matches up.
And if you know the real lineage of your strain based on like how many people say
what, hopefully you know what's in it. At least maybe it's all wrong,
but usually you can get a good idea and find the plants that vibe with you.
Don't create what you think people want to see.
What you want to see because I don't know people,
sometimes people may be even lack the confidence to know that like their opinion
matters just as much as like some famous ass dudes opinion.
Like you're equal people do. If you want something,
do it and create it. And it's going to be awesome.
Like if you're the only one that likes some weird ass tree,
read for that weird ass tree and make it.
And you're going to find people that love it too.
And they're going to be really happy because they thought the only ones that
wanted that.
Yeah. Sounds like some good plans.
So what's your thoughts on breeding with a mother that was originally a
feminized seed?
Oh yeah, this is a fun one. So I'll tell you right now,
it does not matter if your plant came from a fem or a reg seed.
It matters that exact pheno, that plant that you're dealing with,
how stable it is and how stable it is in a cross. And it's,
it's plain and simple.
You can have a really nice mom from a regular seed and depending whatever
genetics are in that,
it might not be good for breeding or it might be awesome for breeding.
And the same goes for a fem seed.
It could be super stable when you breed with it or it could be super hermine.
But I tell people do a run with your mom's or stress test the hell out of them
and see who croaks, you know,
like fuck with your lights in the middle of the night,
turn them on for a little for like half an hour,
like every couple of weeks during flower.
Like if you can fuck with your temperatures,
like just shut your heat off or shut off your AC and let it go wild for like a
few days. And like, I don't know,
maybe let them almost die for like not watering them and then water them like
just enough that they bounce back. It's all kinds of weird shit.
Like just as a test to see how stable your plants are.
And usually once you've done that,
like you have at least a much better chance that they're going to out cross
well because they seem to be stable. Although it's not always the case.
You definitely just have to grow up whatever cross you make. But, um,
it's no secret that you need your pupil.
The amnesia Hayes came from a fem seed from Royal queen seeds and I was not
planning on breeding with it, but I just found some amazing pheno.
And I was like, fuck it, let's see what happens.
And I was totally expecting it to be like some sketchy ass army cross because
it was offensive, but they all came out super stable and super amazing.
That mom was a really, really good plant and it was so, so vigorous.
Didn't matter that it was from a fem seed. It was insanely vigorous.
So I don't know.
I see a lot of good things come from femme seeds and see a lot of good things
come from like seeds too.
Yeah, I can definitely attest to that.
So in regards to being more of a well-established breeder these days,
do you find that there's any difficulty in dealing with multiple seed banks?
Is there a times where you wish you were just going through one or do you kind
of like being able to spread your work out a bit?
Um,
I like being able to spread it out because for whatever reason,
like customers seem to have their own preference. Like some,
some growers are just like, when's it coming to Neptune? And I'm like, dude,
it's at a seed bank and this seed bank. Like if you want it,
go get it before it's gone. Cause it's limited.
And they're like, I'm going to wait till Neptune gets it.
Or like I'm going to wait till the East coast gets it.
And sometimes they're not even like locally from that area.
It's just like where they prefer to shop for whatever reason.
So it's kind of cool to spread them out to different places and different
people. And like, you know, some of the seed banks are close friends of mine.
So it's like they, in my book, they come first,
like it first dibs on whatever.
And then the people who take like a month to answer me,
like it's their fault if they miss a drop or something,
but people are just going to get them. Like it's kind of first come,
first serve. Like I reach out to everybody and tell them like, all right,
these are coming next. And then get them if you want them.
Don't get them if you don't, but this is what's happening.
I try to like tag the seed banks that only have this train when it's
available and stuff. It's hard to keep track obviously.
So sometimes I just tag them all and I'm like,
just look through them and see if you can find it. Yeah. But yeah,
I like it.
So onto our last question before the short fire ones,
who is someone, cause you mentioned earlier, you've done some collabs before,
but who are some breeders who you would love to do a collab with going forward?
And more importantly, how would you logistically envision the project go down?
Would you want it to be like you select one parent,
I select the other or how would you want to do it?
Um, definitely would love to do a collab with Bodhi.
Just because I find that he vibes,
I vibe with him like with his whole philosophy and his way of doing things
and his vision of the plant and kind of, yeah,
pretty much he's one of my favorite breeders.
So I would like to do something with him if he was down for it. Like, I mean,
I've read with some of his work before,
so I would love to see him breed some of mine and it could go any way that
works, you know, like send him a cut or send him, uh,
send him seeds to hunt through and, you know,
maybe hit it with one of his males in his own program or whatever.
Or maybe he sent me something special to work with. Um,
and then, you know, same with any other breeder.
If I was going to collab like something like that, like right now, um,
I didn't even really realize how it was a collab, but I sent Dragon's Flame,
um, a Fino of D-man's Panama powerhouse.
And then D-man was like, yeah, he can breed with it. And I was like, yeah,
you can breed with it. And then all of a sudden I was like, Oh shit,
we're collaborating, aren't we? Cool. Hell yeah.
And I talked to him a lot. He's a cool dude.
It's like some really unique things going on and he does really,
really large hunts. So, um, he's got some awesome selections for sure.
So now he's, he released this pan dragon, which is basically,
it's a collab of the three of us. Cause I hunted the Panama powerhouse,
that D-man bred, and Dragon's Flame crossed it with his Dragon's Stash males.
So stuff like that's really cool.
And then who else would I want to work with? Definitely more so with D-man.
I was really impressed with his stellar collision,
which was a star pupil crossed with power load.
And that shit was a power load, dude. It was fucking strong.
I was so surprised that just like how ridiculous those plants were,
like these huge baseball bats. But then it was potent too. And I was like,
damn, you nailed it. Really, really nice.
So collab's always fun. I'm always open to it.
Like any breeder that vibes with me, like, I don't know,
they pretty much have to not like cookies and then they're in.
I like people that grow organically and like have a decent sense for the plant
and pretty respectful. And like, I don't know.
I think the vibe just has a lot to do with everything.
And then the breeding practices too.
Yeah, of course it all follows through. So onto our last set of questions,
the quick fire ones. Firstly, what is your favorite strain at the moment?
Damn.
It totally depends on my mood. It's either star pupil, Panama powerhouse.
Mr. E is a go-to because it's always comfortable.
If I'm like super anxious, I'll just smoke the Mr. E.
And I never get too high. I'm always just like perfectly grounded,
but at the same time it's pretty damn strong.
So that's a really special plant too. Those are like my top three at the moment.
Yeah. Okay.
And so now to get a bit more specific favorite strain of all time, only one.
Damn.
I got to go with my baby star pupil because that thing is,
it's just too special. I don't know.
It's brought me on so many journeys and brought me so much happiness and
to so many other people too. It's just like super good vibes all around.
And somehow I never get bored of it growing it like so many times.
So I guess that's the one, but there's a lot of close seconds for sure.
So conversely, on the other end of the spectrum, what's the strain,
which just least jived with you?
Oh, it's definitely girl scout cookies.
And I'll elaborate on that because I don't want people to just like not
understand.
Basically it's like the strain that to you when you hit something with the girl
scout cookies,
it just becomes cookies and obviously we'll have like different
expressions based on what you process with a little bit.
But like I always can pick out the cookies like in one toke,
I can just taste it or just smelling the bud.
Like it's just the cookies are very dominating strain to me.
Even when it seems not to be like, I can just pick it out.
And it's not just that it hurts and all that. It's like,
I physically can't smoke it personally because like it gives me this
crazy depression, anxiety, like bad head space.
And it comes through in the process too. So whatever reason,
like I don't like that strain and then to make it worse,
like everybody started breeding with it and putting it in everything.
And I swear it's like every other plant I see in my explore
pages like, Hey, that looks good. But it kind of looks like cookie.
I wonder what it is. And then I click on it and it's like something,
something cookies or something else.
So something across the cookies in the background,
there's so many breeders using it and it makes it so that I can't smoke half the
weed that's out there. And I try to be open-minded. So I always smoke it.
And then I have a bad time every fucking time. And there was two cookies,
there was two cookies crosses that I liked out of,
I've documented at least 15 that I've tried,
but I've probably tried more than that because I don't usually write down when
I smoke shit, but I've smoked a lot of cookies and I only like two of them ever.
And they were like pretty far out across in the ones that I liked. Yeah.
And yeah, I don't know. It's just like fucking up the gene pool really bad because
I don't know,
cross anything into everything and then you lose diversity and you can never get
it back fully because it's in there. It's like, I don't know,
imagine there was a GMO strain and everyone was like, fuck GMOs.
And then like if every other strain had that in there, it would be a huge issue.
So to me it's contamination and it's simply a strain that I don't like and I
appreciate,
I respect the fact that people do like it because for a lot of people that
Girl Scout cookies is like good medicine or it's a good point or whatever they
like about it.
And I completely respect that because what am I favorite might be,
could be their least favorite. I don't know.
Like everybody has their own body and everything works differently for them.
So I respect the plant,
but I feel like it's way way overused and it's really causing problems in
breeding and in diversity. And like when you go to a dispensary,
every strain is like the same thing.
When it's three quarters of them are just a cookie's cross and then the one you
think isn't a cookie's cross, you look it up and it is.
That's a thorough answer. I like that.
So if you could only grow one land race strain for the rest of your life,
which one would it be?
Oh shit.
Um,
see that's tricky because first I went to Panama and then I was like, dude,
sometimes Panama is way too fucking strong. Like it's for my whole life.
I'm just going to go crazy if I only smoke that. So I mean,
can I grow other strains on the side to balance it out?
Okay.
Um,
damn,
that's super tricky cause like that's a favorite of mine,
but that's too strong. Honestly.
Like I need something more mellow that I can chill with so that I can smoke it
like whenever I need to.
Probably like
some purple type of packs to any land race just cause like they're not that
strong and I love strong weed.
But if I was stuck with something forever,
I would have to go with something that's a little bit mellower just like for my
own sanity because a lot of the stuff that I breathe,
I can't smoke it every day. It's like when I'm inexperienced or like when I'm,
when I'm in the right mindset, I can smoke them days and days in a row.
But then other times it's like, give me something mellow.
This shit's too strong. The land races are pretty wild sometimes.
Yeah, that's, that's a good pick. I was kind of thinking in my mind,
the packy cause of those reasons you mentioned.
Plus you can even find some like a narrow leaf packies as well. So, you know,
it goes both ways sometimes.
So next question,
what's the biggest mistake you see people making when they're starting to breed?
Um,
not using enough selection because I see so many people
that they pop two pack, two seeds out of like one pack.
Let's say like they're growing a few different strains,
but each one they only popped like one or two seeds and then like something
gives them a male and they're just like, that's my male. And while that can work,
that's just a crap shoot. Like if you're lucky that will work.
But nine out of 10 times,
if you select a male out of like even 10 males instead of one male,
you can look for something that you're looking for rather than just using what
you have. And the same goes for females too. Actually. I mean,
I really love hunting males and I could get into that a little,
what I like to look for. But first I want to say that people,
I don't know, I see a lot of beginner breeders,
like they pop one or a few seeds and they got like one stable female and they
just like go and breed with it.
And it's not like the worst idea because like you could for sure make something
good. And if you're just doing it for yourself and your friends at school,
but there's so much more potential and more fun really if you can do a larger
gene pool and people always say like they don't have the space and blah, blah,
blah,
but like just grow smaller plants and grow more of them and look for like
something special.
Like I think you have to know this plant a little bit more like you can start
breeding when you start growing for sure.
But you have to keep an eye on the plant as a species and see what variation
are in there and what you like and what you don't like.
And that's how you're going to create something a little bit better is by
weeding out the bad ones. And like a lot of people will say like, yeah,
I have this one plant and it's pretty, it's not strong,
but it has all these other traits and the flavor sucks.
And then I'll cross over this and try to make it better. And I'm like, dude,
if you have bigger selection,
you'd probably find a stronger one to work with to begin with that has maybe a
better flavor.
And then like work with a good plant and another good plant and make those
better.
Don't work with a shitty plant and a decent plant and try to make gold because
you certainly can, but it's just more work. And like at this point,
there's so much good stuff out there. Like just pick a good one,
like find a good one, take the time to find special plants.
And then it'll create some really cool stuff.
Yeah, for sure. And I mean, you just kind of said yourself,
you'd love to talk about some mouse selection stuff.
Why don't we do it before we wrap it up?
Okay. So male selection, right? Yeah.
Yeah. So basically I try to look at the male plants as if they were female
plants and look for kind of the same things you would look for.
The only thing is that you can't smoke it. I mean,
people say you can try to smoke it, but there's no buzz to smoke.
It's plain and simple.
You're not going to go smoking your males really to get high. So, um,
my first piece of advice is like general grow males of the strain that you've
already grown before and smoke the females,
or at least if you haven't grown it,
you've smoked a female of it and you know what it's like.
And um,
pay attention to like the Fino of the female in that strain that you're looking
for,
especially if it's like a poly hybrid that may have a few different Finos,
you might want to select the male that kind of seems to match up with the female
that you liked. Um,
and you have to do all of this with all your other senses. You can't smoke it,
but the male plant is just as much of a cannabis plant as the female plant.
And uh, when you first start flowering males, like a lot of people just like,
okay, cool, there's pollen, let's use it. But I don't know,
that's kind of early to make your decision because the male flowers develop
over time and sometimes they'll start dropping a little pollen,
but they're not fully grown yet.
You haven't seen like how it really stacks and how it gets resonance and
trichomes and what it, you know, like there's a lot more to see.
So I recommend first of all, get like strain you like,
start a bunch of seeds of it.
You can even call the females if you don't have time for that or give them away
or whatever. But like you want a lot of males to look through and you can do it.
You have to squeeze them into two by four or four by four or whatever.
Like small areas, fine, small plants are fine. But like the more plants,
the better like flowering a two or three gallon if you can, like to keep them small,
but still get a decent expression off of them.
You can flower them in a soil bed if you want,
then you can do way more plants that way. Like in a four by four bed,
I like to start 250 seeds and then narrow it down to like 30 to 50 final plants
to hit flower with.
And then you can really look through the phenos as they're flowering and you can
clone off of whatever you need. And you can re-veg a male clone too.
You just got to keep picking off the pollen stacks, but it works usually.
Um, and let's see. So flower a whole bunch of those.
Find, you got to stem rub them. Like I said earlier,
stem rub them like probably every week or so. Um,
starting pretty early, you know,
when they're a few nodes tall and they start smelling pretty good.
I love to hunt males under full spectrum lighting,
especially at CMH because you can really smell the terpenes a lot more with that
kind of lighting. Maybe it's the UV, maybe it's the full spectrum,
but when you've got really, really stinky plants,
you get a really good clue to like what,
what pheno that may be or like the intensity of the is big with the male that,
that can help a lot to pass on to the next generation and get you something
really, really terpy. Um, and let's see,
there's a lot of growth characteristics in veg that are really,
characteristics in veg that are pretty important when you're going through big
selections.
Like if you're starting a few hundred in solo cups and they're ready for
transplant,
this is where you're going to throw half of them out because you're going to
look at the root development as you take them out of the cup and everything that
has half-assed roots. It doesn't matter how good the plant is.
It's not perfect. Get rid of it.
You got to call it a lot of plants so that you're just ending up with the best
one. So even if each stage of transplant, you have to,
we'd out half the plants just to fit your space.
Like that's good because you're only going to keep the best and um,
you have root development is big just because you want the best point you can
get in like every aspect and something that grows roots fast,
probably going to grow above ground faster too. Um,
let's see the first males that show sex. I always kill those no matter what.
Like when you're just in beds and everybody's showing female or male,
like there's usually one day where like, you know,
maybe a few of the males show like it doesn't matter. Just get rid of those.
Um,
usually the later showing males are better or more recessive.
Um, all of these things, by the way,
you have to test in your cross because they can be totally wrong.
Sometimes the male will not pass on what you think it will. Um,
and it depends on the cross,
the cross with a few different things and see what happens and grow those all
out.
But these tips will help you get like at least one of the best males of your
stock that you're working with.
And you might want to try a few different ones and like a few different branches
and label everything and keep the clothes.
But then going into flower, you want to see like,
does it stack hard like a female? Does it stretch super shitty,
lanky and weak? Or does it have like a little more better structure,
like more branching for the same size plants? Usually a good thing.
Like I don't know, there's a certain structure I like to look for, but it's,
you know, look for a good plant.
Don't just take one male that you have because you had two seeds.
Go through a lot of males,
whatever you can afford to do and like just find that
awesome plant.
Like almost every male that I've ever used has been super resinous.
I've heard other breeders saying that they've never seen a resinous male and
I'm like, how I see them all the time. Like they're out there.
There maybe depends what genes you're working with because some strains may
just not go in. But I think the bigger selection,
the better things you're going to find. So go for big selection,
look for female qualities. Um, the smell is super important.
The intensity of the smell and just the growth habits.
Maybe don't pick the very tallest male either, but something in the middle,
a little vigorous is nice.
Yeah. Wow. That's a really comprehensive little rundown.
Do you think that may be some of the reason a lot of people don't see those
resinous males is because maybe they might claim to,
but they just don't really let the flowers bloom that long.
Cause that's something I noticed, you know, a lot of people,
as you mentioned will be pretty quick to cull the male off.
Yeah. Um, well like,
when I did the blue Magoo males and I had like 23,
22 males,
there was three resonance ones that are straight up frosty veg.
So I knew right off the bat.
And then I was flowering those three and a few others.
And those three were like pretty taped on some areas,
like really frosty before pollen even came out. Um,
and that might've been kind of an exception. Those were like early,
early frosty ones, but, um,
yeah, definitely. Some of the males that I thought were like, yeah, it's good,
but Oh, well it's not frosty.
Like then they turned out to be frosty later flower too.
So that's definitely a good point.
Like people might make their selections to just because it started dropping
pollen,
but you just got to keep it somewhere separate and like bring it in when you're
ready to use it when you know it's the right choice.
Yeah. Solid advice.
So we'll jump back now to the actual last question of our interview.
And it is, if you could go back to any one place, any moment in time,
presumably to collect seeds or maybe a clone, where would you go and why?
Oh, I like that. The clone part. I never thought about that.
But, um, yeah, probably like, I don't know.
India always seemed to vibe with me.
Maybe it's just the imagery that I've been exposed to,
but it just seems like such a beautiful place where like some beautiful plants
with amazing vibes have to come from.
So probably like the mountains in India and when probably,
I don't know how long they've been cultivating there,
but I know they've been for a while. So like I would want to go
before like white people started breeding, I guess,
before we like fucked everything up with our polyhybrids.
So anytime before, I don't know, even the early 1900s,
I'm sure like there was some great like locally bred stuff that wasn't like
super hybridized,
but just like nice selections that came from land rights in the area.
Like, you know, like a good air,
like a family heirloom somewhere in India a hundred years ago.
That would be really, really, really cool.
Yeah, for sure.
I think there's a lot of stuff locked away in India that we haven't seen yet,
so to speak.
Yeah, definitely.
There's all these people living in the mountains that have their strains that
they grow there and there's a lot of wild strains and there's,
there's like remote locations and really,
really interesting things that are hiding from civilization,
which probably is for the best.
So we don't ruin it like by bringing our own seeds in there and stuff.
Yeah. Right. So I think that one, um,
that might bring us about to the end of it.
Was there any shout outs or comments you wanted to make?
Um, yeah.
Shout out to everybody that's growing organically because it's like the
single most important thing. Um,
and grow for like grow with good vibes and good intentions,
really. Um, it's like, I don't know,
organic and good vibes.
It's like, so some people it's just going to sound like hippie trash, whatever,
but seriously think about it. It's the healthiest way.
Like people are going to be smoking your product.
Like there doesn't have to be any bottle stuff in there.
And then like the vibes you put in that goes along with you like what you're
doing,
it's really going to show and you're going to create some amazing vibes and just
like do what you love. Don't do it to impress people. Do it like for yourself,
maybe impress yourself, but, um,
just have fun and like shout outs dangerous.
Cause I don't want to miss anybody, but, um,
definitely a huge thank you to everybody who's helped me in any way,
like with growing, teaching me things or like teaching others,
um, everybody who wrote those books that made me so paranoid.
Like you're the reason that I'm not in jail. So thank you for that too. Uh,
like everybody
does doing good things for the canvas community. Um,
there's so many people working their asses off,
like in politics and shit like that,
just to like try to get weed to be a little bit more legal and safe for like a
few more people. And that stuff really, really goes a long way.
Like those are the people that are changing lives by making so like less people
get in trouble for such like,
and it's a basic human right to apply it.
So like thank you to all those warriors out there that like doing really awesome
things cause it makes a big impact.
And then it's like everybody that's ever bred anything that I've grown because
most of it is a hell of a lot easier to grow than like the early ass land races
for sure. So even, you know,
every all the strains that we're all growing, they're super special.
And people definitely need to respect even like there's,
there's a few things you can say about them, but they're,
there's a lot of work that goes into everything.
So there's thank you to like everybody in the community that's doing anything
good because it's pretty much all good. There's so many good things going on.
Yeah, I totally agree. So again,
a big thank you for coming on the show and for sharing all your wisdom with us
mass medical strands.
Cool. Thank you so much for having me. That was a blast.
So there you have it crew.
A big thank you to mass medical strains for taking the time to chat with us
again. And a big thank you for you guys for sitting through till the end.
Our sponsors as always 420 Australia organic gardening solutions,
seeds here now best in the game and what they do. Check them out.
You will not be disappointed. And the patron gang as always,
you guys get the biggest shout out. We love you.
Thanks so much for donating something cool is in the works guys.
All of the patron fans will get a shot at being on a future episode.
Keep that one in your cap. Anyway, I'll check you guys next time.
