Hello and welcome to the second episode of The Podcast, a cannabis podcast for
budding enthusiasts. This episode was brought to you by 420Australia.org. Be
sure to use the discount code THEPODCAST, all one word, to get a special 5%
off discount at the checkout, as well as Lucky Dog Seeds, who you can expect to see
some amazing Chem 91 crosses from in the near future. In this episode we're joined
by Skunk VA, who was kind enough to give us some in-depth history on the scene, as
well as a killer recount of how he came to acquire the 91 cutting, his general
plans for the future and some general thoughts on the scene. So without further
ado, I'd like to welcome our next guest onto the show, Skunk VA. You know, thanks
so much for taking the time to talk to us today. Right on, thanks for having me.
And so before we get into it, I'm just gonna basically remind everyone that for
this interview, we're gonna refer to the man chem dog as Mass G or just G and the
strain as chem dog or the 91 or the VA cutting, just so we can hopefully avoid
some confusion because that's something which comes up a lot when talking about
this type of stuff. And the other thing I was gonna say is for this interview, I
think kind of the most fitting way to start it would be to actually kind of
start at the middle and then go back to the start just so that people kind of
have an understanding of where you fit into the whole scene. So, so far, the
story online seems to be what I gather pretty inaccurate, but this is how it
goes. Essentially, you met Mass G online on
Overgrown. The two of you chatted, became friends, you ended up trading clones. You
got the 91 off him and he got the skunk from you or the super skunk. Some years
later, chem got raided, he lost his clones. Eventually, you guys met back up and you
gave him the 91 back and here we are a few years later. How accurate is that
story in general? There's definitely pieces of that that add up or that are
true, but that's not really the timeline. I didn't meet G until 2006. I got the chem
dog in 1995, a few days before Jerry Garcia died in July of 1995.
Rest in peace, Jerry. Yes, absolutely. Yeah, it's been a big whip. I'm going to see,
going to McLaren Park tomorrow in San Francisco. It's Jerry Garcia day at the
amphitheater. That's actually called Jerry Garcia amphitheater. I'm pretty excited
about it. Yes, rest in peace, Jerry. Thanks for everything out there, of course.
What happened was, I'm just going to start from the beginning.
Go for it. How I came into the chem dog. I'm from Virginia
originally and lots of us people, lots of us young folks from Virginia my age, we
ended up on Grateful Dead tour because that's what was going on in America at
the time, you know, like 1988, 1989, 1990. Seems like every time they passed through,
they would take a whole other wave of us with them, you know. And for some reason
when you were on tour, there was a lot of people from Virginia. I can't really
explain it to you, but there was a lot of people from Virginia for some reason. And
I found myself following the Grateful Dead around and pretty much left
Virginia to do that. It was kind of a full-time thing for me. And what that
means is, and of course there's not a show every night, there's not a, you know, a
tour going on constantly. There's three or four tours a year and then a bunch of
other Jerry Garcia band or Grateful Dead shows that you would, or Jerry Garcia
band shows that you might catch. And those were always centered around San
Francisco in the early 90s. And so, you know, in between tours you would find
yourself in the Bay Area, California, you know, waiting around for the next show
basically. And, you know, one of the ways that we would kind of put food in our
mouths and, you know, when you were at the Grateful Dead show, it was really easy
to make money. Money was in the air. I mean, anybody who's, you know, 35 or 40 or
older knows what I'm talking about. But between shows, life can get kind of
hard. And, you know, I found myself in San Francisco hanging around the Panhandle
Park. And back then, of course, marijuana was very difficult to find at times,
especially in the summertime before harvest. And there just wasn't the type
of indoor volume going on, you know, as we have today, obviously. And, you know, pot
prices could be anywhere from, you know, $400 to $450 for a weighed ounce. And to
get a weighed ounce for that price, you were getting hooked up by your friend,
you know. So what we would do is we would get ounces and we would break them into
what we called heights, which were like 2.8 grams, and get a couple little extra
ones out of there. And then basically find customers in the park who were,
honestly, 80% of those people were ill. You know, you could see sometimes that
more than often that there was something going on with them. And that's where they
would come. And it was a shady transaction every time because, you know,
selling marijuana was a felony. And we were just kids in the park.
We were like, you know, fish in a barrel, if you know what I mean. And basically,
that's what was going on. So I was down there. And when I was growing up in
Virginia, we smoked stuff like the Super Skunk. It was called the 86 Super Skunk
later on, which it was also later called the Mass Skunk, the Mass Super Skunk.
And I'll get to that in a little bit. But so the things that we were growing were a
lot of things out of the Super Sativa seed bank catalog from, you know, he put
out a lot of stuff. And I don't know when this started coming out, but I've got a
few of them digitally archived. I'm really happy about that because they had the
numbers and what they were. And that was the fellow who went all around the world
and, you know, buddied up with people in the Kush Mountains in Afghanistan or
Africa or, you know, even the United States. And somehow he had this network of
breeders all over the world. And I think in Virginia, that was probably one of his
seed producers because, you know, we always seemed like we always had like the
cream of the crop of what the stuff was coming out of this catalog. And there
was some even, for instance, the Beatrix Choice, which was always my favorite
before I left my hometown. And it was very rare. It was like the Holy Grail, you
know, it was like, oh my God, you got a bag of Beatrix Choice. And even in the
catalog, I think in the 87 version, he actually mentioned Central Virginia. So
but anyway,
so yeah, in between. So 90, like, I think it was, it was, it must have been January
of 1993. I was in the park and I was kind of always away from the crowd. I was kind
of a, I don't know, kind of more I was I didn't like doing this kind of thing. It
would make me very uncomfortable. But this is kind of what we did to, you know,
to make it get a hotel that night, get a four space that night, get us some food
in our belly, whatever, you know, just kind of make it to the next day so we can,
you know, be around when the next show start. And basically, I was sitting on
the bench and this guy comes walking down, I'll never forget this moment, it
was a big moment in my life. And I knew it at the time. But this guy comes walking
down the sidewalk and, and he's got this grin on his face. He's got a ponytail.
And he comes walking, he's got me locked in his eyes and comes walking through the
panhandle. He walks right up to me. I knew I was like this guy either really
needs a sack of weed or maybe, maybe just maybe he's got one. And he did he
offered me he goes, Hey, he had a heavy, heavy New York accent. And we started
talking and he didn't waste any time and he and I asked him I said, Hey, you do
you need a sack of weed or something? And he says, Actually, bro, I was gonna ask
you. And this guy has like the quintessential heaviest net New York
accent. It's kind of funny. And I was like, wow. And I just knew so because he
had that he had that look I had growers all over the nation, you know, I
everywhere we went, you would look for those familiar faces, the guy you saw
somewhere in that area last time, you know, in a little, you know, set of
shows four or five or six in Ohio area, you'd see this guy, you know, maybe even
don't remember his name, but you know, his face and he's always got to kill.
When you were on tour, that was really a big part of your day was you had to make
some money, you had to get a ticket for the show. And these are not necessarily
in this order, because the ticket always came first. And you had to find yourself
some head stash. And it was the head stash was always the most challenging
part. And if you were like me, and you didn't really have your own ride, you
had to find a ride to the next show, you know? So anyway, so he we started talking
and he goes, Listen, man, I just moved out here from New York City in Sonoma
County, and my electricity is getting ready to get turned off tomorrow. I don't
know anybody. I moved out here, me and my girlfriend from Staten Island. And you
know, if you could help me, it would be I would really appreciate it. And I was
just like, Dude, you have no idea. I think we're gonna help each other both, you
know, mutually a lot right now. So what do you got? And so he takes me back, we
walked back to his van, and he's got one of those. He's got one of those extended,
you know, like when you see an extended van, like one of the big old cargo vans,
and it had like the line at the back of the van where you can see where they
extended it to get the extra three or four feet. Yeah, this line, this van
actually had another line with another set of two feet, you know, behind it,
this thing was like 1718 feet long, it was the biggest van I've ever seen. And
we're parked, he parked like on a pretty sharp hill in San Francisco, and we get
in there. And he's like, I'm like, Well, first off, you know, man, how much how
much you're gonna be, you know, how much would you sell this to me for? Like I
mentioned, cannabis, marijuana, it was going for $450 an ounce that day from
your buddy, and you had to wait for him to get up, you had to wait for him to get
down to the street. It was a nightmare. And also you had to dig it out, because
everybody needs a little bit. It wasn't like you're the first person to get to
see and you wanted two ounces, you know, he would just give you one ounce so that
makes to make sure you have other routes for you know, somebody else, one of his
other friends is gonna say, you know, it was always a hassle. And so this was
unbelievable. I couldn't believe it, you know, and this guy starts pulling out
this amazing indoor. I mean, and the indoor, you know, you would find it down
there in the city that those days, but it was extremely rare, even in California in
the early 90s like this. And it was mostly outdoor, beautiful outdoor, I would
say even nicer outdoor than we see these days. But But still, indoor was very
rare. And he had a string called Francine. He had a very small amount of
Kim dog he told me about and and and and I was very impressed with it. He
didn't have any for me to to buy or anything like that. But he had we smoked
a little bit while we were chit chatting and talking about, you know, Grateful
Dead and nugs and all the things you talk about when you meet someone, you
know, people, kindred people meet like this, you know? Yeah. And he had a what
else? Oh, he had this other really fluffy one. And by the way, fluffy was the way
to go. If you could get the fluffy we'd like because it just looks bigger when
you're only weighing 2.8 grams out, you know, and or I get out so and and he was
like, I was like, All right, so what what do you want for this? And I mean, because
I'm ready to work. I mean, if he wants $450 an ounce, then we're going to go up
to the street and we're going to find everybody a new song and we're going to
sell for 450 bucks. He is I don't know, do you think 300 would be good? And I was
like, I almost kissed him. You know what I mean? I was like, Yes, I think that
would be great. I think that'd be perfect. And but you have to do me one favor, you
have to stay right here. Don't leave like don't go wandering around and every
single kid that you see with a backpack and a skateboard. Don't walk up to him
and ask him because you know, I'm gonna you know, let me take care of this. I
would appreciate it, you know, and I'll make sure that you know, you get your
money and you go home and pay your electric bill. And so he's like, no
problem, man. No problem. And he brought himself up a few joints. And we we got
some books and some other things we found his van, we made like a nice little
level spot and we started weighing the mugs up. And so the thing went well, all
day long, I just kept running back and forth down the street. And I hope the
statute of limitations is run out on that crime. But I think this was I think
January I have a hard time with this particular date in my own little personal
timeline here because but I'm pretty sure it was January 1993. And so anyways,
I made a pocket full of money and a big fat sack of killer indoor head stash. And
this guy really had some of the best indoor I've ever seen so far in my life.
And I'd seen quite a bit I was fortunate enough to see quite a bit. And he told me
he goes, man, I'm so appreciative. He was I was very appreciative, but he was
tenfold appreciative. I mean, he was like, I it was out of proportion how
appreciative he was. And he kept talking about and I'm like, man, it's no
problem. I was like, I'm gonna go sleep in downtown and I'm not going out to the
marine and crash on the floor. I'm gonna go get my own damn room tonight, you know.
And so anyway, he said, listen to me, I live here because Jerry Garcia plays at
the Warfield. That's the whole reason I moved out here. I don't. You know,
California is a dream to me, but I came here to see Jerry Garcia as much as I
can. And, you know, just in case anybody doesn't know what that means. Like Jerry
Garcia at the Warfield was like church to a deadhead. That's that's like that's you
get you get you get as close as possible back then.
You know, concerts, Grateful Dead concerts were big events, you know, three days at a
stadium with 90,000 people in it.
You know, no problem sold out and probably another 20,000 people who don't even have
tickets. It was a mayhem.
So to see Jerry Garcia at a roughly I think I think the Warfield's like twelve to
sixteen hundred people.
Maybe it's a pretty small theater.
It's an old theater in San Francisco.
It was a very special thing, you know, and playing his music that he wanted to play us.
I mean, it was amazing. And, you know, he would play on average there three to six
shows every month, I think, if you average it out, you know, so it was a lot, you know,
and they had these tables there and he said to me, he goes, hey, I have a I get up at
the morning at the crack of dawn at five a.m.
I go down to the Warfield.
I sit in line.
I have a whole group of friends that I know just from sitting in this line just so I can
get this table. And if you'd like to come, I will always save you a chair because I'm
just that appreciative.
I will always say save you a chair.
You're always welcome to come down.
And I was like, wow, man, and I'm sure there was some shows coming up.
And and so I did.
I went down there and sure enough, the man, he was almost like you couldn't wait to see
me, you know, and I get there and that's my spot, you know, for for.
The rest of the time the jury was alive, I always went inside that chair next to him.
And and it was it was an amazing experience just being there because, you know, this guy
was quite the networker himself as far as growers around the nation.
And, you know, did it just travel?
Well, obviously, you know, we go all over the place to see this stuff we did still and
growers from all over the country would come and they would link up with him and come set
the table and bring their wares, bring their their their ganja, you know, like their
best buds, you know, and Steve Parrish would come from behind the stage.
He was Jerry Garcia's tech sound guitar man, probably his bounce for, you know, every he
was everything to Jerry in the professional setting.
You know, he was the guy who wiped down Jerry's guitar between set breaks and he would
come out, right? And he would smoke.
Ramrod came out a couple of times that he was visiting to see Jerry show.
He was a another roadie of the Grateful Dead and Bob Snodgrass and Maria
Snodgrass would come out also.
They they're Bob Snodgrass is the guy who probably blew the very first glass marijuana
pipe, you know. So this is where I get the timeline a little confused because it
seemed like back then we were young and I probably I would imagine everybody feels this
way. But back when we were young, like a month or like a season could seem like a year
in your memory as you look back in your life, you know, you're like, how could that much
stuff happen in my life in that short period of time as I got older?
I've always kind of tripped out on that, you know?
Yeah. And so. It wasn't too long after I met him, though, and like I said, Jerry was
always playing there that I asked, I asked this guy, I said, hey, hey, man, is it OK?
My friend, I would tell him about the Super Skunk.
That's what it was. I would tell him about the Super Skunk.
Oh, yeah. You know how it is.
You're like, yeah, this is nice, but you should see this stuff in my hometown or, you
know, it's always like the fish that got away.
You know what I mean? I'd tell him about the Super Skunk and he he heard about it.
He knew about it. You know, he had, like I said, friends all over the place.
And he was like, well, you got to give me some, you know, I want to check it out.
Man, you always talk about the Super Skunk.
So one night or one weekend or a week or whatever.
Excuse me, some of the some of the people that I grew up growing, some of the people
that grew the weed that I smoked when I was growing up came out to see Jerry at the
Warfield and it linked up with me.
And I was like, hey, I'm ask my buddy, see if you guys want to come to the table, man,
that'd be kind of cool, you know, we all have an amazing pop session, a good time.
Let me just ask my friend.
So I asked the guy, the table guy, you know, and I said, hey, man, would it be cool if
these guys came? And, you know, they got they brought some Super Skunk with me.
You get a chance to try it. He's like, hell yeah, definitely.
So, you know, I was just pretty much a kid.
I mean, I was, you know, what, 19 at the time or 20, 21, 21, I guess.
And, you know, these guys were grown men, most of them, even the person I'm talking
about with the that shared his seat at the table with me.
And, you know, they were all growers and they had their own discussions, you know what I
mean? And they started chatting.
And the thing about people from Virginia and I don't know if Tommy told you this or I
guess he lived it. You don't really need to.
He doesn't need to tell you, but it's a harsh place for people who who, you know, are
involved with cannabis and any any acid smoking any way.
I mean, it's you can get yourself in a lot of trouble there with the law.
Yeah. So, of course, that leads to a culture of a lot of quiet, you know, reserve.
You know, you got to watch who you talk to.
You've got to really watch your step and keep your business to yourself if you want to,
you know, even just grow some head stash for yourself there.
And that's how those guys were.
They didn't talk about anybody.
And even though I knew they smoked, they didn't talk about me.
You know what I mean? And I was OK with that because I understood.
So I was surprised that they, you know, they opened up to each other and it was cool, you
know, and, you know, they came back out for another set of shows.
We got to know each other over that weekend.
And finally, some of the boys from Virginia said to me, they said, hey, listen, your
buddy from New York, he asked us about if we could get him super skunk cuttings.
I was like, oh, yeah. What did you tell him?
And he goes, you know, we kind of kind of didn't really answer.
We wanted to talk to you.
How long you know this guy?
And I was like, well, you know, I haven't known him very long, but, you know, I know a lot
about him. I know that, you know, he's an all right guy.
And they took my took my I felt like they went out on a limb because they took the 21
year old's advice that, hey, this guy's OK, man.
It's OK to talk to him a little bit and get to know him, exchange phone numbers and stuff,
which was a really big deal.
I mean, today it seems silly to think about that, but it was a really big deal at the
time. And so they did.
And, you know, quick, quick order, you know, they actually went went went into process
and and what the plan was, was he was going to bring a couple of cuttings out from
Sonoma County, fly them out to New York where he's from and get a couple of Kim dog
cuttings. And he was going to meet them.
They were going to drive up from Virginia with some super skunk cuttings, a couple.
And then and then make an exchange and they were going to take the Kim dog back to
Virginia, or I think, you know what, thinking back, I think they were actually going for
this thing he had called the Francine.
It was I don't I haven't seen in years.
It was the only one ever showed.
And it was really nice.
It's beautiful like a Northern Lights kind of thing.
And they really liked it.
That's the one they wanted. And when he went back there, he got a couple of Kim dog
cuttings. This is in 1993 still.
It had to be in 1993.
And and he took he went back and got a couple of Kim dogs locally from that area.
And he was tied into that whole Kim dog family that was there.
They used to grow Kim dog in apartments using Peters and had these killer like 10
pound harvest from just a few bites, you know, and they would so they would sell the
stuff in Central Park for eight hundred dollars an ounce.
And it was legendary.
You know what I mean? It was crazy.
But he was tied into that to that crowd.
So somehow he got some Kim dog cuttings and then they came up with the super skunk and
they made an exchange.
And then in order to kind of pay whoever helped him out, he gave them a super skunk
cutting there. And then so he brought back the Kim dog and the super skunk back to the
West Coast. The guy, the New York guy.
Right. Yeah.
So that's how he got out here.
And that's that was the trade that that eventually, as far as I know and the way I
understand it, is that's where the mascot became the mascot was that super skunk
cutting that came up from Virginia.
Right. Yeah.
So and then I don't know all this because I wasn't there for that.
You know, I know that's what happened because, you know, I knew all the people involved,
but I don't know what happened to super skunk.
A hundred percent, but I definitely have seen pictures of the mass super skunk.
And without a doubt, that's the mascot.
I mean, I'm sorry, the super skunk, the 86 super sativa C-club super skunk.
Without a doubt, it was the most distinctive bud because it always had this one little
pregnant belly that would pop off on not all around the bud, but only on one side
and not necessarily on the side the light was on, but only on one side.
And if you look at it's a in that 86 catalog or the 87, one of the two, it's very
distinct. That picture, it looks exactly like the seed that was popped where I grew up.
And it was the same one that they called the mascot that I saw later on.
I mean, all this stuff, you know, I like to say that, like, you know, back then, like,
of course, we didn't really have cell phones.
We had skypagers was the brand new thing where you could get a page anywhere in the
United States. It was cutting edge revolutionary.
You know what I mean? But there was no Facebook.
There was no Instagram.
There was no email.
There's no cell phones, obviously.
I mean, it's amazing what the Grateful Dead did to connect people around the United
States and to, you know, keep these things alive that were trying to be stamped out by
the government at the height of the drug war in the United States.
I mean, it's just it can't it can never be like overemphasized, like how much that
community had a role in making sure that cannabis kept evolving through those years,
those dark years in the United States, you know.
Well, that was actually, sorry, I was going to say that was going to be the next question
I was going to actually ask was, you know, at the end of the day, how much do you think
the Grateful Dead did influence the cannabis scene?
You know, like when I look at it, I tend to think that if they weren't around, you
could almost argue that, you know, like none of this would exist in terms of, you know,
I mean, you'd have your skunk number one in that.
But, you know, in terms of the chem dog and all the OG cushion, everything that's
alineated out from it, it just wouldn't exist.
Do you agree?
I totally agree.
It's no doubt about it.
I mean, anybody my age or older or even younger, a little bit younger, knows that, you
know, it had there was nothing going on in America like this.
I mean, there was nothing going on.
The drug war had a huge, well, an act like it's over.
It's not over, but it's definitely we're on the other side of it now.
It's waning now.
Like our side has now made its case that, hey, man, you know, you're destroying
people's lives. You're taking people's family and crushing them.
And it's just for a plant.
And we were definitely got we've definitely got America's attention now about what an
atrocity occurred during those years.
But, you know, from from this 1970s, from the early 70s, when this whole when they
basically scheduled drugs in the United States and put cannabis in the schedule one
category, meaning it has no medical value whatsoever.
And they still look at that day, you know, all the way through until basically until
9-11, I would even say, because I think maybe that took a lot of the resources away
from the drug war. I mean, it was dark in America.
It was hard. Like you had to really be committed to these types of things.
It was no, you know, it was no you didn't take these things lightly because I mean, if
you did, you were playing with fire and, you know, you really could be find yourself in for a
big surprise, you know.
And there's a there's one there's one saying, you know, as far as Grateful Deadland is
that in the land of darkness, the the carriage of the well, in the land of darkness,
the carriage of light is drawn by the Grateful Dead.
You know, that's kind of what it was like, you know.
Yeah. They literally their mission from the get go was to go into the darkest corners of
the United States and the world.
But really nice days, because this was this is about this this band and this culture was
about America. It was about, you know, where's the freedom, you know, like where's the
adventure that we all read about?
Like, is it over? And we're just we're just spectators of the past, you know, like it's just
it was right now and it was happening and it was it was they took this circus into every
dark corner of this country.
And they found kids like myself who were just like, really, this is it.
This is your freedom that I've been getting taught about in fourth grade.
This is bullshit. You know, like they really think that's when I say they I'm not talking
about a guy playing a guitar.
I'm talking about the whole thing.
I'm talking about me, everybody who was part of that, you know, and the movement and the
band, of course, was the catalyst and people who put it all on the line because of what
they believed. And that's really what it boiled down to.
It was never about money.
It was never about it was just about, you know, I don't really know what it's about.
It's about just trying to make a more free world where you can be yourself, you know, and
I think that's I think that cannabis played it was a big part of that.
You know, I think that was just a it was it was a, you know, it was in the background,
but it was also in the foreground.
It was a big part of that, you know, I mean, that's that's where growers met each other.
That's where you learn. That's where you met a guy in the park.
You know, that's how you meet a guy in a park in San Francisco when you're 21 who's
eventually going to give you the chem dog.
That's how it works, you know?
Yeah. So.
Anyway, I'm sorry for getting sidetracked a little bit.
Yeah, no, it's not a problem.
So getting back to the story, just to clarify, because I think some people may not have
picked up on it when you said the New York guy, that's how he got the super skunk.
That's Mas G you're referring to, right?
No, no, no, this this guy, I'm going to leave this guy's name out of it for now, because I
haven't talked to him about, you know, talk.
Yeah, that's no problem.
So I just wanted to clarify for everyone.
So, yeah, so our New York friend has got this super skunk now.
Yeah. And so and he like I said, he brought one cutting back to the West Coast and to
him with him, so because that's what he's doing it for.
And then he left one with the people, his friends in New York.
Right. Yeah.
And then eventually that got up to Massachusetts.
As the story goes, that eventually got up to Massachusetts.
And I think I think G has talked a little bit about that.
I'm not sure he could probably tell you more about like what how did that get from
Staten Island? Let's go ahead and say Staten Island up to where he was.
I mean, he was tied in with those folks because their whole thing was the chem doc.
So I don't know how he was connected to those because I didn't to those guys.
I just don't know. You know?
Yeah. Like I said, I never met that guy until 2006.
So and then going forward from there.
So he brings it back and he's like, man, you know, he starts growing it here in northern
California. And then he basically I'm like, look, the only thing I ask is every time you
harvest, sell me all the weed.
And he would sell me these stuff where we're not even in a bag.
And me and my friends would just smoke it all.
It was no it was just for us, you know?
And it was it was amazing.
It was like, I can't believe this.
What a great life. I'm smoking my favorite weed, the super skunk.
And I'm like, you know, it's just any group better than anybody.
You know, this guy really knows what he's doing.
So anyways, yeah, so we became closer friends.
And then as we got a little closer, he said to me one day, hey, when this whole Grateful
Dead thing ends, you know, I just want to tell you, like I want to offer to you that I
will give you genetics and I will show you what everything I know about growing
marijuana. And and I was like, great, because that's exactly what I'm going to do when
this is over. It was the plan all along.
I was like, as soon as that was always the problem with toward me, because I was like,
man, I could be growing marijuana somewhere.
And I hadn't really I'd only done it once before I left Virginia.
And but it's just I knew that's what I would have wanted to do.
It was perfect. You're always at home.
That's where I want to be. I love kind buds.
You know, you're going to have plenty of those.
And there's a win win.
Hell yeah. So he so Jerry did die a few years later.
And I went to him and, you know, I said, all right, man, I'm coming up there.
I'm going to move to Sonoma County and I'm going to get a place.
And I don't know.
I'm sorry. Reverse.
I met a lady who ended up being my wife at one point, and she.
It convinced me, hey, let's let's start settling down a little bit, you know, she was still
in college. And then, you know, she was going to Sonoma State University, and so we
were going to move up there and I, you know, I've got a hold of my buddy one way or the
other. We were getting a place up there.
Now, this is before Jerry Garcia died.
And it was that it was that summer of ninety five, like June.
And we went up there, we found a place and I called him up and I said, hey, you know,
I'm here. Come over.
And, you know, he came over the house and we talked and I was like, look, man, I'm
selling it. I'm going to make a little money recently.
I'm going to go buy some lights and whatever you think I need.
And, you know, I want to get this.
I got this bedroom here and I'm going to start growing some pot here.
And he's like, all right, that's it.
I'll bring it over to you.
And so he brings me over my super skunk, you know, and he brings over the Kim dog.
And that was it. And already he brought over some herni seed pop.
Now, that was the thing back then.
We never ever. One of the things was that the first thing I heard was if you ever find
any seeds in your pot, throw them away, eat them, don't grow them.
They'll always be shit.
You know, of course, later on we found out that's not necessarily true.
But but he comes he goes through and he does all that.
And he literally this all happened like the week before Jerry died.
He died on August 9th, 1995.
And he brought all this up over to me, these plants and.
And he filed for he showed me what to do, and he had some pretty even today cutting
edge methods of organic growing, you know, and he showed me everything and the stuff
came out, the first one came out just like his, you know.
It was really impressive. He was a good teacher.
He taught the number one thing he taught me.
I'll never forget was don't ever think, you know, at all.
Always pay attention to everyone else's, you know, who's willing to tell you anything, no
matter what their skill level is, no matter how long they're doing this.
Always, always try to keep learning, because the minute you think you've got it all
figured out is the minute that when you have a problem and you won't have any idea what
to do, you know.
So it was really good advice.
And, yeah, I got the books and started it out, and so he always told me he told me when
he gives me the chem dog, he says, all right.
And, you know, he never he only he always had like a very small amount of it.
He never had like like I said, he would sell me a quarter pound of head stash.
It would all be super scum, you know, all the tops, the best buds.
And then he would and he would like smoke a few joints and give me a nug of chem dog.
That was always the thing, you never had like an ounce or two of it or whatever, you
know. And I asked him, I was like, what's the deal with that, man?
It's the best one, clearly.
I mean, killer, you know, all the strains he had and he had some really nice ones.
This was the best one.
And he goes, dude, it's it's a bitch to grow.
It's so hard to grow.
It won't root, you know, with a stick heavy accent.
It won't, you know, it doesn't yield.
You can't count on it.
And I was like, whatever, man.
He goes, I was like, in other words, he was like.
You don't really want this when he gave it to me, like, you don't really want this.
You can have it, but I know you're not going to be able to do much with it.
And because I can't really do a whole bunch with it.
And it's just it was like that, you know, and I was like, whatever, dude, that's the
best one. That's the one I want.
And he gives it to me.
And the first one was a was a crop of super skunk, 100 percent super skunk.
And that little Hermi one that he gave me.
And then and then the next one, I was going to, you know, take a bunch of cuttings off.
I got this chem dog mother going pretty good.
And he told me, he goes, hey, man, I'm telling you right now, you know, it's better to
stick with that super skunk at roots in 10 days.
And, you know, it's got a quick bed, blah, blah, blah.
I was like, man, I'm just going to give it a shot.
You know, what's the worst thing that happened?
So I took a bunch of cuttings of it.
And sure enough, it really didn't like 14 days.
And I was like, well, so far, so good so far.
What he told me is not true.
And another thing he told me, I'll never forget.
He says. The chem dog is for the night.
He goes in his heavy accent, he's like, and never smoking a bubble before 11 a.m..
That's the guy who like this guy who smokes joint after joint after joint.
And this is advice to me.
Right. I'm like, all right.
So I probably pulled out a bubble right then, loaded it up and smoked it.
It was probably before 11 a.m.
I don't know. But anyway, so and it came out really nice.
Like I did. I grew it and it came out really nice.
So I was like, all right, you know, the super skunk is definitely a bigger yodeler.
And that was very important to me.
And, you know, so I'll just have a few of these.
And that's the way it went.
So years went by and, you know, that's the way it was.
And like I said, you know, we weren't very connected back then.
Growers, it was it was very sparse and sporadic and unusual and rare
when you would get a chance to like trade things with people.
And of course, the other thing he told me, I should say, was never, ever,
ever give this to anybody.
I'm giving this to you and I shouldn't be, you know, I'm doing it.
And as I'm giving this to you, I'm violating my friend's trust.
You told me not to give it to anybody.
And I'm telling you, don't do that to me.
Don't ever give this to anybody.
And I was like, all right. Yeah, no problem.
You know, my word, my word is my honor.
So, yeah, I'll do that.
And and the years went by, you know, kids came and, you know,
life was pretty settled down and, you know, life was really different
when Jerry died and there was a lot of adjustment for people like me
and just kept on growing the killer.
And trying to learn as I was going along.
And then in 2005, fast forward
2005, I looked at a High Times article that a friend recommended.
He goes, you won't believe this, but this guy.
OK, so let me back up a little bit.
I met a fellow on tour who we became friends through the pot,
you know, like talking about this, but talking about that,
but showing each other birds, we find, you know, like, you know,
connoisseur type things.
And, you know, he became a good friend of mine.
And he started talking to me about coincidentally, you know, before Jerry died.
He started talking about this hot chem dog, you know,
that he would grow, that he that he would smoke when he was young.
You know, the same kind of way I talked about the super skunk,
but up in New Hampshire and Massachusetts area where he's from.
And, you know, it kind of went in one ear and went up at the out
the other at the time.
But I definitely remember that.
Well, we became really good friends and even better friends after Jerry died.
And he's actually still really one of my closest friends to this day.
And and now
see how it was when I started, like when Jerry died,
there was a big disconnect, like we lost contact with each other.
Like I said, we didn't have cell phones and stuff.
And for a minute, for, you know, a year, it was like it took a minute
to get a hold of everybody and find everybody because there was no events
going on and it was the next thing didn't happen.
So it just took a while.
And I link back up with this fellow who I'm talking about on
he I had the chem dog now
and I smoked it with him and he's like, dude, this is the fucking chem dog.
I was like, oh, yeah, that's right. That's right.
You you smoked this when you were young.
You always told me about your friend G.
And I was because he he knew G, I guess, you know.
I mean, I know he did.
They were they're real close, actually, you know, back when
I guess they met at a fish show or something like that,
you know, back in the early 90s and late 80s and had become good friends.
And so it was kind of cool.
It was a little connection.
And, you know, he lived up in Tahoe.
He moved up to Tahoe and I'd go up there and visit him, go snowboarding
and bring chem dog.
And, you know, he started a little thing and he, you know, I give him the chem.
I gave him the chem dogs.
I'm figuring, hey, you know, the guy who cracked the seed,
because he told me the story.
He's like, yeah, my friend cracked the seed.
He had the 13 or the 12, whatever the seeds.
And, you know, he started telling me the story.
And I'm like, wow, that's what a coincidence that I actually
ended up with this cutting, you know.
So so then I guess G at one point made these T-shirts. Right.
And he made a super skunk and a chem dog.
And it was like this light green, almost the color of the chem dog shirt.
And had this dog with the joint smoke, this dog on the back smoking a joint.
And this little emblem he made for chem dog and said chem dog since ninety one.
And then he had a super skunk and it said super skunk since nineteen ninety three,
because that's when he got it, you know.
Yeah. And they were kind of cool.
And and so one day I go up there to go snowboarding.
And my friend gives me this chem dog shirt and a super skunk shirt.
I was like, wow, did you make these?
He's like, no, my friend, she made these back east.
And he sent me a few.
And he's like, you got to have one.
I was like, yeah, I love it.
Still got to this day, you know.
And so that was probably like in nineteen ninety eight, ninety seven
when that was going on.
And then fast forward now to 2006, 2005.
I see this High Times article and it's an it's an interview of Chi talking about the chem dog.
Right. And they had actually gone into his garden or and taking pictures of his plants.
And they're like in five gallon like Home Depot bucket type buckets, you know, and and really beautiful plants, you know.
And they were showing some pictures of the sister.
What they said was the chem dog.
But clearly to me, it was not the same plant that I had.
And then and then some Kim something else that might have been the chem D.
But it was definitely the sister, the sis, they called it a sister.
I'm sure you've heard of it.
It was it caught my eye.
Yeah, I think I went to my buddy's sister is actually the number.
I right. I think that's it.
Yeah. And I was like, I got to have that.
So I went to my buddy, I was like, and they talked, they were they were they were good friends.
I was like, dude, I just saw this article with your buddy.
And I was like, what do we got to do?
I mean, what what what what can I do for us to go out there and get that?
Because, you know, I'm not sure he's even got the chem dog anymore.
We could give him the chem dog back and then, you know, maybe he'll trade.
And actually, I'm sure we'd probably talked about going to get other strains before that time.
But so I I was having a problem.
I was I was the first time I'd ever seen powdery mildew.
Right. And I was I had it on my plants and I and I was like, what the hell is this?
So I started like kind of searching.
You know, now we have computers now and cell phones and shit, but not like we still not like we do today.
And I got on the computer and I started like kind of trying to find out what I could find out about it.
Like someone said, it's called mildew or powdery mildew or downy mildew.
And I started trying to figure this stuff out.
And it led me to this website called Overgrow dot com.
And it looked like a completely to me, it looked like a fucking, you know, like a police trap or something.
Really? I started surfer.
I was like, you know what? This is kind of cool, man.
Like all these people are anonymous and they're sharing knowledge here.
They really are. I was learning stuff. I'll stay up late at night and looking at it.
And so naturally, I Google, I Google, but search Chemdog.
And this guy came up Chemdog. Right.
And and, you know, looking through what he was saying, I could tell, holy shit, this is this guy.
Gee, this is my buddy's friend right here.
This is the guy that I was looking at his pictures, you know, last month or whenever it was, you know, of this high times article.
So I was like, I'm going to I'm going to reach out to this guy.
So I got that T-shirt that he made out and I took a little picture of the emblem because you had to have like a like a avatar,
just like you have all the things we use today.
And I call myself Skunk VA, you know, Super Skunk Virginia made sense, right?
Yeah. So I said and, you know, the overgrowth is a serious thing like that.
You know, now when you go on those forums, you know, there's a lot of assholes and know it all.
But people are really open and willing to share back that on overgrow.
They were a little bit more cautious. They were conversed with you.
They wanted to see pictures and stuff.
You know, they didn't want to just start talking to anybody about growing and all giving you all their little trade secrets or
even asking you questions. So if you put on a few pictures, I saw if you put a few pictures up,
you know, you could get a better conversation going.
People saw you're serious. You're not joking around here.
You know, you got you got some you're growing some pot, you know.
So I put some pictures up of Chemdog and and then I put that little avatar on there.
And immediately he like sends me like one of them little, you know, like private messages like, hey, where'd you get that shirt?
And I was like, I just gave the first letter of our mutual friend and he was like, oh, oh, you live up in Tahoe.
And I said, no, but, you know, we've known each other for, you know, 10 years now.
We're really close. And we sat in the other.
He tells me he goes, I don't I don't have the Chemdog anymore.
And I was like, I know you don't. I saw that, you know, and I was like, but today's your lucky day because, you know,
Phil Lesher's the bass player for the Grateful Dead.
And he was getting he was playing. This was like in December of 2005.
And he was playing in February of 2006 in New York, like nine nights.
And it kind of just planned just like almost just materialized.
I was like, listen, I will come out there, check out Phil and I'll bring your Chemdog back.
And if you could just give me like trade assists for me, the sister.
And he was like, absolutely. You know.
And of course, you know, we didn't it wasn't right away.
We chit chatted for, you know, like a week or two, a little bit and got to sort of make sure that we knew who we're talking to.
And I'm sure he called my friend and made sure that, you know, it all lined up and it did.
So I took a couple of Chemdog cuttings in New York, put them on the plane with me and flew them out to New York and got a place, the Soho Suites down in Soho.
And the night I got there, the biggest snowstorm they've had since like 1953 or 43 or something.
It was amazing. And but it did delay our meeting.
And we eventually met up and he brought me over.
He didn't give me the sister. And I'm not sure.
Never really got to never have still this day.
Never talked about that. But but he did bring me the Chem-D, you know.
And then and then to my surprise and to my joy, he actually brought the Super Skunk, which we had lost out here.
We had lost that like in 1997.
My buddy was getting a house inspection by the landlord and he had the one mother, my friend from Staten Island, New York, the guy I was talking about earlier at the Warfield.
And he he basically had this plant in a box and it just didn't make it through the inspection.
You know, so we hadn't had it in a while.
And so he gives that back to me. I was really happy, you know, and it was real cool.
So I take that back. And then at this point, me and my friend and Tahoe, his our mutual friend, me and his mutual friend, we had our own place.
And we were you know, we were we grew the Chem-D.
Now we had the Chem-D on the West Coast. You know, to me, it wasn't it wasn't like it's not really my I don't love the Chem-D as much as I think the public was.
I'm more of a Chem-D guy. But but nonetheless, the Super Skunk was back and it was the Super Skunk.
It was the same exact cutting. Definitely at age because the Super Skunk got that seed had gotten cracked in 1988.
So it's actually been around longer than the Chem-D. You know, if it's still out there, I don't have it.
I don't know anybody who's got that cutting anymore per se.
But I definitely you know, this is where the side story goes off, because the guy who cracked that seed, that Super Skunk seed in Virginia back in 1988, he's one of my closest friends now, you know, and he was a friend.
So I know it's a really it's a really special thing to me because that's actually a Facebook story, you know, like a Facebook modern day kind of computer store.
I link back up to him and I'm really grateful to have that man back in my life because he he was he's older than me.
You know, he's like an elder to me. I look up to him and it's just really special.
But it's like I can't believe the circles you think you've you know, all the circles are all now complete.
Then all of a sudden, boom, one day you got this whole other part of your past is back in your future, back in your present and especially, you know.
But but the reason I was jumping is because he actually has not the Super Skunk, but we now have back the parent.
The Super Skunk was I didn't know this until recently, but the Super Skunk actually wasn't just a crack from nevel seeds from the Super Sativa seed bank.
It was actually a cross that he made with Super Skunk and that he got.
He actually took two Super Skunk seeds and crossed them together.
So it was an F2.
Something else. It might have been I don't know the exact detail.
I don't want to get quoted on that quite yet because it was something like that.
But he has one of the parents that Super Skunk, which to me is that's awesome.
You know, we'll see what we can do with that.
So I was going to say maybe we'll get back into that.
So I just wanted to go back to the cam dog for a second.
So when you said that you saw immediately that Masjid didn't have the cam dog, that was what now is referred to as the Joe Brand cutting.
Am I right?
This was this was this was before.
You'd have to ask G about this, but I'm under the impression that this would have been before they went back up.
I'm not sure, 100% sure about that, but it might it might have been, you know, linked back up after their original meeting back in Deer Creek in 91.
Yeah, it wasn't it.
To me, it looked like it might have been Kim D.
I'm not really sure what it was, but I can't really remember.
I'm sure the High Times article still around, but I don't remember what it was.
And it was just I just noticed that either there was a picture that wasn't actually Kim Dog or also it could have been.
It was just conspicuously missing from all these photos.
You know what I mean? I think it might even been that.
OK, my memory's a little foggy.
I probably actually still have it's pictures are beautiful, like the sister, just unbelievable.
It was really nice, you know, I was going to say.
So if we were to compare, say, the Kim sister and the Kim D and the Kim four and the 91, you kind of mentioned earlier that the 91 was your favorite.
Why do you think it is then, for example, that people like JJ and Rez choose to work with the D kind of as their, you know, to work those lines out?
Over, say, the 91.
My my guess from what I can see is that.
I think that. I mean, I'm going on a linter saying that maybe they didn't have the 91, you know?
Yeah. I mean, I have to say that's probably what it was, you know, or they had that fake Joe Brands 91, which, you know, I knew even I was even around when that happened.
So, you know.
That's my guess. I don't know.
I mean, I also maybe I'm so biased that I have to come up with something like that because I can't understand why.
I mean, I have the Kim D. I think it's got its place in life, but it's so far different than the Kim dog.
It really is. You know, it's not.
To me, it's not even close to the same, not not not just the level of quality, but the same type, like in the same ballpark, like comparable, even, you know what I'm saying?
Like it's way different.
Like that that fuel smell is really different on the Kim dog.
Ninety one compared to the Kim.
D. To me, it's just you could totally be involved with one and not even care about the other.
And I guess what I'm saying is maybe it's just the opposite for other people.
Maybe they just see it different.
I understand. I met Pee Bud later in life here, too, lately, like through Instagram.
And I think he mentioned that to me that he likes the Kim dog D better, the Kim D better than the Kim dog, too.
So I think it's just I'm so heavily biased about Kim dog that I love it so much.
I think that maybe it's hard for you to understand why that would happen.
You know what I'm saying? Yeah.
So I guess it kind of goes without saying, because you kind of alluded that you weren't fully aware.
But I guess just to kind of rule the story straight, when G did go down from all that res business, were you aware that you were the only one with the ninety one cutting or it wasn't until you saw that high time story?
And then it kind of dawned on you that you were the only one who had it.
I had I hadn't I don't think I was the only one with it, because there's like back to the Staten Island crew, I I got to hang out with them at one point in Tahoe when they came to visit.
Interesting crowd.
And they they.
I think they had it.
I'm pretty sure they had some Kim dog and I have no idea what any of those guys were up to these days, but they definitely had it.
So I never really felt like I was the only one that had the Kim dog during those years.
You know what I mean? Yeah.
And I didn't really know what happened to G.
Like, it wasn't like my buddy, even though he was close to him, he wasn't like he was sitting around.
Give me the blow by blow.
What was going on with that guy?
Because that was our only encounter.
He came to my hotel.
We hung out. We traded some stores.
We go.
If I had to do it over again, we would have had a lot more to talk about.
I just didn't know how much how much in common we had with people and things and stuff in life.
But but that's all that's all we did.
We did the trade and I came back and brought the Kim D and the super skunk back and I gave her two really beautiful cuts of the Kim dog, you know, and he was just as happy as I was.
Believe me. Yeah.
So that was the only reason I did that thing on overgrowth, though, that was the only reason is to try to get that trade just to do what you know, it seemed like an opportunity for me to get some other genetics out to the West Coast in my life.
And I, you know, that was the whole reason I did it to me.
Like I said, I'm kind of an introverted person when it comes to this stuff.
I'm trying to break out of my shell and step into the lights of saying and start like an Internet account and like give myself a name and put pictures of my garden on the Internet.
That was like insane to me.
That was my perspective.
That was the most insane thing I could do.
But it works, you know. And I never really went back over to overgrow.
And I was.
I wasn't blown away by the Kimby and I still didn't have the sisters, maybe I was kind of had a little bad taste in my mouth a little bit, it was no big deal.
I think it was pretty cool out all happened and it happened and we ended up having the Kimby on the West Coast.
We didn't have that before. And that was cool.
You know, and then it got spread all over the West Coast, you know.
So so that that's what happened.
And then and then overgrow, of course, got shut down.
I don't know the details of that story, but I know every girl got shut down.
And I think the government shut them down and they took their servers and all this other stuff.
And so just compounded my belief that, hey, you need to keep your business, your stuff and certainly don't go to the Internet with it.
You know, so.
Yeah. So 2012, I had another problem all of a sudden in my garden that I couldn't solve.
And, you know, I had these plants that look like they were being poisoned with saltwater, you know, and I'm flushing them and I'm looking through the to the root balls with a microscope.
And, you know, now I'm going back to the Internet.
Now it's back six years later.
I'm back on the Internet and I I Google like, you know, cannabis for them.
And, you know, what's the one that did several of them popped up?
But I went with the I see.
I know what's it. Yeah.
Yeah. That's what I'm trying to go.
And I give myself a name and I start up the whole thing and I'm going through there.
I'm looking through I'm looking through bugs and, you know, I'm researching tobacco, mosaic virus.
I'm getting way, way deep in this.
And same thing.
I put some pictures on there and and I put basically the same pictures probably because I have a hard job of my pictures.
And I don't have a lot of pictures, but I got some of my favorite pictures and I'm sure I put my favorite ones on there.
Well, I know I did. And immediately, like a hundred people messaged me and they're like, where did you get those pictures?
Like kind of stern with me, you know, and I was like, I took them.
They're my pictures. I got them from my hard drive.
What's the deal?
You know, how are you doing?
And they're like, those are those are scum.
The ace pitchers, where did you get those?
But you're like an imposter.
I was like, I'm an imposter.
And they all clicked back in my head.
I completely forgot about this.
I mean, really, like I had not really thought about this overgrowth thing in years at this point.
And it's went right into my head.
And I started talking to this one guy who was clearly paying attention to the chem dog by telling me what he knew about the story and stuff.
And he was repeating and he goes, are you skunk Viet?
And I was like, I mean, I guess so, because I mean, that was that's you know, I was on overgrowth skunk.
And it all popped back in my head.
And I was like, holy shit, because it freaked me out when all these people started texting.
I was like, or, you know, messaging me on this thing, you know.
And it was kind of it was really funny, really surreal.
And so anyways, ended up that I had broad mites and and, you know, had to go through that and learn that and, you know, take the brunt on that so I could tell everybody else what I learned about it, how to get rid of that shit.
So anyways, that's kind of that's kind of where we're at.
That's where I met G.
And, you know, now we're all kind of getting linked up.
And it's really cool.
It's a really special thing to be part of, you know.
And for me this year was the 21st year I've had it.
The Kim dog cutting and, you know, she's been in my care every single day, every single one of those days.
And I ended up giving I think I counted on my hand.
I ended up giving it over these years.
I ended up giving it to five people, several of those people, a couple of those people more than once, a couple of those people a bunch of times.
And then a couple of those people I gave it to once.
No reason I ever gave it to anybody because I took that very seriously.
And I and I, I, you know, I had friends question our friendship because I wouldn't give it to them at times.
But I it wasn't anything because I told my friend I never would, you know, and then in the end that I'll you know, that that seemed kind of silly now.
So I mean, but that's that's really how it was.
I mean, I really felt that way.
You know, I told my friend I wouldn't and I wouldn't, you know.
You know, through the years, you know, like from from that 2006 up until like 2012 time and even a little bit longer, actually, I would say, you know, it's still a couple of years ago.
You know, Kim Dogg was a was a muddy thing because no one had the Kim Dogg and everyone had the Kim Dogg.
I mean, it was everywhere.
It was all the clubs.
You could get cuttings of it, but none of it was Kim Dogg, you know.
And I spent I spent I spent summer 2008 going from garden to garden.
You know, people would call me up.
Hey, man, you know, friends call me up and say, hey, man, I'm running the Kim Dogg out here on my property.
Mendo, I need you to come in.
It's not really looking like it to me.
And I need you to come up and check it out and go up there and see, you know, a giant forest of giant outdoor hundred and fifty outdoor plants, you know, and have them tell him, say, no, I'm sorry.
I mean, this isn't the sour diesel, but it looks a lot like the sour diesel, but it's definitely not the Kim Dogg.
And it turns out that that was that that Joe B thing that happened, you know, that whole mix up.
I have the whole details on how that happened, because, you know, my my good friend was there and it was a big mix up there.
And and but I think I'd rather leave that out of it because I haven't really talked to him and see how much he wants people to know about, you know, how that happened and stuff like that and whatever.
So I'll just leave that out of it.
But but that's that's what as I understand and according to him and he knows he knows who he gave it to and what the mix up was and and and he knows how that happened.
And I guess that was that Joe B cut of Kim Dogg that was out here and probably elsewhere, too.
And that 2007, 2006 or seven or eight era right there.
And so but what I'm saying is, is like so you might, you know, as someone who loves Kim Dogg and you're growing it and trying to get by on life and stuff, you know, you're like, hey, I've got some Kim Dogg.
Would you be interested in looking at that?
You know, whoever it was, what eventually got to the point where people didn't want to look at it because they'd already seen it and like it, but they never saw it.
You know what I mean? It got so bad sometimes where I would show it to people, you know, finally say, no, this is Kim Dogg.
And in their mind, they'd already made up their mind about what they thought Kim Dogg was and their opinion about it.
And they would just brush it away.
And I'm like, this is killer pot.
But what are you what's wrong with you?
You know, so for like four years, I thought I was the only one who liked Kim Dogg, you know, maybe my couple of friends, you know, and then recently because of the Internet or because breeding is becoming, you know, a more prevalent thing in the United States.
Maybe the Kim Dogg is making its comeback now and people are more willing to stop and pay attention to the deal with the Kim Dogg.
And, you know, how, how, what it's it's such the backbone of contemporary can cannabis.
And, you know, I think in the world now, I mean, I live here in California and, you know, it definitely is.
I mean, every strain that you see has got something to do with Kim Dogg at some point, you know.
And and, you know, in 2003, I had a short lived partnership with a person here in Sonoma County and and this person had sour diesel.
And this was the first time I'd seen sour diesel.
I was like, good Lord, this stuff smells familiar.
You know, I mean, it has all of my favorites in it.
Come to find out, most likely, you know, as the story goes, some point back then, one of those guys in Staten Island, somehow I don't know what happened.
I mean, I've heard so many different versions.
Like I said, I wasn't there, but somehow some way the super skunk that they got from my friend in Virginia and that Kim Dogg got tangled up in a hermey fest.
And and I think that's how the sour diesel came about.
So I thought that was kind of cool.
I really I think that because I mean, clearly that's it's not the I mean, that's got to be the most, you know, famed strain of wheat on, you know, on the planet, you know.
Yes. I was actually going to ask you, do you ever feel like you kind of don't get any credit where you should for that?
Because I was going to say, you know, a lot of people don't realize that, yeah, the sour D is the 91 getting thrown a bit of pollen on the super skunk.
Do you feel like you should get some credit for that?
Or do you think you're kind of too far removed?
Because when I think about it, both of those strains are very much attributable to yourself in a lot of ways.
They definitely are, but I would give I know this sounds like some hippie shit, but I would give the Grateful Dead credit, because like I said, I just I just introduced some a couple of my favorite growers to each other.
That's literally all I did.
You know what I mean? They did all the hard work.
They flew out, met each other.
You know, they did all that stuff.
So I don't I'm not I don't really want credit.
But and I'm not you know, I understand that there's another story out there where they went to Amsterdam and got some super skunk.
So maybe maybe they had another super skunk.
Who knows? You know, but I definitely know that my my friend from New York, he he definitely left a super skunk behind with them.
And and like I said, I got that cut that they think that the sour diesel when I got that one, the super skunk from and actually he knew somehow he knew that that was the same cut.
He somehow he was kind of the one that even told me, you know what I mean?
That the super skunk that he was giving me was the same one that he that he got back then, which was the same as the mask.
He says to you, I'm called the super skunk, but they call it the mask skunk here.
You know, Sam and then coming home, I grew it and sure shit.
It was a super skunk, no doubt about it.
All the little features were there.
Like I said, that pregnant belly, the smell is unforgettable.
You know, it's it's loud like the sour diesel.
It's it's it's unforgettable.
I mean, it smells just like a stunk on the road from about 150 yards.
You know, it's it's it's it's just unmistakable.
So I don't know exactly what happened.
And I don't really want any kind of credit for anything like that.
But like I said, I would give Jerry Garcia the Grateful Dead credit because, man, what what what an amazing connection that is, you know, that those guys made in the Jamaica trade.
Because if they didn't do that and if he didn't bring the chem dog back out here, my friend from New York, he gave up on the chem dog.
And then I really was the only one in my world who had it.
You know what I mean? Yeah.
And that's why I ended up giving it to other people, because I wanted to make sure I wasn't if something happened to me, you know, or my place.
I didn't want anything.
And I didn't want to I understood the gravity of the situation, that this could go away forever.
So I always made sure that someone else had it, you know, and then, you know, it ended up being over the years.
I gave it to, I think, five people total and only really one of them ever really kept it.
And he's my my good friend who I knew from Tahoe, like I was talking about earlier, you know.
So. Yeah, so I was going to say, so when we see breeders these days, you know, notably we've got Bodie and also Swerve of the Calico on claiming to be breeding with the Skunk VA cutting.
That I mean, I guess you've kind of already alluded to the answer that that they're obviously not getting it directly from you.
Do you think that when people see a breeder claiming to be breeding with the Skunk VA cutting, they should kind of view that with an eye of caution?
Or do you think it's probably legit?
It's just come through someone through someone?
Well, I'll say this, I'll say that, you know, the way I look at it is like this, because, you know, you could go and you could you could get into this tit for tat with this.
And, you know, it does matter.
You know, the truth matters.
It really does.
I truly believe that.
I believe that what you say and the truth, you know, it should line up, you know, and if your story is, is that you did some stupid little shady deal in the back room to get the cuts you have or whatever it is, you know, you know, that's your story.
You know, stick, you got to, you got to go with it.
It's going to come out at some point, you know, and, and the way I look at it is this, is that as we go forward, I do think it matters because, you know, at some point we're all going to be completely.
I believe this.
This is my opinion.
I believe that all of us here in the United States, we're going to be completely, you know, out in the open and you're going to have your story.
You know, how did this happen to you?
You know, why did you choose to do this?
Why did you choose to risk your freedom to do this?
And then, and then what are the details?
It is interesting.
I mean, this is really cool stuff.
I mean, it's like prohibition is ending and it's taken a while for certain, but I got to say back when, you know, I turned on the lights for the first time, I didn't, I never, ever thought we would get this far.
So this thing's going quicker than any of us thought.
And, uh, you know, if your stories of lie, then you're going to have to pay, you're going to have to, you're going to have to deal with that.
It's not anything for me to have a big opinion about.
You're going to have to deal with that.
If that's what's going on in your life, you know what I mean?
Not you, of course, but whoever, you know, I kept it above the board, you know, and, and like I did my part.
You know, the thing that people don't realize, I think in this, uh, you know, world of marijuana growing consultants that we live in, and that's a joke is that, you know, like, you know, we don't, we don't, we don't, this plant's not doing this for us.
You know, like we're not, we're not the stars of the show here.
You know what I mean?
Where the word tools and a toolbox for the plant, the plant doesn't have eyes.
The plant doesn't have feet for certain, you know, the plant, it needs protection.
And the reason cannabis, in my opinion, has evolved so quickly in the last 20 years, 30 years is because, you know, it's speaking to people and we're listening and we're doing what we're being told.
You know, we're following the, we're, we're following what we needs to happen to make a and B happen, you know, make the thing happen.
And the plant thanks us for it.
And it gives back to us.
And that's what I believe.
I think that we work for the plant, you know, that's, that's what I think.
I think that the Kim dog needed somebody, Kim dog is a powerful plant.
You know, my friend from New York, he used to tell me, I don't know, man, he used to say to me, I think it's tied into the stars.
Cause sometimes he would have really good luck and he would just like, this guy was skilled.
He made, he grew the best and sometimes it didn't work out with him.
The Kim dog, just like for me, it doesn't work.
I mean, sometimes I was like, what the hell happened here?
You know, it's not going like it did the last time.
What's going on.
It's finicky a little bit, you know, and he used to tell him, he used to be convinced that this is a very light, you know, mechanically minded, like nuts and bolts kind of guy.
And he was telling me, I think it's lined up with the stars.
And I would look at him like, what are you talking about?
He goes, I don't know.
It's just, it's, you never know.
I just gonna, I think it has a lot to do with the star alignments and the moons and the cycles of the, the galaxy and the solar system.
And it's affecting the Kim dog.
And I'd be like, dude, you sound like you sound like you're on drugs, man.
What is American?
But, um, but that's kind of how it is though.
You know what I mean?
It's kind of, it's a very, very powerful plant and it's, it found its safe havens.
It did.
You know, I'll, I'll tell, I'll share a little story with you.
You know, I'll, I'll, uh, um, you know, like the Kim dog, right.
So it's, it's, it's being grown at house.
Say I'm going to keep this like non-personal, this part is growing in house.
It right.
Yeah.
And then, you know, and then, and then the guy who's in house, say he has like, you know, he's hasn't seen a lot of his friends for years, or maybe he hasn't seen some key friends in some years, you know, like life gets busy and then they randomly bump into each other.
Right.
And like, uh, uh, at one of those cannabis cups, the Emerald cup, you know, here in Sonoma County.
Right.
And they reconnect, change phone numbers, you know, phone numbers are changing and sometimes you lose connect with people, especially if they're not on social media and stuff.
And then, uh, Hey man, I don't have the Kim dog person.
B says the person, a, can you give it back to me?
Of course I can.
You know what I mean?
Of course.
I'm glad you asked.
Come on over as soon as you can.
I have cuttings for you.
So person becomes a person.
He's house.
He gets the plant from super grateful.
Thank you.
And then person, they gets arrested a week later and they kill all of his Kim dog plants.
That's a true story.
You know what I mean?
That's, that's magic to me.
You know, that plant had some sort of like, in my opinion, this is some hippie shit, but in my opinion, that plant had some forethought of what was getting ready to happen.
And somehow, some way, somehow cosmically it found itself out of a bad situation.
You know what I mean?
I mean, that's a true story.
You know, that was a recent story that happened that long ago.
And I mean, you know, so what I'm trying to say is I think that, you know, we should be more humble when we talk about our contributions to this and just remember that we're, we're just part of the puzzle.
We're just part of the toolbox that this plant's using to evolve because.
You know, cannabis, cannabis uses, you know, it's, it's through the roof.
I mean, everybody uses cannabis now.
I think they got president Obama's kid on film the other day, smoking a joint.
It's a big cannabis to me is in the relationship.
It has the humans.
It's, it's symbiotic.
It's, it's, uh, you know, we live in a stressful world.
We're polluting ourselves.
We we've got, we're bombarded with negative news and bad media and just, you know, it's just a weird world we live in.
I love it here.
And I think planet earth is an amazing place, but we got our challenges here and it's stressful.
Yeah, of course.
Stressful.
Just put food on the table.
And I think that cannabis really, truly helps people get through that, make it okay.
And beyond now we're, now we're doing cancer research with it and, you know, they're doing research in Alzheimer's, all the things.
And I think that it's a big part of our evolution.
And in the, in, as we look back in history, many years from now, say 30, 40, 50 years, we're going to, I think society is going to recognize that, that this plant, you know, evolved quickly.
At the right time for us.
So that it become a useful tool for us in the world that we're creating for ourselves, if that makes any sense.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
Of course.
The people who, the people who are doing the things, say me and G, you know, meeting the guy in the parking lot.
That's an, that's some grateful dead shit right there.
That's what I'm talking about.
Meeting a guy in a parking lot.
And then, you know, 25 years later, we're sitting here talking about Kim dog.
You know what I mean?
It's amazing, you know, but I think the plant is the, the motivator and all that.
And it, you know, it's like any symbiotic relationship in nature or in the universe is, you know, one organism needs the other.
So it does what it needs to help that organism, that organism benefits from that aid.
So it returns the favor back to the, you know, in this sense, the caretaker, the other organ.
And it just keeps going around and around.
And then in that process, and it's an evolution of, of two organisms becoming better beings because of that relationship.
And I think that's what our, you know, but to answer your question, you know, I don't, I, I don't know those guys.
I've never met those people before.
You know, I don't, I don't know what their motive is.
I don't know what they're doing, but I do know that at the end of the day, when we're all sitting around the table and this war is finally over, we're all going to have stories.
And some of them are going to be a lot more interesting than others.
So I can tell you about that.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
So the 91 cutting over the 21 years you've had it, do you think kind of on that same theme of evolution we were just talking about, do you think it's phenotypically kind of changed at all?
Like, I guess kind of when you took it back to G, was it just like, he just instantly recognized it?
Or do you think it had, it had kind of changed just a little bit over the years you'd had it.
And when you took it back, like he knew it was the 91, but it was just a little different when he had it.
Or do you think it was the same?
I think that, I think that I would agree that there's definitely been some genetic drift over the years a little bit.
There are definitely some traits that have waned.
Uh, the drug traits, uh, as, as, as Duke would call them.
I like that.
I like that phrase.
I can stick with it, but the drug traits have not changed.
They're, they're as strong as they ever were.
The, the, the flavor trait is definitely taken back a step over the time.
It has now sometimes, um, I've noticed I've done, because like I said, there was other cuttings out there and they, and they are one by one every now and again.
I don't know how many there were.
Clearly there wasn't very many, but every now and again, you'll see something and you're like, that's the chem dog.
And then you'll smoke it and you go, that does not taste like the chem dog.
That does not taste like the chem dog, you know, like the one I got, you know, the one I smoked.
So I don't know how that works.
I don't really know how that works.
I'm actually, it's something I'm really interested in right now is, is, uh, is, is what we can do about that to slow that process down or even hopefully repair that process.
And, you know, I'm working on that right now, but.
I did some digging around on your Instagram and it was approximately 63 weeks ago.
Someone asked you, were you going to release the chem dog to the public in seed form?
And your reply was, I'm working on it.
You want to tell us a little more about that?
Well, yeah, sure.
Uh, you know, I got a company it's called Lucky Dog Seed Company.
And, uh, you know, I'm, I'm in the process of, uh, basically what I'm doing is I'm developing a male that I feel represents the chem dog and that I can breed with and make, make hybrids with.
And, and then every now and again, um, release some, uh, some back crosses with itself, you know, and, uh, I'm, I'm pretty, I've gotten, I've had a lot of luck with it and I've gotten, I think, you know, project like that could, if you really do it, I think most breeders would tell you that could take 10 years, you know, to get that exactly right.
And lots of testing.
And the thing about testing that I've learned, cause this is new to me, this, I haven't really done a lot of breeding before, but it's, it's going really well.
I really enjoy it.
I had a little, um, like kindness come back to me in seed form, uh, from some things that I did in the past.
I gave it, I gave the cut to someone many years ago on just a wimp.
It was, uh, it was, so when I said only one person never did anything with it, I got it back up.
That would be two people.
Cause he definitely, he, he, he was breeding and he was talking to me about breeding and he was like one on mine.
It's like 2004, I think.
And I gave him a cut of the Kim dog.
And then, uh, see three years, two years ago, we ran back into each other.
We lost contact and he actually gave me some seeds that he worked with, uh, that cut of Kim dog and gave him and had some good success with it.
He gave me some stuff back that I can get going with.
And it actually, it actually was, uh, was really helpful.
It got me, it gave me a good headstart on what I was trying to do.
And, uh, so it was kind of cool to me.
It was really, it was kind of cool.
Cause I never expected that.
Like it was just, I knew he was going to do something good with it.
I gave it to him.
And then, you know, a bunch of handful, 10, 10 years later, he gives them back some seeds back to me.
And it's really, it's turning out to be something.
So, um, I don't want to put anything out there that I don't 100% fully percent, you know, stand behind.
And, uh, but I feel like, I feel like by the beginning of this next year, we're going to have something going here.
And also we don't want to just have two or three things.
I want to have a nice meal that I can make a bunch of hybrids with, with some of my favorite streams and then, you know, give that to the public.
And yeah, so that's where that's at.
Yeah.
Awesome.
That was actually kind of leading into the next question.
I was going to say, it's kind of a two-parter.
So I noticed you had those seeds, which were, uh, I think you said you used a silverback OG male.
If we think about Rez Dog's work and JJ's work, they use the Hindu Kush and the Afghani respectively.
What do you think is the ideal male to compliment the Chem 1?
Because the thing which stood out to me is that I know that JJ and Rez used the Chem D, but there was still kind of that commonality within that Afghan land race they decided to use for the male.
Do you kind of agree with that?
Or do you think, no, maybe the more Chemie OGs is a better suited male for this?
Well, I think that's the same thing.
Cause I look at that.
Um, I would agree with that.
And I'm, I feel like I'm doing the same thing in the sense that the, in my opinion, the OG Kush is, is, uh, um, is an Afganica type of strain, just like the Chem Dog is.
It's a clearly, I think it's a high elevation, um, cooler nights, lot more used to withstand like a lot more UV light than a lot of the lower land.
Strains would be, um, something that grew at a high elevation, you know, the very bright sun with a lot less protection making its own protection.
I think that's where those Afganica strands, that's where they get that glossy, dark green leaf.
I think it's, uh, I think it's protection on the, uh, the, their, their natural environment that they came from where they were exposed to extremely, I mean, not hot days, definitely not hot days.
And certainly some cool nights, but also some very intense sunlight, you know?
Yeah.
Um, so I would say that I agree with that and, but I think that OG Kush falls into that category.
I feel like it's clearly an Afganica, you know, Kush strain.
And, uh, so I think that that's a good place to start.
And that is kind of what I'm doing.
I'm, I'm working.
Um, I took a back cross, uh, OG cross OG Kush back cross that I've been working on.
And now that's what I'm working on developing this male with, you know?
So listen, like I said, uh, just released a, well, just.
Named a stream.
Um, it's called Kim crush with a K and it's, it's a nice, um, marriage of OG cushion Kim, but with a heavy, heavy Kim flavor and smell to it, you know, and very chunky.
It's beautiful pot.
And it's got that gloss on the, on the families that I was looking for and, and everything.
And, and, and to back up a little bit, it's actually the silver back of OG.
You're talking about the silver Kim.
That's from a IC collective here in Oakland, in the Bay area.
That's a plant that that's a strain they developed.
That's actually a feminine seed.
Uh, that was a Kim dog feminized cross with a silver back OG, which I've never seen.
I've never seen the silver back OG.
Uh, that's what that's silver, the silver Kim as it's a, it's a, it's just a one single plant, uh, from some feminine ICs.
My friend made IC collective.
Yeah.
Okay.
And so if you did, I get this mail, what would be some of the other clone only is you'd want to made it with like, what are some of your favorite clone owners?
We kind of haven't talked about.
Hmm.
Wow.
That's a good question right there.
Um, well, it's not very, it's not very, I don't have a lot of favorites, you know, like I really only smoke Kim dog.
I smoke my new one is my favorite one.
The Kim crushes turn.
It's what I've been smoking all summer.
It's my favorite one.
Um, but after that it's Kim dog.
And then, you know, I, I'm going to experiment with crossing with some of these feminized seeds, like, uh, taking some, like for instance, the silver cam.
And then there's another one called the Kim scout.
I'm definitely going to try that.
Um, but I'm going to be really reserved and cautious with that, you know, cause I want, I don't going to be worried about Hermes.
Although I don't see any Hermes on those plants.
Um, I'm learning as I'm going here and I understand that the community is, is concerned about, uh, you know, feminized seeds in that regard, you know, so, but that, and then, um, um, you know, the, the ultimate goal really is to get the back cross the Kim dog back cross in the seed form.
That's really what I'm shooting for.
So I can release that to the public and say this for sure.
100%.
Am I, is Kim dog, you know, whatever it ends up being a back cross, blah, blah, blah.
And this came from a Kim dog, 91 cut for sure.
You can guarantee it.
There's no question mark about it.
There's no weird story behind where you're going to find out later on.
They don't have that.
That's exactly what it is.
I think that's what the public is would like to have.
And I, and I think certainly by the time I get this thing where I want it to be, that's going to be the demand, I think.
So that's, you know, to, to, to name off a bunch of strains, I have a bunch, but I don't really know where I'm going to go with that.
So I don't, I can't really tell you yet.
You know what I mean?
Yeah, no problem.
And so, um, kind of the inspiration to start all of this, did that kind of get lit up when you kind of noticed that, um, some of the older people from the overgrown forums, for example, were getting more active in the scene?
Like for example, we've seen Oregon kid and Mr.
Soul, they're both getting things slash have gotten things back underway.
Was that kind of a bit of a catalyst for you to think like now's the time for me to get my head in the seed game?
Absolutely.
Yeah.
I, uh, it's, it's, it's, it's interesting to me.
Like the, the possibilities are endless and I, I, I see that it kind of clicked with me and, and, uh, you know, I just feel like that it's, it's just the next step for me.
It's something that I can contribute back.
And, uh, and that's what I want to do, you know?
And, and I, I feel like I've, you know, I can, I got the growing of cannabis down and I can, it's, it's, it's like a machine, you know, it's like, there's not much
more I can do to tweak it.
I mean, of course there's always going to be some new things that come along, new technologies, I would guess, and things like that.
But it's, there's really not much room for me to grow in that area.
I'm getting what I want from that.
And, uh, and I just want to take it to the next step and see what I can do.
You know, I've got the tools and like I said, you know, I, I, after, you know, a bunch of years after two decades of doing this, I can see when, you know, this is leading me in a direction, you know?
And, uh, and I've gotten, I've gotten the signs that that's where this is going and I'm just kind of going with the flow.
I feel like, I feel like genetics when I was a kid in the early eighties, I feel like genetics, the old school genetics, I feel like they were in some ways a lot better than what we have these days.
And I don't know if that's perception necessarily, but that definitely is my perception.
And, uh, I don't know if that's all it is, but I would like to get things more isolated again.
And that's, that's what I want my contribution to do to be is to get things more isolated so that, you know, you know, when people in, you know, whatever people in the next state that legalizes wants to grow their six plants or whatever, their big brother allows them to grow.
I want them to be able to like, not have to spend 20 years or 10 years or five years trying to find what they're looking for.
You know, they should be able to get what they want.
You know, they should be, they, they know what they like.
They like OG Gush.
They, they want to get that.
They like that flavor.
They know what they're looking for, you know?
And so I want to get that.
I want to, I would like to try to get that to the point where we're isolating things back.
You know, I want to get those skunks back, those skunk smells back there.
I think they're missing.
I don't think that we're really, there's big notes when I feel like someone shows me what they are talking about skunk.
And I'm using skunk as an example, because I think that we all, when we were young, I think that was all, you know, our favorite.
We do.
We kind buds that we fell in love with, you know?
And, uh, but I don't smell that specifically anymore.
When I smell it, when I'm out in the world, checking plants out beautiful pot, not saying it's not great, strange, super high THC.
And those things are great, but I also think that we need to isolate those flavors and those smells back out so we don't lose them forever.
And they're still in there.
They're in there.
And if, if you work hard enough, I think, and if you go through enough of it, I think you can isolate and a lot of luck.
I think that you can isolate those traits back and we can, we can reintroduce them back to the population.
And, and if people want to get a muddy back up again, that's their, that's their business.
They can do that.
But, you know, I think that somewhere it needs to be, you know, in other words, like taking those memories I have of that mouthwatering cannabis that I haven't seen in a while.
Not to say, like I said, that we don't have a lot of great things these days, because man, people are making some amazing things I've seen.
But getting those things and isolating them back to where, you know, we can kind of reset the button and start over and start working them again and see what we can do when we're not, you know, hiding in our basements, you know, from, from the big brother, you know what I mean?
And, and, and, uh, and each other even, you know what I mean?
Yeah.
That makes sense.
But that's, that's kind of my vision.
That's kind of my goal.
That's what I want to do.
And that's, I'm hoping that's what I can, my next step can be in this kind of, in this, in this, in this process, you know?
Yeah.
Well, I mean, as someone from Australia, who's in that position of where big brother is kind of looking at the possibility of letting us do some things, it's, uh, it's definitely great to be able to have people like you who are looking to kind of get things back to kind of their true breeding forms.
In that same kind of idea of how things were better in the past.
If we go back to kind of the, uh, the super skunk and where it originated from the SSC, do you think that like breeding was so much better back then that like the, the clone that is now that was the super skunk, that was just kind of a common occurrence?
Like if you got a couple of packs of SSC, you would likely find something that good.
Or do you think it was like a one in a million thing?
Because these days to get a clone only, it's considered like one in a million.
But back in the day, people talk of SSC, for example, as though like it was just a common thing.
Well, yeah, I do.
I think that, well, I, what my take on it is, is that when the man traveled around the world and he collected all this stuff for our enjoyment to, to, to make his business and to break that catalog.
I think what he, what he was finding was what evolution, you know, God knows what I, the way I, the way I kind of, the way I look at what helps me kind of put it in a visual picture is imagine going to Afghanistan.
Right.
And, and during, by the way, not to mention during the, the, the U at the Soviet invasion and teaming and, you know, kind of.
Befriending like, you know, guys who are hiding in a mountain or like their life is more and their families are producing hash and cannabis to survive.
Right.
And they are doing breeding, they're breeding up there.
They're making seeds for every year, just like farmers have been doing for thousands of years.
And somehow this man, you know, befriends these people to the point where he takes them to their village, to their homes and to their staff spot.
And they've given things to take out into the world.
I mean, so I think that maybe just by default, I think that the people that were, you know, we're all these original land race, strange or whatever you want to call them.
I think that the, the, the people who were caretaking them for God knows how long their families had been taking care of them for hundreds of years, maybe who knows, you know, for as long as you can imagine.
I mean, I went to Ireland once, I went to the Guinness factory and, you know, they showed us the vase, I'm sorry, the safe where they keep their, their yeast strain.
And it's the same thing.
It's the same idea.
We get a starter and they have the same one going back to the beginning of the Guinness brewery or to the last fire or whatever.
And they keep it under safekeeping, you know, and it's built their business and their, you know, people all over the world drink Guinness beer for whatever it's worth.
And it all comes from that strain of yeast that they have there at their, at their facility.
So I feel like I look at that, the cannabis went through the same thing.
It just didn't have the benefits of, of safes in Dublin, Ireland.
It had the benefits of, you know, maybe arm, you know, dudes in Afghanistan who, you know, were trying to keep their families fed and do something that their fathers or mothers showed them and grandfathers and mothers showed them.
So I think that breeding had been done.
It was just done differently.
It wasn't like on this fast paced thing, like trying everything you can and hoping that you catch the right thing that we're kind of caught up now.
It was more of like, you know, this, this village and family was isolated from this family and village.
So maybe they just never crossed their, their strains.
They just did.
The families were working on their own thing.
You know, maybe they had products that their own, that whatever, whoever, however it was working, whether it consume themselves or selling it more likely.
Making hash with it and selling it more likely, you know, they were looking for traits.
And so they were breeding, you know, just like humans have learned how to do for years.
So, and I think that when the world got smaller and everything got moved around, you know, I think we did what we would normally do.
We would try to take two of our favorite things and cross them together and make something better.
And the results have been, you know, they've been kind of hit or miss a lot of myths, you know?
So I think that, you know, when, when, when I was young and throughout my life, you know, I've, I've smelled cannabis and tasted cannabis and there's traits that I fell in love with.
And that's imprinted in my head.
It's imprinted in my brain, just like every other, you know, pothead.
And, uh, you know, I'm, I'm, I, I have those, those things in there.
When I come across, like I talked about the Beatrix choice earlier, I actually, that friend that I befriended, uh, that I ran back into in life lately, he actually gave that back to me.
And so I just took it down for the first time and I'm trying to, now I'm going through files in my memory from 1992 was the last time I smoked that stuff.
You know, I got a sack of it as I was going up to Buffalo, New York to the summer tour.
And it was the last sack of it I ever got.
It was my favorite, my favorite weed when I was a kid growing up in Virginia.
And now I'm just sitting there going, is it it?
I'm smelling it.
I'm looking at it.
And it's got like a heavy grape, like artificial grape bubble gum flavor to it, which I love that.
Excuse me.
That, um, just makes my mouth water.
I love it.
And I haven't smoked yet because it's drying right now, but I'm smelling it.
And I'm like, I sure should smoke great bubble gum in here.
I sure as shit do.
Now it doesn't look like it to me, but my memory of what it looked like, I just don't have a very, uh, you know, developed memory.
I have a more developed memory of the flavor of it.
So I I'm really excited.
I can't wait to smoke it.
You know what I mean?
So that's kind of an example I'm talking about is taking those, those memories of those traits where I formed the opinion that, yeah, that was better than what we got today.
And trying to like recreate that, you know, just based off of memory.
Cause that's what, that's all I got, you know, I don't know if it's going to work out.
I guess the world, I mean, you, you have to tell me, I mean, I don't know.
We'll see.
I hope so.
So far, so good.
Don't worry.
I'm keen to grow it out.
So I'll be sure to let you know.
Um, so did you ever happen to, uh, have any run-ins with the infamous roadkill skunk?
Well, Duke, do we call him Duke?
Is that what we like to call him?
Yeah.
Okay.
He, he, he's been talking to me about the roadkill skunk and I never really heard anyone call anything particular growing up in Virginia, the roadkill skunk.
Now we had like skunk number one and then we had what they called the basic five.
If I recall, that was the heavy skunk one, the super skunk.
And then we had the Northern lights, which the Northern lights to me, if I had to say the chem, like people compare the chem dog to the OG
Cush in other ways and say they must be related.
I don't really feel that way.
I don't feel like I see, I don't get the impression there's a direct relationship between the two.
Um, my buddy swears to God that the OG Cush came from a bag of my, like a bag seat out of one of my units years ago.
And I laugh at him every time I hear that, but I don't, I just don't, I don't really feel that, that they're that connected, but this Northern lights
that I used to smoke that came out from the catalog.
Um, I want to say Northern lights, number five, but I don't really know if that's what it was.
We just called it Northern lights.
It had that same color as the chem dog and it's had that loud, like molecule penetrating smell that the chem dog has.
So whenever, whenever, when I first smoked the chem dog, I immediately, that memory of that Northern lights popped up, you know, that we used to smoke.
And, uh, so, you know, it had that same color.
I don't even know where I was going with that, but, um, what was your question again?
I'm sorry.
Did you ever get to run across the road?
Kill skunk?
No, no, I never actually ran anything called the road.
Kill skunk in my life.
I haven't did.
Duke kind of turned me onto that, that term.
And, uh, he talks much about it and he's told me a lot about it, you know, and, uh, the skunks when I was a kid, the super skunk was at the very top of the list, mainly because you had more exposure to it.
And then right after that, if you were lucky, the basic skunk or the, or the skunk five, I think is what they called it.
And, um, and then there was a skunk number one, which was similar to the basic five or whatever, but those were pretty much the skunk strains when I was, that I've been, uh, that I've been around exposed to.
Yeah, no worries.
So if we keep with that same theme of like kind of comparing some of the oldest strains to some of the new ones, um, on your Instagram, there was a nice frosty looking photo of some girl scout cookies.
But one of the hashtags you used was hashtag yawn.
Is this kind of a bit of a reference to how you feel about some of the new strains versus the older ones?
Do they stand up or the old ones just crush them?
I think that, I think that I don't understand how the girl scout cookie got so popular.
I really don't.
To me, I think I've peaked it.
I've grown it and I've peaked it out, you know, and my friend at Icey Collectives, he made the, uh, the chem scout, which it got really popular.
Really quick, especially here in the Bay area.
Uh, he won a couple of it and stuff like that.
I liked that one better.
Of course it has some chem dog in it, but it's really, really much more similar to the girl scout with just a lot more, just a, uh, I want to say a lot.
It's got a couple more notes of odor to it and flavor too.
I just, uh, I just never was impressed with that one.
I, that one, like, I think I'm sure you know, it's just like when it hit the streets here in California, it just was like, wow.
You know, like, you know, you were selling units.
Someone would could be sell units like on the wholesale market for say in California or they're getting like 22 to 26.
But they, there was a period a couple of years ago for two years, even where the girl scout was on that same market going for 35.
And I was like, wow, I can't wait to see this stuff.
Finally, a great strain.
Let's see it.
You know, because people will show you strange, you know, and you're like, well, that's really nice.
And then you pull out a sack of chem dog and they're like, holy shit.
You know, they're like, wow.
That's like 10 times better than this, or it's just so much better.
And it's like, you know, so I couldn't wait to see it.
And I gotta be honest.
I was disappointed with it.
It's just not, it's not my, it's not that I don't think it's good.
I understand.
It's good.
I actually think it's great for the daytime.
If you got, you know, business meetings or whatever people do in the daytime.
But I think that, uh, I don't, where's the taste, where's the smell.
I don't really get it.
You know, I'm missing something there.
You know, I feel like I've made up traits to justify keeping it in my life, you know?
And, uh, that's, that's not what I'm going for.
That's a great, great example, you know?
But yeah, that's exactly what that was.
It's like, whatever, you know, I don't get it, you know, it's not, but everyone's got their own.
I respect and understand.
And clearly seeing that everyone's got their own opinions about these things and blue dream.
That's another one.
So I, I mean, I'm not going to smoke that.
You know what I mean?
I got, I got so much space in my lungs for smoke in my lifetime here, however long I get to be here.
And I'm not going to waste it on weed that doesn't have a good taste to it.
You know what I mean?
Because half the reason I smoke weed is the flavor.
I love the flavor.
That's really the main thing I get out of it, you know?
Yeah.
Yeah.
I can completely agree with that.
So I guess just to be fair, um, what would you say are some of the downsides of the 91 then?
Like we've already brought up that she's, you know, she's inconsistent and things like that.
Um, one thing that's commonly brought up is she herms, you know, cause a lot of famous strains are born from that.
How easy is she to actually herm?
Is she like any other strain where like you do need to actually stress or is she quite temperamental?
I would say that, like I said, the first time I grew up was in 1995.
I think, I think the first bit I smoked was, uh, the first, first week in Jan, the first week in January of 96.
And I found a seat in there and it was, there was no seat in the super skunk, but there was a seat in the, uh, in the chem dog.
And I'm, when I say a seat, I'm saying like, that was like one or two or three.
It was very, and it was shocking to me because I was learning at the time and I was like, Oh my God, what did I do wrong?
I, I, he explained to me everything about how Hermes happened, you know, everything we knew at the time.
And I went through my whole process.
Do I got a lay leak in here?
I mean, what's going on?
Do I have enough air flows or are we choking in here?
What's going on?
And it just, I think I had, I think I had seeds in every single, and I'm saying like, say you had five pounds of weed, you'd find five seeds, you know, very, very, and then every now and again, you would see one bud that would have just be, I would say four seeds, but relatively speaking, you know, 10 seeds and bud and you're like, Holy shit, what happened here?
And then you start, you know, going through the whole thing and seeing where else they are and you never find another one.
So, um, I usually don't ever see the males, the, the Hermes flowers.
I, it's very rare that I actually see the Hermes flowers.
It's usually, I see a seed, which I'm assuming it must've been a flower at some point, but I've tried to go through and see if I could find them to pick them off.
And I've certainly found them in like dried flowers.
I've definitely a few times I've found them in there, but it must happen real quick and they must go away real quick.
Cause it's really hard to see it happen.
You know, I've, I've scoured them.
But, uh, the down points on the chem dog, you know, I mean, you could get that.
I don't know.
That's depends, you know, like, you know, if you get up in the morning and you smoke chem dog rosin or dabs all day, you know, you're going to, you're going to have, it's for me personally, that's kind of hard.
You know what I mean?
Like I had to have a life and do that.
That's really strong.
It's medicine.
And I've had lots of patients tell me that it's, you know, people consume cannabis cause they want to, uh, the wasting away syndrome or they're having a heart, you know, just are stressful.
And they're having a lot of people when they get stressed out, they can't eat.
They lose their appetite and they, you know, cannabis helps them with that.
I've had lots of patients over the years.
Tell me that not only did this chem dog help with their appetite, but they really felt that it changed their metabolism and that they were able to put more weight on without eating much more food.
You know what I mean?
That their bodies metabolism changed to where it actually was converting energy to, you know, to store.
So, you know, I don't know that I don't want to say that's a negative, but that's a, that's, that's not recreational.
You know, when you, when people are, you know, feeling a little heavy on the front because they're smoking too much chem dog.
But, um, yeah, as far as the traits of the plant itself and the buds go, she looks like a beach to trim.
I'm just going to say that.
It, you know, if you get it right, it's, it's the worst thing I don't like is the foxtail thing.
I it's done.
He's doing that more the last few years than it used to do.
It used to be more rounded than whatever I see.
I have one of those rounded buds.
I try to get a picture of it, you know, cause it's tough for some reason to get them like that.
I'm like, I always think I figure out what I can do to make it so they're consistently all that rounded top, which is just a lovely, you know, visually, it's just lovely when it turns out like that.
But, um, I say that like, you know, I've got it down to the point where, you know, they're minimal, but I don't like that, you know?
And I wish that the one thing I've noticed with the chem dog is that what it's always done is that the, it has this funny thing.
Like people will tell you, Oh, the chem dogs done day 79, you can let it go further.
In fact, when my friend gave it to me, he told me that you can let it go forever, but you should, you can't, you got to take it at some time.
So take it a day 63.
And that seemed like a pretty reasonable thing to me.
It's like, okay, yeah, that makes sense.
This plant can keep on getting better.
The peak, no one really knows where the peak is.
Well, you know, now we know what the peak is cause we can test it, but it turns out the peak is way sooner, way sooner as far as the THC levels and Oh, the, the white hairs, you know, like, so what the chem dog will do is it'll look perfect on day 48, right?
It'll look perfect.
Picture perfect.
But obviously that's not, you know, it's not, you, you can take that and now you got what?
19% T and who knows?
I mean, you're not going to take it, right?
Yeah.
So you're trying to get a little closer to the peak and you keep going.
And then after day 48, it does a little Fox tailing and then it puts out a whole new set of white hairs.
Right.
And I don't like that.
It bugged me.
That's the one thing I don't like about the chem dog.
It really bugs me.
Cause you know, I would have a lot more pictures to share with the chem dog.
I just can never get happy with them because, well, cause I'm weird and I'm like, you know, I don't know.
I'm just kind of weird about, I want it to look, look perfect.
You know?
Yeah.
You're perfectionist.
I mean, you know, and, uh, I'm a control freak for sure.
I think every, I think every flower is a control freak if they're, what they're doing anyway, cause that's what we're doing.
And, uh, but, but, uh, yeah, I don't like that cause it, it visually it's hard, but by the end of the whole thing, I mean, and you dry it and you cure it.
I mean, there's, there's nothing like it.
I don't, I don't have, I, I personally haven't smoked anything better than the chem dog or stronger has a better flavor as she stands today.
You know, that's my opinion, but that's the way I feel.
And, um, you know, the, and the other thing is like, it's much harder to get the giant chunk nugs than it used to be.
Certainly can do it.
You know, certainly can do it.
I just got 2.12.
I don't know if I'm allowed to say this, but I just got 2.12 pounds per a thousand watt light.
And it was not because I, you know, it was growing trees.
It was because, you know, the buds were chunky, really nice shaped and they came out perfectly, you know?
Sounds really good.
So yeah.
Yeah.
And you know, when, when you smoke it, you know, like, uh, you know, my fiance, she smokes cannabis daily for her, for whatever reason she does.
And, you know, we've got all kinds of weed around here and that jar is always the one that gets open.
I mean, so she, she's not biased like me.
She didn't have a dog till she met me.
So she just, that's just her favorite one.
You know?
So, you know, I don't know.
To me, it's still, I hope that we have one day soon, just a catalog of strains that are on that level.
In my perception of that caliber, you know, you know, me and my buddy at IC collective, we were talking, we were saying is like, are we the only people who really love the chem dog or like what?
You know?
Cause it just seems like it's sometimes like, are we in a bubble?
Did we create a bubble where this is the queen of all cannabis?
And that's just what we think.
And we think the whole world agrees with us and, and we're wrong.
Would you agree that there has seemingly been more success breeding the chem dog as a hermie than as with a male?
I mean, I know it's kind of early days, but it seems like whenever the chem throws some pollen, whatever it hits turns to gold.
Whereas whenever you hit it with an, like for example, the 91 with a male, maybe not as consistently producing really stellar clones.
What do you think about that?
I think that that's what I've seen.
You know, I've been around a pretty extensive chem dog feminizing project and, you know, feminizing the chem dog and hitting so many different strains.
And they were all winners.
I mean, it was off.
It was, I, I, I don't think that that's how it normally pans out.
You know, like, like I said, the silver cam, the chem scout, the sky, the sky cam.
I mean, that's the Skywalker with it.
Then there was the, uh, uh, geez.
I mean, then there was, he did that, that Sherbert, he'd cross it every single one of those, you know, randomly pick out five seeds out of a huge bag.
And every single one of them you could keep and does, and the clubs that sell the top shelf in California and the Bay area take it, you know what I mean?
So like, uh, it looks like to me, like, you know, that has to be explored a little bit more in further, you know, and I don't really, I don't, like I said, I I'm not the one to.
Be able to articulate the community's opinion on feminized seeds.
You know, I'm the jury's still out on me.
I haven't seen any problems.
You know, that's the thing I I'm wondering what the, uh, cause I guess what I'm saying is to me, my understanding of the perception of feminized seeds is kind of a shaky thing where some people are like against it.
You know what I mean?
Yeah, I would, I would agree.
A lot of people seem to be against it, but I'm the same as you.
I haven't really seen too many problems to be honest.
I think a lot of the time people don't want to face their own growing problems.
Yeah.
I think that's, that is definitely, you know, I, I've, I've seen.
When I first got to Kim D for an example, and I grew it, like I was doing things at the time.
And at the time I was overfeeding my plants.
That was just where I was at in my evolution.
You know, I was the last person to, uh, to use, uh, in my circles to try to use any kind of salt mixtures, you know, and, uh, spaces.
And I overdid it until I understood, you know, where I think the sweet spot is.
And I got shit tons of Hermes flowers on my Kim D right now.
I don't get any Hermes, you know, I don't have any Hermes.
There's no, literally no Hermes on, on the Kim D that I grew recently, you know?
So I'm using it as an example that growing methods have a lot more to do with that than I think people realize or give good credit for, you know?
Yeah.
Um, I, like I said, you know, I've, I've been around this, this project and I'm watching it unfold and I'm watching the seeds as they, where I'm talking, I've been watching it for three years now.
And, and watching the seeds come out and, you know, the Kim Scout did, we were suspicious.
The Kim Scout was creating some Hermes, but you know, the Kim dog was always in there and that definitely, certainly for surely puts, you know, some, some, uh, Hermes banana type flowers out.
So, you know, I never saw one on the Kim Scout.
And, and even then, even in that case, we, when I was helping my friend get to the bottom of things, we did find a problem in his, in a section of his growing that could have been causing some extra stress.
You know, there was a hotspot in the corner that wasn't getting the proper air flow.
You know, and I, we, we know for sure that can cause a plant to, uh, to try to propagate itself, you know?
So, um, I haven't seen it as it, to me, it's been like, why not?
You know, but, um, but, but I, I think my approach, I'm going to do both.
I'm going to, cause I think there's a lot of promise there and I think you have way more control.
And I think that in some aspects you can, you can actually go and get the traits you're looking for a little quicker than, than going through the traditional methods.
Yeah.
And, um, and so I'm going to do both because I, my goal, like I said, is I want that male or those couple of males that, you know, it's like Guinness's yeast where that's okay.
This is where this is our base right here from this point, everything either gets better or it goes away.
It's not gonna, we're not going to vary from this.
I think as I'm learning to breed and I'm learning, you know, I'm learning what, I mean, really it's just knowing the plan is I think is what breeding all of this is knowing the plant and being able to,
at any point in the plant's life, um, stages in age, age of the plant's life say, you know, I'm feeling like this plant's got this trade or this trade or that trade.
You know, I think that's really what a good breeder can do really.
You know what I mean?
What else is, what else are you really doing besides that?
You know?
Yeah.
So, um, you know, in order for that to be successful that you got to really know the plant that you're working with, you got to really know it.
You're not just met it, but really know it, you know?
So I think for me, what I want to do is take that knowledge I have of my favorite strain, the chem dog, and put it in the seed form and, you know, and see where it goes from there, but make hybrids and eventually release back crosses with itself that are, you know, cubed to the point where it's guaranteed you're going to get what you want, you know, or the variation.
Yeah, for sure.
So I guess, uh, kind of my ultimate question in regards to the 91 in terms of both working and breeding with it is, do you think for this plant specifically, I think the answer might be a little different for other plants, but do you think for the 91 working with it is more of an art or a science?
Because it seems to not behave quite like the regular plant in some aspects.
Let me think if I understand what you're saying there.
Do you think, do you think that, um,
Yeah.
So do you think that like it, um, you can consistently get results from it or do you think it's, it's not the type of thing where you can have your kind of playbook and know if I do this, it'll do that.
Do you think it's, it's a bit unpredictable in some ways?
I used to think that.
And then as my understanding of what I'm actually doing, whatever method I'm using at that time, um, I try different things at different times too.
I don't always do the same thing.
You know, I definitely feel like I've gotten a, um, you know, a process that is guaranteed to produce what you want.
I don't really have very much variation anymore from crop to crop with chem dog.
In the beginning, what my friend told me about the hit or miss and the stars, it definitely was true, but as time went on and my understanding, I want to say skills, but I don't really know if that word applies to what I'm saying.
But those, you know, learning from my experiences and applying what I'm learning to what I'm doing, I think that just, that kind of went away.
It's very consistent now.
It's consistent.
It was, like I said, you know, I had these new ones, the chem crush, I had, uh, you know, a sour band in there, which is really phenomenal.
And I had the Beatrix choice and some silver chem on one side, say half that.
And then on the other half, I had chem dog and I crushed it on the chem dog side.
You know, I got more of a yield on the chem dog side, you know, I got, you know, it's always better pot to me.
So I'm not even going to say that, but you know, it's very consistent, very nice.
You know, it's tricky.
It's very tricky planet.
It's a, you know, the nuts and bolts of it, it consumes itself at the end of its life.
It really does.
And you have to let it do that because that's what it's going to do anyway.
And you know, time is of the essence and you know, this is just the clock of the plant, but it's hard to watch.
You know, it consumes itself.
You know, it takes every little bit of its nutrient out of its body and eats it, you know, and you can watch it do it.
It's very interesting right next to it.
And you're like, you know, if you're the first time you ever come walking into a room, you're going to go without using your nose.
Okay.
You're going to be like, what the hell happened to those plants?
And then these over here, they're all Russian green and stuff.
But you know, the chem dog is just, you know, for whatever reason.
And it does do that more than it used to going back to that question you asked earlier about the changes.
It does do that more like.
The best chem dog I ever grew was organic, and I think the reason that was was because it is because you're never, ever really just running on water.
You know, when you're doing it, that was the method I used with that.
I always had like this certainty I was making this like I used to make.
So we didn't call it.
Um.
Compost, we called it the VAT, the VAT, the VAT, you know, and I had like, you know, it's like this.
This is this was the whole thing.
You know, you take your back one is a couple of different kind.
You know, you take your seabird guano, high phosphorus in your high phosphorus back guano.
You put it in there with all maxi crop, you know, yellow sugar.
And then you put one of those, not just an air bubble in the bottom, but and these things were really hard to get back then.
It was really hard to find it.
But I would go find these fish pond or I'm sorry, these big saltwater fish tank pumps where they actually suck the water up at a very high volume, bring it up to the top of the pump head, which is kind of hanging on, say, like the edge of a trash can or whatever you got the VAT, you know, and mixes it with air and actually had a tube going out of it.
I think it's just like a I don't know what they call them.
But and and the idea was it was creating like a vigorous, you know, actually sucking action.
So it's got it's like agitating the water's agitating.
Right. But it's adding air to it.
Right. This thing, when the power would go off, this would be the first thing that generator would get.
This would be the first thing that I'd plug into the generator was this pump.
Right. Because when this thing was humming and I would never use more than half of it was the rule.
This is all the stuff my friend originally showed me.
This is all his tricks.
Man, it was I got 72 ounces of chem dog off of two one thousands on light tracks one time.
It was I brought everybody I knew over to my house.
People drew from four hours away to come see these buds.
You know what I mean? It was crazy.
You know, I would go every time I water my plants, I would stick my hand in the VAT and I would only use this thing once every two weeks.
Right. And and do a lot of top dressings.
And I would take my hand and I'm an electrician.
I work on my hands. I'm always doing some sort of physical project, messing with tools.
I've always got some sort of nick on my hand always, even right now.
And I would take my hand, I would stir it up.
And then by the time I would be done, by the time I'd water my plants, just with the with the regular regiment, the regular water, that little cut on my hand would be nice and red and looking like it's already infected.
Just 20 minutes later. You know what I mean?
I'd be like, all right, tomorrow, tomorrow, we're going to use that.
It's ready. You know, and then I would only use half of it no matter how I had to, no matter how much I had to spread it, how many plants I had to spread over.
I would never use more than half of it, you know.
And then I would fill it back up.
And I was very careful, of course, to make sure that the water was not didn't have chlorine or anything like that.
And it worked great. It was basically some sort of compost.
You actually were getting with it, you know.
But but the inconsistency thing, it doesn't really happen anymore.
You know, it just doesn't.
It's just it pretty much comes out the same.
I'm not saying it looks as pretty on day 56 as the Silberchem does, but it definitely it's still my favorite, man.
And a lot of people around me, it's their favorite one still, you know.
So.
Yeah, cool.
So if we keep on that same topic of like a kind of technology in the garden, what are some updates?
What are you running nowadays?
Have you converted over to, you know, your NanoLux slash Govita double end bulbs or are you still a simple man with just your tents and your HIDs?
No, I am using the not the Govitas, but I'm using the the Hydroform, what are they called?
Phantoms. Same thing, double ended.
It's just a little different of a I didn't have, you know, the reason I'm doing that is they have the right hood, I guess you'd call it, you know,
the insert, the reflector, they have the right reflector for my space.
I can't go up.
I can't raise like I would need to for the Govitas to get that high over the canopy.
So I use the southern one.
It's just a more open pattern.
And then I put it on light movers just because I mean, why not?
You know, and it seems to work good.
It takes the shadows out.
And I've always I've always really liked those things.
I got away from using them.
I started off with them and I really like them because, you know, you see some of these these I don't really have the type of grow where I it's a small thing that I have and I can't like cover the whole thing with light.
There's going to be an aisle way over here.
There's going to be a cabinet over here.
So, you know, I use the light movers to kind of try to compensate for that lack of total coverage I've got, you know?
Yeah. So besides that, you know, I do different things at different times.
You know, it depends on what it is.
You know, we do sometimes we're doing a little organic and sometimes we're doing a little mostly some some custom salt mixes we've got going on.
And, you know, just over the course of the bunch of years, you know, you just some things work and some things some things help you out.
And some things are just literally a waste of money, you know.
And and I've anybody out there who's growing or learning, I think the only thing I can tell you is less is more and keep it simple, you know, because it's it's really it.
They call it weed for a reason.
You don't really have to do that much to it.
You know, it's like it's got to give it a little food and enough to tell it what time it is.
And and that's pretty much it, you know.
And then I think that I think most of the skill when it comes to growing cannabis isn't what you feed, what your plant, your your your, you know, your regiment is or whatever.
I think it's really on how you train your plants and how you treat them in an indoor situation, especially.
I think it's how you train your plants and how you shape them.
I like to sculpt them, you know, to get them to where they're going to bring you the most for their little space that they're going to have with the idea that that light directly above them and not to the side.
And, you know, it's not going to move from this point of sky as the season changes.
It's always in the same spot with that all taken into consideration.
I think that that is the thing that you can, you know, give yourself better results with more than anything else that I've seen.
You know, I don't really see, you know, people going, oh, I'm using this now.
Look what happens. Wow.
I don't see that a lot.
I see people use what they feel comfortable with their their recipes and their regiments.
You know, they're, you know, Duke, he uses all kinds of stuff over there.
He tells me things. I'm like, you do what now?
I love it. I love that guy.
I've met him recently in life.
And he's fucking he's an interesting cat.
I like him. I like his attitude.
I love the story. And I can tell he's good people.
And yeah, he tells me some stuff.
I'm like, you do well. That sounds like some I would eat shit.
But I guess I think it mostly has to do with with remembering that you're in a sprint when you're growing cannabis.
You're not in a marathon.
You don't get today twice.
You only get today once.
So if you didn't do today, what had to be done, you don't get to do it tomorrow.
You just missed it. And maybe you should jot it down and make sure you do it next time you get a chance.
Make sure you do it, you know, whatever it is.
And and then along with that, just, you know, keep it simple and and like, you know, watch your plants and see, see, see which way they're what they're trying to tell you.
And, you know, they respond quick.
You know, they don't it's not like you have to wait half your life to figure out what you did work.
You know, you got you got a short period of time.
You're going to find out what your results are and be keep your mind open and and really look at everything you're doing.
You know, don't turn your eyes away from something is because you thought it worked in the past.
You know, keep it all on the table in front of you and try to make sure that you're fine tuning everything, not just one aspect.
Like, am I feeding my plants the right thing?
I see so many people that get caught up in that.
And I just think it's like it's a dead end.
It doesn't really matter that much, really.
You know, you can use any of the tools that are available to us and we got so many of them.
And if you learn how to use them properly, I would imagine that, you know, you're going to get good results if everything else is working.
Like my buddy said, it's light air and water and food.
That's it. It's no more complicated than that.
Yeah. So for this next part, we just might move on to some kind of less growing based questions, some kind of more cannabis scene slash community related questions.
Were you quick to jump on to the as like a medical patient or were you kind of a bit hesitant and you just kind of did your own thing without really engaging in the medical community so much?
And furthermore, do you think that the kind of the medical scene in America is working for the people in general?
Well, me, I I'm kind of hardcore about all that.
When I when I when to 15, I remember when Proposition 215, when the petition was being passed around, I remember I went in front of this safe where some of this guy asked me if I want to sign it.
And I said I said no.
And he goes, why not? And he goes, because I think it should be legal for everybody.
I don't think you should be sick because I my mind I was like, you know, and that was a really foolish thing.
When I look back, that was some serious dumb youth right there.
But that's that's how I felt about it.
I was like, you know, it should be legal for everybody.
And so when Proposition 215 happened, I think we all know, no matter what our feeling on it was, I think that the way that the proposition was written, I think it was amazing because it was so basic and simple and it was so vague that it could be interpreted to mean basically that, you know, that there was no limits.
You know, it was just not plant.
It was just no limitations to this, the way they were so masterfully vague.
You know, so I think that we all rejoiced when that happened.
I mean, it was like.
I think it was an amazing moment, and I don't think that me personally, I don't think I took it in for what it was worth at the time, and the reason being is because I feel like I just didn't believe it.
I just did not believe that that's really how it was, you know, until I was at a concert down in the South Bay and we had.
A quite a who's who of people with cannabis came to a suite we had there one night in Santa Clara, California, and I think we're at the shoreline showed it, and this is, you know, this was just like in 2002 or three.
This is much farther after Jerry died.
You know, this is kids and everything, and we're all settled down, but we were anyways, right?
This hotel and we're smoking and it was definitely getting a little hairy.
And my friend had just give me this, uh, this, uh, one of these hand blown on a lathe glass, you know, glass pipe bongs, you know, like the ones that they spent on the way is very nice piece, you know?
Yeah.
And so we're looking at and then then we have the guy with the bubble hash shows up.
This is the first guy that ever showed me.
But she shows up and he's got his full melt and we're just smoking and it's just one after another.
Make sure you know, it's just me and my buddy in the room and the kids are in the back room and it's separated.
We have a door separate and they're asleep and then we get that knock at the door.
You know what I mean?
Crack, crack, crack.
I'm like, Oh God, sure enough, the police are out there and someone had complained.
You know, we're, we're, you know, we come from a place where it's really not that big a deal up in Sonoma County.
I mean, you can, you can smoke weed pretty much in public, like you can in San Francisco almost now.
But, uh, we're not there.
We're in Santa Clara.
It's a much more conservative place.
And sure enough, there was some police at the door and we opened the door and I went outside and like, we're coming in.
I'm like, not without a warrant.
We go through this whole thing.
And next thing you know, I'm in handcuffs sitting on the floor and they're searching the room and they find some pot and they find a, you know, maybe a scale or something like that.
It was nothing much, but it was a big deal to them, you know?
Yeah.
And, uh, they can arrest me.
And, uh, and, uh, you know, the next thing I know I'm sitting, you know, later that week I'm sitting in front of an attorney and the first question she asked me is, so do you have your proposition 215?
And I'm like, it was like the most embarrassing moment of my life.
I think practically.
And I said, no.
And she's like, well, she's very professional.
She was like, well, can I ask you why?
And that was like, it hit me right then.
I was like, this is a real thing.
Like I'm sitting in front of an attorney that I just paid money.
And her question to me is why don't you have your two 15?
Like I'm paying her to ask me this, you know, like what a fool I am.
You know what I mean?
And I mean, I got a little pot plants and I got, you know, my garden, of course.
And I got a couple of outdoor in the garden of the house, you know, and at the time, I don't know, I felt like a fool.
So this was like in, you know, proposition two 15 was in 1996, I believe.
Yeah.
And, uh, and I didn't get my medical until I was in 1999.
So I was a good three years later and that's how it happened.
She basically, you know, it was like, you know, you need to go see a doctor.
And, you know, I'm like, well, I don't really, I'm not sick.
And she goes, look, you don't understand how it works.
It's not, you don't have to be sick.
Do you use it for anything besides like, you just get stoned?
I said, no, I mean, I mean, you know, traffic irritates me.
I smoke weed, you know, you know, like life gets to me.
She goes, that's, that's a reason.
That's it right there.
Go see a doctor.
And to me, it was such an alien idea.
So I went and saw the doctor.
He talked to me and he was like, you know, he asked me all the questions.
How much do you smoke?
We smoke it for, and I tell him, and then I suddenly felt like a patient, you know?
And I was like, it's a legit.
And then we took all this to the, to the, you know, we, she did her thing, you know,
I don't, we didn't go to court or anything and, you know, they, they ended up dropping
the charges and all that kind of stuff.
So that's how it happened for me.
You know, I've, I've, uh, you know, in my, my years traveling around with the
grateful dead and everything else associated that we, we learned how to
survive in the shadows in America, you know, and, and I kind of got comfortable
there and I think that, I think even as things are, you know, as we're.
Recreation is going online here in America.
I think I'm still dealing with that a little bit because sometimes I see
what people are doing out there and I'm like, God dang, man, you guys are over the
top.
And you know what, they're, they're actually really successful and they're
putting their dreams together because they came out of the shadows to do that.
And that's, I struggle with that, you know?
So I think that when I, that's, it took me a while to get my medical because of
that.
So, and I think as far as medical in America, I want to say yes, but I don't,
I don't, I, I don't know if I have the whole view on that because of, um, my
lack of really understanding completely what's how CBD works and how it helps
people with various things.
And not just my lack of understanding of just in general.
So my answer would be that it would be great if we would just open this up and,
and, uh, in America here and, and, and try to figure out what is helping people
in a, in situations, a, B and C and, and, and try to understand it.
Cause you know, that's how I, I think that, you know, I just want to see
everything from a science based point of view when it comes to the medical side of
cannabis, like what exactly does this help?
But being careful with, you know, we're getting pretty far away in America here.
I'm just remembering that it's just a fucking plant, you know, like, you know,
everyone's so hype hyped up on, yeah, yeah.
Regulate tax, the cannabis, you know, producer, like you do an alcohol producer.
And, you know, I, and then that brings up that same kind of militant attitude.
I haven't, it's like, it's not like alcohol, it's a plant, it's different.
It's like, it's more like valerian or it's more like, you know, you know, it's
more like an herb or something.
It's not like alcohol.
Alcohol is poison.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
No, I like glass on a moment, but I don't want it to get.
And if, and if, and since we're already on this road, cause you know, reality is
reality since we're on this road where we're going to regulate it, tax it like
alcohol.
That's the phrase that people are comfortable with.
Okay.
Well then treat me like, uh, you know, treat me like a small brewery, treat me
like a, a winery or something, you know, don't treat me like I'm making meth or
something or making like, you know, oxycodone in my basement, you know what
I mean?
Like, treat me like I'm making out.
That's what you're going to do.
And let me have the same rights as those people do.
Cause they got plenty of rights.
I, I live in wine country.
I see what they get away with, you know what I mean?
And, uh, or, you know, just let people leave it, be like, it's a tomato plant,
you know, which is what I would prefer.
They would just leave it alone and let, let the market sort itself out, you know?
Yeah.
But, um, sorry.
So I was going to say, so what are some of the, uh, the, the pitfalls that, um,
other countries could learn from America?
Like surely there were some things that happened after legalization, which in
retrospect you realize were negatives, but maybe initially you thought they were
positives.
Like what, what should we be on the lookout for?
That's a good question.
Um, well, see, I guess when you ask that, what comes to mind is, uh, dispensaries.
Um, I mean, that's just, that's just part of the fabric now.
That's part of the scene now, but in the beginning, and even the people who wrote
proposition 215, that's exactly what they didn't want.
You know, they knew that if, if we allowed, if, if we allow people to, so,
you know, cannabis in like a dispensary situation, that's exactly where the
federal government would get involved right there.
You know, right when you do that transaction that they would have a problem
with that, you know, and they never intended.
And actually my doctor was, uh, in the room when they were brainstorming 215.
And he explained this to me.
He said that, uh, you know, we never intend, we never saw that happening.
We assumed that then when you say, when I say we am talking like I'm handling, he
said, we never thought that that would happen.
We thought that as soon as that happened and we, that the feds would shut it down
and that wouldn't be a problem.
And that we would be left with is, you know, farmers market type things,
exchanges, and, and, but mainly everyone having the right to grow their own pot.
You know, that was really the main goal.
So I think that, you know, as when legalization happens, the, you know, that
they weren't being realistic in my opinion, because, you know, not everybody
can grow their own, you know, I mean, that's just that most people can't, they
don't have the space, they don't have the physical capabilities, especially
if they're a medical patient.
They don't have, they don't, they don't want to learn a new skill just to get
something they've been using their whole life.
You know what I mean?
Just because the law says that's what you have to do now.
Um, but I think as when legalization happens in places where it's beginning
to happen and hasn't even gotten this far, like maybe where you're at or
anywhere else, I think just keeping an eye on that, you know, making sure.
That the structure of how cannabis gets from the grower to the end user, just
making sure that that's done right.
And don't, don't let any, cause that's where all the shady, shady characters
have popped into this industry.
You know, um, in my opinion, I think that that the lure and, and that whole
infrastructure and apparatus has allowed the people who really just want to end
for the money that's given them the door.
And, you know, you know, they, they've controlled, they, they, that basically
gave them the keys to the market.
You know, they decide how much pot costs, you know, and, uh, I don't really think
that's, I don't, I think that could have been, we've gotten away with it here
and it went okay.
But I think that part could be definitely organized better as it's growing in a
place where marijuana has become legal.
You know what I mean?
Yeah, for sure.
So, um, just touching back on a point you made earlier on in terms of how you were
saying we need to figure out whether it's, you know, maybe the THC or the CBD, for
example, which is actually giving them additional benefit on your, just in your
personal experience.
And I know you mentioned earlier, your fiance uses for medical reasons.
Do you find that the high THC strains are actually for the most people, the most
effective?
Because what we're seeing in Australia, for example, is that there's a big push to
tell people that CBD is what's the benefit out of marijuana and that THC is just this
recreational side component that you don't really need.
You know, like, do you feel like that's a total misrepresentation?
Absolutely.
I think that there's no possible way that anyone could 100% tell you exactly what any
given individual, whether it be a kid with seizures or someone who's going through
chemo, what they're getting, what in cannabis is giving them the benefit.
I think that it's an entourage effect, I think is what we, we agree, the phrase we
agree on.
And I think that there's simply, and now with the introduction of, of, of, you know,
us breaking all the terpenes and isolating them all out and understanding that, like,
these are powerful, powerful substances, terpenes, terpenoids.
And, and we, and now we're trying to fit that into the puzzle.
So we started off with taking the THC out, you know, you got, I mean, I don't know
anybody who's ever used marijuana and been raving about it, you know, so that's not
what it was.
And then, then the CBD and you think, oh man, we just saved the whole world with CBD.
And now that's turning out not to be the case when we isolate it and give that to
people.
Certainly helps with certain things.
I mean, there's, there's some other gray areas here that I'm not covered or probably
even aware of, but I think that the whole plant concentrated or just the whole plant
consumed, I think seems to be the universal, you know, uh, kind of helps with
everything.
If you know what I mean?
Like, it seems to me that the people who have the access to the high T and C stuff,
they seem to be the ones that rave the most to me, in my experience, from what I hear,
my perception to me about the benefits that they're getting from it.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
Yeah.
So I think that, I think that that's a big misconception.
I think that THC is a very important part of it.
And I think that it goes back to what I said.
I think that, you know, these things need to be broken down in a scientific way and
understood before we start telling anybody anything about what, you know what I mean?
In the meantime, millions of people are having positive effects on their life and
smoking cannabis.
So they should, in the meantime, while the government catches up to society, which is
basically what we're waiting for is, you know, just the other day in the United States,
I'm sure you know that the DEA, after a bunch of fanfare this summer, they decided,
and I gotta say, like, how did, how did my democracy turn into a place where some
bureaucracy decides what's dangerous and what's not?
Isn't that, I mean, couldn't we at least have a vote on that in Congress?
But, you know, that's the way, where we're at.
And they just denied, they just, you know, almost in a joke, you know, came out and said
that they still think that there's zero medical benefit to this and they're going to
keep it, they're going to keep it under schedule one, you know, as opposed to schedule
two, which would be a recognition.
Cocaine isn't scheduled to, you know, America.
They think that that has a medical benefit as whereas cannabis doesn't, along with
heroin and LSD, for instance, you know.
I mean, it's just so, it's, we're so, our research and our, and especially our
government is keeping this stuff moving at such a pace.
I don't know if we'll ever know what the deal is with cannabis and what it's trying to
help us with and what the goal is here with that plant, you know, and really break it
apart. I mean, here in America, that's what we're good at.
I mean, I feel like that's what we've been always, you know, we take something and we
get down to the bottom of it.
Scientifically, we always have in the past.
That's what we like to take, tell ourselves when we, when we look at our history, you
know, like we've got, we put the man on them, we figured it out, you know?
And so, you know, I would love to see us go in that direction.
I just don't see it happening.
And, you know, for obvious reasons, because it's more profitable right now to cage
humans than it is to, you know, take less, take people's medicine cabinets and empty them
and putting a plant in there instead, you know, for many, many different things.
It's for some reason it makes more sense to society right now, officially to demonize
this and continuously put people in cages and lawyers and judges and clerics and the
whole, the whole thing.
And, you know, I just don't think that I like Florida comes to mind the way what they're
doing in Florida. When you talk about the CBD thing that they're trying, there's a lot
of states where, and at the beginning it was a warm, fuzzy thing.
Oh, we're going to have CBD like South Carolina for all places that you can, you can have
CBD oil there.
You can even import it into the state.
I understand my family.
So my family lives there.
That's why it's like the most backwards conservative place.
And in Florida and Georgia and to me, it's like they're jumping the gun.
I understand what they're doing and I respect that they're trying to help.
You know, I think that the, when a, when a small child is having seizures and is having
a horrible life, it compels even these guys who can't see past their own biases towards
this plant, they can see past it just enough to help those people.
But they're making laws, you know, and those laws will have to be changed.
They're going to have to be, you know, rearranged.
They're going to have to be revisited at some time in the future as a science comes out.
So, and I just think you got to be cautious with that, you know, because we don't really
know. THC is powerful medicine and, you know, it's, it's our bodies receives it well.
So it's got to be something to it.
Right.
Yeah.
So do you think that for new countries that are just kind of writing their own legislation,
do you think that the most important thing to maintain is that you need to be able to
grow your own medicine?
Or do you think that, you know, it's maybe okay to forego that right just to be able
to say, get it from, say, a mass supplier?
Because just to give some context to this question, Australia currently, the model
proposed is looking like you won't be able to grow it yourself.
But, you know, some big Philip Morrison tobacco conglomerate will probably be producing a
ton of it. Do you think that we should compromise for that?
Or that at the end of the day, growing your own needs to be the end goal?
I think that, well, and you're saying that they're talking about doing this in the
medical aspect, not recreational.
Yeah. Sorry.
No, no recreational, only medical.
Yeah.
I, and as I get older, I'm more this way.
I truly believe that self-reliance is one of the highest of human qualities, you know,
like growing your own food and making sure that your location, the place where you call
home, has a good, clean source of water and figuring out how to make it clean if it's
not clean and growing your own cannabis is part of that.
So I can't see it any other way.
I cannot.
I, you know, companies that you're speaking of like that, not just Philip Morrison, those
types of companies, but even like just bigger companies that provide things that people
use every day in life, say food and things like this.
I'm to me, it's really important to get away from all that and to find more local
sources and more importantly, produce things that you can for yourself.
You know, because I think that.
I just think that if we all do that life, the machine slows down to the point where
we can maybe have a sustainable spaceship here on earth, you know, and that if people
spend more time trying to take care of their more basic needs on their own, not like, oh,
no, you've got to take care of that.
Not, not, not in a mean way, but like as in this is what, you know, this is what we want
our society to be like people, you know, families being self-reliant, you know, and
learning how to like be healthy and feed themselves without help from the companies,
the corporations and the government and all that.
So with that in mind, there's no other way for me to think about it.
I really think that cannabis plant is no different than a tomato plant and that you
should be able to grow either one.
It's just something you're consuming.
You know what I mean?
But with that being said, yeah, you know, it is that, like I said before, not
everybody's going to be able to do that for various reasons.
And I think that you have to have that right to do that, though.
I feel like you have to, you have to.
It's just a plant.
And, and by the way, if you have a system where you're not allowed to grow, but you
can buy it from whatever, people are still going to grow.
So what did you really accomplish?
You know what I mean?
You just made some more laws.
You just, you just, without even trying, you just made some more penalties for people
in life, you know, because people are still going to grow their own pot.
You know, I can, I can get, you know, shit.
I don't even know where I'm trying to think of a good example.
Eggs, right?
I can get eggs from the factory farm at the store, but I have my own chickens and I get
my eggs from the chickens so I can eat GMO free eggs.
You know what I'm saying?
I should have that right.
You know, I shouldn't have to be forced to go deal with some company that has
different values than me, you know?
Yeah, exactly.
So if we just kind of, sorry, go on.
I was just saying, I think that's really important.
Actually, I think that's really important to fight against that.
And it, and I think that they're, they're just at one low addition to what I was
saying. I don't think that you should make that compromise.
I really don't.
I think that, you know, here in California, 2010, we had a legalization thing.
I think it was called proposition 10 or 20 or something.
I can't remember, but it failed and it failed because it was wrong.
It, it, it legalized cannabis, but it also created other laws that more penalties for
things that people were doing.
Like for instance, there was a, there was some sort of clause in there where you had
to have your, you know, your cannabis, there was extra, there was new penalties,
uh, for, for people who had children, their children around their cannabis grows or
cannabis situation in some way.
And it, and it lost, you know, it's surprisingly lost because, you know, the
voters of California took all this into account and many people in California grow
cannabis as you know, and it failed because, you know, we couldn't make those
compromises just to have legalization.
We just couldn't do that.
And now here again with a UMA, uh, proposition 64 coming in November, you know,
it's not doing so well in the community because people are having the same kind of
questions are like, does this protect the small growers or not?
And the answer is really unclear.
So you go to where the money is and who the backers are and it gets even more
unclear.
So now we don't know.
And I do see, you know, to your point of the question that, you know, there is a
compromise that has been made.
I mean, you have to like, you know, you, you, there's going to be a compromise.
There's going to be winners.
There's going to be losers, but we don't want to see new penalties.
And I think that anything that says you can't grow is a terrible idea because it's,
you're really, you're really just creating more criminals when you do that.
You know, if you can't grow plants, you're creating an environment where there's
criminals, you know?
And when I say criminals, I mean dudes like me, I ain't a criminal, but you know,
people who are breaking the law, you know what I mean?
Yeah.
And so this is kind of a little bit of left field question, but I wanted to ask,
what's your thoughts on the concentration community and maybe the possible kind of
negative impact they have on our image.
In our last episode, Duke referenced that, you know, some of the people who are, you
know, really heavily onto concentrates these days more resemble crack addicts than
marijuana users.
Do you think that that's potentially like a negative thing?
Or do you think on the whole we should just try to push the stoner image and make it
more mainstream?
I know what you're saying about the image, and I think it's kind of, I think it's
kind of funny too.
I, it's big, it's gotten big, it's kind of hard to, I don't even know if I put my
whole opinion on this yet.
I don't think I've even formed an opinion, but I think that, you know, it's, that's,
that's not going away.
I can tell you that much.
It might get more refined and better processes and standards, but it's not going
away. That's definitely a popular thing.
You know, I, uh, I smoke the rosin.
I really like that. And that's, it's not because of any, it's not like I'm anti
solvent or anything like that.
It's just, I really love, it goes back to being self reliant.
You know what I mean? Like, I don't have time to make a hash or anything like that.
And I don't really have a desire to, I've messed around with it.
And it's not that interesting to me really.
Like, I feel like the ceiling of, of what captivates my imagination about learning
something new. I hit it really quick.
It was like, oh, okay.
And, um, so rousing, it's like a self reliant thing.
I mean, I love the fact that I can take my favorite strain instead of smoking someone
else's trim that's been made into a concentrate, right.
Or even luckily if you're lucky enough smoking their fresh frozen live resin, I
think they call it, they've made into a country, which I love that stuff, you know?
And there's some amazing products coming out.
There's mind boggling.
It's like, wow, this tastes so good.
How did you do this?
And then, um, but I love the fact that I can just take one of my own buds, stick it in
some paper and smoosh it and then do a dab.
Cause I really liked the ritual of doing a dab.
I enjoy that.
It's something I've learned.
I enjoy that.
I don't like smoke.
Um, I, I am really, I have a really strong, I feel like I have a really strong sense of
smell and smoke, even cannabis smoking.
It, it aggravates me.
It really, I had allergies in the spring and, um, so I got like a sensitive, I feel
like a respiratory system and smoking.
Anything is not my favorite thing to do.
You know what I mean?
So now I'm not saying I want to eat cause I don't like eating cannabis as much as I
like the instant smoking, the instant effect.
I like that instantaneous effect.
Um, so I feel like it's, it's, it, it satisfies me in the way because it's self,
it's just self reliant.
Like I, I have everything I need right in my kitchen just to quickly make up a dab.
And I think it tastes great.
I love it.
And, you know, it's not, you know, and people who are hearing this, who make dabs
or smoke dabs are going to go, Oh God, not the rising, you know, cause it's so,
they're so hard on it, but it's actually, you know, it's pretty damn good.
And, uh, you know, I get to smoke the flavors I want to smoke instead of
settling for some other strain that somebody else, you know, did it with.
And I get to smoke, you know, Kim dog, you know, so, um, but as far as the image
goes, you know, it doesn't look good, but it's definitely so mainstream now that I
think that, uh, the public's perception of it's changing and it doesn't look as
bad as it did three years ago.
Um, as long as people don't blow up houses, it continues to lead to that, which a lot
of that's been going on, you know?
Yeah.
So, um, in terms of all the recent breeders kind of coming out of the
woodworks, what's your feelings on this?
And I guess more specifically, how do you feel about kind of companies using the
Kim dog name as a way of, you know, trying to boost their product?
You know, do you think it's like, you know, do you ever want to call these people out or do you
just think like, look, the end of the day, everyone's always going to try to say they've
got like, you know, quote the highest quality ingredients in their product.
And, you know, by the natural extension, people are going to lie and say that the
Kim dog is the real Kim dogs used in their strain when maybe it's not, or heck I've
even seen strains that don't even have Kim dog in it.
And they've got like Kim dog references in the name.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
Like, uh, you know, yeah, there's some, there's some companies that have used that
name and they've really done well with it.
You know, you mentioned one earlier and I can think of one other one.
And, uh, when I first saw that, when I first came out of the shadows and, you
know, looked at an Instagram or, you know, went to one of the weed carnivals, this
dude calls it, you know, I, uh, I was shocked.
I was blown away.
I was like, oh my God.
I was like, man, these people will say anything.
They're just lying.
It's not even, it's not even close to true.
And then the stories, you know, like when I, you know, I got back on the internet in
2012, you know, you know, some people asked me that, what, you know, some of the
same questions you asked me about the Kim dog.
And then they're like, that's not what I heard.
And I'm like, dude, I'm telling you about my life, bro.
What do you mean?
I'm not, I'm not repeating some story that I heard at somebody's house or whatever.
I'm telling you what happened in my life, dude, this is the thing.
Please understand that, you know?
So I was really frustrated first.
No one, my friends showed me the picture on the package.
That was definitely my picture.
I was like, you gotta be kidding me.
I was like, this is nuts.
This is like a free for all.
But you know, and of course it made me feel a certain kind of way.
And it was like, you know, I was angry about it.
I didn't like it.
I was like, that's not right, man.
I've put my fucking blood, sweat and freedom on the line for this shit.
I don't want to be fucking, you know, I don't want to see someone making trillion
dollars off of a lie, you know?
But you know, at the end of the day, I'm not really, it's not my MO to go around
calling people out on their thing.
I, like I said, we'll all be sitting around, you know, at a table, so to speak,
you know, figuratively speaking, and we all got stories and your stories either
are bullshit lie or are you really, you really put your heart and soul into this.
And I put my heart and soul into this and I still to this day.
So like, you know, I don't like it, but it's a waste of my energy to go
around and police that or whatever.
You know what I mean?
Like, I, I, I'm just going to, you know what I want to, when, when you, when you,
when you describe the situation you're talking about, the only answer is just
to go blow a blow them out of the water.
You know what I mean?
You know, like you got the chem dog.
No, you don't look at it.
I mean, how many times has that happened where you like, you smoke a joint.
Someone tells you the chem dog, you're like, here, dudes hit this instead.
And they're like, what is this?
And you're like, it's the chem dog, bro.
You know, that's the chem dog.
I don't know why you just moved me, but that's the chem dog.
So that's kind of what I'm saying.
Just like, you know, do your thing and make you make it happen.
And, and if you just tell the truth, man, you know, like live, live, live by the
golden rule and then you don't have to lie.
You don't have to make up a fucking weird story for everyone to believe.
You know, just, you can just tell the people the truth.
If you lived your life right away, you know what I'm saying?
Yeah.
I think it'll, I think in the end it's all, it's all going to sort itself out.
Are those people crushing it?
They are.
There definitely are.
Will they be crushing it five years from now?
I don't know, but you know, I just think that, you know, I think that the truth
that in the end of the day, you know, is, is what people are interested in.
You know, they don't want to hear the bullshit lie.
You know what I mean?
There's some of these people we've talked about, you know, I mean, I'm not
here to talk shit about anybody, but some of them, you know, some of them,
you know, they've fucking blatantly lied and known about it and, and they've
gotten really successful and like practically famous for some of the, you
know, for their company, whatever their thing is and their lie or whatever.
And I think it just sorts itself out at the end of the day.
You know, I really do.
I think if you're a customer, say some dude in like, you know, Illinois and,
you know, you want to get some seeds or something, are you going to go to the
guy that's got funny reputation for Hermes seeds and doesn't really, can't
really tell you exactly where he got this, the stuff he says he got.
You know, I mean, or are you going to go where, you know, you definitely
know this dude is like been doing this for whatever you're probably going to,
if you want the chem dog, you're going to go where, you know, the chem dog came
from, you know what I mean?
Yeah.
I guess.
Yeah.
No, no.
I think it all works itself out.
Don't worry.
People will, there'll be an exodus.
Yeah.
So this is kind of our last extended response question.
Then we've got just some kind of more short answer ones.
So it's a bit lighthearted when, when talking to people about chem dog and all
the different varieties, what do you find is the part that gets confused the most?
Is it the fact that there's, you know, there's the D, the three, the four, the
91 and, and people just confuse the names or do you think like it's all the
different aspects of the history, which people confuse more so like, what, what
do you find kind of, maybe it's not frustrating, but when you're trying to
talk to people about it, what do you find gets kind of, you have to correct the most?
The volume of it.
There's just so much bullshit that it's hard.
It's almost tiring to hear it.
You know?
Let me think, let me think about that for a second.
I was just going to say if you, if we actually look at Leafly at the moment, which is kind of,
you know, the go-to website for people to look up strains, it says that chem 91 was a
strain created from the original chem dog cross to skunk.
I mean, I understand that.
Don't they have like a big joke about them saying that the sour diesels and indica
are hybrid and they say it's a sativa and AJ's trying to get them to
make it a hybrid.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That kind of, so I guess they already are like kind of.
Then they're notable for getting things wrong.
Yeah.
So I feel like they're, they're gaining their own kind of reputation in a way, kind of
making their own reputation.
They should probably check their sources.
I remember, remember that, the can of Bible.
Do you remember that book that was coming out in California?
That was.
Yeah.
Yep.
They had, they had the chem dog story wrong in there.
And I mean, you're talking about a coffee table book you can pick up.
And I mean, I'm looking at it right now.
So my, my fiance's it's on her bookshelf right now.
And they got the chem dog story wrong.
I think that it's, I think it's, it would have been more useful if people would have
taken their firsthand knowledge and spread that around as opposed to the story they
want to believe or the best version they heard or, or however they came to these
things.
I think it would have been more useful to the whole community if they would have just
used the firsthand knowledge.
And maybe now as we move forward and people can come out of the shadows a little bit
more who actually, you know, um, know what's up, you know, that we're there, then
maybe that will sort of fix itself too.
But I, I, I find it, it doesn't, it used to, it used to bother me more than it does
now.
Now to me, it's just like, it's more entertaining than anything.
You're like, what?
You know, it's, it's like, it's, it goes back to the truth is way more interesting
than fiction.
It always is.
I mean, it's true.
Like the best, craziest stories you've ever heard are true stories, you know?
And it's the same thing.
It's like, why, why do you got to make up a story?
There's the original, the store, what actually happened?
It's so mind-blowingly interesting when you look at the different, the coincidences
and the chance happening, the chance meetings and just like the once in a lifetime
events, you know, like how could that have even happened?
That's so much more interesting than, you know, what everybody's opinion about this
is.
I can't tell you like how I felt when someone questioned my story, when I, when
I finally told it to them, they asked me and they, and they, uh, they didn't
question it like directly, but they were like, well, what I heard was this.
And it's like, I just told you, like I said before, I just told you what happened.
Why are you, why are you still telling me that version?
And then my, one of my favorite one was when the, the chem dog was being passed
when that whole Joe, Joe, J, uh, Joe brand thing happened in that state, Kim
dog, that, whatever that was to me, I think it was a res doc, sour diesel, I
think is what it was, but, uh, it was a chunky sour diesel.
I saw a lot of it.
Cause like I said, I had to go around and give a lot of bad news that summer.
And, um, um, what was I saying?
Uh, oh, you know, I would, I would, people that were, I don't want to say
close to me, but people that were in my outer circles, you know, I would come
in contact with them, people who I was knew well enough to talk about this stuff.
They go, look, I got the chem dog, check it out.
And then you go, this is not the Kim dog.
And then, then you have to give them a little bit of background about
how you know that of course.
Right.
Yeah.
Uh, this is the Kim.
I know this is not the Kim dog because of A, B, and C, you know, like some
of those things we've talked about.
And then they still call it Kim dog.
It's like, dude, you literally got right from the horse's mouth.
We were told that this is not Kim dog.
And, and for some reason, I mean, give it another name, just
name it something else now.
You know, like make something up, man.
You know what I mean?
Like, but that's not the Kim dog.
That was really, that broke me down because those were some hard days
for me because I'm telling you, man.
Like talk about units and where they got to go, man.
Like I I've always, the Kim dog has always been my thing.
So if there's some sort of confusion there, man, it really hit me hard.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
It was frustrating.
There was one point where I was like, what do I even have this plan for?
You know what I mean?
Am I, I mean, I know why I had it, but as far as the other things are like,
you know, besides smoking it, I was like, what am I banging my head against
this wall for, if you know what I mean?
You know?
So, but the other stories and stuff, you know, I hear them and I, and I try to
try to see like where they got, how this, you know, like when you're in
kindergarten and you pass a secret around the room and a story is different.
When it gets back over here, I try to figure out how did that story get to be
that way?
And sometimes I'm like, I think someone just made this up.
This sounds like a bunch of bullshit to me.
I don't know.
And it's always, always less interesting than the truth.
There's no doubt about that.
I haven't heard one story that was like, wow, let's just change the story to that.
That's way cooler.
Yeah.
Okay.
So for the last little bit, it's just some kind of lighthearted questions.
So the first one being, if you could go to one place on earth at any time, you know,
presumably to collect some land race seeds, where would you go and what era?
Oh, the era.
That would be hard.
I would say, I would say I would like to go to the Hindu Kush region in Afghanistan,
the high, the high mountains of Afghanistan and, and, and see what they had up there.
Cause that's, that's my favorite.
That's the cannabis that speaks to me the most, you know?
I would have liked to have been, I, there's a legend that, uh, the skunk was found in the
wild, you know, in the Ohio river Valley, somewhere in Kentucky or Ohio.
And I would have loved to have been there when that happened, you know, when, um, not
necessarily in the wild as the legend goes, but it, that it was, uh, that the people that,
that had it, that passed it on, that's what they found it.
And that, that there, that the legend that they were going off was that the
native Americans there had been working with it and they, it was sacred plant to
them.
I would have loved to be there for that.
And there to witness that moment when that whole realization, you know, happened.
And, and then when I looked at the catalog and I see the man standing in the, you know,
like bunker in front of all the hash and I'm looking around and I'm going to be like,
you got this white dude, you know?
And, and he's like standing there with like these, you know, these, these soldiers,
these warriors, you know, the family men, the warriors fighting the, the, the Soviet
empire.
And somehow, some way, this guy gains enough trust to go and look at the big
hedge dash, you know, look at the spot where they're keeping all the hash, you know,
that'd be, I mean, that's, I couldn't imagine a more powerful moment than that as
far as cameras, because I mean, that's just, that's some, that's some serious
networking that's before email.
I mean, that's just like, how did that happen?
That's amazing.
What a contribution, you know?
Yeah.
I could only hope that, um, one day I'd be able to chat to Neville about how that
all happened and hopefully he'd share.
Does anybody know where he's at?
Yeah.
He's, um, he's currently in Australia, so not too far from me, but, um,
unfortunately he's actually battling, um, some cancer at the moment.
So I'm not too confident he'd be kind of up to feeling up to doing an interview,
but, um, you know, we obviously send our best wishes to him.
Yeah.
Well, you know, likewise out there for sure.
Cause to me, that guy, uh, he, he made the biggest contribution to contemporary
cannabis that there won't be a bigger contributed contribution than that, you
know, just collecting all that, working it and, and giving it to the world and
the heat and the height of the drug war was just, I mean, thank you.
You know?
Yeah.
He certainly, um, I mean, he, man, I think Shanti Barber has also done, you
know, some comparable amount of work, but yeah, I think they definitely have
done a lot, especially in terms of like just laying the groundwork for future
people, if nothing else.
Yeah.
I mean, it's certainly something to shoot for, you know, no doubt about it.
Yep.
So onto our next question, this one might, you might have to struggle about it.
Cause I think you might want to give more than one, but if you could only change
one thing about the 91, what would it be?
Uh, I would want it to go back.
I w I would, it's lost.
I talk in notes, it's lost a note or two on the flavor since I got it.
I would like, there was this deep, dark, dark, earthy flavor that, uh, you get it,
but it's, it's diminished somewhat.
And I would like for that to come back.
And, um, but overall, without going back to something that maybe we've
lost with it.
Um, I don't know.
I w it's hard for me to say, cause it's, you know, I would like it to be more,
you know, chunky and, you know, the shape to be a little bit tighter on the tops
and the edges, like we were talking about earlier, you know, I wish, uh, I don't
think it's the prettiest pot in the world.
You know, I don't think it is.
So I would say that, you know, I think that on, on all the things we judge
cannabis on, I think that's probably gets more attention than it deserves the look
of it, you know, but, um, as opposed to the flavor and the smell and of course
the drug traits.
But, um, I would say that that would be the one thing that I would want it to
look, look, just look a little bit nicer, you know, like more shaped, more shaped
buds and, and, uh, more uniform on that.
Yeah.
Okay.
So, um,
I'm a big, I'm a big fan of the, of the, of the, of the, of the, of the
big fan of the chem dog.
I there's not, that's a tough answer.
Cause I, I really don't see how you can make something much more better than that.
You know?
Yeah.
Yeah.
I understand.
So, um, so when you do get the seed company up and running, um, I know that
you've obviously got some own personal goals to get done.
Have you, however, considered possibly doing a collab with someone?
Have you ever thought like, I'd love to get my own stuff going and then, you know,
like Duke's got some cool stuff going on.
Maybe we could do a collab or something.
Absolutely.
Yeah.
Uh, Duke's actually, he's, uh, he's really inspired me when it comes to the,
to the breeding, like, um, he's opened my eyes to the different, um,
possibilities with it, you know, and it's really kind of inspired me.
So, yeah, I would certainly be interested in doing that.
Absolutely.
I think that those kinds of things are going to, that's where the real magic's
going to happen when people with their own views get together and make something
like basically a new thing, you know, like, I think that's where a lot of the
magic's going to happen. I look forward to that, you know,
as we go down the road here.
Yeah. Awesome.
So what do you think are some of the most overhyped slash worst strains you've
ever had slash, you know, biggest disappointments?
Oh no, you're going to, you're going to hate the answer.
The Chem D was definitely my, I don't really, I'm not impressed with that one.
I'm just not, I don't get it. It is very medicinal. I will say I, uh,
it's really good for anxiety. The people who are the patients that I'm in contact
with, they, uh, Kim dog is, is, uh,
Kim dog can actually, if, if you're, if you're not an everyday user,
Kim dog can actually make your anxiety worse in the, in the short term. Um,
it's just really strong. Um, but that the Kim,
the Kim D I've noticed that the patients that I'm in contact with who have
anxiety problems, which is, you know, you're talking 60% of the patients you come
to, that's their, uh, understandably their main,
their number one concern with their health, you know,
what as regards to cannabis is their anxiety.
And that one really does seem to help cause it's,
I don't really know where it comes out on the THC scale. And of course,
you know, I don't think the THC, like we were talking earlier,
is the whole picture. I think this is the entourage, you know,
you could have a strong THC and not have a real psychedelic type of cannabis,
like say the Canada, the Kim dog can be to people.
So I don't know how that's tied in,
but for some reason my feedback from people is that it's really good for
anxiety. To me, it's just disappointing. I don't like that smell. You know,
when you got people describing Kim dog,
Kim D smell as rotting meat garlic, it's like
what?
So, um,
I've had that description a lot.
Yeah. And I'm just like, I don't understand that one. But, um, but then of course,
I smoked something that smells like, you know, fuel to people.
Some people smell fuel and I don't really quite get that,
but I kind of understand it. But I think that the fuel, you know,
characteristics that come from cans, I feel like the fuel,
I think that kind of comes more from the name than an X.
I don't really know if people smell diesel when they're smelling it. And I don't,
I don't, I don't smell that, you know? So I guess it would be opinion thing.
But as far as other strains that were really disappointing, then I grew,
they were mostly,
there were mostly things that I'm not so sure they were what they,
what they said they were. It was a master cush that I got. So I,
and that was nothing good. And then, uh,
and that cherry pie that I got, I liked it. I loved it, but it did, it put,
it put ball sacks out early in the flowering and it was a problem for me. I didn't,
I didn't enjoy that, you know, cause it, um,
I didn't really have much control over it and going through with the style that
I was growing and picking through that, that was kind of tough. Um,
trying to think, I don't know.
Some of my favorites that are outside of the chem dog family were like the super
silver haze. I really enjoyed that one. And that was kind of out of my zone of
what I like, you know, what I prefer in cannabis that was kind of outside of it.
And I still liked it a lot. Um, that's pretty much, uh, I,
you know, I, I, I think that as far as growers go,
that have been doing it as long as I've been,
I feel like I've probably grown less strains than most of those people have,
you know what I'm saying? Like the actual count of different strains,
I think is smaller for me.
We won't hold it against you cause you had the best weed on earth.
I love it. I just, I just, what I'm into. I got lucky, you know what I mean?
But so I didn't really have me, there's not many,
there's definitely some that I haven't met the cut.
Like there's definitely been some,
some that I felt like I didn't have space enough to keep, but, um,
you know, we'll see. I don't really have too many to say on that one. Really?
Yeah.
I really, I really don't love that one as much as people do. And I,
I gotta say, I really don't get it and I'm not speaking bad about it.
I'm hoping that it'll dawn on me at one point and I'm keeping it for breeding.
Cause I, I think that there's, it does carry its traits to pretty heavy.
I've actually seen some crosses that were supposedly done with chem D that more
chem dog notes came out of than say the chem D itself at.
So I'm keeping it around, um, this time for,
for that reason, cause I want to see if we can work something out with it,
you know, but that would be the one on that list for that answer.
Okay. So would you ever consider, um,
putting out any feminized lines yourself?
Oh yeah, absolutely. I'm gonna, I was saying before, I'm gonna,
I'm going to go take both roads on this. I'm going to do a, I, I,
I was all about it. And then as I got more around the breeders and the breeder,
uh, uh,
or the people who are buying the stuff from the breeders and what their opinions
are and just kind of looking, I, I, like I said, I got this negative,
I had this feeling that there was like a negative thing from the community on
it. But to me, it's just, to me, it's just like, you know, I, you got to,
you know what I mean? So I'm going to check that.
I think for some people, sorry, go on.
Well, I was just going to say,
I think that you just have to do the proper testing and I don't think,
I think when we started, if you've got to refresh that sentence,
I think what I've learned in this is that you can't just give sheets to people
out and call that testing and get feedback. I think that that's useful,
but maybe I'm wrong, but it might,
I'm starting to get the feeling that you got to do your own testing.
Like if you really are looking for what you're looking for,
you got to be the one looking for it. You know what I mean?
Yeah. We certainly see that with, uh,
the likes of Brothers Grimm and Swamp Boy Seeds now doing all in-house testing.
Um, just kind of, uh,
bringing us to that same point of what the people kind of want and talk about.
We, we often hear this talk about people saying, you know,
like we need to return to our land race roots.
Do you have any, um,
kind of plans to work with land races and say the Cam Dog, for example,
or is your plans more so to kind of stay with, um,
more mainstream things and not necessarily looking to reinvent the wheel?
Definitely not looking to reinvent the wheel as long as, you know, I,
I'm trying to, I want to see,
I would like to have a catalog of things that are available that, that, um,
remind me of, of the strains that I smoked when I was a kid,
the Nigerians and the Afghan crosses and, um,
you know, all those things that,
that we were smoking out of the catalog when I was a young man, I, I, uh,
I want to get all that variety of flavor back into it. I do think even with the
highest, um, the highest quality strains that are out now,
they're also similar. They're also for, you know, I mean,
half of them are OG crosses, you know,
half of them are some sort of variation on the OG Cush, you know, and, and, uh,
I think we need a little bit of more variety on that, on that,
on that level of quality, if you know what I mean, not just more variety,
but more variety on that level of quality where like,
instead of having Kim dog and OG or,
and whatever other ones that would fall into that category,
maybe if we had another handful of flavors that, you know, like a skunk,
you know, like, I don't know a lot of people. I don't, I can't say,
I can't say the last time I smoked a, a, a isolated skunk strain, you know,
like I really can't tell you the last time I really smoked a good quality one,
you know? And, uh, I think there's, I think it's like, uh, everything,
everything, people keep running to one thing.
Everyone runs to one thing at the same time all the time, I think. And,
and so we keep getting, we're kind of running around in the same circle.
I think at this point, you know,
we've got all these different cushions and they're all great. I mean,
and there are differences and same thing with the Kim dog crosses that we've been
making is that, you know, they're, they're,
they're very similar to the Kim dog, but they are different. You know,
like the Kim crush it's, it's, uh, it's, it, it,
it's funny because the thing I like about it is that it, it,
it does bring back that dark, deep, earthy tone. It,
I do taste it in there and it really inspires me because I feel like, Hey,
this is possible. Those genes, there's genetics,
they're still in there somewhere.
We just got to get them and isolate them and stabilize them, you know? And, uh,
and I feel like it can be done. You know, I feel like we have everything, you know,
uh, everything at our, at our disposal to get this done, you know?
So that's what I want. That's what I want to see.
I don't want to reinvent the wheel. I don't think, I don't think, uh,
I'm even able to, I think that I, I just want to,
I want to do what I'm able to do.
What I think I'm able to do is to find those traits that I love that I think
everyone really loves and isolate them, you know? Cause I, I have a,
the one thing I feel like I've got going for me in this endeavor is that I have
those memories. I have those memories of those smells and those flavors.
I can tell the difference between the subtles of what we have now and the hints
of those things and the actual thing. I can tell the difference.
And it's kind of a, I don't know,
it's like reading or riding a bike or something. I can, it's in there, you know,
like the Beatrix choice, like I told you earlier. So, um,
that's what I want to do. That's what I think might, would,
would most interesting to me. I'm not in a reinventing the wheel, but you know,
bringing back the old school stuff, you know?
Yeah, for sure. So what's your opinions on, um, organic versus synthetic?
You know, I think you've kind of already hinted that you're a more of a bottle
nutrient guy.
Do you think it's just like a preference thing or do you think one kind of is
better than the other?
I think that one is better for the other in certain environments.
If, uh, if in a perfect world, everything I grew would be organic,
everything I eat is organic. Um, you know,
I don't put funny products in my body, in my head, you know, tip dump.
I'm health conscious kind of person. And, um, uh, like I said,
I was the last person in my circles to, to grow with bottled nutrients,
you know, to even try it. I was so against it. I was like,
I was so against it. I was like, there's no, plus I was having moderately,
at the time, very good success at the time at a today's bar of what success is.
I don't know. Cause I didn't, I didn't, I didn't put myself up against that.
Um,
but I think that when you're growing indoors and you're growing organic,
you're still growing with bottled nutrients, aren't you? I mean,
I don't see a lot of people like creating their own compost and bringing it in.
And that's truly what organic growing is. When you're growing with organics,
you're, you're not just using products that just came from the earth. I mean,
they mine minerals out of caves in Jamaica, right? Uh,
but they mine back guano off the side of a cliff where bat, where, uh,
I'm sorry, bird guano off the side of a cliff where birds migrate to,
to breed, you know, themselves, you know, it's, it's destructive in a different way.
So as I got older and my view of the world got a little bit bigger,
I realized there wasn't much difference that the differences that I was holding
onto weren't real.
It wasn't like one was more ecologically conscious than the other.
So then you're left with your own health, which one's healthier.
And then after that,
I would say you're talking about flavors and variations in the quality of the
product. And when you're growing indoors,
the reality is is that it's a sprint. It's not a marathon. It's a sprint.
Things have to happen. Now it moves quick.
The plant's life cycle is extremely quick and growing an organic indoors.
It can be done. Wow. You see people that have really good success with it.
And then you see people, a lot of people growing organic and you're like, well,
you think you're having a really good success at it,
but honestly this shit's burning my throat and it tastes kind of harsh and it
must be missing something because that's not what it was supposed to do. And,
um, so I think it's, like I said, if I'm growing in, uh,
if I was doing a light depth, it would be organic. I wouldn't,
I wouldn't use the, and it would be for various reasons. One,
one being because I can, I can bring compost into that situation.
The other reason is because, you know, actually growing organic on a large scale,
I think is actually more cost effective, you know?
I certainly think so in terms of the cost effectiveness on larger scales.
Yeah. So I think that when you're controlling the environment,
like you are in an indoor grow room where you have complete control over
everything, air, light, water, and food. I think you're,
you have to be realistic about the plants demands,
which are going to be, I know this doesn't make sense.
They're going to be higher on the indoor situation as far as like potential goes,
in my opinion. And there's plenty of people who are going to disagree with this,
but I think your potential is higher and that you have your,
as far as what you're feeding your plants,
you're really just playing catch up to what everything else is providing.
You know, no, the sun's not, the sun is way brighter than your grow lights,
but the sun's not sitting right over top of the plant is perfect situation all,
all day long either. You know what I mean? It's, there's a lot more variations.
The temperature is always the same.
So the potential in my opinion for quality is higher.
So you're really just trying to keep up with that potential when it comes to
what you're feeding your plants. And,
and then going back to the fact that I personally don't think you're really
growing organic unless you're, you know, you're making compost and, and,
you know, like I used to grow in, in peat moss with organic, but my,
the vat, like I was telling you earlier, but that's really hydroponic growing,
you know, that soils as a lifeless medium, you know,
and I'm feeding a little life into it every, every once in a while. But,
you know, I don't know. It, it, it was amazing. I mean, it,
it did quality was amazing. And I often ask myself,
why don't you give that a shot? But you know, the life,
life moves at the speed of light around here in California and you're kind of
just doing what you do. And I really liked the product that I come up with.
It's super smooth and, and, and high flavor.
And it gives me everything I want. So, but I, I definitely want to check it out.
I want to experiment a little bit more,
bring back some of those old methods I had and take what I know now and
apply it and see what else I can come up with. You know what I'm saying?
Yeah, for sure. And so onto the next question,
kind of tying into that,
what would be kind of the biggest mistake you see people making in growing or
maybe another way to put it would be, what would be your tip for people growing?
You know, do you, you know, for example, Dukes,
he always sees people over watering. What's your kind of take on things?
Well, let's see.
One thing I see a lot of is that when people find a problem,
they come at it like they're, they bum rush it, you know, like they,
and then at the end that the problem might get solved,
but they didn't learn anything.
You can come in a problem with like an arsenal of things and methods and
try this and that. I mean, there's all kinds of shit people try. I mean,
blows me away. People make sprays out of tobacco for God's sakes. I mean,
that sounds ludicrous to me. So, and, and instead of just take your time,
do your research,
think about what you're doing and, and,
and like try to stay on point with the problem.
Don't just try to come out with everything because if it happens again,
guess what?
You're going to have to come out with everything cause you don't know what you
actually did to fix it. You know what I'm saying?
So I would say that that would be the thing I see that happens the most is that
people panic when there's something goes wrong.
And instead of just taking their time and just breaking it apart,
plan ahead and make sure you're not going to hurt, lose, you know,
like a strain or something like that, like a genetic or something. But, you know,
figure out what the problem is and fix it. And then,
then if it ever happens again, you can just fix it, you know?
So that's what I would say about that. But specifically,
I think you want to want something more specific, specifically,
I think people overfeed their plants way too much organic or otherwise.
I see people like just throwing money down the drain, you know?
Yeah. Yeah. I see that a lot as well, actually. Um,
so what in your opinion is the worst thing to
happen to the American cannabis community, uh,
since the medicalization happened? So like one example would be, um,
kind of the new laws being proposed in California, you know,
you'd be well aware of this, you know,
a lot of people are kind of saying that there are step back in a lot of ways,
you know, what is your,
what do you think is the worst thing to happen since legalization?
Worst things happened since the medical legalization.
Hmm. Well, I don't like how, um,
let me think for a second on that. I don't put this,
I don't like how the, the grower,
the small time grower is just pushed around, you know, as far as like what the,
what the product goes to market for.
I really think that that it's unfortunate that the person who's
producing the product that everyone's, you know,
interested in right now is the one that, you know,
oftentimes is the one that's working the hardest to make a living.
And I think that it's, there's a lot of factors that have caused that.
And I think that's the worst part. You know, I think that,
I wish that we were lived in a situation where growers could kind of,
uh, unionize or create like, uh,
associations where we agree on, you know,
what's fair and what's not fair for all of us. And then,
and then apply that to the market. You know, I wish that there was more of that.
And I think that, you know,
you basically got growers competing with each other,
trying to get their product to market. And, you know,
everyone who came to the cannabis industry lately has taken a huge advantage of
that. And, you know, I've watched families, you know,
struggle for years on end doing what they want to do.
And I feel like with all the risks that take and, and the, um,
and all the work, I mean, it's a lot of work, you know, that's, I mean,
anyone listening to this knows it's a lot of work growing cannabis.
There's no nothing easy about it. It's a lot of work. You know,
if you want it to come out, right. It's a lot of work. And I see families that,
you know, good, good people, good families work really hard.
And they struggle because they're,
they're at the mercy of this of this dynamic in the market where it's like,
I'm not saying that, you know,
cannabis should be priced at this or whatever like that.
I'm just saying that they have no control over it.
And I think that's unfortunate. And at the end of the season or, you know,
yeah, at the end of the season,
especially cause those are the ones that really get hit, you know,
they end up competing with each other, like in a cutthroat manner. And I,
and I think legalization had a lot to do with that. And I'm not really sure why,
but it definitely seemed to have gone hand in hand.
It's got to do with the dispensaries.
It also has to do with the fact that everything's more on top of the table now.
So it's easier for people to take advantage of that, you know?
So yeah,
to like shop around for the best prices and everyone will pass this out for
less.
Yeah. Just so they can feed their families and keep the lights on,
you know what I mean? Keep the, keep the roof over their head.
And I just, I don't like that. It bums me out, but I mean,
I guess everything in life's like that, I guess, you know, so.
Yeah, that certainly does seem like a negative. Um,
so kind of bringing us to our last question. Um,
what do you think is the best way for a kind of emerging cannabis medical
community to develop, you know,
do you think that we shouldn't go gun ho on trying to legalize everything?
Do you think, you know, what, what would be your advice? Just, you know,
take things slow, look to find the best clones first. You know, I mean,
there's a whole variety of answers.
I think that, I think the whole term medical is kind of,
I think it's kind of a, uh,
it implies something that we gotta be careful with because when you start
talking, going back to the, here in the United States, the DEA,
um, did DEA deciding to keep cannabis as a schedule one drug on the flip side
of that, if they try, if they chose to keep that as a schedule two drug, right.
With medical benefit. Well, that sounds rosy. That sounds great.
That's what we always wanted.
The problem with that is is that all that really means is that this is the United
States, of course, you know, um,
but all that really means is that the DEA can give universities,
research institutes,
basically pharmaceutical companies permission to work with cannabis,
to research it so they can develop their own products. Right.
So it's a,
the medical thing itself is still kind of an iffy thing because if you start,
if we start telling them this is actual medicine, well, I mean,
I'm not allowed to make Tylenol in my house.
I'm not allowed to make oxycodone or, or statin drugs at my house.
There's a company that's only allowed to do that.
And they're allowed to do that because the DEA gives them permission to do that.
So we have to be careful with that because you know, that's,
in one way it's an open door.
It's also another door that can close on us pretty quickly.
You know what I mean? If we're not careful and they could say, Whoa, buddy,
I mean, you know, whiskey's easy to get, but you're not allowed to make that.
And if you are, you certainly are not allowed to sell it. You know what I mean?
You gotta be very careful if you decide to make that.
And I know we're talking about two different things, but, but, but, um,
as far as medical, I mean, whiskey is not a medical anything, but it's the same,
it's regulated in the same way.
Only certain people who've gone through certain hoops can produce something like
whiskey or oxycodone or statin drugs or whatever they are that they give people,
you know? So it's a, it's a, it's a dicey thing. I mean,
it's definitely a backdoor. It's like,
I used to always tell people it's like they kept the front door closed for so
long and medical marijuana is just us coming through the back door.
Now we're just in the living room. What are we going to do now? But you know,
that door can be closed to based on the term medical, you know?
So cannabis is a plant and it definitely gives people benefits.
And, um, I wish that instead of trying to isolate, okay,
what does cannabis help people with?
And I wish that society would just accept that cannabis just over helps people
overall with their health, health, you know what I mean? In many different ways,
there's not one particular way. So, you know, it's kind of like, um,
what would be another thing like that? I mean, you know,
we all agree that vitamin C is good for us or that's not really good.
But like eating fruits and vegetables is, it's the same thing. Oh,
it's a good thing. It's healthy for you.
Some people juice vegetables to cure cancer. Some people, you know,
consume mass amounts of CBD and have, you know, uh, cured cancer.
So I mean, you know, they're not going to start regulating, you know,
cold press vegetable juice just because it gives some great benefits.
They're not going to start regulating that like alcohol or tobacco or anything.
So, you know, it's gotta be careful because we're inviting,
I think that we don't have no choice that regulations coming and it's going to
be really unfair. There's going to be, uh,
in some aspects there's going to be winners and losers. And I,
I wish that we could get around that and just legalize it as a plan and say,
Hey, you know what we have, you go around the farmer's market,
you can buy some broccoli. The guy next door, it's got some cannabis for sale.
I wish it could be like that,
but I know it's not going to be because we've already gone so far down this road
and, uh, and so that's about it. I think medical,
you gotta be careful with it's a double edged sword. You know, I think not now,
today it's Rosie, but I think in a few years they can shut the door again on us.
If they want, if they give it all to the pharmaceutical company.
Yeah. Okay. So I think that, that, um,
kind of brings us to the end of things actually.
Was there any shout outs or general comments you wanted to make?
No, not really. I can't imagine it was, uh, this was,
this went pretty good and this is good to talk to you and appreciate it.
Awesome. So, um, yeah, everyone needs to keep their eye out for,
I think you said early next year,
they'll be able to get their hands on some chem crush. Was it?
Uh, that's, that's, that's, that's definitely one of them.
That's kind of just something I'm finding along the way onto the end goal.
Um, the thing, the, the vision is, is when I, when the release happens,
there's going to be four or five decent hybrids, uh,
with strains that people are already probably in love with. And, um,
and then what I,
across with the chem dog male that I've developed that I really feel like I can
stand behind, that's pretty much what it's going to be. So, and, uh, yeah,
I think, I think that, you know,
things have sped up a lot quicker than I thought. Like I,
I got into this a little late.
I decided to do some of these things a little late and, uh,
and I got a little lucky.
I think I jumped ahead a little further with some luck. So yeah,
maybe January or February, I think we might actually have some December,
at the earliest. I would,
I was hoping for December at the Emerald cup in Sonoma County, but, uh,
we'll see probably sometime early next year.
Awesome. Well, everyone needs to keep their eyes out of there for that. And, um,
yeah,
just thanks so much for taking the time to come on the podcast and chat with us
Skunk VA.
Yeah. Come check out the Instagram. We've got the skunk underscore VA, you know,
with the ad sign in front of it.
And you can see some pictures of what we're doing as we're going along here.
See some awesome chem 91 photos. All right. Thanks so much.
So there you have it. Thanks so much again to our guests, Skunk VA.
Keep an eye out for Lucky Dog Seeds and 420 Australia.
See ya.
