Hey there gang, this is your boy Heavy Daze, giving you a big thank you for coming and
checking out this episode.
I just wanted to let you all know that we have a Patreon over at www.patreon.com forward
slash the podcast.
If you enjoy the show and would like to continue to help make it happen, head on over and get
access to a whole range of goodies including early access to episodes, bonus Patreon exclusive
episodes and extra goodies like shirts, stickers, giveaways and a whole lot more.
Thank you so much to everyone who helps support the show, you are truly the lifeblood of it
and you help us to keep the wheels turning so that we can continue to bring you the content
you enjoy.
Now let's get into the episode.
Hello and welcome to the next episode of the podcast.
A podcast for budding enthusiasts.
This episode as always was brought to you by 420 Australia, your premier lifestyle and
apparel store as well as organic gardening solutions, your one-stop shop for organic
gardening needs.
On this episode, we have the man Adam Dunn himself.
It's been a long time in the making and I hope everyone enjoys this one as much as I
did.
Here we go.
Alrighty, so a big thank you and welcome to a man who needs a little introduction from
this scene, the podfather himself, Adam Dunn.
Thanks so much for coming on the show.
Hey, thank you.
So, the first question we start everyone off with is what was your first experience with
cannabis?
Oh, that's a good one actually.
So let's see, I'm going to try to piece together the actual years.
I was in fourth grade in California.
I used to go to a school called Wonderland Elementary, like famous Wonderland murders
all happen around there.
Very rich area.
My mom was going out with Robert Downey Sr. actually at the time, right?
So his sister, Robert Downey Jr.'s sister is named Allison and she was like basically
my babysitter at the time.
She was a terrible babysitter.
She had no feel for it and her thing was to just, she thought it'd be fun to get me really
blazed.
And I grew up around weed a lot so I wasn't unfamiliar, but at the same time I never ventured
into that world.
And so she basically was smoking a joint and passing it to me.
And I remember not thinking anything happened at all.
I was just like, yeah, nothing happened, right?
But then about three or four days later when we were talking about it, I was told her,
I said, yeah, I didn't feel anything.
It didn't, it was, she was like, what did you think?
And I was like, I don't know, I didn't really feel anything.
And she was like, you didn't, if you saw yourself, I remember her telling me like how high I
was, you know, cause I was like super hyperactive and running around crazy on it, but not crazy,
crazy, obviously.
But like, so it is kind of interesting because now as an adult, you know, a lot of people
get really like mellowed out when they smoke, but I've always had that thing where I kind
of got more hyped up from it in a sense.
So I kind of felt like it was in my chemistry or something, but yeah, so it was, so it was
basically Robert Downey Jr's sister, which makes it kind of ironic these days because,
you know, if you want to go on sort of drug royalty, right?
Yeah.
Wow.
What an epic story.
Yeah.
So, yeah, it was, so it was kind of a wacky one.
And then, you know, later on, like when I was about 13, I really, it was funny between
when I was 13, I quit smoking weed for about two years because I was totally into the military.
I thought I was going to go into, like I was in civil air patrol and I was planning on
going into the military.
So between 11 and 13, I kind of like had a little, like a sesh there basically for a
few years.
Cause then after I smoked with her, I kind of would smoke every, you know, she'd give
me hits here and there.
And then I started to kind of get her, get into it a little bit, but then I kind of had
a twist at around 13.
I was like, nope, that's it.
I'm quitting.
Like I went through a quitting period.
I said, by the time I was 13, I was already quitting.
It was kind of funny.
And then I started up again when I was about 15.
So there was like a two year period there where I didn't smoke.
Yeah.
Okay.
So there's a few questions that I'd love to ask.
I mean, the first one you kind of touched on it.
Do you think there is any truth behind that whole idea of like people not getting high
on their first time?
Like, do you think it's just a case of not knowing how to inhale properly or in case
you had some?
I think it's just not recognizing as the key.
I mean, I think that's the, you know, because what I always tell people is, you know, when
they like, especially people who've never smoked weed before and they have this sort
of predisposition to it, like they're like a preconception where they're like, oh, it's,
you know, it's going to make you lazy or it's going to make you hungry.
It's going to make you this or that.
And then if you don't know what to expect, actually cannabis is very mild as we know,
you know what I mean?
It's mild and yet intense and powerful in its own way too.
But the first couple of times you do it, so it's, you're expecting fireworks, you know,
it's not like an acid trip or something like that where, you know, okay, if you don't,
you know, if somebody who takes acid and they say, I didn't feel anything, then they have
a completely different chemistry, let's say, you know what I mean?
But with weed, because it's such a subtle thing, you're kind of like, oh, you know,
maybe you just didn't notice it.
And then the second or third time you do it, you really tune in on it, it seems like, you
know.
And a lot of times I think it's what people see in you and what you, like, you know how
it is when you think no one knows you're high kind of thing?
And then the minute somebody sees your eyes are really red, oh, what are you high?
And then that kind of like triggers it where now you feel high because someone noticed
that you're high.
So, I think that's probably the reason.
Yeah, interesting.
I think there could be some good truth in that one.
If we just fast forward a moment to when you first started growing, what was the situation
like there?
So, well, basically when I lived in Rhode Island when I was about 16, I bought a Phototron
actually, so I'm one of those guys.
And I bought two Phototrons out of high times.
And I was living with my mom at the time.
And single mom, we had a house in Jamestown, Rhode Island.
And I basically built a little room in my basement.
And I remember like kind of like built this room in the corner.
And I had zero carpentry skills at the time.
So, I kind of just slapped up some really makeshift little thing.
And then I put these two Phototrons in there and followed the instructions and realized
that it was way too small for what I was trying to do.
Like I put six plants in that tiny little thing and then cut them out.
And I remember I had some Hawaiian seeds at my mom from some weed that my mom's and her
friends were smoking at the time.
I had some like Thai seeds and I had some other random Mexican or something.
And it was just like, so there's some of them are just ridiculous.
They took up, they grew so fast.
And I remember they were, if you're not familiar with the Phototron, the medium that they use
is sphagnum moss.
So it's very wet and there's no drainage at the bottom of those units.
So literally when you turn on like six fluorescent lights in a little tiny box and then you put
a bunch of water at the bottom, it ends up turning into like a vapor trap.
And so the whole thing was just dripping down the sides.
And so I remember, this is kind of funny too.
I woke up in the morning with my mom waking me up and she's like, Adam, Adam, your plants
are on fire.
Right.
And I was like, half asleep.
And I was like, huh?
Just like what?
My plants are on fire.
And then it was like, it hit me like, oh my God, my plants are on fire.
And I ran out of the house and ran downstairs and they were just like a melted blob of plastic
because the dripping of the water going down the sides and ended up into the bottom of
the where the sockets basically were and shorted them out and ended up like literally almost
burning.
You know, it could have burned my whole place down.
So it was like my first attempt at growing was a complete and utter failure.
And the Photron still to this day, I mean, they've sold so many of those units and it's
like I was probably one of their first victims.
You know what I mean?
Like I was like, I was that kid who ordered this thing online or not online, ordered it
in the magazine.
And you know, when I got the box, I was like, can't be the unit.
This box is way too small.
You know what I mean?
And it was like, I guess, I guess it is.
And then I put it all together and it was smaller than I thought and it was less robust
than I thought, you know, but in the end it did get my fever sort of going.
And the cool part was I put that little I put that little room together and then I realized
that that was the way to grow.
I put a light in the room and actually grow in the whole room, you know.
So that was kind of like the beginning of the fever for me.
Okay.
That was in 1980, that was in 1985.
Oh wow.
It's kind of interesting the whole Photron thing.
It's almost like people look back on it with almost like this positive reminiscent view
where they're kind of like, oh yeah, the Photron, I got done by that too.
Right.
Well, that guy Julian D. DeMarco, the guy who owned that company, I talked to him many
times because when I first ordered that Photron, I think I was probably wave maybe two or three
because I mean, I'm sure it's been a few years out, but it hadn't, it was still the
original hand drawing of it.
It was like, there was no photos and it was like the way that the photo of it looked,
it looked like, like so much more action was going on.
And then when you actually got it and you turned it on, you're like, wait a minute,
there's no air moving through this thing.
And there was so many things that needed to be addressed, you know what I mean?
But at the end, it, the one thing I can say is that it did at least get me excited.
I think the only thing he taught me was probably internodes because that was his whole thing.
His whole thing was about internodes.
Like literally he was focused so much on that, like internodal length and then how many internodes
and it was like, okay, but there's more to a plant than internodes.
And yeah, it was a, it was an interesting time.
I also, the two Photrons that I had, one was mine and one was my friend's.
And I think, I'm not sure which one actually melted, but basically they melted together
into a big blob.
And so we ended up getting two more replacements and we didn't want them.
I told him I just want my money back.
But he ended up sending me two replacements, which I ended up trading for a snowboard at
the time.
And so it was like one of those, like, you know, those classic moments.
I don't know what ever happened to those other units.
So.
Yeah, cool.
So one of the most asked questions I've received to, you know, shoot your way is
essentially what's the backstory on the bubblegum?
How'd you get it?
So, you know, in this context, how did, how did we go from that first grow to you having
the bubblegum?
Okay.
So when I lived in Amsterdam in 89, 90, I had a friend who came through and basically
I was working at the Hash Museum at the time.
I just started working at the Hash Museum in 1990, I guess it was.
And so I'm standing there one day and this guy walks in and I grew up a little bit in
Rhode Island when I was, that's where the Photron thing went down when my grandmother
was, it's kind of where my grandmother's from.
So I'm from New York originally, but then later on when I was living with my grandmother,
I kind of got a lot of friends around there and I kind of forced my mom to move there
at that time.
And so I was very familiar with that Rhode Island accent and that Rhode Island sort of
mentality.
And this guy walks in and he's like, I'm like, where are you from?
And he's like, oh, I'm from Rhode Island, you know?
And I'm like, oh, right, I'm from Rhode Island too.
And something about Rhode Island, which is like, it was, it was like a, I don't know,
I always think of it as a place to get in trouble.
You know what I mean?
Like it was just because I grew up there.
So it was like, it was always like, that was the worst place to, for weed.
Like it always had this.
And so I was like, oh, you're from Rhode Island?
And I kind of just, I don't know, it was weird.
Like I felt like I had to protect him from getting in trouble or something.
And I was like, yeah, he's like, what are you doing here?
And he's like, yeah, he came here to learn how to grow weed.
And I'm like, oh, wow, that's cool.
I got to, I'm just trying to put together a grow.
And he was a contractor from Rhode Island.
So he's really good with building.
And we basically took this apartment.
He came over to my apartment.
I let him stay there with me.
And we built this grow room together.
And I just designed it.
And basically all I had to do is make coffee and he would build it for me.
Literally, he was one of those guys who was kind of difficult to work with
because he wouldn't let you do anything.
He'd be like, all right, give me that.
Except for maybe hand me a tool or do this or do that.
But for the most part, I was like, I remember I would leave,
I'd just leave him with a bunch of materials in the room.
And I'd go and make coffees and come back.
And he'd be like lifting up a thing by himself.
And just kind of one of those dudes, all around kind of construction kind of guys.
But he didn't really know much about growing weed.
So he brought seeds from Rhode Island with him.
And it was actually called chewing gum.
It wasn't called bubble gum.
It was called chewing gum.
And it was because, so he was getting these seeds,
basically he was getting weed off of a guy who was from Illinois.
And the funny part about that whole story was over the years,
like I had always thought he said Indiana, right?
So I put the word out like that I got these from Indiana,
from a guy from Indiana.
And then later when this whole Indiana bubble gum thing came out,
it's a little bit of a, so for me, it's a little bit of a mystery because I know,
I met guys from Indiana who had a variety called bubble gum.
When I called it bubble gum, it was only, we changed the name from chewing gum
to bubble gum because we didn't think, like it just didn't have a good sound to it.
It's like chewing gum is something that ends up on the bottom of your shoe.
Bubble gum is what you put in your mouth.
You know what I mean?
So like chewing gum is just kind of, because the reason he called it chewing gum was
the fact that he had a bar called the Church House in Providence.
And he would stick a bud underneath the bar and
literally just see what people's reactions would be.
Because he'd be standing there and then people come in and go, whoa, what's up,
dude, you smell that?
And he'd be like, no, I don't know what you're talking about.
And then he'd kind of feel them out, you know what I mean?
And if he thought they were cool, he would hook them up.
And it was just literally like his little trick that he played.
And so he had 135 seeds that he had collected over a couple year period.
And basically this guy that was selling him the weed,
occasionally he would have seeds.
So he either got a, I think it's either a hermi or something.
But basically the guy was also super protective of those seeds.
Like if you got one, he'd give you 10 bucks back on the next.
Like if you brought him like five seeds from your bud,
he'd give you 50 bucks off your next ounce.
You know what I mean? He was that protective.
He's like, just bring them back, I need them all.
And so my friend was like, no, Victor was like, nah,
I never gave him anything back.
I always kept them.
So he came over, brought those seeds.
And him and I basically, we didn't grow those seeds for a good year.
Like we were growing everything else.
Like I worked for Sensi at the time.
So I was bringing home seeds from Sensi and I was trying clones.
And I figured I'm in Amsterdam.
This is the land of plenty.
What can I, what could I, you know, can't bring sand to the beach, right?
So, so then I, after a year, when like at one point,
Victor was working on another room and he was for somebody else.
And he was biting down on a PVC, on like a irrigation line.
Like he's trying to pull one out with his teeth basically.
And he broke a tooth and he didn't,
we have no insurance cause we're Americans living in Holland.
And he's, Victor's about 10 years older than me.
So I guess at the time he was probably about 40 and,
or maybe a little younger, 30s, late 30s or whatever.
And so he basically had no health insurance and,
but he was like, but he did back home.
So he flew back home to take care of his teeth.
And while he was gone, I'd sprouted a bunch of seeds.
So I sprouted the most of them.
I think in the beginning we had 135 seeds and I selected out of about,
I think it was around 60, 65 in the beginning when I went through.
And I had narrowed those 65 down to seven.
And the seven were classified by size.
So basically A being the smallest and so A, B, C, D, E, F, G,
up to G let's say.
And I also had a male selected at the time too.
And only on my second round, I took that, I did it,
I crossed, I did some inbreeding on that first generation.
So I made some seed.
But unfortunately then my room got broken into.
All my mother plants got killed and stole, and my clones got stolen.
So I had my clones got stolen, my mother plants got killed.
And they literally took the door and pulled it right off the hinges,
like they lifted the door off the hinges.
And just so my door was just standing there next to my place.
Nothing in my house was gone or like taken,
just literally like they went in, went straight to my room.
And they took my light bulbs, it was really weird,
took my light bulbs and took my fucking pH meter.
So it was like my pH meter, my light bulbs,
my clones and my mother plants.
And my mother plants were cut and the clones were gone.
And so, and the mother plants were cut and taken,
like they put them in a bag and took them.
So crazy part was at the end of all of that,
I went through everything and I found,
so the C, so the middle, right in the middle,
the number three or C,
depending on how you remember and classify them,
but the middle, so it was like not the smallest plant,
not the biggest plant, somewhere in between.
So in a way they kind of like,
at least out of all the things they did,
because actually the biggest plant wasn't as potent
as the smallest, like it literally was,
like the smaller ones seemed to be more potent.
And so I narrowed it down to just that one plant.
And then I got really paranoid as you would be
if somebody just stole all your shit and all your work.
And so then I took that bubble gum and I gave a clone of that
so basically I re-veg the plant
cause it was like the lowest branch was not cut.
They were always cut, but it was just like,
there was still a little nub left.
So then I re-veg that plant,
gave a cut to Tony from Soggy Mother Seeds.
And I gave a cut to Simon from Serious Seeds
cause we all worked together at the time at Scentsy.
And so if you look back in the kind of the history
of all these people, the Bubbleberry from Tony
was the direct first round
from what I gave him that bubble gum.
And then if you look at Simon from Serious Seeds,
he has, which it kind of like, to me,
was a little bit of a,
this was a little bit of a confusion for everybody was that.
And then Simon continued selling bubble gum seeds,
but his were sativa dominant
and mine were more indica dominant.
And there's been a few like back-to-back grows
that people have done.
Like there's a German magazine, I think that did one,
one time and you can really see pretty obviously
that where we have some shared genetics in there,
but definitely different directions, you know?
So like one goes in one direction,
one goes in another direction.
But that whole thing was like a complete kind of,
it was like the introduction to me, to the whole industry.
And it really showed me like how, when you have something,
cause I basically, the problem I had was
I wasn't sharing it with anybody
cause I was a little bit nervous about that
in the very beginning, cause I worked for Scentsy
and I saw how things can go wrong, you know,
in the cannabis world.
And so when I figured out I had something that was special
because everybody was like, ooh, this bubble gum, man,
this is different, you know?
And really to me, it wasn't that different.
It was actually like real good American weed
cause it had that real thick, deep kind of,
deep lingering Afghan kind of quality
compared to a lot of the fruity stuff
that they had in Europe and Holland.
And so to me it was just like, yeah,
this just smells like America, you know what I mean?
This smelling good old American weed, strong.
And then, but it was so unique to the Dutch market.
And then that's kind of obviously where, you know,
turned people against me in the sense of
breaking into my place and really showed me like
the lengths that people will go through
if they can't have it, you know?
And that's kind of what a lot of the genetics are nowadays
is if people can't have it,
they'll figure out a way.
So I think you kind of alluded to it.
Do you think that that whole break-in
was more of like a very specifically targeted thing
as opposed to like a general break-in?
Oh, a hundred percent.
No, a hundred percent.
And that's the thing is like,
one of the things I've probably over the years,
because out of all the breeders I think,
I'm one of the more open books
because I've always had a shop, you know,
I had a retail store.
At that time I didn't have one,
but I was working at a retail store.
So here I am working at Santee Seeds, you know,
everybody knows kind of who I am.
And at that point in time, you know,
the thing is that Amsterdam has a real underbelly to it,
which you don't realize when you first get there.
A lot of times people get there and they're like,
wow, this place is beautiful and so quaint and nice.
And it's like, yeah, it's also run by, you know,
gangsters and people who really are pretty deep in.
And, you know, when there's a huge market
of illegal drugs being sold,
then there's always going to be that side going on,
you know, and it's so, and cannabis,
whether people think it's legal or not,
it's not when you're talking about wholesale
and when you're talking about how people view it
when it comes to like importing large amounts of hash
or weed or anything.
So you're definitely dealing with some unsavory characters
at that point.
Yeah, okay.
A broad cut.
So I'm 100% sure it was based on the fact
that I didn't allow cuts to go out
because people were asking me, you know,
there was like, I'll give you 5,000 for a cut.
And like, no, once people offered me that much money,
I knew there was a reason, you know what I mean?
It's like, no, I don't think I want to give this out,
you know, and so it didn't, like I said,
it didn't take long, you know,
it took maybe six months before that happened.
And then what happened for me,
which is a bit of a problem is I thought
I was going to be smart and not sell seeds
and or give out cuts, obviously.
And then that was the way I was going to figure out
who stole my stuff.
But in the meantime, Simon sold seeds
and Tony sold the Bubble Berry.
And, you know, people started to put on almost any menu
you went into in Amsterdam,
somebody would have bubble gum on the menu
and I'd go and check it out and be like,
that is not, that's not it, you know what I mean?
So it was one of those first indicators
of how the name game gets flipped.
And if you got something that's popular,
it's going to get either stolen
and or just renamed to your, you know,
the work that you've done.
So, and I also find it ironic
that the whole Indiana bubble gum thing,
because what was funny was over the years.
So in the beginning for over 20 years,
I basically said that I came from Indiana.
Then only like five years ago,
my friend who actually gave me those seeds told me,
he's like, no, it wasn't Indiana, it was Illinois.
And I'm like, oh, Illinois.
So I don't know if by me putting out,
so then when I put out the,
so now what's funny is that people will
kind of always want to work around you,
you know what I mean?
So when people talk to me about bubble gum,
they go, oh no, no, no, I got the original,
I got the Indiana bubble gum.
And I'm like, okay, well,
that's got nothing to do with mine actually.
Because when I, I've grown the Indiana bubble gum
and it's very, it's a good yielder and everything,
but it's definitely a completely different animal, you know?
Yeah, okay, interesting.
And so a broad characterization we've heard recently,
in my opinion, is that the scene kind of started in America
in the earliest days, moved to Amsterdam
during the period in which we're kind of discussing
and then shifted back to America.
Would you broadly agree with that?
And I mean, if so, you kind of appeared
to have followed the trend as it moved, you know,
was that something you intentionally did?
Not at all, and that's what's been,
I mean, yeah, this last time, yes, but not the,
obviously I had nothing to do with the first wave,
but definitely, and I can't say I had anything to do
with the second wave, but I saw the second wave coming
and I basically timed it, this one perfect.
And I felt like for the first time in my life,
I've actually, I had it at the game, you know what I mean?
But yeah, I 100% agree with that idea.
And the thing is that it wasn't,
there was no real scene to speak of,
except for the underground scene and, you know,
like people on tour with the dead or whatever.
In Cali, there was a scene,
because there was, you know, harvest parties
and stuff like that.
And the first, the Cannabis Cup was inspired
by the harvest parties in California.
So yes, in that sense, when you think of the industry
and when you think of the cannabis scene,
I always compare it to, even though I'm hardly a surfer,
but I'm like, I always say, like, I'm literally like
how a surfer is so dedicated,
they'll fly all around the world just to get waves.
I'm kind of in the same way on a cannabis wave
on a long-term sort of sesh, you know what I mean?
Like my idea was like Amsterdam was the big waves
of the nineties, you know what I mean?
And now it's like a puddle compared to America, you know,
America's got literally gargantuan waves now, you know,
because in the beginning, like when I first moved
to Amsterdam, you know, the thing about there
is there's a lot of small gardens, maybe 10 lighters,
you know, are your considered decent size gardens.
And those are 10, 600 watt lights.
Most people are like four to six lights
and little tiny apartments with very low amperage.
And then you, but there was big gardens there
that never, very hard to do in America.
And now it's completely reversed, you know,
like in Holland, you won't find any greenhouses anymore,
hardly because most of those are all being, you know,
checked and it's kind of like now how we were
in a totally different world too,
where you can Google earth anything
and count the plants in people's backyards,
you know what I mean?
Like the idea of growing guerrilla growing
is pretty lost to this day, you know?
I think this is the last year California
is gonna be able to get away with what they've been doing
for the last 50 years, you know?
Yeah, by that you mean having, you know,
a few extra numbers?
Well, yeah, what they're doing now is they're like,
yesterday on the show I had Kevin Jodry
from Wonderland Nursery and he was explaining to me
how they basically have been using, you know,
like real time Google earth, which is what the police have
and compared to what we have,
which is last year's Google earth.
And they basically have been doing two week interval checks.
So they look at a place, they take a photo of everything,
they basically scan everywhere.
So they scan all the farms
and then they look at a two week interval
and they can see how much biomass
is basically being grown on each place,
you know what I mean?
Because they can set there, they can set the photos
to like look just at the foliage that's there
and they can basically see like,
sit there and they can count numbers
and they can also just,
because they know that there's almost 9,000 farms,
illegal, like illegal farms in NorCal
that are registered with their address, you know,
because at a certain moment in time,
everybody goes under the radar, you know,
and they don't bust you right out of the gate,
they wait until it's the perfect opportunity.
And so this whole year, what they did now
is they just sent out letters,
I think he said 10 days ago,
that basically were like cease and desist letters.
So everybody's getting these letters
and have to make major decisions.
So there's gonna be a lot of farms shut down this year
and a lot of people are gonna realize
that can no longer do the, you know,
2000 pounds in your backyard, it's just not happening.
So, yeah, it's gonna be a big shakeup in the cannabis world
just because of, mostly because of legalization,
you know, that's just the way it is.
Okay, and so if we just jump back
to the Dutch scene for a moment quickly.
Yeah, yeah.
A sentiment I've heard a fair bit
is that even beyond say some of the legal changes,
which may have, you know,
been a bit of a catalyst for you to leave,
some people express the idea that there's almost a bit
of a need for a change in the community
because I've heard a lot of people express
that it's a bit stagnant over there regardless.
Would you agree with that?
And I guess the flip side of that idea
is that that's not the case in the USA.
It's the, well, the thing is that
when I lived in Holland,
what I realized was, you know,
our customer base was Americans coming to Holland
to experience freedom.
You know, that was our literal customer base.
We did not sell seeds to Dutch people.
I did not, I sold a few seeds to English,
a few seeds to French, a few seeds to Italians,
but no Dutch, no, like zero packs to Dutch people.
And so the scene there was always foreigners
who were coming over here,
who were coming over to there to experience freedom.
And now America's in that zone.
And the thing is it's going state by state.
You know what I mean?
So what's happening here is like already states
like Colorado that have been doing this, you know,
started in 2009, legalized in 2012,
have now got all that under their belt.
It's gotten to the point where now people here
have the same exact sentiment as they do
with what you're saying about in Holland,
where everyone's like, yeah, it's kind of dead.
And the scene, it's still here.
And everything has improved as far as like the shops
that were just a little hole in the wall have now upgraded.
And the same thing happened in Amsterdam.
Like if you go there now,
the shops are nicer than they've ever been, you know,
because that's been always a big complaint about Holland
is like you get there and you're like, oh man,
this place is so small and inconvenient
and there's no air conditioning in the summer
and it's cold and there's like,
there's all those little things.
And everybody's so like back in America, we would have this.
And now they have a chance to do all this.
And they're not even,
they're a lot of times dropping the ball even on that.
Like the biggest problem with Colorado
is they don't have a social scene, you know,
figured out properly.
And if you look at other places
that haven't got the rules yet,
they have a better social scene because there's no rules.
So it's really like legalization kind of destroys
that sort of exciting side, you know?
And that's what happened in Holland earlier
because Holland's never been legal.
It's always been tolerated,
but the only people that were really interested in it
was the foreigners.
It was like the Dutch are not involved in their own scene.
So like, that's the reason why it's so dead over there
is that they're not really into it, you know?
It's really weird.
Like as far as they've had this golden goose in their hand
the whole time, and then they just kind of forgot about it
and didn't act on it properly.
And now here is kind of similar,
but it's more of a legal framework
where the more legal it gets
and the more stiff and difficult, you know,
like the problem with Colorado is we're not allowed
to have any kind of activities that are cannabis related.
Like you can't have an event and say,
come to this cannabis event,
because the minute you do that,
you're under the scrutiny of the man.
And then the problem is you can't get any sponsors
that have any legal things going on
because they'll lose out because they'll say,
they'll come to them and say,
oh, you can't sponsor this event.
You're a registered dispensary.
And then it's like, really?
So dispensary can't like sponsor a cannabis event.
That makes no sense.
You know what I mean?
And that's kind of a,
I think that's a bit of the problem.
It's just kind of, we're coming out of the
underground market where, you know,
the first time you go to a party
and it's all cool and relaxed,
it's because there's no rules probably, you know?
And then that's the thing that kind of kills it.
And so like with all that being said,
was that part of the motivation for you to start the ADI?
Yeah, you know, the whole idea of doing my own event
like that was based on the type of listeners
that we had on the show and the sort of the core people
that were involved were a lot of breeders.
And so I kind of, what I wanted to do
was not create another event that was based on
a million categories and trying to make it so that we're,
you know, everybody wins.
It's like more like, nah, you know what?
Kind of going back to that old mentality of how
you go, you know, say you go to a party
and you've got good weed in your pocket,
you're gonna show it to anybody and everybody
and smoke everybody out just to prove
that you've got the best weed, right?
And that's kind of like stoner 101, right?
That's the first thing you learn, like, okay,
I'm gonna be the guy who has the best weed.
Now, the minute someone else has better weed than you,
you sort of slip that weed back in your pocket quietly
and usually skulk away, skulk away and go home.
You know what I mean?
Like literally I've got situations
where I didn't have good weed on me
and I didn't even wanna go to a party.
I'm like, you know what?
I can't, it can't be me.
I can't go, hey, oh, I got this.
So in a way like stoners, and I always tell it,
it's like, if you wanna know who the big stoner
in a group is gonna be, it's gonna be the kid
who loved show and tell.
You know what I mean?
Like when he went to school, oh, it's show and tell day.
I'm gonna bring that medal from my dad from the war
and tell the whole story or whatever.
It's that kid because he always wants to have the cool thing
and be the coolest thing in the room or something.
And I think that's kind of where
the most simple way of putting it,
but I think that's kind of like a classic stoner
the way you figure out who they are.
Perfect, so I mean, if we just take a bit of a step back
from the ADI, what initially inspired you
to start the Adam Dunn show?
Well, actually that came out of,
when I first came to Colorado, 2009, 2010,
John Doe Radio, who's Tim Martin,
he's been doing the show for a few years
and he basically, I didn't, you know,
I was never much of a podcaster.
I didn't even understand what podcasts were
back in the day.
I was kind of like, well, podcasts, like whatever.
People listen to those?
I wasn't even focusing on it,
but he invited me on a show and I came on the show
and it was like, you know, one of his best shows
as far as here I was just talking away.
And, you know, I didn't realize that people,
forgot that people might be interested in that, you know?
And so I ended up going back on his show
three, four, five times.
And there was a moment when his show kind of peaked out
because he had his own little issues going on,
mostly with alcohol and stuff.
And he was like getting drunk on the show
and getting all pissy with his people
and like complaining about his sponsors on his own show.
You know, I was like, you can't do that, right?
So basically I was realizing that he,
like he actually got taken off the air,
on the air, like live on the air,
getting taken out by the police
because he had broken into the studio
and got all drunk and locked himself in there, you know?
So it was one of those crazy stories.
So basically I saw this like,
like, and I was kind of bummed
because I'd liked going on his show.
And then I told them like, hey, you know what?
I'll do a Wednesday show.
Cause that was his slot was a Wednesday slot.
And I was like, I'll take over your Wednesday slot
and just do something.
So I did a show called Seedy Wednesdays.
And I figured my original concept was like, well, you know
I can just pull out my phone
and just call my random breeder friends
and we can just rap, you know what I mean?
Cause then it's like, it's, you know
straight to the source was the idea.
And so I did a few of those shows
and with zero format and just kind of was winging it,
had some people listening to it
and kind of realized that it's, you know, for me
I always had a store and I was always talking to people
and I was always educating and trying to like
help people out.
And so it kind of feel like this is an extension of that.
And so it felt real comfortable and really felt really easy.
So it's one of those things where I just
kind of stuck with it.
And then at a certain point I realized
that I may want to just throw my name onto it
to help kind of people know what the show is about
because it keeps it really open.
Because one of the things, like when I meet somebody
they're always like, so what do you do?
You know, and I'm, it's a hard answer.
It's a hard thing to answer because yes, I breed
and I make seeds, but I also have a clothing company.
And I also have always had, usually have a glass gallery
and I have, you know, they have a lot going on.
So it's really hard to pinpoint it to one thing.
So that's where the concept of just calling it
the Adam Dunn Show came in.
Cause I was like, you know what?
This could go into any direction.
So let's just leave it at that, you know?
It's been really good.
It's been one of those things where it's good
to have an outlet, you know?
And it's also good to stay sort of relevant.
That's one of the things I realized in this industry.
It's quick, you can quickly become irrelevant
if you're not really putting the energy into it.
And I always think you gotta, you know,
especially in a group situation,
someone's gotta take the initiative.
And I feel like this is just another step.
And what's funny is I'm sure you've noticed it too,
where it's like being a DJ a few years ago,
maybe 10 years ago, if you were a DJ,
it's sort of like, okay, you know, now everybody's a DJ
or so-called DJ, but like same thing with podcasts.
It's like right now I feel good that I actually did it
when I did it because now it feels like everybody
wants to do a podcast.
And you know, I'm definitely everybody should try,
but it is kind of hard to keep it rolling
if you try to stick to only one subject.
Yeah, I can definitely agree on that.
And the thing I also get asked a lot is people will message
me and say, oh yeah, I wanna start a podcast,
but they won't know what it's gonna be about.
They'll be like, what should it be about?
And it's like, I don't know, man, it's gotta be organic.
Like you gotta do it about something
that you're passionate about.
You can't tell someone to do a podcast about it
because then otherwise you would have already done it.
If you have the greatest idea for a podcast,
but it's not what your subject that you're involved in,
it's gonna be pretty hard to even manifest that one.
So I mean, you kind of touched on it,
but did you ever envision the Adam Dunn Show
to be like of a specific format
or did you really honestly just think,
I just want it to be free flowing,
whatever comes from it comes through?
Well, you can actually, if you follow the guide,
if you follow it and you see like,
one of the things that made the show sort of more popular
and it's a shame that it's not still rolling
was that I had Mitch Jonas on board for a good year or so
and a year plus, and he really helped me format it
a little better in a sense of,
he brought a little more structure to it.
It's one of the things that I've noticed is that,
like for instance, I mean, we all listen,
now I listen to, not a lot of podcasts,
but I listen to a few,
like everybody I listen to Joe Rogan
and I think he's, it's funny because I watched it
and in the beginning I could tell
that he was very similar to me,
where kind of like a lot of, he likes a lot of subjects,
he's a little all over the place.
He also, he has this guy that helps him out
and then he really is winging it half the time
and that's kind of where I always felt like
I'm much better when I'm doing that
than when I get a little bit too much structure
in front of me.
So, but by having Mitch on the show,
he kind of helped me a little bit.
We had like time slots and he had it all figured,
he mapped it out, but I feel like it's,
there's an evolution to it
and I know there's gonna be another wave
because at a certain point,
I've had a lot of people approach me
about doing other stuff and I'm kind of like,
ooh, I don't know, it's hard if I'm gonna work for somebody
because I've never had that for the last 25 years or so.
I haven't, I've always been the boss,
and so that's a really hard,
like someone asking me to do what they want me to do
and I'm gonna always say no at this point
because I just don't know if I could do that.
So it's totally out of my element.
Crave freedom, right?
Yeah, and it is like, my favorite shows to put out
are the ones that I don't,
I come out of there feeling like, wow,
I didn't even know half the things,
like it's just, I learned so much on my own show.
That's a pretty cool feeling.
There's times when I'm like, well, if I learned something,
then I can only imagine that the people who listen to it
must have been blown away even more
because they're really not knowing the both sides of it.
Yeah, so I think a question I'd love to ask,
a lot of people were kind of wondering,
why did Mitch take a step back?
One thing I had heard was that he's actually
not so heavily involved in the cannabis scene
in general anymore, is that true?
No, he works for Dark Horse Genetics now,
so he's still in the cannabis world.
I think the difference is that Mitch was a straight edge guy
back in the day, he was literally the guy who would go,
I'm not gonna say he would go and beat people up,
but he was like literally part of the crew
who would cruise around and be like hating on people
who were taking drugs, you know what I mean?
So he literally turned his thing around 180
when he got into weed, whereas I've never been that guy,
I've always been a weed guy.
So there was a little less of a long-term,
like I have to be a weed guy for the rest of my life.
And the thing is, he actually quit smoking weed
for a short time, he didn't quit completely,
but when he quit the show, he quit smoking weed
at that time, he had a point in his life
where he felt that he needed to center himself
and take care of his family, that's really what,
I mean, and Mitch is, like we were talking about earlier
when it came to putting the show together,
he had it all pre-planned and typed up and ready to go.
So when he sees that,
because for him, not to say that it was about money at all,
but he really couldn't put the energy
into driving down from Boulder to be on the show
to then not get paid enough.
And when we really struggled when it came to sponsors
and keeping people on point and paying their bills,
and I'm sure you've seen that side of it all.
And it's one of the hardest,
the thing about podcasting is it's very hard
because you could sell out and go to sponsors
that have nothing to do with you and make more money,
but we really only wanted to work with products
that we like and things that we really could stand behind
because it's very easy when you use something
and you like it to be enthusiastic about it
and then people believe you, obviously,
because you're like, hey, I've been using this thing
for two years, it's awesome, and then compared to like,
oh, yeah, and if you wanna get the MailChimp,
contact MailChimp, that's kind of where it's,
it's hard as a podcast person.
So I think with Mitch, it's a little bit of a,
he's also very much moves on with his things
and keeps rolling.
I'm the kind of guy who really has a hard time letting go
and giving up, I'm terrible about it.
Like sometimes, even when it's not productive,
I'll just keep rolling with something
because I feel like, nope, I said I was gonna do it,
I'm gonna do it till the end, you know what I mean?
So we just have different personalities like that.
But we're still in contact, everything's cool,
it's not like there was never an issue,
it was always just, I think, a change in his direction.
But I've also told him, I said, listen,
if we ever get a real deal that actually is somebody
paying us to do what we're doing and not us
having to figure it all out for ourselves,
then I'd love to have him back and hopefully he will.
He was a great, I mean, that's the thing,
when Mitch was with me, I could let him run the ship
for a bit and I would just be able to throw in my two cents
which would be always the goofier, stupid side
of everything so I didn't have to take myself too seriously.
Now all of a sudden I feel like,
well, I can't just be the goofy guy, you know what I mean?
I gotta actually buckle down every so often
and try to get to the bottom of certain things
with people, with guests and stuff.
Yeah, yeah, no, I can totally relate to that.
Sometimes I feel like I'm focusing so hard
on what people are saying so that I can maybe come up
with a follow-up question that I'll often listen back
to the interview and just be like,
I don't remember them saying that.
You know what I mean?
Yes, exactly, no, I have that all the time
where sometimes I have it where I'm in the middle
and I'm thinking of the next question
and I totally blanked out on what they just said
and I'm like, oh no, where were we actually?
I know I understand 100%.
So on the topic of the show,
who's been your favorite guest over the years?
Well, I like having passionate people on,
like the guy that I had on yesterday,
Kevin Jodry from Wonderland.
And I really love, I love for some reason,
I love talking to guys from New England,
like Ron Wallace from the Giant Pumpkin guy
that I've had on the show a few times
and he's now a sponsor of the show.
He's one of my favorite guys to talk to
just because he's such a knowledgeable guy
when it comes to soil science.
He's like, and he takes it so seriously
and he's creating world record pumpkins
out of this situation too.
So he's been one of my favorite guests,
non-cannabis, I would have to say.
Let's see, who has been really cool?
I think I feel like DJ Short's really cool
to have on the show because he's also coming from the heart
and he's a real,
a lot of times when it comes to,
I think a lot of it comes to like experiences too.
And Dragonfly Earth Medicine are also great people
to have on the show because there's two of them,
as the husband and wife team.
And super knowledgeable and are sticking by their guns,
you know what I mean?
And that's kind of what I like.
I like people that have been doing something
and they can relay to the listener stuff they can do
that can not only save them a ton of money,
but also make them healthier and give them an avenue
to be able to take care of themselves.
That's kind of my, I feel like the service of the show
is to give people options outside of the,
I'm just gonna sit here and hype up some brands for you
because they paid me to do that.
That's what a lot of the podcasts I've noticed have been.
When it comes to growing,
when it comes to growing because there's so much money
to be made in products.
And so people are always looking for ways
to promote their products, which is fine.
And I'm totally down with it, but it has to be for,
what I said earlier, it has to be stuff that I'm backing
because I like it.
Yeah, okay.
And so one question I thought
that you'd be the perfect person to answer is,
who's someone who you think has maybe not due
to their own fault,
but just kind of flown under the radar over the years,
who you think should get some more credit maybe as a breeder
or any facet of the community, I guess.
Good question.
See over the years, myself, no, I don't know about that.
You know, it's when one of those,
I think that one thing you notice in this industry
is that people that do it for the long haul,
I gotta think about this question.
This is a tough one.
I think a lot of people is the opposite.
I think a lot of people got way too much credit
in this industry where you're like,
Hey, if you wanna find some names.
No, no, I don't need to throw shade at anybody.
But the thing I've, I mean, one of the people,
the thing that a lot of people are forgetting
is Ben Drunkard, my old boss,
which I mean, he stuck his neck out when it was like,
if you think about a guy like him who made it possible
for so many people to start their own businesses.
I mean, that's the one thing with Ben,
if you're not, I mean, he's literally like,
he's the Don, you know what I mean?
He is truly the Don.
Now he's not that he's never been celebrated by people.
He has, and a lot of times it's people
trying to get something out of him.
But I really feel like that guy took more risks
in this industry than almost anybody.
He was arrested like 30 times or something like that.
And he's had balls of steel.
He's taken, you know, one of the greatest stories
I heard of him, not greatest, I used a lot of them,
but one of the stories I heard from him
that was just shows you the kind of guy he was,
is there was a guy who came to the Hash Museum at one point
and he was from Uruguay.
And he was a friend of another person
who was like showing him around in Europe
and they had their wallets stolen
or their bags or something like that.
And so his passport was stolen.
He had no money.
And he, so I guess Ben had given him 10,000 guilders,
which is about $5,000 at the time
so that he could get him get home to Uruguay
because it was really expensive for tickets
and take care of himself and everything.
And then that guy turned out to be the president
of Uruguay, the recent one,
the guy that the really cool president they have.
And, you know, just to show you the kind of like,
you know, someone throws you 10,000 bucks,
you're gonna remember them forever, you know?
And so I'm sure Ben has some extra special credit
down in Uruguay now, but just like,
he was just that kind of a guy, you know what I mean?
And over the years, so many people, including myself,
have like started underneath him, saw the light,
like, wait a minute, you can sell seeds
and people will pay for them?
Oh my gosh, and it's something you love.
This is great.
So he kind of like showed everybody what to do.
And, you know, since he was the birth of serious seeds,
the birth of soccer mother seeds, the birth of THC,
it's the birth of so many other ones after that too.
And like, you know, just if you, and now of course,
you know, he lives in Malaysia,
he's got his own island, so this guy's doing pretty good.
I don't think anybody has to worry about him not doing good,
but he definitely, I think is because we're getting
to that point now where America's taken over,
people think of Dutch genetics as being like,
not inferior for some reason.
And I'm like, ah, you know, they were the gatekeepers
of all genetics for so long.
And they did a huge service to the world
because if they didn't do that,
if they didn't step up to the plate in the 80s,
we would have lost it all, you know what I mean?
Because there's so much that got,
at least had a home in Amsterdam, you know,
and then could get filtered out of there
and get sent back to America.
So I think he's probably the biggest influencer
that gets the least amount of credit these days, you know?
And what would you say to people who claim
that the downfall in quality from Sensi
is kind of on his shoulders?
No, I mean, I know exactly when it went downhill
because it happened right when I was there.
So basically in 1993, right about the time when I moved,
so between 92 and 93, they bought out,
they bought Neville's entire collection, right?
So Neville was trapped and he had to get smuggled out
back from, he was in Australia.
And so when they did that,
they basically bought his entire collection so that,
to finance him, got him back to Amsterdam.
And about a year after that, maybe two years after that,
that's when they, so Marcel,
who was the main grower at the time,
I don't know who's going for Sensi right now,
but there's a guy named Marcel and he was the main grower.
And this is where the Dutch lost the plot a long time ago,
is that very few of them smoked pure weed.
They almost always smoked tobacco.
And I figured that out when I first got there.
I was like, wow, and that seems like none of these
Dutch people really know anything about weed.
Like they all just kind of, it smokes, it's good.
You know what I mean?
And I was like, nah, you know,
but don't you notice that this one has a much better flavor?
You know, I was always like trying to figure out
the nuances and it's because I didn't put tobacco in my weed.
And I realized quickly, like, wow, I could, you know,
you could rise to the top of this industry really fast,
just based on the fact that you're really into
what you're doing, you know what I mean?
That you understand the medium that you're in.
And so Marcel, who didn't smoke, was the main grower.
He took over all of Neville's work
and he had no clue of what he was doing
and he did not follow the instructions properly
and that things got haywire, you know?
So then when Neville had to come back in
and clean it all up.
So that was kind of the original mistake.
And then I believe, you know,
it's pretty hard to maintain a library for 30 plus years
and not expect there to be some deviation from quality.
And then on top of that, you take into effect that,
you know, I think the other problem that they had was,
Dutch are very arrogant people, they can't help it.
It's just in their blood.
That's just the way they are, you know what I mean?
So they have a hard time taking, A, taking criticism
and B, believing that they're in the wrong
in any way, shape or form.
So when it comes to like breeding and stuff,
I believe that they may not reach out enough,
you know what I mean?
To get people to keep them in line
because they feel like they know what they're doing.
So I think that arrogance is maybe
what came through a little bit.
And that's the thing in Holland now,
they're desperate for American genetics that are fresh,
you know?
And everybody's looking for something new.
Like if you go there now, every shop owner is like,
oh, Adam, Adam, Adam, we want the best of the best.
Can you get it?
And I'm like, no, you know what I mean?
It's like, those days are over for like,
you guys can figure it out yourself.
But I think that's just the way it is,
is that people are,
they always thought they had the best weed there.
And what I always noticed when I was working,
like anybody who came into my store,
I had the same discussion over and over and over again.
Like anybody from California
or from anywhere that was like cannabis,
like had a good cannabis culture already,
was like, hey, I came to Amsterdam,
I haven't smoked any good weed, you know?
And I'd have to like bust out something
and be like, we'll try this.
And oh, okay, well, you're the only one,
you know, or something like that.
And I'd be like, no, no, there's good weed here.
You just have to know where it is.
And again, very similar to what happens in America now,
and it will happen in Australia,
and it will happen anywhere that it becomes legal
or fully accepted,
because whenever there's quantities,
the qualities are gonna go down, you know?
Just, and there's gonna be so much out there
that you're gonna have to filter through
to get to the good weed.
My first shop was called CIA,
and that stood for Cannabis in Amsterdam.
And then I broke up with my original partner
and decided to change the name of the company
at that point to KGB.
So we were like, all right, we're not CIA anymore,
now we're KGB.
And that meant, but that was an acronym
for No Good Bud in Amsterdam.
And, you know, it was obviously tongue in cheek
because it was one of those things
where what do you mean there's no good weed in Amsterdam?
I was like, no, no, no, we know good weed in Amsterdam.
I was like, oh, okay.
And it's the same, you know, sort of the same.
Now in Colorado, people come here and they're like,
oh, there's no good weed in here.
And it's like, there is good weed here.
The problem is most of the stuff that's in the dispensaries
has to be touched seven or eight times
before it actually gets into you, you know what I mean?
So the handling is what fucks it all up.
It always has.
Yeah, wow, so many things we could talk about.
I think the one which piques my interest the most,
can we go back to the early days at Greenhouse
where you, Arjen, and Shanti were working together?
What was that like?
You know, what's your opinion
of those guys as breeders per se?
Like, you know, put aside the personal stuff.
Do you think they're pretty good breeders?
Shanti's a good breeder for sure.
I mean, Arjen is a real,
Arjen is the epitome of what I just said,
which was the Dutch are so arrogant
that they don't know what's out there
because they're so convinced that what they have
is the best and they're the best.
And so therefore they're the best, you know?
And you're like, okay.
And he was kind of more silver spoon kind of guy.
Didn't have it as difficult as,
I mean, Shanti was taking big risks
and growing in Africa and places that were much more intense.
Totally respected him when we met.
And I didn't really do much work with them.
I kind of like, you know, we were all in our own camps.
It's funny because my friend ran Arjen's clone operation
for him, you know, at one point.
And, you know, I'd go by his house and shake my head.
Like, what are you doing working for this guy?
You know what I mean?
Like, we're working for the enemy now.
This doesn't make any sense
because we were all in our own camps at that time.
But, you know, and there's, you know,
as much as people think we have bad blood
between breeders and stuff,
it's like, for me, it was a different thing.
We both were shop owners.
We both had our seed companies.
And my little pet peeves with Arjen were more,
my biggest pet peeve with him was the fact that,
what I felt like we were getting kind of slapped in the face
just because we were foreigners,
because we came there in 93,
or I started my first company and I got there in 89,
but we first started the first company in 93.
And about 94, I believe, Arjen came into our shop.
We already knew each other because I used to hang out,
I knew him from Sensi and stuff.
So it wasn't like we didn't know each other,
but he walked in with a group of people
and they were like looking around at all,
anything that I had that was seed related, they wanted it.
So they grabbed all my catalogs
from all the different companies that I was repping.
And then they, on the way out said,
by the way, guys, you can just forget about making seeds
because I'm about to flood the market
and make them not, so you'll never be able to keep up.
You know what I mean?
And I was like, okay.
And then he came out with his seed company
within maybe what, like three, four months after that.
And the right away, I was like, wait a minute,
why does it say since 1985 on the top of this thing?
Because we're in 1994 and this just started today.
You know what I mean?
So this doesn't even make sense.
And then he literally said,
and I confronted him on it the first time I could,
I was like, hey, what's up with this since 1985 stuff?
Because I'm pretty sure you did not exist when I got here.
When I met you, you did not even have a shop at that time.
And so, and his story to me was that,
well, I was watering plants for my dad in 1985.
I had 2000 plants I had to water every day.
And I was like, that is, it should say,
and this is the funny part is,
he always would bust Shanti Baba's balls
and call him the water boy.
So I was like, hey, wait a minute,
aren't you just a, I should say water boy since 1985, right?
And he got so pissed off.
Yeah, so that was my little pet peeve.
It's nothing personal.
It's just, I feel like you need to be honest
about some things.
And when it comes to like your starting date,
that's kind of basic, right?
You know, it's like, if you're gonna tell people
that you're breeding since 85,
but you're actually talking about watering plants since 85,
well, that's like, I can say I was growing a Photron in 85,
but I would never, you know,
I'm not gonna include that into my date
and my starting point of CH Seeds.
So that was my little pet peeve with him.
And then of course, it was just the idea that, you know,
like everybody says, you know, you buy cups.
Well, you don't really buy cups, but you do buy cups.
It's a different way of buying cups.
It's just when you, if you rent the hall that the cup is in
and you supply the hotel rooms for the people
and you do all of that, well, you're gonna win a cup.
You know what I mean?
So that's kind of what his angle was.
It was just more of the obvious way.
It wasn't, there was never like a,
here's $10,000, give me a cup.
It's pretty much, let me buy you $10,000 worth of stuff.
And so I was always felt like,
kind of like a high school thing where, you know,
stoners versus the jocks.
That was when I was a kid.
That was the way we, our mentality was.
And here we are in the cannabis world
and I'm still felt like I was back
into that high school feeling.
And I was like, wait a minute.
So now I'm back on that,
but shouldn't the stoners be in charge of the stoner thing?
But again, we were kind of like back on that,
classification or something.
Yeah.
That's an interesting one.
I think there might even be a written article out there
kind of talking about what you mentioned
and the way Arian has obtained a few cups over the years
by interesting means.
But something I did want to ask you is,
sadly, you know, Franco's no longer with us.
What do you think that means
in regards to their output of new strains?
Well, you know, I mean, the thing is they,
they definitely lost a good guy
because he was, he's what kind of grounded them
with cannabis again.
Because at least it had somebody who, you know,
smoked a lot of weed, smoked a lot of hash,
had a very, was very into it.
And a hundred percent kind of, you know,
because that's what you, I mean,
that's the thing about anything.
The only lack of a dude out of them.
Yeah, yeah, for sure.
You know, and all, you know, out of like,
out of the whole crew, you know, it's like,
he was definitely the one that kind of connected
with people better.
And, you know, I really think it's a sad,
it was sad because the timing, of course,
is the thing about, you know,
there's never a good time, of course,
but it's also like, just as this whole industry
is about to explode, you know,
to lose somebody like, to lose out on that,
it sucks because you don't get to see,
you know, a lot of things I'm sure they wanted to see.
But, you know, I think they'll,
the thing about them is that a lot of times
there's not a lot, there was never enough vetting
with a lot of their strains.
You know, there's a lot of times when something was hot.
I remember when Trainwreck was a good example
where a guy brought Trainwreck to Amsterdam.
He gave me a cut of it.
And when he, after he gave me a cut,
he said, Arjen had just offered him like 10,000 guilders
for the same, or euros for the same cut.
And I was like, do what you gotta do, man.
You know, like, if you want to sell it to him, go ahead.
But it kind of sucks because I thought we had this deal.
Like you were going to bring it to me
and we're going to work together
and we're going to make some something from it, you know.
And so in the end, I know he didn't give him the Trainwreck.
He gave him something else and called it Trainwreck,
you know, and Arjen ran with that ball so hard
and kind of put his own foot in his own mouth
when it came to the whole thing,
because he, everything he described about it
didn't make any sense.
You know what I mean?
He was talking about fat leaves and sweet plants
and just all these things that were like,
no, that doesn't sound like Trainwreck, you know.
If he had said silvery colored leaves
and thinner and short and fast
and kind of a, you know, mentholated something smell,
then he would have been like,
yeah, that's the Trainwreck, you know what I mean?
So he kind of like, there wasn't,
there was always this thing of like,
if I just pay somebody a bunch of money,
they're going to give me the real deal
and I'm never going to have to, you know,
and I'll be the guy, you know?
And I was always like, it helps a lot if you're involved
and you actually know what Trainwreck was
before you put it out there.
So in a way, like he really kind of like
fucked himself up there
where even describing the seeds didn't make sense
because if you've bred with Trainwreck,
you realize it always produces small seeds,
just the way it is.
It doesn't matter what you do.
Like if you're, I mean,
maybe if you crossed it with certain male,
you might get bigger seeds,
but what I've noticed is always
when I was making seeds of it,
it always came out quite small and dark.
And so he was explaining them
as these gigantic and luscious seeds.
And so as a breeder, you're like,
wow, that doesn't sound like Trainwreck again, you know?
So there was, I feel like that's, you know,
something they can learn to maybe do
to improve their selection.
But it's a lot of the, I mean,
a lot of companies are going to,
a lot of companies just don't care
at a certain point though too,
because their numbers are just so high.
So while we're on the topic of selection,
what are some of your preferred methods
for selecting a good male?
You know, do you have like a go-to trait,
like a lot of people say, you know,
they love the stem rub,
good stem rubs are really good indication to them.
What are some of the things you use?
I mean, the late flowering males that have,
I mean, obviously smell's important.
That's your first thing.
First thing would be smell.
That's how you kind of like even decide to think about it.
After that, it's a lot of visual cues.
Later flowering ones are better,
that they don't finish out too quick.
The trike development is also important.
The like bulletproofness, you know,
and also what I look for is like a rubbery quality to them.
Like sometimes you get like papery plants
and sometimes you get rubbery plants,
is kind of how I would judge them.
And the papery ones tend to produce more harsh
and not such nice plants that burn kind of weird.
And the ones that are more rubbery tend to be more like,
they burn slower and oilier and they have a vibe to them.
So usually go for like a male
that has a kind of a rubbery quality to it.
Resilient, late flowering, trikes help usually.
And yeah, you know what else is,
I mean, I haven't done it too much,
but you can, if you take,
if you do like a colloidal silver treatment
and kind of try to flip them to get an idea
of what they might be like as a female.
Haven't done that a lot though.
That's a more recent development,
which I've done in a few rounds,
just because it was like, oh, well shit,
I don't really do feminized normally,
but it is a good way to test the,
to test the sort of the ability of the plant
to resist hermaphrodism in general, you know?
So like if a plant is easily flipped
where it just instantly goes,
then it's almost like a bad sign, you know?
It's like a, that shows you that it doesn't take much
to convert that plant and to make that plant
go hermy on you.
And that's as a male, I mean, that's the thing is with males,
it's really about numbers though too.
Like a lot of people,
they bank too much on one particular male
and unless you know, and it's been tried and true,
it's actually better to sort of
hit up like one female with say three or four males,
maybe even five males and keep your numbers small
on your original round and then go through all of those
because people think a lot of times,
especially when it comes to males too,
it's like, you know, they're really,
really focusing on the females and then they're like,
oh, okay, but I got one male
and then they're gonna use that on everything.
And it's like, there's a lot to,
it's 50% of the information, you know what I mean?
So if you're not a hundred percent sure
that that male is a stable one,
you're kind of shooting in the dark at that point.
Yeah, okay, that's actually a really interesting idea.
I haven't heard before,
but it certainly makes a lot of sense.
Yeah, well, the thing is it's a lot like,
you know, if you, like I heard,
I heard that like the cookie fam is trying to find a male
and they've gone through like 1500 males
to try to, they're still not happy with anything.
And that's kind of the way you have to be,
you really have to be super duper skeptical
when it comes to males.
And the problem is a lot of times people like,
the key is to flower them out completely
before you select them.
And that's really hard for a lot of people to do
because they usually are trying to use the original time
that they flower it,
like the very beginning of the flowering
to use that in a breeding project.
And usually what I'll do is keep my males
completely separate, have a whole room full of males
and let them go really till the end,
till they're like withering almost.
And then you can kind of get to the point
where you can really see the bud structure of them.
And then you can collect plenty of pollen
to do a small run, you know?
And then that way the pollen that you're collecting
is not the,
like, cause the problem is in the very, very first flowers
to go off is not as,
this is not the best pollen, you know?
That pollen is usually not quite matured enough.
And it's kind of like a pre-flower thing.
And so I usually wait until they're really like dumping,
dumping, dumping,
and then I'll collect a little bit of pollen from those
and then use that on my first round.
And then once I know though, if it's a different story,
if I know that like, if it's a male that's tried and true,
I'll put the plant in the room to make seeds.
I don't brush those.
Like if I'm doing production,
I'll let the plants just do their thing.
Way better results than trying to do it by hand, you know?
But if I'm gonna do a test run,
like when I'm trying to figure out a male,
I'll do all those by hand because it's stupid
to try to make 10,000 seeds just to figure out
that they're not good.
You know what I mean?
You're like, well, that's a big waste of energy.
So that's kind of the idea of the way we do it.
Yeah, okay.
And so, I mean, that's another interesting idea
with the immature pollen.
Haven't heard that one either,
but one I wanna kind of look into myself.
The question I wanna ask though,
when you do do your pollinations,
do you put the male and the female in the room together
from day one or do you like to stagger it?
No, I stagger it usually.
It depends though.
Like if it's a normal like eight or nine weeker,
then I'll stagger it by about a week.
If it's like a 10 or a 12 weeker,
then I'll stagger it by about two and a half, three weeks.
But then, you know, what I'd usually do is,
like there's certain plants so that I know
that I just have to have done it a few times.
I'd be like, you know what?
Almost do the opposite.
I'll have to flower the male before
because if I wait too,
if I try to put them in the room at the same time,
they'll end up coming in late, pollinating late,
and then you end up with a lot less mature.
So you end up with like a whole bunch of those half,
the seeds at the flat bottoms and white seeds.
And you know, it's just driving me nuts.
So in a way, I'd rather it be on early than late.
Like I hate it when they get pollinated
and they've already hit not like say four or five weeks.
There's just not enough time.
You need a good six solid weeks to produce seeds.
You know what I mean?
That's how I feel.
Like if it's less than six weeks,
I feel like I'm under cooking them, you know?
Yeah, sure.
And so on the James Bean interview,
he referenced that you might be doing
a little project in the future
whereby you're releasing some pollen
in combination with a few different crosses.
Is that something that's still gonna go ahead?
It is, but not as quickly as I thought.
I actually, I had one of my projects
get sort of stifled in the middle of it.
I lost a particular place just like we do
to the man himself.
Cause a lot of my breeding projects,
all my breeding projects are underground still.
You know what I mean?
Because I don't trust any, I can't do it in a facility
because of the protocols are so extreme
that it's just, how am I gonna get, you know,
I can't even work with my material
because all of a sudden every little gram of the material,
whether it be seed or stem or whatever
is all being organized and classified.
So I do everything still on the underground,
which puts me at risk.
And unfortunately that particular project,
which is called Everybody Loves Bodie.
And I took some Bodie.
Bodie had given me a tester of something
that he hadn't released yet,
which was called Jasmine Cat Piss.
It was a snow lotus hybrid.
And I got a really consistent batch.
Like everything on it was just like the males
and the females looked almost identical.
So I took two males.
I only had 12 plants to begin with,
or 12 seeds to begin with.
And out of those 12 seeds, I got like nine plants,
I believe.
And then from those two good males,
and then the rest of a couple of males
that were a little bit wonky.
Ended up with this one male, short, fat, tricky
for a really decent little plant.
And that male, I managed to keep the male.
I was lucky because even though I lost the place,
because it's Colorado, they left 36
of the smallest clones basically.
They took everything else.
It's always funny because when you're,
compared to what it used to be,
back in the day, they take everything, right?
Take all your lights, take all your plants,
take everything.
This time it was like, they took all your plants,
but they said, oh, you have a medical card for 36.
So we'll leave you with 36,
but we're gonna leave you with the smallest 36.
And luckily one of those was the male
that I was going to use for the pollen.
But there's not enough time for this particular round.
So yes, the idea on the Everybody Loves Bodhi project
was to do a sort of open-ended breeding project.
And then that way, whoever,
I was only gonna do a short amount of it,
like say maybe 30 of these.
And then the idea would be, you have a bunch of F1s,
a few less, but a bunch of F2s and a couple F3s.
And then the pollen that I used on the original F1 crosses.
So that way you could take that project
and go backwards with it a little bit and go,
the idea would be as breeders, you buy it,
you have all these seeds to go through
and you have the original pollen off the male that I use
so that you can always go and do your own back crosses.
I thought it'd be fun because I wanted to,
because Bodhi's way of growing
or way of breeding is a little bit,
I wouldn't say it's different,
but he definitely kind of does that on his own.
He does everything to F2 and then he leaves it at that.
And then you as a grower get kind of like,
to me it's sort of like you're in the middle.
You know what I mean?
You're not quite there.
You need to go, like F1s are a little bit more explosive.
F2s are a little bit more,
you start to get into like camps.
You have the two different,
you'll have more phenotypical,
we have less phenotypical expression as you would in the F1,
but you'll have groups that are more defined.
So I kind of just thought,
so it's kind of like a different way of looking at it.
And the idea was that you'd have to buy the whole thing.
You know what I mean?
You buy, so you buy the a couple of hundred seeds
at one given time.
So you have these projects that are,
then I wanted to,
I mostly wanted to do it to see what direction
people would take them, you know, that way.
And then tell everybody, these are all,
you can use all this stuff, do whatever you want with it.
I'm not gonna, not trying to isolate it
and tell anybody you can't use it.
Because also it was from Bodhi.
And then I wanted to give 25% of that
to the charity of Bodhi's Choice,
which he chose a group from Oaxaca.
There's a place down in Oaxaca,
which he would hand deliver the check.
So we're gonna do it,
but I'm probably gonna do it next year.
It's one of those things where you can't release
that kind of a project without feeling like it's,
it's where it's supposed to be.
Yeah, and do you see this as being a common thing
in the future?
Because we have seen a few little pollen releases
here and there.
Is this again, you're on board the next wave?
Well, you know, I think it's definitely gonna happen
because the reality is,
that is like when I do a,
whenever I have a question and answer thing
at a seminar or something,
that's one of the main questions is selecting males.
And because we've all shared all these common female plants
over the years, very, very few breeders share males.
And if they do, it gets usually,
it's like, so for instance,
like a good example is the G13 haze male
that's Somi uses on a lot of his crosses.
He gave that same male to DNA,
who then used it in a bunch of their crosses,
who then gave it to Paradise Seeds,
who used it in their crosses, who gave it to,
you know, everybody, like every Delta 9
used that same male in a bunch of their crosses.
You know, it's just like, kind of like,
and so for me, that was like completely off limits.
I was like, I will never use that male
because then we're all, you know,
we're all in the same boat.
Whereas the females, no problem.
Everybody can use the same female,
but as long as there's a different male in the mix,
it would kind of puts everybody in their own direction.
So I think that's been kind of the main reason
why everybody hasn't been doing it
because they kind of want to keep their thing unique.
But I also see that people are willing to pay
because, you know, half a gram of pollen is plenty.
You can do a lot of damage with that.
So, you know, the market will dictate where it goes.
And I just think there hasn't been enough breeders out there
to make it worth it.
But nowadays, since everybody's a breeder,
just like everybody is a DJ, you know,
it's like, and everybody's a podcaster.
I just happen to be all three, right?
But yeah, it's like, it's kind of the,
it is kind of inevitable
that that's going to become another base.
But I think, you know, who else is doing that was
DJ Short's son, I think was doing that, JD.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Something I was interested in though is
I've been thinking about this idea a lot
and obviously not quite entirely related to the pollen idea
because probably a lot of more new breeders, so to speak,
aspiring breeders, going to be people interested in that
as for like top end breeders already selling seeds,
they're probably less likely to be buying that pollen.
But the question remains, you know,
given you just highlighted how males
from other people do get used,
do you think it's a bit of a stretch
to call yourself a breeder in that situation?
Because I think fundamentally when you break it down,
being a breeder means there's some form
of selection involved.
So if you were just to use a male from someone else,
you didn't select it and then like a coin only,
like where's the selection taking place?
Yeah, no, I mean, and again,
you're a replicator at that point.
That's what I used to,
that was my other little joke I used to do with Ariane.
I was like, Ariane, you're not a breeder,
you're a replicator, you know,
because that's all you're doing is replicating other work
that other people have done.
But I kind of feel like that is a,
yeah, that's a different class.
Again, it's like the meme where,
I forget exactly how it goes, but it was like, you know,
I need two, like the guy that was under the car
and the meme and he's like,
I need two packs of this and whatever and stickers
and I've done less, you know,
I've made a seed company out of less.
That's kind of where we're at, where, you know,
and that's one of the things where you notice,
you see people's gears turning when they're,
when the first time they're understanding like
that people are paying money for these beans and,
oh, well, if they're paying that much money,
then I should do this, you know?
And that's definitely not the inspiration that you need.
You need the inspiration should be, you know,
you wanna, you love the plant enough that you can,
take the energy to waste a bunch of time
and to get to a point.
And that's, it's never on the first round,
you know what I mean?
That's one of the reasons also why this whole,
everyone loves Bodhi project.
I'm like, okay, I'm not as content yet with where I'm at.
You know, I wanna take it to the next level.
What I am gonna do though,
is a line called Sage Master Select,
which is the bigger picture.
I'll have my first round of things coming on
at the Emerald Cup.
So I'll have six crosses, I'll have six crosses.
I have a male, a sage male that we selected here from,
that's like a green onion.
It's got like a green onion flavor to it
that it imparts on everything, which is really nice.
And it's kind of like somewhere between garlic bud
and an onion flavor, which is a little bit different
than the original sage,
which had more of a sandalwoody vibe,
but it's amazingly vigorous.
And I've just did six crosses.
I've done, but I did a bunch more,
but I got six that I've selected out
that I'm gonna, or that I'm gonna bring
into the Emerald Cup this year.
Yeah, awesome.
So one question that we got sent in a lot was,
and one I kind of looked into and was interested in myself,
on the THC site, it says that you guys have won a few cups
with the underdog Kush.
How does that one differ from Lumpa's underdog?
Is it different?
It's different, it's different, yeah.
Yeah, John and I had, it was a moment in time,
a classic where we didn't know each other,
but I kept hearing from people like,
yeah, Lumpa's mad, because you're the underdog thing.
And I was like, oh, okay.
That was actually, because I had, okay, here,
it's a weird one too.
So basically I got underdog from JJ and AJ
about nine years ago.
And I got it with, I got Guavacam underdog,
Corey Haim cut, and so it's two different star dogs,
this regular star dog and the Corey Haim cut.
And Lumpa, I think Lumpa's is like a sour Kush cross.
More, and it, so he, and he named his underdog Kush.
And then the problem was that, okay,
so ours was just underdog.
And then my partner, Doug in Amsterdam,
he basically put Kush behind anything
that had OG in it or Kush,
because the customer base in Holland,
like they just all, that was the hype word of the year.
Kush, if it doesn't have Kush, we don't want it.
So, because when he called it underdog,
people didn't get it, you know?
Yeah.
So it was really like a named,
put on it to for selling points more than,
and not just because it had Kush in it,
but it just was, or it didn't even have Kush in it.
It was underdog, which that's,
and that's the funny part about the whole,
when I first got Kush and I first got sour,
which was in about 99,
I brought him back from the States
and I brought it to Amsterdam.
And when I got there, I had wrapped them,
I'd put them into groups and I'd wrap them with
one of those garbage bag things, you know, little zip ties.
And I'd wrapped them into two groups.
And then I wrote on them and just,
you know how small that area is,
I'd like wrote with a permanent marker, like OG on one,
and then SD on the other one.
And when I got there, I couldn't fucking read them.
I could not read.
I was like, oh, what?
I don't know which ones are which, but I'll figure it out.
Then I grew them out and they're damn close.
You know what I mean?
When you don't really know what's going on,
like you have no idea at zero.
And the funny part was that Soma
had completely fucked up my head when it came to the,
to the diesels because he had came up with his diesel,
which was purple and grapefruit smelling,
and just had nothing to do with sour diesel.
And so I'd only heard about sour diesel,
even though my friends who were the ones
who were growing it back in the States
that I'd met when I was in Amsterdam,
they never brought it with them.
They were always scared to fly into Amsterdam with weed,
you know?
And so until 99, until I actually went and got the cuts,
I didn't ever try it.
So I flew back, I got the cuts, flew back, grew them out.
And it took me like a good two runs
before I was a hundred percent convinced,
this is sour diesel, that is a good.
Now I can see the difference obviously.
And now it's like totally like,
now I see when other people don't see the difference.
But the whole underdog story got a little bit confusing too,
because there was,
you know, there was like that version that he had,
he put out.
And then I guess those guys lost like AJ and JJ
and everybody lost that original one.
And so when I put out,
then when I finally got JJ to look at the underdog
that I had, he claimed it was the Corey Haim cut.
So now it got really confusing.
I was like, wait a minute, I had the Corey Haim cut
and I had this star dog and I had the guava.
So I'm like, so it got a little confusing.
So it was one of those, yeah, I think that to this,
I mean, I know that they're totally different plants,
but people will be confused for eons to come.
I will never get,
that will never get totally separated I don't think.
Just because I've been losing the original underdog
and then Lumpa having his version of underdog
and then TH Seeds Europe,
which I kind of have to separate
because I'm not involved directly with what they're doing.
I will send them stuff
and they can work with it every so often,
but I'm not like on the inner workings
of a lot of the things.
And like, for instance, that underdog is the same cut
that I left them with.
So I know what I left them with.
And yeah, but to this day, yeah.
Now it's just hard for me to know
because until I can get them to get me that back over to here
and be able to show that to AJ or JJ and AJ
and have them confirm whether or not it is or it isn't.
But I think also there's a little bit
of the hoping I don't have it.
You know what I mean?
A little bit, just a little bit.
Like I hope he doesn't really have it still.
Whatever it is, the thing we have was really, really good.
And that's why he keeps winning out in Europe and stuff also.
Yeah, so I mean, there's certainly been some whispers
that the clone which goes around as the original Sour
is maybe not the original.
What's your thoughts on this one?
Well, you know, interestingly enough,
next week I'll be hanging out with the bro.
And I'm trying to get the bro to come on my show.
And the bro is really like the key to the whole Sour story
because he was one of the financers
of the whole project back in the day
because it was literally a bunch of guys
who are kids really when you think about it.
And then my friend who was the bro
who was kind of like guiding them
and helping them with that project.
And basically by paying overpriced amounts to them
at all times just to keep it in house, you know.
They still have the cut of off the original
which they're getting analyzed now
so that we'll have a baseline.
The cut that I have came from Hal
who's the guy that worked for them
or he's the guy that popped the bean, the original bean.
And when it comes to the Sours,
like for instance that AJ's put out,
I think it's different, you know.
It might be an F1,
but it's definitely not exactly the same.
Yeah, I think for the most part,
most people haven't seen it lately, you know.
If they haven't been,
if they weren't in New York in the 90s
to the late 90s to the 2000s,
early 2000s,
then they probably have seen a version
which is not the original, I'm more than convinced.
Yeah, that's a sentiment I've heard expressed commonly.
A question I did want to run by.
But it's also hard,
but it's also hard because of the fact
that the Sour was never a stable plant to begin with,
you know.
Stability was never its highlight,
it was never its focus.
So like the fact that it would throw nanners
and be very hard to breed with
and get a lot of kind of,
had a bunch of batches of seeds
that were very low germ rates, things like that.
So I don't think Sour has ever been
one of the most stable cornerstone plants to work with.
And it came as a mistake,
so it's part of the deal.
You know, whenever you're working with material
that came from a great mystery in the sky,
then you know, it's hard to decide
whether or not that's gonna be the longest,
or not even decide,
it's hard to rely on that
as being a super stable thing long-term.
Yeah.
So I've got a question.
And I think there's a little fantasy too
when it comes to Sour Diesel though,
as far as like when you're 17 years old
and you're at a concert in New York
and you're super blazed and you smoke something
and it's the best thing you've ever smoked
and now you're in your 40s
and you smoked a ton of weed in between that,
you may take, you may in your mind have a little bit more,
you may think of that as being a little bit more
of a amazing thing than it really was
or different than it really was, you know?
Yeah, totally.
So a question I do wanna run by
in relation to one of the industry heavyweights
that you made, the MK Ultra.
So when I first heard that Canna Tonic was,
you know, had MK Ultra in it,
I was a little bit surprised
because when you look at the overall cross,
it just doesn't really seem to jump out on paper.
I don't know if you've seen it,
but since then the guys who may have come out
and said like, oh no, we got the genetics wrong.
It's actually these other things.
Did you kind of suspect that from the start
or were you kind of?
Yeah, I was a little, yeah, no.
I mean, part of me was like, great, this is awesome.
I can't believe it.
But then a part of me was like, well, I just don't see how.
Yeah, no, 100% agree on that.
Because the thing is when it first came out,
okay, so Resin Seeds, which was the son-in-law of Soma,
Alex, and Alex is like notorious for flipping names
and doing crazy stuff like that.
So I already was a little concerned
when he first told me that that's what they used
because also I felt like he knew that
if he said it was something of mine
that it would be, well, he could say that
but make me excited or for instance,
which I was at the beginning, I was like, wow.
We actually had meetings with Bayer over it and stuff.
It was like one of those, like all of a sudden it was like,
wow, this could be the next big thing, right?
But part of me knew out of the gate
that it was like having a kid, you know what I mean?
It's like when you have a kid and it's not your kid,
part of you will accept that as your kid
just because you go into that drive,
you know what I mean?
You're buying, oh, that's it, this is my kid.
You're gonna deny it in your mind if you accept it,
you know what I mean?
If you don't want a kid, you may never accept it
but it's sort of the same idea where this is,
somebody tells you that your plant produced something
that is now being considered by Bayer Pharmaceuticals
because of the fact that they're looking
for the next big CBD project or something.
You're like, whoa, this is major news.
But it also, when we went to that meeting,
I totally was like, I would never work for Bayer.
I would never, ever wanna work
with any kind of large pharmaceutical corporation.
This is horrible, you know?
So kind of part of me is happy that it's not involved
just because it's not, yeah, I wouldn't say I'm happy
but it is kind of like people,
whatever genetics it's responsible for,
it need to be clearly, get the reputation for it
because it is gonna send a lot of people
on the wrong direction
if they're gonna buy MK Ultra Seeds
hoping to find the next can of tonic mother plant,
you know what I mean?
They're gonna be probably mistaken.
So I mean, while we're on the topic of CBD plants
and kind of breeding programs,
if you were to do some CBD offerings,
what would they be in regards to the CBD to THC chemotype?
Because a lot of people think that that's kind of where
the real magic lies in that ratio.
I mean, really like, so in nature,
if you have a field of 10,000 or 100,000 plants
and you let them just cross breed and open pollinate,
if you had say, for instance,
you had a lot of high CBD plants in that field
and you had a lot of high THC plants in that field
and you let them go a couple of years in a row
and they continuously cross bred open pollination like that,
you will naturally end up with a pretty much
a one-to-one ratio.
And I kind of feel like that is the most homeostasic
sort of part of the,
like that is literally the balance right there,
the perfect balance.
And everything else is adjustments on that scale.
So some patients might need a two-to-one
or they might need a 10-to-one, maybe,
but usually most of the magic happens in a one-to-one.
And that's just, that just seems like it should be
that way anyway, because of the fact that you're like,
okay, well, that makes sense,
because we're talking about entourage effect
and the fact that they need,
it's like very hard when it comes to like,
what percentage do they need?
So like if you, and it's very rare too,
very few conditions are super negatively affected
by having an equal ratio,
sometimes not working as effectively,
but for the most part, it's almost,
most people are thinking CBD is like this cure-all
and they're both equally,
they're both THC and CBD, both equally are effective.
THC being more effective than most,
it's funny too, because in the beginning,
everybody thought THC was the godsend sort of miracle thing.
And then all of a sudden CBD is, and now THC is bad.
And you're like, no, it's all pretty good.
And then on top of that,
you get the combo where it's like,
when they're both there is when it all works, you know?
So I'm pretty sure one-to-one is your magic.
It's like Harlequin's a great one-to-one plant.
And that one is like, if you make anything with that plant
and you give it to a patient, it almost always works.
Yeah, okay.
And so what are your opinions on Phylos
and the way it's kind of interacting,
or should I say altering the way kind of certain interactions
or crosses are going down between breeders?
Like for example, maybe you would do a certain cross
in your mind, but then the Phylos reveals that,
you know, one of the parents
isn't really what you thought it was.
Maybe it's no longer an ideal cross, you know?
How do you think all that plays into the scene?
Are you net positive?
I've heard some people who are a little bit
against the whole Phylos thing.
Yeah, I mean, I'm a hundred percent positive
on the fact that it's just good
that we can have this knowledge.
I think you just can't take anything.
You also got to look beyond the numbers.
And that's where I get scared when people are breeders
and they're like totally only working off Phylos.
It's like, okay, but take into effect that,
you know, Sour Diesel was a mistake.
Kush was a mistake.
They were all mistakes, you know what I mean?
And they were all never bred on purpose for anything.
And whether or not the numbers would have made sense
is, you know, that's like, who knows?
But yeah, I think you gotta like be happy
that we actually can create,
I mean, I do like the fact that they created the galaxy.
There's a few things in there that I'm a little bit like,
hmm, okay, well that doesn't seem to make any sense.
But it also opens up a lot of things where you're like,
well, yeah, we knew that all along.
And now at least this is making this
so we know that's for sure.
My problem with Phylos, I guess,
I wouldn't say I have a problem
because I've been on the show a bunch of times.
I love them, you know,
but what I can see is a problem with people
is the intention everybody's a bit nervous about,
which is like, okay,
so what are you gonna do with all this info?
And that's kind of where it's a little,
we're in a weird zone now
because we've been so anti-writing things down
as growers and breeders, you know,
it has been like, yeah, just keep it all in my head,
you know, because you don't really need
to have something written down
that says you were growing in that facility five years ago,
you know, or something like that.
But so we've always been a little bit more underground,
keep it in your head kind of thing.
And now everybody's like information junkies.
And I feel like you can overload it to the point
where you don't have,
that information is irrelevant at a certain point
because you're like,
it doesn't matter if it still tastes like shit, right?
So it's like, if you take these two plants,
put them together and get the perfect balance
of all the cannabinoids that you were looking for,
but it tastes like ass, right?
Then what's the point?
So I think it's a good thing.
Tools are great.
Just use them wisely, you know?
And then would you kind of express the same sentiment
for labs and in all, you know, like the,
it's not so new anymore,
but being able to, you know,
test the sex of seedlings and whatnot,
is that the type of thing you would look into as a breeder
or are you still more so just like, you know?
I don't know, much more hands-on.
I'm still much more hands-on
and I'll use test results more or less
if I feel like I need to confirm something
more than anything.
And nowadays, I mean, it's, if you have access,
like if you can have a GC in your facility
and be able to hand off samples to somebody
who that's what they do all day
and they love to do it because the Lord knows I don't.
But if you can do that and give somebody else
the opportunity to help you sort of move forward,
yeah, that's, I think it's a good thing.
But when it comes to,
like, you know, I have guys who,
they run through all their stuff.
They'll do a thousand plants
and they'll just look for the one or 2%
that have super high terp out of the gate
and then focus on that.
And if you need to do that, yeah.
Like if you're trying to go through some large numbers,
but also kind of feel like, you know,
can't like the whole never judge a book by its cover.
And if you have seeds and you go through them all,
there'll be some strains that just produce ugly ass seeds
that look like shit, you know what I mean?
And if you went on all visuals
then you'd also lose out.
And I think when you're doing the testing,
you know, if you're able to hone in
and save yourself a lot of time, that is worth it.
But if you're not, if it's not that critical
and I think it's still better to kind of go through
everything by hand and give everything a chance.
Yeah, of course.
So I think you-
Because you might be missing out,
you might be missing out, you know?
Yeah, yeah.
And that's a sentiment I've heard expressed
by a few people who I, you know,
regard their opinion quite highly.
And one of the most memorable quotes I heard was that,
you know, like we're not dealing with tomatoes.
It's not like it's so uniform.
You can just weed out the runts as soon as they appear
because a lot of the times the runs are the best ones.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, exactly.
And then like literally like Sage is a good example.
That was selected off of the,
hold on, I have to start my car up
because I'm running out of power on my phone.
But like Sage was the selected,
the original Sage that we selected,
my friend Mojave had,
it was just like the smallest plant in the room.
It was like kind of in the worst spot,
but it had the most amazing smell.
And he really like focused on that, like, okay, well,
I'm going to run this one second round.
And when he did it the second round, you know,
it was in a better position.
It vegged a little bit better.
It wasn't like, it never was like a,
it was never about it being like the biggest plant.
It was very vigorous, but it wasn't necessarily the biggest.
And then, you know,
it turned out to be the winner out of the whole thing.
And if he'd gone by that fact
that it was the runt of the litter at that point,
it would have never made it to the fruition.
Yeah, great real life example.
So I think that, you know,
there's probably a few people
who fall into this category as you,
but having had access to arguably some of the best stuff,
especially, you know, during the early years,
a lot of people would kill to have stock from that time.
Out of all that stuff,
what to you has stood out as like some of the best stuff?
You know, you probably don't have it anymore,
but was there anything you grew back in the day
and you just like in your mind,
you're like, damn, that was the killer.
Yeah, there was actually,
sadly enough, it was the,
one of the first things I ever grew
when I worked at Sensi.
When they did that transition,
which was in 91, I believe it was,
around 91, 92.
When they did that transition,
it was, they basically bought,
they had all of Neville's stuff.
They brought that into the mix
and I was cleaning out the drawers
and I, so I was cleaning out the drawers
and then I found this pack and it said four and more.
And most people are familiar with four-way,
which came out 90s,
which is a four-way Indica hybrid.
They had come out with a thing called four and more,
which is a four-way Sativa hybrid.
And so I took that pack and grew them out.
And this was like, again,
like the first indoor grow that I had under my,
like I was growing for them at Sensi,
but this was like the first one at my house.
And every single one of them is mutated, right?
Every single one.
So it was like, they had buds growing on the stems,
buds growing in the middle of the leaves,
you know, the kind of things that now it's no big deal.
You see it one, you know,
once in every couple thousand plants.
But at that time it was like, whoa, this is crazy.
But at the same time,
it wasn't really recognizing the fact that
even though it was like a Sativa,
it was growing like pretty much like a pineapple,
you know, small, had very little stem to it.
It was all mutated and weird, had a weird color to it too.
It was like a brownie kind of gray color.
And it was, so it wasn't very vibrant,
very little hair, like had almost no hairs on it.
So then when I harvested it,
I just wasn't really thinking.
And I kind of cut it down, harvested, hung it up.
And then when I, like the first time when I smoked it,
it was like pure haze, you know?
So it was one of those things where I was like
the ultimate right now,
where, you know, grows like a little pineapple indica,
solid bud, has literally buds growing on the stems
and everywhere.
So just the vigor on it was amazing.
And when I started to smoke it, I was like, holy shit,
that is like a pure haze taste, you know what I mean?
It was like, I kind of remember like looking back
at the stump and then smoking the joint
and looking back at the stump and being like,
probably should have like not cut that down.
I should have probably kept that plant.
And I never to this day, I've ever had anything like that
where the combination of the growth pattern
and the fact that it had such a extreme sativa,
like hazy flavor, and yet,
and yet, you know, probably would have been
the easiest plant to grow in like a sea of green method
or something at that time.
But again, you know, and that plant, that four and more
was, that was, I think the last pack ever
because when I opened up the drawer and found them,
they were like, oh wow, I didn't even know we had that.
Like, yeah, you can take that home with you.
And I was like, sure.
And I took it home, grew it out and sure enough,
never get, and plus, even if you could get a pack of those,
I don't think you'll ever get that particular pheno
just because of the fact that it's a four-way hybrid.
So the fact of knowing which direction
it's actually going in is gonna be pretty hard.
Yeah, wow, it's like the, what actually we say it,
the predecessor golden ticket.
Yeah, exactly, like just like, wow,
this is like, just came out of left field.
I just remember that it was such a contrast
of what I was expecting because when it was growing,
it didn't really have a lot of smell.
It was kind of like low, low on the totem pole,
but it really popped out when you burned it.
It was like, wow, ding, like, whoa, what's, that's coming.
That's getting me like so differently than I thought.
And so do you think there was any kind of secret
to the success of all the gear Neville put out?
Like, was it really as simple
as just the stock he had to work with?
Was that pure?
Or do you think he really was like,
you know, a pretty phenomenal breeder?
He was, I mean, the thing is he's a breeder,
like a little bit like how Simon was too,
Simon from Serious Eats,
Simon's a falcon breeder, you know what I mean?
And so when you're breeding animals first,
you kind of already have that baseline figured out.
And then I believe part of it,
I think part of it was the fact that he was a junkie,
you know, and that he had a real hard head
and he really had to really work for him.
So I kind of think that was part of the deal was,
you know, like, I'm not, you know, junkies are driven people
you know, they're a hundred percent driven
because they continue down that road,
regard, you know, with nothing's gonna stop them mentality.
And I think that that may have added to the,
that with the combination of the fact that, you know,
if you're used to taking heroin,
that we'd better be strong, you know,
can't be messing around.
There's no messing around, you know,
if you're a proper junkie, you know,
and he was always striving for the best.
I mean, he blew himself up making hash oil, you know,
way before he was the first Botard, you know,
like before there was even Botard to exist
or one of the first in our industry, you know?
So I feel like he just, that driven force
and being kind of coming from that side of the world
is basically making you, yeah, made him such a good breed.
Plus he, like, what's interesting too, is like,
I met people from everywhere that he had met
and it was like, it just, it was funny how every time
I meet somebody, I can tell he really like,
he found the best grower, you know what I mean?
He found the best grower in Seattle.
Then he found the best grower in California.
Then he found the best grower from wherever,
you know what I mean?
And he seemed to like, have a very good eye for that
or a very good nose for that or whatever.
I'm not sure which senses you do to find these people,
but, you know, and luckily now it's a different world.
So now we've, you know, we have, it's easier to find
and to meet these people, whether it be online or in person.
But back then, like, so I had friends from Seattle
that Neville had come to and traded them for genetics
in the late eighties, you know?
And so, so then it's like, oh, okay,
well, he really went on a mission, you know?
He wasn't just waiting for people to bring him material.
So the dedication of going out to find it,
and I'm pretty sure he filtered everything himself
and probably passed all his tests, you know what I mean?
Like that's, and that's compared to like now
where a lot of people, it's all hype and, you know,
oh, it's, I need to have that Tahoe cookies.
I'm gonna get that, you know,
I'm gonna get the Tahoe cookies
because everybody says that's the new hottest thing,
you know what I mean?
And that's totally different than somehow getting on a plane
back in the eighties and going to Seattle
and before there was internet and finding people
who connecting with those people, you know?
That was a, so the energy put in required probably creative,
but it's the reason why that came out of it was so good.
Yeah, wow, and I mean, was that Seattle trip,
do you know is that the infamous Northern Lights one?
Yeah, that's where he got all his Northern Lights from,
exactly, and so, because a couple of those people
moved to Amsterdam in the early nineties
and part of it was, what was funny was,
okay, so the one guy that actually got Neville
some material and traded with him,
he got the original silver pearl from Neville.
So it was an early pearl skunk cross.
And so he brought those cuts that he had selected
from the seeds he got from Neville,
he selected cuts, brought that cut to Amsterdam in 91.
And then we were selling it through Katsu as five-way
because NL skunk being a three-way and early pearl.
So that way, so we're calling it five-way at the time
because it didn't have a name.
And then they bought the collection off of Neville
and it was called silver pearl.
He had come up with a name at that point.
And so, yeah, so there was kind of a,
and then Neville was shocked that we had this,
like, how the hell did you get the thing?
And then he saw our friend and was like,
oh, okay, well, that makes sense.
Because it's one of the few people he actually gave to.
Yeah, and so, I mean, over the years,
you must have seen a million OGs,
a million cookie cuts, come and go.
Which of the cuttings out of those two classes
specifically would stand out to you?
What's your OG that's the one you smoke
if you got the choice?
Well, you know, OG or the original one was,
I mean, still to this day, the quintessential of OG for me.
But after the fact, like the King's Kush,
which was an OG that basically we've renamed
to Ricky's Brother's Kush, RBK,
was Snoop's favorite back in the day.
And Ricky was Snoop's manager.
And I met him in Amsterdam in the 90s.
And so when he would come over,
when they would come over on tour,
Snoop was always pissed off
because there was never any Kush, right?
He was in Amsterdam, he'd be like,
ah, this weed all sucks.
And so I was like, well, if you told the manager,
if you can get me a cut of whatever he likes,
I'll make sure he has it when he's here.
So then we managed to get a cut off of his brother,
which was funny because him and his brother
didn't even get along anymore,
but he somehow managed to get over to his brother's,
get a cut.
When I came to Cali, he gave me the cut.
I got it back to Amsterdam.
And then the first time that I,
first time that I had a couple ounces for Snoop,
he was in the, like, he couldn't even wrap his head around
the fact that I had the same Kush that he had back
in America, you know what I mean?
And I figured if Snoop's seen enough Kush too,
so if that was his favorite, I was like, okay,
if that's your favorite, then I will make sure,
and I'll make sure to have it for you, you know?
And then it now has been renamed Snoop's Kush
and a bunch of different names, but we still call it RBK
because we like the idea of Ricky's brother's Kush.
It's kind of Ricky Bobby,
somewhere between a Ricky Bobby and, you know.
But that, you know, I was literally at one point,
like we should just start a whole trailer park seed company
and everything will be a Billy Joe Bob's cousins,
Kush and Jimmy Joe, you know, whatever.
Cause it's, cause that's kind of where we're at nowadays
where a lot of people take Kush.
I mean, how many people have taken Kush
and put their own name to it or changed it or whatever.
And that's, but to me, the original Kush, the Ogier,
which is what I brought back to Amsterdam was really like
the picture perfect one is the one,
I mean, it's where MK came from
and it's kind of where I feel like
that's closest to the source at that point.
Yeah, for sure.
And so how do you feel about all the current kind of drama
slash, I guess, ethical questioning going on
around the idea of breeding other people's stuff?
And I guess specifically,
do you feel like if you've bought a pack of seeds
or if you've just obtained them through whatever means,
are you just cool to do whatever you want with them
at that point, more or less?
I mean, yeah, yeah, to a point.
I mean, here I am the guy that sells the seeds.
So of course, it's a double-edged,
for me, I'd rather that people did do that,
but then also gave credit because that will help build up
the other person's reputation as a company.
When it comes to people buying two packs
of somebody's gear and then crossing those together
and selling those as their own, that's a problem.
You know what I mean?
And to be quite honest, taking a pack of my seeds
and a pack of DNA and crossing those together
and thinking you have a new seed company
or is also a little lame, you know what I mean?
And a little like, it's not really thinking outside
the box.
The key, what I've always told everybody over the years
is the way to get respect, I think, in this industry quickly
is to bring something to the table, which is unique.
And then you can always collaborate
with everybody on that point.
You know what I mean?
So for instance, sage is what I'm known for.
So I feel like if I bring sage into the mix
and someone else has something that's special
and we take my male of my sage or my female of my sage
and we do a cross, that's me putting my flavor
into the, putting it in there.
If I take somebody else's thing as a breeder
and then I take two different other people's,
I can't really do that.
Now it kind of pigeonholes certain people,
but it also, what you notice is the best breeders
are guys who like really stick to their guns.
And like, for instance, again, Simon is one
of the better breeders out there from Serious Seeds
because he has six varieties, you know?
And he's had the same six, he's added like one
or two varieties in the last couple of years.
But for the most part, he's had the same varieties
for year in and year out.
Are they the same?
No, some of them have changed over the years,
but it's very similar to if you're breeding,
if you're looking at like improvements to the strain,
if it's an improvement, then we should do that.
But if it's not, and that's the hard part too,
is we're talking about annuals
that we have turned into perennials, you know?
And it's not really like certain plants are not,
just not pre-wrapped, you know,
they're not designed to last 20 years,
but somehow we've managed to do that.
And over the years though, the best people
or the best breeders are people who realize
they have a problem and then they'll fix it, you know,
bring some new blood to the table
and add some extra vigor into whatever they're doing.
Yeah, and so if we take a look at kind of the offerings
from THC's, there's quite a few which would be,
you know, contestants to be kind of the poster child
because they're all, you know, such hits in their own right.
What do you consider to be, you know,
the one you stand behind the most, I guess,
and, you know, not trying to be biased.
Still sage, I mean, still sage.
Still sage for me because of the fact
that I always felt that sativas,
and, you know, sativas are an overly used word.
Let's just say narrow leaf drug varieties
are the kind of the adult weed, you know,
the adult cannabis, as one would say.
But no, the sophisticated old school smoker,
the guy who actually has some more experience
than just what people have told him
and what dispensary they've gone to.
Those are always those sativa based things
that have that like unique cerebral quality to them.
And then I feel like things like MK Ultra are nice,
but they're also just, they're just a mirror image
of a kush with a little bit of a difference.
And so that's nice, but it's not something that I feel
like I'm standing behind it 100% as my end all.
I always felt like a good question,
I'm sure you've had, is always people like,
well, if you were on a desert island
and you had one particular plant,
then for me it would be sage.
Yeah, okay, so it's like every day type of weed.
Yeah, and it's a lot of it's due to the fact that like,
you know, sometimes you won't smoke it for a long time.
Like just you're on this other tip for a while
and then you go back to it.
Literally like putting on a glove or something.
Oh wow, this is, I get that instant vibe where it's like,
why the hell haven't I been smoking this the whole time?
Why haven't I been running around trying
to solve this other stuff?
And it's just has that long-term sort of quality,
which I think is a rare in a way
because everybody's always looking for the next best thing.
Yeah, so show everyone, sorry,
a question everyone has to answer on the show.
What's your favorite ChemDog cut?
ChemD.
Oh yeah.
Yeah, I think so.
For me it's the most deep funk, you know.
Chem 91, it seems to get a lot of,
everyone seems to love Chem 91 too,
but no, ChemD definitely.
Yep, so one question I should have probably asked you
a bit earlier when we were discussing some of your stuff.
Snow butt, this is a strain that piques my interest
because it's so old.
There's not a ton of information about it.
What's the backstory on it?
Well, so I got it from a group in Oregon
that came out to Amsterdam from Oregon.
They brought me Snow Bud.
They brought me the predecessors to the Chocolate Chunk,
like the female side of that one.
It was just a real unique,
like it was more the shape of it
was kind of a lot to do with the name behind it
because it didn't have like a peaked bud
like how sours do and stuff.
It had really like a rounded,
almost like a, there was a plant called Citral
back in Amsterdam that was very similar in its structure.
So it had a very wide top to the bud.
Yeah, just a real, for me it was a very like,
I don't know, it's hard to say,
like the lingering qualities of it
was what I really liked about it.
Like it compared to the front end,
it was more about the back end on that thing
and super strong, like it was really,
we were calling it, when we first got it,
we were like, we were gonna rename it Dick in the Dirt
because it was kind of like,
it just brought you really like,
got you really, really high, really intense.
Yeah, wow.
And so any plans to work with that going into the future?
No, I mean, I lost all those genetics years ago.
Actually, the funny part was that the acorn
which we made it from, we made from the snow bud,
that we found it again.
My partner found it in Majorca,
was a guy down there who bought seeds from us years ago
and he's just been running with that,
particularly like the whole island smokes snow bud,
globally smoked acorn.
And he's like, so it was hilarious
because he owns a growth shop there.
So he basically made all the cuts
and supplied the island with cuts.
And so we got that back about a year ago.
So I have, but I haven't got it back
because it's in Europe still, but I would love to.
Yeah, definitely if I can get the cut back over to this side,
it was one of my favorites back in the day, for sure.
And so what's a cut that's maybe not really
that widely distributed, but you wish it were,
you wish it would appear in more crosses
or that the public were more aware of it
because you just think it's awesome.
Well, there's a thing out here,
which I just kind of started to work with
and then kind of got off.
I don't know why I'm actually,
now that I'm thinking about it,
I'm like, maybe I should go back and get on that.
But I know exactly why.
Bore because of the, like, it literally felt like
the wind got kind of sucked out of the sails.
When I first came to Colorado,
I was made aware of a string called tange out of here,
the Colorado tange.
And it's like a blackberry flavored, really deep,
kind of somewhere like a flow,
like if you didn't know and you had flow
and that one back to back,
you might think it's the same plant,
but when you grew them out,
you'd kind of, you definitely would see the difference.
So there was something in the flavor profile
that was very much like flow,
but it had this, yeah, it was just an intense plant.
And we were growing that a lot when I first came here.
And I was also, I made some crosses with it,
but it just didn't,
but then the problem was that the tangy became so popular.
And I just felt like I can't really promote tange and tangy
after all the diesel issue, after all these,
like, cause it feels like whenever there's confusion
on a strain, it doesn't help anybody.
It doesn't help either or, you know,
it's like you just get people calling tange tangy
and people calling tangy tangy and mixing it all up.
And then all of a sudden it's like,
you're kind of like taking each other out,
you know what I mean?
In the wrong way, you know what I mean?
And not on a quality basis,
but just based on confusion, you know?
So I think we just kind of,
cause I actually had packaging made for tange.
And then in the end I just like sat on it
and then I don't see anybody part,
the only people that are growing it now
is Derek from Incredibles.
And that's who I got the cut from originally.
Like, he's like the last guy standing, it seems like.
But that particular plant was one that I had thought
when I first came, it had so much potential
and I thought that was going to be the next big thing.
And in the end it didn't work out.
And so do you have any other lines
that maybe you've done throughout the years,
which were really good, but for whatever reason,
they never quite made it to market.
And, you know, maybe looking back, you wish they had.
You know, I did like a bunch of Cambodian crosses
and Laotian crosses at one point,
someone brought me some seeds.
The problem was I really felt like
there was not a big market for those racy land,
like those super racy sort of sativas
that didn't grow necessarily pretty plants,
like very dark and kind of spotty.
But now I feel like everybody's more open
to the idea of land races
and almost like they'd appreciate that difficultness.
You know, like I actually had one recently,
I was at a show and this one guy came up
and it was like the first time
I think I've ever heard anybody say it,
but this guy came up and he's like,
hey, what is the most difficult thing you have to grow?
You know, and this guy was like,
oh, well this one's kind of a difficult plant to grow.
It was like, usually it's a never that,
it's usually I want the easiest, biggest,
highest yielding, most THC, everything,
you know, there's never, there's nothing.
But this guy was asking for,
because in his mind it was like the most complicated ones
or the most rewarding ones, which is true, you know,
to a point, but it's also hard if you can't get past
the point of being satisfied at your growing.
Yeah.
So just to change topics up for a moment,
obviously besides the ADI,
which of the current cups do you feel you're,
you know, kind of most happy to throw your weight behind
slash you enjoy going to, because I think-
There's only two.
There's only two.
Well, there's actually three.
There's three that I would do.
And they're all like coming up right now.
So the Golden Tarp Awards, which is November 18th,
so next week, and that one's actually,
if I don't know when you're going to get this posted,
but if you're, you should definitely take a look at it.
And maybe if you get a chance,
if this comes out before and anybody gets a chance to,
they're doing a completely transparent online
of the entire process.
It's a one day thing on the 18th,
but they've got a professional system set up
like an NFL camera system where they have cameras set up
everywhere with the testing, with the judging,
with the award ceremony.
Everything is based on multiple camera angles
and you can just go for free to your phone
and like link into them.
So they're taking it to the next level
as far as transparency, but also it's, you know,
250 entries, one winner.
No, there's no other, it's just one.
So it's kind of very similar to our idea
where it's like no categories, no, nothing like that.
Just who's got the best weed.
Like that, that one's awesome.
Emerald cups, obviously the sort of crowned,
I'd say that's the best event by far in the world right now
when it comes to cannabis, just because of the location,
location, location, right?
You're in NorCal.
So you're talking about the best of the best
when it comes to growers.
And then I'll just have to throw some,
I'll just have to give my friend props
because he's taken it to heart.
He's on the East Coast and next week
is also another cup called the Cannabis All Stars.
And the fact that they are on their fifth year,
it's in a tiny little town in Rhode Island,
and yet they still have like Method Man and Red Man
and big talent coming through.
And the quality of the cannabis is good.
And also Rhode Island actually smokes more cannabis
per capita than any state in America right now.
So it's kind of like, and I grew up there.
So for me, it's always funny.
Like, I'm like, well, I thought I was the only guy.
I didn't realize anybody here was smoking weed,
but apparently everybody is smoking weed there.
So it's interesting, you didn't mention
any of the high times ones,
because a lot of the sentiment expressed these days
is it's almost as if the event comes off more
as though it's trying to be like a music festival
as opposed to like a cannabis event.
Do you agree with that?
Yeah, well, you know, the thing is I've been involved
with the cup since 93.
So for me, it's like, I watched it from a organizer
point of view in the very beginning,
and then from a punter sort of view,
and just saw how it was kind of like the same cycles
over and over again, where people got real excited,
they get involved, they get screwed, they move on.
Next one, they kind of didn't feel like,
I don't feel like they nurtured their people enough,
and they kind of went for the kill every time on money.
And it's also like, I've watched them saturate their market
and overdo it and do too many cups in too short a time
and really burned out a lot of people.
Like a lot of people I know,
they don't even bother going to them anymore.
So I feel like High Times,
they've done a great job over the years
of at least keeping the fire going,
but the problem was they're now,
they're turning into what they've been against
the whole time, which is the corporate kind of mentality,
and they've kind of moved on to that.
So there's enough, it's good though,
because it opens up for a lot of these smaller events
to shine a little bit when,
I think there's a sort of peak point
where events just burn themselves out.
And it happens with every trade show,
it doesn't matter if it's cannabis or not,
it's just, there's always gonna be a side project
which goes on, which is more real, you know?
The real people are involved because it's,
because they don't wanna be involved
with the big corporate minded,
and this happens in fashion, it happens in electronics,
it doesn't matter, there's always gonna be another event
that comes around and absorbs the energy of that event.
And that's kind of where I think it's at at this point.
So, yeah, sorry, I was gonna say,
obviously being the host of a show,
I'm sure you get your fair share of criticisms
about the show and the email or whatnot,
the same way I do.
The thing I get most notably is like,
the show's too long and people just get bored
halfway through it, which-
Yeah, I'm sure, yeah, I can see the same thing with me,
because my shows turn out to be two to three hours
every time, but I can't squash enough into that point.
It's as I have a hard time where I'm like,
well, I can't even, I can't even-
So ultimately what I was gonna say was-
But I'm like one of those guys where I have a hard time,
I mean, I don't have a hard time,
but I hate when people criticize the stuff I do,
obviously, I mean, nobody really enjoys that,
but I'm also happy to take it to heart sometimes.
It's the same thing, I got guys who say,
Adam, I hate to listen to the done show,
that guy can't even get a thought out,
and I'm like, oh, I thought I was throwing out
too much stuff, but I guess I'm not, I guess,
and sometimes there's little things where you're like,
oh, I mean, I remember the first criticism I heard was,
and it was funny because I think everybody
who listens to themselves has their own critique
on their own voice or their cadence
or how they deliver stuff or whatever,
and the very, very first one was,
I don't know who the hell this Ray Romano sounding guy is,
but he's annoying, and I was like, oh, great,
so now I'm sounding like Ray Romano,
and I was like, yeah, I kinda get that,
I kinda see what he's saying, you know what I mean?
And again, I think what you can do
if you're in this kind of an industry
and the worst thing you can do is get onto YouTube
and look at your comments,
because you're almost always gonna have
the haters in that world, but then again,
you're not successful unless you have
some haters in the world.
Yeah, so with all that being said, though,
longevity speaks for itself.
What has been, in your opinion, the secret
to the longevity overall of both the show and the career,
even if there are the haters out there?
I think just being authentic and true to yourself,
in a sense, I mean, that's kind of the key to,
I feel like that's the key to success now,
because we're in such a sort of instant insta-world,
everything's instant, and everything
is not authentic anymore, there's really like
an authenticity, lack of authenticity in this world,
and so when something's good, everyone jumps
on that bandwagon, you know what I mean?
And I feel like this industry's not any different,
I mean, we're definitely, you can run around
and be a hype guy and jump on everybody else's thing,
but I feel like if you're just true to yourself
and really authentic, you're gonna last a long time,
and what's funny is I've been totally,
that's been totally confirmed to me recently,
I read an article where it was talking about millennials,
and because the millennials are,
they're always looking for something that's real now,
because there's so much fake in the world,
and that's something we didn't really have
when we were growing up, I mean,
everything was, not that everything was real,
but it seems like everything was a little bit
more authentic, because it wasn't like,
like now if you get on the internet,
it might take you 10 minutes to figure out
that what you're reading is absolute and utter bullshit,
and you might be totally sucked into it,
you know what I mean?
But this whole idea of putting layers of bullshit out there
wasn't so prevalent before, you know what I mean?
Before it was a little bit more like,
yeah, it was hard to get to find the knowledge,
but it wasn't because you had to click,
you weren't getting click bait thrown at you,
you know what I mean?
And nowadays it's like, the idea of being 24 years,
like this is our 25th year coming up now,
and so when you're into those ranges,
once you get past 20 years, it's kind of like,
like any career at that point, you're like,
I guess, you know, you either,
and the thing is, it's way easier to be authentic
than it is to try to change all the time,
because it's kind of like, you know, trying to like,
imagine you create your entire company based on a lie,
then you're like, take for example,
saying you started in 1985, you know?
How can you, you can't really,
what do you do when you have your 20th anniversary,
and you're only, but everyone starts questioning,
like, well, how could you be 20th anniversary?
You just started four years ago, you know what I mean?
It's like, to me, that's like,
it makes it harder as a, to be in the industry longterm,
you know, because you're always,
now you're always defending yourself, you know?
So I feel like just being authentic
and just sort of, you know, real,
and one of the things that's nice is that,
I'm glad I'm where I'm at at the age that I'm at,
because I'll be something like 48 right now.
I think it would be too hard to become in here
as a total new guy and try to create an image
in your own thing.
I think it'd be quite hard.
So I'm kind of glad where I started when I started,
because it's not so hard to last
if you've been around that long, you know?
Because it just gets easier in a sense.
Yeah, yeah, you got that name recognition as well.
So, I mean, we're on the tail end of it all now.
This is the last question.
It's a little bit more, I mean,
you can go long if you want,
but a little bit more short answer based.
Yeah.
So this one actually might require a little bit of explaining
but I saw you answer a question somewhere.
I think it might've been in a Facebook group,
somewhere like that, but basically someone said,
how come we don't see a lot of 100% hemp clothing?
And then you said, oh, it's because it's actually
like quite hard to make 100% versus say like a blend.
Would you mind elaborating a bit more about that?
I don't think people are familiar.
Sure, well, it's mostly cost restrictive, you know?
Like say you can make 100% hemp products
and we've sold them over the years.
The problem was it was always
combination of cost restrictive.
And also I don't think people are as familiar
with that high of quality material to begin with
because one of the things it takes,
so for instance, linen is a good example.
Like linen is not fashionable right now.
It's not because it takes energy to actually wear it.
You can't wash and wear linen, you know what I mean?
You have to actually take care of it.
A little bit like cast iron skillets,
take a cast iron skillet compared to a Teflon pan.
They probably sell a hundred thousand Teflon pans
for every cast iron skillet these days.
But if you're a chef, you're only gonna wear,
you're only gonna use cast iron skillets
because that's what real cooking is about,
but it's also gonna last forever.
It needs to be treated constantly.
And so with hemp, when it's 100%,
it's not gonna be wrinkle free.
You're gonna have to iron it every time.
Whereas when we mix it with cotton,
we can actually get pretty much wrinkle free material,
hardly needs any maintenance.
And people are more used to that.
And the problem is if you hand somebody an item,
which you just paid more money for it,
and now you have to take care of it more,
it's almost like so against the grain
of the modern way of thinking.
Now everybody's, well, if you pay more,
it should just take care of itself, right?
You're like, no, actually not.
So it's kind of like one of those things
where just people aren't really ready
to pay the amount that they'd have to pay.
And then on top of that, learn a whole new learning curve
of how to take care of their clothing,
which it's funny to be in this industry for so long
and never would have thought that I would have ever been
into fashion and into clothing.
And the nice part is that because we're a hemp brand,
we're really focused on what we do.
And so like our materials over the years
like now we're doing 70%,
77% hemp on the outer material of our jacket.
So we've actually increased it as much as we can
and keeping it in line with what we've already done.
If you know what I mean.
I know that's your tagline,
but I'm just gonna throw it at you.
We've got to keep it in there.
So I mean, if we take a step back though,
what was kind of the inspiration
to initially start the clothing brand in general?
It obviously predates a lot
of the other currently popular clothing brands
like cookies and all that.
Sure.
We literally started selling hemp clothing in 1993
after I quit working for it.
So when I was working at Sensi,
we used to sell a shirt that was called stoned wear.
Probably some of the people who listen to this
probably had one of these.
It was like the original hemp jean shirt, right?
Long sleeve jean shirt thing.
And it had a really cool patch
and it had really cool buttons.
It was quite thin, the material.
It wasn't really like super robust,
but it was the only hemp product that we sold.
And so we sold tons and tons of these shirts.
And then when I started,
so then when I left Sensi,
part of the reason I left
is because I was really into the idea of selling hemp
and they didn't really have the inspiration
that I was seeing to get more hemp products.
And there wasn't really a lot available at that time.
So then I left there and literally Ben Drunkard
got me over by the doorway and was like,
hey, good luck with everything
and hope you can find that hemp.
And it was like, he had just started Hempflex at the time.
So he was about to start growing hemp
because of his frustrations
of that there wasn't enough hemp around.
And so in the beginning,
I just sold other people's hemp clothing.
And it was like, I was getting some pretty wonky stuff.
And it was like, I was forcing myself
to wear some of the gear
just because I was trying to promote it.
I had like overalls that were too short in the legs
and kind of goofy and just weird, weird, weird stuff
that I wasn't really thinking was like fashionable.
And then we was working with a company called THC
that had some Italian hemp that was beautiful,
like Italian processed hemp products that were amazing.
And they had 100%, but the problem was again,
so the quality was there,
everything but the prices were just outrageous.
They were over a hundred bucks for a pair of jeans.
And this is back in the nineties.
So it was like, oh my God, a hundred dollars.
You know, and I was like, well, this is the way,
a hundred dollars is 200 guilders.
So it was like, we're trying to charge 200 guilders
for a pair of jeans.
And people were just like,
you know, couldn't get their head around it.
So then we started making our own products.
And, but, you know, we imported all the materials
from China and the 100% hemp was always very rough
and very burlapy and not conducive
to making good quality clothes.
So we actually did,
we actually had a bunch of 100% stuff made
and it was like, looked more like the Flintstones.
You know what I mean?
Like as far as just the threads coming out,
the thickness of the thread and stuff.
But now we could do a hundred percent
and we might get the price to a point
where people might be willing to pay for it.
But we still feel like the blends are,
you know, an easier way to get people interested
without them.
Cause the worst thing is to have somebody buy something.
And then to me, like the most un-eco thing
is when you buy some clothing and you don't wear it
because for one reason or another,
like you open up your,
if you open up your closet
and there's a bunch of hemp gear in there
that you never wear,
well, you're not really helping out anybody, are you?
But if you have something that you wear
until it's fallen off your body
cause they've wear it so much,
then that to me is the most eco minded.
So even in the beginning,
like when people would be like,
yeah, but your dye's not eco.
And it was like, we tried that.
We actually worked with some eco dyes
and they ruined all the other clothes
that people would have.
So they would never want to buy your clothes again
because they bought that shirt off of you.
They put it in the laundry with all their other stuff.
Cause that's what they do.
Even though you put on the label, wash separately,
they don't listen.
You know what I mean?
People just don't listen.
People take it, they throw it in the thing,
they treat it like everything else.
And if it doesn't work, they'll never do it again.
And so that to me is the kind of,
you know, the stickling point
between doing a hundred percent hemp
and doing a blend of hemp.
Yeah, makes a lot of sense.
So what is your preferred growth style,
synthetic or organic and why?
Oh, a hundred percent organic.
You know, I was a victim of every single
over teched way of growing.
When I first moved to Holland, it was all about hydro.
I was in the land of hydro.
I wanted to build, I didn't even want to have soil.
I didn't even want to have medium.
I just wanted to do aeroponics.
I was a general hydroponics distributor
between 95 and 97.
So I was like introducing general hydro to everybody.
I was totally all about it.
You know, I was like,
and then at a certain point I remember just like
throwing all that shit away and going back to soil
and realizing like, oh my God,
this is so much better for just all around flavors,
making seeds.
I would never make seeds on hydro.
It's always on soil, you know?
So it's just the mineral contents a lot.
I just feel like the connection between the minerals
that you get from the soil compared to what you get
from salts is so much different, like just vibe wise.
And then when you're making seeds, you know, you really,
there's a lot of, there's really no formula on the market
that's made for making seeds.
It's always, you know, you're growing or you're flowering
and that's it.
And there's different, you know,
pregnant women don't need the same food
as non-pregnant women, you know,
because their bodies are going through changes.
And the baby needs something different
than the mother needs.
And it's the same when you're making seeds, you know?
So I feel like when you grow us organically,
there's gonna be a completely different shift
the way the plant needs, but it's all available
because you just, you give them everything they need
compared to like trying to, you know,
and over the years I've thought,
oh, maybe I should make like a synthetic food
for making seeds.
That'd be cool.
But I also think some things you can't fix, you know,
or you can't make better than nature.
So, yeah.
And ever since doing my show,
and now no-till's come into my world
and that's so much more satisfying
and the inputs that go involved.
And also I have like a farm here in Colorado.
So I'm living in the middle of nature.
So the last thing I wanna do is grow synthetically
and not be able to utilize everything that I'm doing.
What I'll do is, you know, use a raised beds
for all the old soil and stuff
and recycle everything properly.
It's just, it's a much better feeling.
And I only eat organic food now.
And I'm pretty much, you know,
I'm over all the idea of synthetics.
Yeah.
Almost completely, you know.
So, a bit of an interesting question.
What is your least favorite strain
throughout all of history
that you've sadly had the pleasure of trying?
Yeah, you know, to be quite honest,
one of the ones was Soma's fucking diesel
was because it tastes terrible.
Like it has like the,
and it got such a big amount of hype in Holland.
It was the hot ticket item, you know what I mean?
And it was just like, it never delivered.
Like it smells really good.
It looks really good.
It tastes terrible.
And it just doesn't get me high.
You know what I mean?
So that was one of those strains that it just took me,
it always, it was like a huge disappointment.
Like if anybody ever says like,
so they go, dude, I go, oh, look, I got diesel.
And I'd be like, sour?
No, Soma.
And I'm like, oh.
And I was like, it's, I think that was one of the ones.
And I wouldn't say it's the worst variety,
but it was the least sad.
It was the one that bummed me out just every time.
Like bums me out.
Yeah.
And what about your favorite of all time?
Favorite of all time is nothing
that any of us have ever grown.
It was a tie.
It was a 1985 purple tie
that kind of flooded the East Coast for a little while.
And I actually met the one of the main guys
who brought it in at one point where I was,
we were talking about, you know,
back in the day and old times and stuff.
And I was explaining and he's like,
oh, those are the loads I brought into Rhode Island.
And I was like, oh, those were amazing.
Those were amazing.
It was just like this super slow burning purple tie thing
that was like tiny little buds and just amazing.
And yeah, you just don't see,
cause you know, and it probably wasn't from Thailand.
I'm sure it was from, it was probably Laotian or something,
but for the most part, it was,
you know, the most memorable thing that I've ever had.
Yeah. Wow.
Okay. So lucky last question.
If you could go back to one place in history and geography
to collect land-raised seeds,
where would you go and from what time period?
Probably in the same region, like in Laos,
basically every Vietnam vet out there
always has the best weed.
That's always been the case.
Like, it seems like in America,
like, wow, this weed's amazing.
Where'd you get it from?
Oh, this is Vietnam vet.
And they always, and the thing is that
everybody there would always tell me that
the Laotian weed was psychedelic, you know?
I mean, and these are people who took a lot of psychedelics.
So they wouldn't say it not understanding, you know?
And I feel like that would be probably
some of the more unique things out there
because it's such a hard plant to grow too.
So it's like a lot of hermaphrodites,
a lot of issues like that.
So I think, but it still would be great
to find something out of there that was super electric.
Also that Kauai electric was one of those ones
I wish I could get my hands on.
And that's something that I've heard over the years
from friends, which just sounds so amazing,
but I actually went on a hunt for it around 2005,
but I met people who grew it
and I met people who knew the guys
who would go to the power lines and collect it and et cetera,
but I never got a chance to actually try it.
Yeah, wow.
I mean, I guess we can only hope it pops its head up again.
With that being said,
any shout outs or comments you wanted to make?
Well, you know, shout out to the chat gang out there.
If they're listening to,
hopefully they're listening to your show.
I will focus to make sure that they do.
So shout out to Buck Russell and all the guys
who made the chat gang a real thing,
which it's been quite cool
to have a dedicated crew like that.
I'm sure you must have your own dedicated listeners.
I'm a part of chat gang.
I know.
So basically shouting you out.
Thanking you.
Obviously shout out to my beautiful wife,
as I end every show, and my little kid,
and my mom and the whole crew
to just hang in there with me.
Cause it's been a struggle.
You know, it's one of those things
over the years of doing this,
you realize that not everybody has the same vision
that you have, but if they hang in there with you
and then stay to the end,
then they might get to enjoy all the things
that we're trying to make out of this.
And right now it's just trying to find our way
with this plant and make it benefit everybody
in the long run and not get eaten up,
which it is in a way, but at the same time,
I feel like there'll always be a piece of it
that'll shine through.
Yeah. What a great sentiment to end the show on.
So thanks again so much for coming on the show.
Hey, thank you, man.
That was been awesome.
So there we have it guys.
I really enjoyed it.
I hope you did.
Big thank you again to Adam.
Big thank you to our Patreon gang.
These guys are seriously, collectively MVP,
my favorite crew of people ever.
And as always, 420 Australia and OGS
and all you guys and me.
I'll see you.
