Hello and welcome to the next episode of The Podcast, a cannabis podcast for budding enthusiasts.
You're joined by your host, Heavy Days, and this episode, as always, was brought to you
by our incredible sponsors.
Seeds here now, number one seed bank in the industry, guarantee on satisfaction, not just
germination.
Go check them out, all the hottest drugs, all the best breeders.
They've just put up some new stock.
Go see if it's what you need to make your next run fire as hell.
Likewise, in order to get the best run out of your genetics, you need to keep your garden
happy and healthy.
And for that, we'd like to give a shout out to our friends at Coppert Biological Systems.
These guys have all the best predators in the game to keep bug infestations away and
to fight off any unwanted issues you may be experiencing.
Check out their Spidex Vital or their Afipar M, both fantastic products for fighting off
spider mites or aphids respectively, two pests a lot of growers struggle with, but they're
here to help you get on top of it.
Furthermore, huge shout out to Pro-Mix.
These guys have been in the industry for years.
You know they make great media-based products using peat and mycorrhizal, but guess what?
Now you can get their fantastic mycorrhizal product on its own.
Pro-Mix Connect, the number one mycorrhizal product in the game, helping you to achieve
greater yields, better resin, enhanced flavor and terpenes, helping you to make your next
harvest the best today.
Check out Pro-Mix Connect for all your mycorrhizal needs.
I'd like to welcome our newest sponsor onto the show, Charlie's Cannabis.
These guys are family-owned, small batch craft cannabis out of Oklahoma City, providing you
with fantastic flavors and incredibly high quality flour for anyone who's in need of
some high quality medicine.
Growing strains like Star Pebbles, Chemical Sunset and so many more.
Go check out Charlie's Cannabis for all the best craft, small batch, Oklahoma grown cannabis.
They've got all the flavors and herbs you need to make sure that you're puffin' good.
Last but not least, huge shout out to the Patreon gang.
You guys know you're the lifeblood of the show, helping to ensure episodes happen.
If you would like to help support the show and ensure future content is continued to
be created, please go to patreon.com forward slash the podcast and sign up.
You'll get access to unheard content, additional interviews, giveaways and so much more.
Patreon gang, love you guys so much.
Appreciate you.
Welcome back my friends for part three of our epic chat with JJNYC of Top Dog Genetics.
If you haven't checked out the prior two installments of this episode, please go do so.
It'll get you up to date and ready to get right into this final one where we're chatting
genetics, history, all things related to Top Dog and so, so, so much more.
So without further ado, let's get into it.
I guess it sort of just speaks to that idea of like how sort of the hazy longer flowering
sativa stuff, it seems like it's really got a home in New York.
Yeah, well, you know, in New York, people are always, you know, wanting the best weed.
So, and they want stuff that's different that not everyone else has.
So, you know, get yourself with a product that's unique.
You're able to do that and almost build your own customer base off of that.
Yeah, definitely, definitely.
You know, I was talking to Bob Hemphill recently yet again, and he mentioned how grateful he
was that you had gifted him an old Sensi Star cutting that you had and he was saying how much
he loved it.
And it made me think, you know, will we see any more Sensi Star crosses from you?
And is it one you like to smoke and breed with?
Well, I had, I was given a cut from a friend of mine from Washington.
And I think, you know, he told me it was one of the old time Sensi Star cuts.
And it was the more stretchy one.
I guess, I guess there was a couple different ones that were around.
So, yeah, so he gifted me that.
And I did a little bit of work with it.
And then I lost it, unfortunately.
Yeah, I gave it to Bob.
And my friend, I think he brought it back to an F3 or something or F4, F3.
I'm not sure.
I have some of the some of his seed stock that he made with that original.
So I think that he had gotten that cutting and then got some original Sensi Star seeds and then
started to F1 and F2, you know, went back with it for a couple generations.
So that's what he based it off of that cutting.
And so, yeah, I just got the cutting and, you know, I crossed it out to the Star Dog.
And I think a Chem Cross, another Chem Cross.
I can't quite remember.
But I did a couple of breedings with it.
And then I lost it.
And it was nice.
It's kind of, I mean, an old school Amsterdam kind of peppery.
Yeah, it was, you know, it's kind of reminded me of the Star Dog a little bit, but without the
Chem, you know, but it was kind of peppery.
And, you know, back in the day, it definitely was a special cut.
But, you know, if you put it up to today's standards, I don't think it would really make
the cut in most people's book.
But, you know, if you're more of a nostalgia type of a guy and breeder like Bob is, then,
you know, then, you know, that's something that's going to interest you.
And, you know, I think, you know, a lot of the stuff, you know, our past is our future,
you know, referencing some of these older cuts and older strains and, you know, trying
to bring them back, revitalizing them and outcrossing them.
And, you know, yeah, so I think, you know, that's what I always say is our past is our
future.
So I'm one of those guys that kind of like that, that looks back on some of these older
strains, as they not might not be significant to most of the people, you know, in today's
world.
It did mean something at some point for a reason.
So I still think that there's still, you know, a lot of things that could come out good out
of those genetics, especially something that's different compared to today's designer genetics.
Yeah, great rundown.
Thanks for giving us your answer to that one.
One of our listeners asked a really interesting question and they were wondering when you're
in the process of creating Stardog, for example, and you maybe grew out the seeds or they were
tested by whatever means, did you find like the quality and the potency to like surprise
you at all?
Because I think a lot of people would probably agree, you know, they've got to be up there
with some of the best and greatest seeds ever commercially produced.
Did you have any idea like how big it was going to take off or was it all a bit of a
surprise?
No, I was a little bit of surprise.
I knew like the genetics that I was using were special.
But really, they kind of took a life of their own.
Like I said, when I first popped those seeds, I don't know how many, maybe four or six seeds
I might have popped.
Because, you know, back then, you know, I was growing 99 plants for, you know, production,
you know, and so 50 would be vegging and 49 would be flowering.
So like, so if I take, you know, if I was going to pop, you know, four or six seeds,
that means like four or six production plants weren't going to be able to be grown.
So I wasn't able to, you know, do huge, you know, seed pops for selection.
So when I first did that first, you know, seed pop and found the Cory Staurodog, I was,
you know, pretty impressed on, you know, what it was, you know.
And so once I started to, you know, get that out there, I think one of the first few people
I gave it to was Joe B. Because he had given me this Chem IV.
So I wanted to give, you know, give him, you know, something for giving it back.
So I was like, here's the Cory.
So once the Cory got out there and humble, it kind of took a life of its own, you know,
and really started to become really popular out there.
And yeah, I mean, that's really the only way I could explain it is it kind of took a life of
its own, you know. And a lot of these things happen that way where I might make something
and, you know, it takes, you know, and I can test it like I just explained.
And I knew I had something really good and started getting, you know, passing that clone around.
And until people, you know, got the clone and was able to grow it and finish it.
And the people that bought the seeds and bought the seeds and were able to grow them and finish
them by the time they get to them. By the time you get a final product, you're talking like a year
later. You know, by the time I first made it a year or two later, by the time it starts getting
into people's hands, starts getting passed around, starts making, taking a life of its own,
then I mean, that's, you know, so, you know, and that's basically like all my work has always been
like that. Like, it's not like me telling you how great it is and you go in and buying it.
It's people buying it and telling everyone else how great it is. So a lot of the times that takes,
it takes time for that to happen. And so, you know, it's happened numerous times.
And so, yeah, it's the only way that I can really explain it to where, you know, you make something,
you know, you can test it, you know, your friends and all, but it's really the general
public's perception of what it is. Yeah, I guess it, you know, it must have
to have been a little bit surprising, but yeah, I guess great to get that feedback,
even if it does have a bit of a lag time before it gets to you. Something I was hoping you could
answer for me was that I think it's undeniable, you know, Trezdog as a male has made a number of
killer strains out there. But interestingly enough, we really don't see a lot of Trezdog
females out there, clone only. There is one which I believe Strayfox has a cut of one,
which he really likes and maybe another one or two floating around there. But do you have
any thoughts on why maybe we don't see Trezdog as much? And how did you find the females?
Well, the reason why that is, because we know I never really, there was never really
commercially like released. There were some small releases, but generally like that was really made
for to be a breeding male. So a lot of the times, you know, I just made, it was just one breeding.
So like I did the initial Afghan Chem D as per se. I think most of those seeds were sold on
seed bay and not a lot of them, you know, I still have some of those original Afghan Chem D
seeds. So out of that seed stock, I would pop and find another male. And then I did the back cross
into the Chem D again, and made the double dog. Now the double dog became a little more accessible.
And I, you know, I got, I let some of those seeds, some of those seeds did get out. And I think on
seed bay also. And I think those ones were, I remember taking a picture of one of my original
packs, and it was just in a small little plastic Ziploc baggie with a hand printed pen on the
plastic itself there. So there was no label or anything. It was just a pen printed on the
on the plastic itself. And you know, I said double dog and those were my original, that's how those
original packs were sold. They were just unsealed, you know, little Ziploc baggie with 10 seed 10 or
12 seeds in it. And it might have said, you know, double dog 12 seeds on it or something like that.
So you know, then, you know, obviously, I took a male out of that and made the Tres dog. So when I
made the Tres dog, that was just one breeding, I took a double dog male, and I made like a certain
amount of those seeds, which I still have some of those original stock of. So really, at that point,
I decided that I was going to that was that was going to be it that was going to be this was going
to be my, my male strain, the Tres dog. And so there was very few seeds that that that we released
that I that I let go. And because I want you know, because that was going to be you know, I wanted to
get a little bit of feedback from it, I think. And then you know, I wanted to be that I wanted
that to be exclusive from that was my exclusive strain, you know, so really, that's one of the
reasons why, like no one else really has it because we never really worked it really Pat
passed that, you know, I had given you know, we've, I have passed some seeds off to money,
he has made some chem D back cross threes, and I think some fours. But we've never released them,
or we've never worked any of those seeds he you know, we have them for future for future use.
But um, yeah, it was never the Tres dog was never intended to be a production seed strain,
it was really supposed to be my exclusive male that you know, no one else was going to be able
to have. Yeah, interesting. Like, that's a brilliant answer as to why we don't see much
Tres dog females. And really, you know, and really, if you look at it, like, you know, the people now
that are copying me and ripping me off, you know, they could only use the seeds made from that,
where they can't get that original seed stock. Yeah, sure. You kind of segue into the next
question we had, which was from one of our listeners, but I'll admit I too was interested
in this one. Sort of along the lines of what you just mentioned. What's the story behind
goo from Greenpoint seeds using star dog? It seems like I've heard rumors that it was like your
cut exactly? Or is it just from your seed stock? What's the backstory there?
Well, you know, I'm just going back a little bit when I had my my legal troubles and my absence
of the internet during during that. And that was right in inception of Instagram, I would say. So
I think that was we're talking like 2014. Maybe I think 2014. So you know, I had, you know, I had,
like I mentioned, I had gotten to a jammed up a little bit there and I had to close down. So I was
absent from the internet for for a little bit a while. But during that time, like unknown to me,
during that time, my stuff was blowing up, like I had gotten in trouble. And I had kind of dropped
out of the scene a little bit. And so during that time, I was just blowing up, you know,
my seeds were blowing up, like, we're getting really popular, but we were nowhere to be found.
So and that's when Greenpoint, they had gotten some of my original star dog stock.
And so they decided, you know, since I wasn't around, that, you know, they made some kind of
statement saying that I was retired, and that they were, you know, going to further on the genetics,
and so on and so forth. And this kind of took advantage of the situation that I was kind of down
and out at the time. And, you know, I, you know, at the time, I kind of, you know, I think, you
know, I rebelled with some posts and stuff like that, there wasn't really much I could do, because
I wasn't growing at the time. And so really, just really, you know, gave me more incentive to get my
shit together and to really, you know, and really widen my perspective of the possibility of this
really being something, something because, you know, back, back then, you know, the only really
big breeders back then were kind of from Amsterdam, you know, and so those were those guys
were only the real, those guys were really legitimate. And, you know, they were, you know,
obviously working under, you know, easier conditions that we were. But, you know, the thing about, you
know, the difference between Dutch breeders and American breeders is we have so much more passion.
You know, you go over to Amsterdam, and, you know, these guys are smoking spliffs with fucking
tobacco in it, because the weed is too strong and fucking whatever. And, you know, we show up over
there, and we're smoking bombs of fucking straight fucking diesel. And they're looking like that.
I was like, we're fucking crazy, you know, so, you know, the Americans have always had
much more passion for, for stronger, the strongest weed, you know, and so,
and basically, the Dutch is that the Dutch have everything they got over there they've got from
us originally, you know, is this that they were, you know, working, you know, not under prohibition,
like we were. So that's really why the reason why a lot of those genetics wound up in,
in Amsterdam, because they were able to work there. So I mean, you know, so the Americans
always had a strong passion for the best of the best, you know, so, you know, when we when I first
was coming up and doing, doing what we were doing, doing what I was doing, you know, I never,
you know, would, you know, try to compare myself to a novel or a sensei seeds or Shanti Bob or,
or any of these guys, you know, because, you know, they were just that, you know, such a high level.
And, you know, we were just, you know, a bunch of people on the internet, just trying to,
you know, figure things out, and, you know, make our own way, so to speak, not knowing that,
you know, the genetics, the genetics that we were working with, were, you know, you know, some of
the best in the whole wide world, you know, and, you know, it's, you know, it's, it's just really
kind of hard to explain, you know, the reason why that is, you know, in some of it's just kind of
pure luck, because, you know, we were only given the stuff that we had access to, you know, so we
didn't have access to any of that stuff, we never would have been able to have it, obviously, you
know, so, you know, a lot of places are kind of, you know, you know, everyone, every place in the
world kind of has their own kind of like home strains that were popular at the time, you know,
and that and that's, and that's all that they know, because that's what they grew up around,
you know, so, you know, like, you know, fortunately for us, you know, you know, the chems were around and,
and, you know, not knowing that they would be, you know, the strains that they are today, you know,
you know, and going back to, you know, some of the, you know, the older stuff that I had seen, the
hash plants, the ties and stuff like that, you know, back then, you know, I didn't really have a really
full, full grasp of the whole genetic pool, you know, like I do today, you know, the, you know,
the knowledge and the experience just wasn't there, you know, so, you know, you see all these different
strains, you know, that, you know, come out of Amsterdam and, you know, you know, and, you know,
and looking back, like, you know, how many of them are still relevant today, in today's world, you
know, when, when back then they were super popular, you know, so, you know, you know, it was never,
you know, it's hard to believe that, you know, we've built up, you know, a genetic diversity
in the states here that just kind of just lead the world, you know, it's, you know, and it's just from
people's passion for the flower itself, and for taking risks, and just traveling and just, you
know, you know, we, we, you know, stand on the shoulders of giants, you know, of people that,
you know, initially, you know, went out and took those risks.
Hugely, hugely agree. So, when you were developing the Tresdog line, I'm wondering,
what, how were you making your selection? Were you just selecting a male that you felt best
looked like the ChemD sort of each time? And what would be your general tips for listeners who are
hoping to get better at selecting males? Yeah, I mean, that's really, you know, pretty much, you know,
I mean, early on, you know, it was, you know, and that was really, I guess, the concept of
backcrossing, you know, was just really trying to, like, tighten up the gene pool, you know, around,
you know, around the ChemD, you know, I know how to, I've had, you know, a little bit of breeding
knowledge, just from, from dogs, from pit bulls and stuff. And I used to study the,
the breeding lines, and how they would, you know, do things and how a certain dog would become
a line in itself, and how that was done. Meaning like a one male, almost, almost kind of like,
you know, a string, you know, like, it's the same thing with cannabis, a string within a string.
So, yeah, so I had a little bit of knowledge of that. And a lot of it had to do with, you know,
this going back to the original genetics is, you know, it's really just a theory of backcrossing
and stuff. And, and also, I had read a little bit, you know, on the Mel Frank stuff, and
the concept of cubing and backcrossing and cubing and stuff like that. So, you know, I thought that
would, you know, be the best way to really just, you know, try to tighten up the gene pool of the
ChemD. So, you know, and so, you know, initially, you know, I would probably say there was no real
selection when I first took my first, you know, initial male and I just really, you know, just,
there was just really a donor male. And, you know, and just really, just really, really, that's
really the only thing it was really donating was the male part of it. Because my, my vision was
to just to keep bringing it back, you know, until, you know, a certain point and then testing,
you know, not really testing as I went along, you know, in the very beginning. And,
yeah, so I mean, once you know, you know, once I got to, you know, to the trade dog, and then
that's when I, you know, because I have used a lot of different males of that. And initially,
like, I would just, you know, I had, I would do a breeding and then kill the male, you know,
and so, you know, so really, you know, and at that point, it really wasn't really like,
my vision to continuously breed, it was just because I had a certain
clone at the time that I wanted to preserve. So I would just, you know, I would just pop a new male
and do it, bam, you know, I mean, then I'd go back to production, you know, and then I'd get another
new clone sometime and be like, well, I don't have to keep a male. I mean, I'll just start new,
a new seed to find a new male. And, you know, so that was really, you know, the way I did it in the
very beginning, you know, because I, you know, I, you know, I didn't really have a lot of, you know,
breeding experience. And I was just kind of learning as I go along. You know, whereas now,
you know, I do a lot more, more selections on the male, and looking for certain characteristics,
and kind of like, one good example would have been like the trade dog times a sour diesel,
which made the sour dog. So what, so when I did those, when I did that initial cross, you know,
you know, my thing was, all right, you know, I want to produce a sour diesel, you know,
sour diesel line. So it was quite easy to pick the male for the next batch, because the
trade dog, you know, it grew short, you know, so any of those short phenos obviously
would have been more trade dog leaning. So if I wanted a more sour leaning one, I was looking for
more stretchier, sour leaning type of structure, you know, so you know, that's one way of doing it
is like you get two different opposite of the spectrum, you got a tall plant and short plant,
well, you want to you want to breed for the tall plant, but you use a short plant for the male
donor. And then so you do that initial cross, and then just select for the tall plants going there,
there onward after after so, you know, and then you know, you know, then there's another way of
doing it where you actually grow out your males and females. And then you know, you see the male
or the female that you like, and then you try to pick a male that's that grows similar to that.
So you know, so you would be like, all right, you know, these things both look same one's a male
one's a female. So you know, you would know that that male would kind of show the same characteristics
as that female, but that's doing a little bit more work, you know, and that's really something that
people don't want to do nowadays. You know, and this is one of the things that kind of makes me
mad. And it's not that, you know, I don't get mad that people use my genetics and outcross them to
other things, you know, which I don't have no problem with, you know, and I don't get mad that
people are, you know, they cross, you know, they are going to they want to work with the chem dog
or whatever. But if they're going to work with the chem dog, whatever, well, why don't you use,
make your own male use your own genetics, your own outcross, what they want to do is they just
want to take my stuff that I work and cross it into a chem and make it their chem, instead of
going and getting their own Afghan, their own Hindu Kush, or whatever the outcross that they
want to do, make their own male do all that work. And, you know, and a lot of that takes a lot of
time, you know, and that's what people do not want to do. Nowadays, they just want to steal people's
work, make a quick cross, put it on Instagram, and try to make a quick buck. And, you know, and so
a lot of people will sell their stuff for half your price, or whatever $50 a pack, you know,
I'm selling my stuff for double or triple that price, because I put that amount of work in I
have years of work in that cross. And someone just takes that now in F twos it in, you know, so that's
that's the stuff that I don't like that people want to take my stuff and outcross it and use it
for something different. I mean, I'm happy that they do it. But you know, the people that just
want to, you know, kind of pray off for your work, you know, and then there's always the argument,
well, if you don't like it, don't sell regular seeds, or once you sell them, then you know,
so there's all these different arguments. And, you know, it's just really on how you want to,
you know, conduct yourself and be known as you know, if you want to be one of those people,
and, you know, there's always going to be people that are going to support them,
because you know, some people, you know, they just want to buy cheap seeds or, you know,
just like, you know, going back to the res dog thing, there's always going to be someone out
there that's going to, you know, that's going to support, support them. And it's the same thing
with me. There's there's people that are always going to support you. And there's always going
to people that are going to hate you. And that's one thing that you got to come to grips with,
no matter who you are, you can think of anything in the world, the best singer, the best soccer
star, whatever, there's always going to be someone that's going to be like, you know, I don't like
that person because of this or that or whatever. So that's fine. I can live with that. This is long
as you have more people that support you then that don't that don't like you.
Yeah, some wise words right there. What was interesting about that answer was how you
are mentioning that like, you know, each sort of breeding is like its own unique offering because
it's you're using the mail like one time only. Is that still the case? Or have you been keeping
mails more lately?
No, I keep mails now. Yeah, I mean, yeah, you know, one of our last, you know, I kind of learned
because one of the trade dog, one of the last ones I used was was one of the purple. We called
the purple female. And that one, you know, everything that that was that male was bred to
came out kind of purplish. We had the sour dog, the original New York City diesel.
There was a few other strains too, that came out like that. And so after that, yeah,
you know, after that, you know, I decided that, you know, it's better for me to try to keep one
male and to keep reusing that. And, you know, since I'm not, you know, growing for production
anymore. So that, you know, that whole formula now is, you know, is different. So really,
it's more about the amount of different strains that I have. And, yeah, just the overall plant
count overall. So, you know, I'm able to keep a lot more different type of females. I think
right now I have, I don't know, maybe like four or five different males that I'm sitting on.
Nice, nice. It must be, you know, sort of relaxing nowadays that you're able to do that as opposed to
in the past, where it was maybe a bit more harder to do that. But another question we got from one
of our listeners was how would you describe Stardog for someone who's never been able to try it?
Yeah, I mean, it's got like, it's kind of a, it's kind of piney, you know, chemmy.
Yeah, it's very unique, you know, and yeah, I mean, it's kind of, it's really a good blend
between the Chem IV and the Chem D, you know, so, you know, there's a little bit of like
piney dirtiness in there. I guess that's really what I'm looking for, a piney dirtiness
and a chemmy, you know, and so it's kind of almost a layered, a little bit of a layered palette. And
that's really one of the things about the chems because, you know, you can cross a chem into
something that's terpy and still retain those terps and get like a chem, a layered chem flavor.
And so I think that's really, you know, what a lot of people that are really into terps are
looking for is like, you know, you get that layered flavor, where you're getting multiple
different flavors in one hit, where you could taste chem, you could taste pine, you could taste
fruit or whatever it is. And so that's what makes a lot of these strains really unique.
Yeah, it sounds delicious, doesn't it? Well, that was a bit of a cheeky segue question,
because as I'm sure you're pretty well aware, Stardog has really become a major player in the
UK scene, you know, it's almost like it's the new cheese in a sense. I guess I'm just sort of
wondering, like, how does it feel to have a strain that's become that critically acclaimed? Like,
there are people who have had popular strains, but, you know, when you're at that point, it's
really to a different magnitude, isn't it? Yeah, it's kind of funny because like, you know, I don't
really know. I've been to the UK once, you know, for a brief time, so I haven't really spent a lot
of time there. And so, you know, it's really the people of the UK that's kind of blown that up,
you know, some, you know, someone, you know, wound up getting some seeds and some, the cutting,
I forget what is the cutting, the popular cutting that was over there. It's someone's name,
I'm trying to, it's a particular type of cutting. So, yeah, so, you know, I mean, I just finding
it's amazing. You know what I mean? It's just unbelievable, you know, because, you know,
it's just something that just, you know, took a life of its own, you know, like it's, you know,
you know, it's just really hard to explain, because, you know, I didn't really have anything
personally to do with that, you know, like, you know, I sold the seeds, and somehow they got in
the hands of someone over there, and it just took a life of its own. It just, you know, and I know,
this has been going on for quite some time. So at least five or six years now, you know,
I've been hearing this, and that, you know, the star dog has just, you know, taking over,
has taken over the cheese as the most, you know, popular commercial strain. I get a lot of people,
you know, telling me how good it is. And I have a lot of people telling me how bad it is, because
it's being so commercially grown. So, and some of it, they don't even know if it's really the star
dog, or someone just putting the name star dog on it. So, yeah, like I said, it's just, it's just
amazing, because it's nothing that I can't take claim to that, because someone else did that. And,
you know, just going back to when something's that good, that it just takes its life of its own,
I can't really say anything else other than that. So, you get some kudos, I think,
but I quickly googled the name of it. And I think it's called Manny's Cut.
Man, yeah, the Manny's Cut, correct. Yeah, the Manny's Cut, right. So, that's one of the more
popular, I think that's the most popular one I've heard is the Manny's Cut. So, I'm not familiar
with the Manny's Cut, or I don't know anything about it. But yeah, it's made a name for itself,
whoever Manny is. Yeah, I mean, hopefully, if you ever head back, someone will have a bag
waiting for you. But on to another sort of international based question. A few different
fans actually asked me to try to find out from you, what's the, can you give us the lowdown on
the Top Dog Thailand endeavor? You know, I think people have been following it and are like, oh,
this seems very interesting. Like, what's the backstory behind all of that? Yeah, well, you
know, um, yeah, I mean, we're really interested. I've always been really interested in, in Thai
weed. You know, I had told you the story of my experience with, you know, earlier. And so, I
mean, that's always kind of stuck with me, you know, so, you know, once we, you know, I started
seeing that, you know, they were, you know, starting a medical thing. And, you know, they
were, you know, so we, you know, we, we decided, you know, that we were, you know, wanted to, you
know, to try to get more information. And they actually had a I'm trying to think the name of it
now, but they had a CBD show in Bangkok. And so, you know, we decided to go there and, and check it
out, you know, and, you know, make new contacts. And, and so, um, a friend of mine, me and a friend
of mine, he's a pantagru lion. And he was the one that actually gave me the that Sensi star cut. So,
you know, we decided to take a trip over there and, you know, get our feet wet, see what you know,
see if we could get into the market somehow. And so we went over there and we were able to, you know,
establish some contacts, you know, start getting some information and everything. And then my
friend stayed over there for the state over there for a few months, actually. And so he wound up
going up into Chiang Mai, and visited a few farms and grows and stuff, and started collecting seed.
And so really, you know, we decided that, you know, we wanted to, you know, try to,
on one end, try to start collecting land-raised seed, and try to start exploring some of the
mythical Thai stick strains that have been, you know, talked about, and, you know, the ones that
I have experienced from personal, you know, from myself, experience, personal experience.
So, you know, we want to try to find some of these strains and, you know, bring them, you know, back
to, you know, the forefront and because these things were, you know, very, they have a place
in history and for a reason. And so, you know, a lot of that, you know, we're finding out a lot
of different things about, you know, the Thai stick, a lot of it had to do with the curing process
and stuff like that. So, you know, as well as along with the strain. So, yeah, we want to,
yeah, so that was one end of it, is we wanted to, you know, bring back the lore of the
indigenous, you know, land-raised strains. And then on the other hand, we wanted to bring them
up to speed with modern technology. And, you know, from what, you know, we experienced,
there seemed to be a lot of the Dutch seed companies are trying to make influence over there.
And we think that we're better. We know that we're better than the Dutch. And so, we want to make
sure that Thailand is going to be having, you know, the best strains available from America
and not get bamboozled by the Dutch because they're being targeted, because they're an upstart
country. They don't know the difference between a lot of this stuff. So, we want to educate them.
And we also, you know, we want to bring, you know, modern medical standards there.
And as in testing and all of that, you know, because, you know, they want to, you know, have
a medical CBD program over there. They're having problems with strains over there. You know,
a lot of them, a lot of the strains can't grow well over there. They're not testing for CBD.
High, you know, a lot of them are got THC in them. So, you know, there's a lot of stuff that,
you know, they're really on the ground level of. And so, you know, they need to be shown,
you know, the right way. And hopefully, you know, we can help influence them to, you know,
to do things in the correct way. Because I think, you know, there's, you know, a huge
possible, you know, they, you know, of Asia, you know, because no one in Asia is really,
you know, taking the forefront for medical over there. I know that China has some type of thing
going on. But, you know, in Asia itself, I mean, Korea, South Korea, Japan, you know, there's,
you know, a lot of neighboring countries. And so I, you know, I see, you know, the prospect of,
you know, of a lot of a good, you know, economy, they have a lot of tourists over there,
that, you know, so, you know, they're talking about a future, letting tourists buy, you know,
cannabis or, you know, so, you know, I see, you know, a lot of future prospects there possibly.
So, we want to get in on the ground floor on some of that stuff, hopefully, and have some influence
around the world. Yeah, nice, nice. That's a good idea. I guess I never really thought about the
Dutch getting into those markets, but it makes sense that they would be in there nice and early
trying to get the jump the gun on people. Well, you know, the funny thing was, I sat, we sat in on
a, you know, they did a discussion and stuff, presentation, and they showed like all their
target markets around the world. And the funny thing was, the number one target market
was excluded, which is America. Why wouldn't you want to target America? Because you're irrelevant
in the market as it is now, as most, you know, Dutch companies are. So now, I mean,
so now they have to go into all these upstart countries to where they don't know any better.
Yeah, it's interesting. Do you think that it was purely just the change in laws which led to sort
of the decline of Amsterdam? Or do you think that it's maybe just, you know, more factors than just
that? That's part of it. But I don't think, I mean, they're breeding techniques and knowledge
were, you know, very bad. I mean, they were breeding for all the wrong things. Early finishers,
heavy yielders, orange hairs. You know, so after years and years of bottlenecking,
and crossing the same things into the same things into the same things, you get what you got today.
Yeah, certainly. I think it's a tough situation if you're growing with Amsterdam genetics and
hoping to get a good outcome. Well, at one time, they were the best in the world, you know. I mean,
if you go back to, you know, the late Neville days, you know, and I say, you know, the late 80s,
88, 89, 90. And then going into the Sensi seed, and they were probably good up until about 95.
Anything from Sensi seeds that had the original cellophane card pack, it was a cell, it was the
see-through cellophane with just a card in it. And then you had your, you used to be able to get,
I think it was 15 or 16 seeds that they gave you originally in that cellophane pack. And it just
had the card in it with the northern lights on it, and then you would flip it around. And so,
and then probably the last, the last best thing that they did was the Jack Herrera,
the original Jack Herrera. And I think that was what, like 94, 95, somewhere in the mid 90s.
And that was kind of after that, that was it. They had changed, they changed their packaging shortly
after that. And it was the product was never the same. I had a friend that went out and got some
of the original Jack Herrera in the cellophane pack. And he brought it back and he grew it out.
And I remember it was like a 77 day plant, but it used to, I mean, the top buds were your forearm,
it was just a heavy yielder, it went a little bit longer, it had a really nice,
hazy tip to it, you know, but it was kind of, it wasn't super strong or nothing. But it was
really nice, like the original Jack Herrera cut. And so I mean, these guys, once they found out,
it started to produce and they just started pumping it out. And then I mean, they just
started over producing it. And I was like, Whoa, whoa, hold on. I'm getting overburdened with this
stuff is not moving anymore. I was like, we got to cut it out. Eventually. You know, I told them,
we can't do this anymore. It's just not selling. So they're like, All right, no problem. We have,
we have the rest of the pack of seeds that we have. I was like, All right, kill it. All right.
So a few days, a few years down the road, I'm like, Hey, once you know, find that pack of Jack
career and get that going again. Oh, I can't find it. I lost it. All right. So at that time, I was
doing the seed bay thing and getting, getting the seed credit. So I was like, I'll get you another
pack of the Jack career. So I got him the new I got him in the new packaging. I think it was in
it was in the bubble and the box and all of that. And so I give him a you know,
pack of the Jack career and you know, looking forward to him finishing out.
You know, he finishes it out, shows me the final product. And it was just shit. It was just so
disappointing. It just was nothing like the original. It was just a stringy fucking bullshit.
It was just so disappointing. And just Yeah, I mean, and really, I mean, to sum it up,
that's kinda you know, how I feel about most Dutch, Dutch genetics. Now there are a few
exceptions, karma, and a few other guys that are that are out there doing the real thing. But
you know, any of the old original guys are just pretty much just, you know, going through the
fucking, you know, motions, and just producing shit that you know, for suits for pretty much for
souvenir purposes, because they're really not worth much more than you know, the packaging itself,
you know, so I wouldn't you know, I mean, what what see what what what strains of greenhouse
are relevant in today's on Instagram, you know, you can go down the whole list of all of them.
And you know, what's relevant today. And really, a lot of them are offering American genetics now
and branding themselves such as Yeah, yeah, I think Barney's farm have just come out with like
gelato wedding cake. It's like, okay, yeah, yeah, yeah, I saw that. Yeah.
Well, interesting stuff. I mean, to bring the focus back to the US, you know, the cannabis
climate around the sorry, the legal climate around cannabis in the US has been a sort of changing
landscape. And there's a bit of a sentiment nowadays that both legally and financially,
California is just starting to push growers out of the market and even out of the state.
What's your thoughts on the legal climate in the US? And how do you feel about some of the
newer places opening up and becoming the hotspot, like say, Oklahoma?
Well, I got kind of mixed feelings on some of it, because a lot of it is just geared towards
money and corporate, like, like, like California, you know, if you're a small mom and pop operation,
you know, they just make it so difficult for you to operate that it's just not feasible.
You know, the licensing costs, the process of getting a license, a lot of places, you have to
secure a location to get a license. So that means you're, you're going to be renting out
a warehouse possibly for a year or two, even before you could even start working there.
You know, so the cost, the startup cost on on some of these, it's just it's just ridiculous.
And they have it set up. So it favors big money and corporations.
On the other hand, you know, you have states like Oklahoma and Oregon, where anyone with $3,000
can go and set up shop. Unfortunately, there's not a lot of money in those states,
you know, so what's going to happen in Oklahoma is, you know, is the same thing that happened in
Oregon. You know, once they got up into full speed, full production, then licensed,
you're going to have 10,000 people that are producing and trying to sell weed on the same
spot. And how many, you know, as far as I know, Oregon and Oklahoma, any type of tourist attraction,
the the household income is probably very low. So you're really stuck in a market where it's
oversaturated. There's not a lot of money. And everyone's fighting over the same nickel.
You know, so yeah, I mean, it's kind of fucked up, you know, because they you know, that, you know,
the same thing in, you know, is happening in New Jersey now and in New York, you know, they,
you know, they say they want to open it up for, you know, people that, you know, has been affected
by the drug war and this and that, you know, and then they start making up all these rules.
You know, you got to be a resident for three years, all your money's got to be in the bank for three
years. You know, and then you got towns, you know, all right, we got a town that we don't want,
we don't want a wreck in our town. So we're not, you know, we're not going to allow it,
or we're going to allow for licenses. And, you know, the people with political connections,
and money and who knows how that licensing process is going to be, how that's going to go down.
And so, yeah, so a lot of people get shut out. And, you know, even, you know, someone like myself,
and who some may say, has got some type of reputation, or, or whatever you may think in
the game, you know, really doesn't mean shit to a lot of these people. You know what I mean? Because,
you know, a lot of these people are only interested in, in, these are corporate people,
you know, and they're only the only thing they know how to do is count money. And, you know,
the corporate structure is, hey, if we made 10,000, 10 million this year, and we only make
8 million next year, well, we lost 2 million in their eyes. So, you know, I see as more of a
commodity, you know, and so, um, yeah, it's really gonna be interesting on how, you know,
this all plays out, because the way that I see it is, if you can't get in now,
you ain't gonna get in later, you know, and that's kind of like what's happened here in Colorado,
because in the early days of medical, just anyone could have just gotten set up anywhere, you know,
and then, you know, they, they, you know, they brought rec down, and they, they made a lot of
rules, and they forced a lot of people out for different reasons, you know, and then they can do
it through zoning. And through, you know, if you have a record, and there's just a lot of these
different things, you know, that they do to, to make it make it, you know, virtually impossible
for a small time operator to get into it, you know, so it's, you know, really geared towards
big money, a lot of these states seem, and those are the states that, that have the money, you know,
that you will be able to make, you know, some type of a profit, you know, I mean, but, you know,
the, the startup costs are in the millions, you know, and, you know, we, we are working class
people, most of us, and, you know, if we had millions of dollars, quite frankly, we wouldn't
be who we are now. You know, I mean, so, you know, there's a, you know, there's a big gap in between,
between, you know, reality and perception and, you know, what people think the market is, is going to
be. Yeah, hugely. So, a sentiment I've heard expressed a little bit more recently is that
there's a sort of growing suspicion that national legalization may not be too far off the future.
Do you see that being a possibility? Well, you know, it's really politics, and, you know,
fortunately, politics in America is really fucked up right now, and, you know, it's really,
kind of like two parties, the Democrats and the Republicans, and, you know, most of the Republicans
don't favor cannabis legalization. Most of the states that aren't legal are run by Republicans.
With that being said, our president is a Democrat, and at first it seemed like he was signaling
towards legalization, and now it seems like he's signaling against federal legalization.
And so, you know, it's kind of caught in the middle because originally the drug war was started by
executive order by Richard Nixon, the president, and it could be ended by executive order
by the President Biden if he wanted to, but no one seemed, and it could have been done by
every other president in between. And so, you know, I don't see them doing it unless it's
beneficial for them somehow, and for them to just keep things at status quo kind of, you know,
protects them. And it's kind of like the same kind of issue of the immigration issue that we have
here where they just, it's fucked up, but they don't want to fix it. They just want to keep it
the way that it is. So, yeah, and then, you know, and then the only other way to change it is by
an act of Congress. So, if you want to do it by an act of Congress, then you need Republicans
to get on board. And, you know, the politics in this country are so polarizing that it's just,
you know, it's like living in two different worlds. Yeah, it feels very tense, very polarized
at the moment, doesn't it? So, I just wanted to ask you a question I love to ask all guests.
What would be some advice you would give to someone who's maybe hoping to start breeding,
maybe now, maybe down the track? What do you think some good advice you'd give to someone?
Try to do something original, you know? You can't really, you got to make your own way
and not really ride off the coattails of other people's success, which you can in a certain way,
you know, if you do it the right way. But you want to do it in a way of creating something new,
not copying what's something old. So, you could take something that's popular and new and cross
into something that's totally different and possibly come up with something. So, yeah, I mean,
that's really, you know, really the thing is just to try to be original, you know, and, you know,
like I say, your past is our future. And a lot of people only look at the status quo of what's
popular today. You know, I'm the kind of guy that want to go back into land races, go back to the
original start of things and start from there, you know, start over again, or use that into some of
the stuff that, into some of the new modern stuff, you know, the key is to create new and not really
try to replicate what is. Yeah, that's some great advice. And I mean, you just referenced wanting
to dig into some land race stuff. I noticed on your Instagram, you'd post some Afghani seeds
recently. And it made me wonder, are these some of the stocks you might be looking to work with?
And what sort of land races in general would you want to work with? Yeah, well, right now,
there seems to be a big search for roadkill skunk, you know, so, you know, in my opinion,
you know, that's going to be found in some Afghan strains. So, you know, looking back on the history
of it all. Yeah, that's where I think you really got to start, you know, so, you know, really,
you know, just like, you know, like I was saying, you know, about the HP 13, and that land race
strain. Yeah, you have to, you have to go out and you have to search for stuff, you have to try new
stuff. You know, you got to, you know, do stuff that people aren't doing. And that's how you find
stuff that's special and unique, you know, you, you know, you find something that's different.
And, you know, you just, you know, you, you start, you start from there and start working off of
that. It's a step by step process. And, you know, really, you know, with the amount of land race
stuff that's available today, you know, there's Indian stuff, Hindu Kush, Afghan, you know, and
that's really, you know, the base of, you know, all of the genetics that we have today, you know,
is this that people, you know, they're, they're too lazy, you don't want to put in the work,
you know, a lot of it takes a lot of time, and a lot of effort, a lot of a lot of time, you're,
you're, you know, you're, you're wasting your time, a lot of wasted time, you know, so, you know,
people don't want to do that. They just want to do what's easiest for them. And just it's easier to
rip off someone else's stuff and do, you know, do some, some kind of cross like that. And so,
you know, that's really kind of what separates, you know, people that lead, you know, compared to
people that follow, you know, if you're, if you're a leader, you're going to go out there, and you're
going to find your own stuff, you know, one way or the other, you know, there's so much stuff out
there, you know, you just got to go out there and find it and, and yeah, and just grow it, you know,
I tell people to pop seeds, you know, I mean, pop, keep popping seeds, you know, because that's where
the next best clone is going to be found, obviously, you know, and where's that going to
where's that seed going to come from? Well, that could be come from anywhere. So, you know, that's,
that's, that's the joy and the anticipation that you get when you pop something new, because you
want to see, you know, what it is, you know, and as in, especially if you made it yourself, you know,
then it, you know, then you have that much more pride to put into it, you know, but if you're just
really searching for something, you know, you just got to try to, you know, come up with a game plan,
and just, you know, have an idea on, you know, what you want to do. And kind of like what I'm
saying about this roadkill skunk stuff. For me, you know, I'm searching for and, you know, I'm
just going to have to try popping different land race Afghanis, you know, until I can find something
that's similar, you know, you may find the next chem something fuely, or you don't know what could
come out of some of this stuff, because, you know, that's been the foundation for all this stuff that
we've, we've, we've had for a long time. Now, you know, there's been a lot of unstable situations
over there. So the, you know, I don't know, you know, you know, how, you know, that's affected,
you know, indigenous farmer generational farmers who, who traditionally farm from seed crop,
the seed crop, the seed crop, the seed crop, and produce hash from those, you know, from that stuff.
And that hash actually is what provides for their family. So you know, there was always great family
pride in the prop in the product and production in a product that they would bring out because
that's what kept their family alive. So it was something that was always kept in the family,
generation after generation. So after you break that cycle, you know, where are you then so,
you know, after all the, you know, the fighting and, and all this stuff throughout the years,
you know, you just got to think to yourself, you know, how much is that affected some of those
indigenous strains and, and, and, and, and, and, and has some of them been lost forever.
And a lot of that can just, you know, you can just look back at the seed, I mean, the hash production
and how that is, because that's how that, I mean, that's what all of that at the end, you know,
produces the hash in Afghanistan was always known as one of the best hash producing countries in the
world. And, you know, it became that into becoming just a commercial grade. So, you know, there's a
lot, you know, unless you're, you know, on, on the ground, and you got intimate knowledge of the
region, and, you know, and stuff like that, you know, which people do, you know, there's a lot of
English people that are able to, you know, that are Afghani, and Muslim, and are able to, you know,
travel back and forth to the country to the homeland, where if you and I went there, and
they seen our white asses, they would behead us. So, you know, for us traveling into those regions
would be, you know, very dangerous, and, you know, and something that I wouldn't wouldn't want to do,
you know, but, you know, I believe that, you know, those genetics are possibly still out there,
but you got to go out there and get them. Yeah, comprehensive answer there. And while we're on
the topic of, you know, advocating for popping seeds, which we always do, I'd like to know,
how many seeds do you pop when you're looking to search through a line to try to figure out
what's inside it? As many as possible. I mean, you know, it's kind of hard, you know,
you know, when you're just working, you know, not in a commercial facility.
So, you know, you got to pick and choose, you know, kind of the direction on what projects
you want to do. Space is always a concern. Because I mean, obviously, you know, you just can't,
there's just not enough room for all plants. But like right now, I'm popping some sour diesel
BX3F2s. And I think I got about 20 of them going right now. And so I mean, ideally, I would like
to do a lot more than 20. But that's probably about the limit that I could do in the confines
of the space that I'm working with now. You know, when we are doing these big pheno seed hunts in
the warehouse, you know, we're popping 200, 100, you know, we're doing big seed pops and
pheno hunts. And, you know, like I explained earlier, most of that is for, you know, for hash
and for flower production. So, you know, luckily, I'm able to work with some of those selections
that, you know, that we're working out of the warehouse with. But me personally, you know,
when I'm doing the seed thing, like I explained earlier, I'm doing about 20 of those. So what I'll
probably wind up doing is running them, selecting a male or two possibly, and then breeding them,
I would cross them, and then I would find the pheno that I thought best resembled the sour
diesel. And then those would be my next generation of seeds that I would work with.
Yeah, what a great answer. You've filled in many of the blanks I had there. A question we got from
one of our listeners is, can you tell us a little bit about the bubblegum chem that you used to
have and have used in the past? Yeah, the bubblegum chem originally was a tree dog bubblegum.
So, that was the original cross. I had gotten the bubblegum cutting, I don't even remember where I
originally got it from. But yeah, it was definitely the real deal bubblegum. Fruity,
really crystally. Yeah, it was nice. I brought it out here. A friend of mine, Motiv, I gave him some
seeds and he did some F2 work with it. He gave me some of those seeds back, which I sold some
of them. And yeah, I haven't really done much other than that with the bubblegum chem.
That makes sense. Because I do remember seeing some of those F2s on his page as well. Okay,
so it all ties together. Yeah, and it wasn't really a strain that I really planned on working.
It was one of the things where I'd explained earlier, where I got in the cutting, and I just
wanted to make a cross with it. And I pretty much that's what I did with it. And so, that's what I
do a lot of times. Whereas a lot of times I will have a breeding direction that I'm going with,
sort of speak with like the sour diesel, like I explained. But if I have a sour diesel male
that I'm using to further that line, and then I have a bunch of clone only's that I have ready
to flower, I'll throw the clone only's in with that breeding and do a one time breeding with that.
And so sometimes those breedings are, you know, they're just one time deals,
kind of like what you're talking about the OG skunk, or something like that. It was nothing
that I really kind of was going to further, it was kind of a pile and chuck one time deal. And
a lot of times the some of these things take a life of their own. And sometimes people find some
really special things on some in some of them. And yeah, you know, you know, it was just something
that you know, I did at the time. And it was nothing that I really intended to work any
further than what it was kind of like what Bodie does, he does a lot of one time pile and chucks.
And so you know, I do some of that stuff. But then on the other hand, I do do a directional
line breeding in in a place where I want to go. So it's a little bit of a combination of the both
the way I do that.
And so would you ever consider doing any feminized breeding?
Uh, I mean, I've kind of thought about it. And, you know, and really getting back to
the initial reason why I started breeding was for preservation. So, you know, you can't really have
preservation. And without a male, I mean, you can, I guess, go from s one to s, you know, keep s and
all the way up. But for me, it's always been about the evolution, I guess, of, of the plant
itself into do breeding that's going to further the genetic pool. In time, if you know, it kind
of like bettering each, you're trying to do something better each time. So in theory, over
a period of time, you should have something that's, you know, that that's evolved into
a superior product, so to speak, you know, and I guess, I guess that would really, we really be
talking genetic, genetically, you know, where we're over a period of time that, yeah, you would
have something that would be superior. Yeah, sure. So something I forgot to ask you earlier,
but I would be really interested in your perspective on was what was your first impression
of OG? Like, I'm imagining you were probably growing chem at the time, and then all of a sudden
OG came out, you know, did that sort of change the game for you? Or was it still business as usual?
Well, it was kind of business as usual for for us, because it wasn't readily available. I mean,
it was something I could definitely appreciate it and wanted. But I mean, we just didn't,
we didn't have access to it. You know, I think like the first time I was able to get it, I was
able to get like an ounce or something like that. You know, it was really tightly held, like anything
really good back in the day. And to really get like full general access to something like that
was just, you know, kind of impossible, because it was just locked, you know, it was just held
down and locked down. So, so tightly that this would wasn't, you know, wasn't readily available.
But you know, I mean, as a connoisseur, I thought it was amazing, you know, and, yeah, give me give
me more of it, give me more of it. So. And it makes me sort of wonder on that same sort of vein,
before you guys had Chemdog, what, in your opinion, was the best smoke on the East Coast?
Yeah, I mean, you know, we're really kind of, you know, going back into, there wasn't really a lot
of named strains back then, you know, like anything that you would get from Amsterdam would
be considered something super exotic, early pearls, the early skunks, silver pearls, the,
I forget, there was a couple other ones. And yeah, so I mean, back then, we thought that was the shit,
is it because we just, you know, we just never saw something like that before. So it was really
anything that was kind, bud, or exotic, or from Amsterdam, or a sense a million, you know, I mean,
there was a whole bunch of different things that were around, but not one particular thing that I
could be like, you know, because, you know, something would something great would would
come around, and then it would disappear. You know, because the thing was, there wasn't a steady
flow of that stuff, you know, a lot of stuff got smuggled in, and like, I made it through one time,
and that was it. You know, unless it was being locally produced, you know, once, once we started
locally producing everything, then things became more production, like, when things were being
smuggled in, it was just hit or miss. Yeah, sure. So what would be your recommendation of one of the
top dog strains for a more newbie grower? And also, what's your personal favorite strain you've ever
made? Well, right now, what I have available, like right now, the dirty taxi seems to be really
popular. And if you're really looking for a really kind of dirty chem kind of chem D,
kind of a tip, that's what I would recommend the dirty taxi. We have a lot of different stuff
out right now, that's been selling out. The the sour diesel back cross fours, obviously,
has been really popular, really good representations of the sour diesel. Money has just, you know,
made some new I 95. I x's off of his keeper mom. So they've been flying off the shelf.
The pith, the black piths. So really, it really depends on your own personal taste and what you're
looking for. You know, you know, I've tried to, you know, cover, you know, all the bases of, you
know, a lot of my personal favorites, and try to give people some kind of representation of that,
you know, so, you know, a lot of it really comes down to your own personal stuff. You know, we have,
you know, like the I 95 stuff is, you know, kind of OG stuff. And so we've kind of tried to
take in a little bit of the best of everything in some type of form. So,
so yeah, I mean, it's, you know, a lot of it comes down to personal preference.
But, but, you know, like, like, I was gonna like the Stardog, you know, you know, for a first
timer, can't go with the Stardog. Unfortunately, there's no seeds currently available. But the
good thing is, is that there's going to be, they're going to be harvested soon. So we just did a
remake of the Stardog. I did the Corey Haim in cross, we did the Guava in cross, we did the
original New York City diesel. And so that was the three cams, which was a really popular strain,
which you know, which was originally kind of a pollen chuck, which, you know,
you know, because we just had the original New York City diesel, and, you know, cross to the
Stardog, and not really thinking, you know, it would be as, you know, as popular as it was,
because, you know, basically, you got all three cams in there, you got you got the tree dog,
which is chem, you know, chem 90, chem D, you know, and then you got that cross to the chem four.
And then you got trade dog, trade dog 91 in there. So you have a good blend of 491 and chem D in
there. So yeah, that was another good one, the three cams that will be, which is being remade.
Yeah, brilliant. You brought it up, because I always saw that three cams and thought that
looked particularly nice. And, you know, kudos, you also brought up I-95, which is an incredible
strain in its own right. And, you know, you see some people who have got some pretty wickedly
devotion to it. It's, it's pretty impressive. Did you ever anticipate the I-95 would become
such a success? And what was sort of the background on its inception? How did it come to be?
Well, you know, that was that was a money Mike creation. And I, you know, I believe we,
we made that in like 2014 2015. We brought some seeds out here to Colorado. And we had gifted,
gifted, we originally gifted some to Tara Rojo, who was working and working for mindful at the
time. And so we gave him some. And yeah, no, and then we that was the original release of that.
And that original cross was Stardog. Legend. OG was the male times to the triangle Kush.
So yeah, that I mean, I don't know what that combination did, but it just really opened up
a new box of, of the way that I mean, the, the way the crystals and the formation of the buds
and everything just really gave it hybrid. Vigor is really what I'm trying to say really, because
what really came out of it really couldn't find in any of the in any of the parents,
sick, you know, by themselves. So yeah, it's really got kind of an OG tip to it. And it's
got that stretchiness to it. But it's got more of a cheminess, I guess, and as a little bit more body
and, and stuff to it because of the indigo of the Stardog. So it's a very, very unique,
special strain. And yes, a lot of people have tried to, you know, copy it and try to
make it as their own because it was never really put into like, full production. So
there was, you know, releases of it, but it was never really commercially released across the
board. And so, you know, the, the packs that were released, you know, people were just fine,
finding such phenomenal phenos out of it that, you know, the strain kind of just took a life of its
took a life of its own. Once again, and you know, people just started, you know,
blowing it up, blowing it up. And it's probably been more copied, I'd say probably than the
Stardog because the Stardog was more readily commercially available in releases. Whereas
the I 95 really wasn't, you know, we had that initial release of it. And like I said, in knowledge,
2014 2015. And then, you know, you know, it wound up blowing up, you know, over, you know, the first
few years. And, you know, so yeah, you know, we really didn't really realize the magnitude of that.
And, you know, he had a limited amount of original stock that he released, but I'm, I'm pretty sure
that he still has, you know, quite a bit of that original stock that he's that he's sitting on.
And also, you know, he's just recently, you know, done a remake of that, you know, from that. So
yeah, I mean, is this something that, you know, once again, one of our strains just,
you know, it's what other people, you know, did with them and made them popular, because we never
really kind of pushed, you know, we don't really push any of our strains on people, you know,
it's like we release them, and, you know, people buy them, and then they decide how good they are.
So, yeah.
So, one of the questions I was interested in asking you was the chem genetics in general,
a sort of thought of as having some degree of sensitivity to stress, and, you know,
somewhat prone to a little bit of instability if they're stressed out. When you're breeding with it,
do you just have to accept that there will be a small amount of instability to a degree? Or do
you believe it's possible to make chem hybrids that are, you know, say, as stable as any other
strain, so to speak?
No, I think, you know, a lot of that sensitivity, you know, stays present. You know, a lot of it
depends on the, you know, the conditions of the grow. And so, you know, when you have unstable
conditions in a grow, then, yeah, that's going to, you know, affect some of the genetics. And,
you know, some of the genetics are really sensitive, like the sour diesel, and the 9D1,
and, you know, and even some of the cushers, you can say that about the same things, too. So,
if, you know, it's all about environment, and I think cannabis adapts to environment. And so,
you know, if it's in an environment where it's going to be stressed, and it thinks it's going
to die, you know, obviously, it's going to go into self-preservation and start to herm out.
And I think that's, you know, can be true, that's true with any strain. So, I mean, I think that's
a built-in mechanism that's in cannabis regardless. And yes, some strains are going to be a little
more sensitive than other strains. But really, in the end, what's key is having a stable environment,
you know, not having light leaks, not having big temperature swings, having your pH right,
you know, there's a lot of little different things, you can go down the list of things that happen,
you know. And what happens is, you know, people have an unstable environment, they pop a pack of
seeds, they're like, half the pack turned male, and the other pack hermied on me, your genetics
suck, you know. And so, I get that all the time. And, you know, and I've argued and I fought with
these people, you know, and now I just reached the point where, you know, I'll just give you a new
pack of seeds, you know. And so, you know, it really comes down, you know, to breeder error,
I mean, a grower error, a lot of it. And they, you know, they're quick to point the finger at
the breeder and they'll say, well, you know, I had a pack of your stuff and a pack of another stuff,
and the other pack didn't herm but your pack did. And, you know, so, you know,
there's just so many variables that that are in cannabis itself. And then you add that to the
variables of, of the conditions it grows in. And you just have, you know, you know, you just don't
know what it's gonna, you know, turn into. So, you know, to me, you know, it's it starts with
the grower, you know, you have a stable environment, you have everything that's tight.
And, you know, you shouldn't really have too many problems, even if you're using sensitive
genetics, you know, but you know, there's always going to be, you know, those cases where, you
know, something's going to herm out because of the genetics, or whatever. But, you know, you have
to do your homework on the people that you're, you know, you're going to be buying seeds from,
what kind of what kind of reputation do they have? You know, how long have they been making
seeds for? You know, how long have these strains been around? Like, you know, you know, after a
while, you have a track record, you gain a reputation. And it's not what you say about
your product, it's what everyone else says about your product. So it kind of speaks for itself. So,
you know, you really got to, you know, go into depth, and do a lot of research in, you know,
in what you're buying. So, you know, you know, and, and usually you, you get what you pay for,
you know, and if you're going to do research into someone, and you know, they're going to have good
genetics, and yeah, they're probably going to cost you, you know, more, more than your usual
pack, you know, $150 $200 $300. You know, but you know what you're getting, you know, I mean,
when you buy a $50 pack of someone that's knocked off someone, and yeah, you might be able to find
some really good stuff in there. And on the other hand, yeah, you might get fucked in and it might
get a hermey bomb. So yeah, it's really, you know, the way that I've always looked at it is,
it's like, I've always tried to buy my seeds from the source, from the original source,
or as close as you can get it, you know, so that's why I went to Sensi seeds, you know, I mean,
and, and I've bought other greenhouse and, you know, Mr. Nice, and, you know, all these other
name breeders I buy from the source, you know, and, you know, so you know, what you should be
getting. And, you know, the reputation behind it. And when you're just buying some random cross, or,
you know, it's a crapshoot, and you know, you get what you pay for in the end.
So true. So true. So we've just got a few final fan submitted questions before we do our final
five quick ones. One I'm definitely interested to hear answer to is do you know any of the
origins of the Nigerian silk? No, I mean, I was given the Nigerian as a clone only.
From my, from what I remember, it came from a group of people up in New Pauls, New York,
who were a bunch of skydivers. So actually, I think the cutting came from a girl. And from,
from what I read, the story that I was told that I guess someone had taken a trip over
to Nigeria and brought back the seeds and they were grown upstate. Now how true that is,
I don't know, because I didn't I didn't know the original people, the skydiving people,
I didn't know any of them. So it was my friend who I got the cutting from. So I can only go by
what I was told. And yeah, that's as far back as I can go with it. You know, I know that there's
been I know, I know that Neville had released some Nigerian seeds at some point. And there
might have been a few other people. But yeah, I mean, I remember first seeing the Nigerian
from the weasel. He was growing it back in the mid 90s. And I remember getting it once or twice.
And I remember him saying how it took too long, and it yielded too little and he cut it out. And
once I remember, you know, and then once once, once I was able to get the cutting,
yeah, I jumped on on that opportunity. And then, you know, just like I would with any elite
a strain that I got, I tried to make some type of representation and seed. So I mean, that's really,
you know, what I did. And that's what I've always been trying, you know, I've been doing all along
and just, you know, I've just been kind of fortunate on the way things have been working out.
Yeah, very nice. I think that's more information than I knew on it. So that's great.
The next one was, have you ever been given any breeding advice that was particularly memorable
or left an impact on you? No, I mean, not, not particularly from one person, because I've
kind of learned everything myself going along. I mean, obviously, you know, I've read, you know,
publications from DJ short, Mal Frank, you know, Ed Rosenthal, and, you know, so on and so forth. So
I've tried to, you know, do as much, you know, research that I could do, as possible, you know,
other than, you know, really meeting, you know, you know, Neville, or Shanti, or, you know,
one of these, you know, skunk man, and having, you know, one of these guys, you know, telling you
something, some type of secret other than that, but not no, because you never get that, you know,
you never get the chance to meet people like that. And even if you did, I don't think they
would tell you their breeding secrets. So, you know, a lot of these things, you kind of kind of
just, you know, learn as you go along, try to do as much research as you can. There's, you know,
there's a lot of books out there, you know, and now with the internet and everything, you can kind
of get, you know, a lot more information that used to be out there that you can get now.
Yeah, definitely grateful for all the amount of information that's out there, that's for sure.
So the next question was, for you personally, what are the most rare seeds in your collection?
That's kind of a hard question, because I have so many seeds. I mean, I have seeds from all around
the world. I mean, and I guess, you know, probably, you know, more of the land race
kind of stuff, I would say, you know, because, you know, a lot of this stuff, you know,
you know, I just made, you know, I made it, you know, so, you know, really,
I really can't, I really don't have an answer, you know, I'm trying to think, I really don't have
a specific answer that I can give you, because I would say it's my whole, my whole collection
in itself, you know, because I can't point to one particular thing and say, like, that is,
you know, the creme de la creme, so to speak, you know, because everything is,
is so different and special, in its own right, and deserves its own space. So I mean, and there's
such a thing about cannabis is such a wide spectrum of different varieties, and which
give you different effects and just everything. So yeah, I mean, I mean, the thing that would be
most valuable is something that I can't get, you know. So if I can get, if I could have something
that I can't get, I would say that would be the most valuable thing, but because most things you
can get, you know, I mean, and, and especially, you know, you know, luckily, like, you know,
someone like me, you know, if there's something that I really want, I mean, I can make a post
about it. And I'm pretty sure like someone out there, you know, would offer me some kind of a
trade or, or something like that, you know, I mean, but it doesn't always work like that.
You know, I mean, it doesn't, you know, I mean, so yeah, I mean, I guess the thing that, you know,
people want the most right now is that roadkill, that original roadkill skunk, that mass super
skunk that, you know, rancid, you know, skunk. So yeah, you know, I mean, so I mean, that's what
that's what everyone's looking for now. So I mean, and that's really why, you know, I,
you know, I'm getting back to the land race stuff. And, you know, so I would have to say,
probably some of that land race stuff, because you just don't know what the potential of something
could be in there. Whereas a lot of this stuff, I already know what it is, you know, so that's what
that would probably be the answer is kind of like the unknown. Because, you know, if you have
something that you think has potential, but you just don't know what it is until you actually get
into it, you know, whereas you might have a bunch of seed stock that you made, and you already kind
of know what it is, and you already have, you know, stuff that, you know, clones or whatever. So yeah,
that's, yeah, that's what I would say. Yeah, strong words. I dig it. So on to our final five
quick questions before we wrap this one up. So first one is, what is the best or most memorable
single sort of hit or smoking session you've ever had? What left the biggest impression on you?
Well, I told that story earlier about the tie. You know, that was that, that was probably one of the,
you know, most memorable smoking sessions that really made an impression on me. You know, when I,
you know, broke out this, this, this tie weed out, you know, in the dead, dead show parking lot,
you know, when there's, you know, 810 people in a circle, and, you know, and we're smoking and people
are dropping out like flies. I mean, that was, you know, that told me that that weed was killer.
Great answer. It sounds amazing. So on the other end of the spectrum,
was there ever a time when everyone around you was really hyped about this new strain,
and everyone's talking it up, and then you finally try it and you just really weren't impressed?
Yeah, I guess like the Girl Scout cookies and, you know, stuff like that. You know, I mean,
there's been, I mean, there's been a lot of strains like that. I mean, just, you know,
being on the internet for so long, and you know, you, you get caught up in the hype that people put
out this kind of like how I explained, you know, the lore of certain things. And yeah, I mean,
you know, in kind of like a perfect, perfect, perfect example would be kind of like the
bubble cush like that was something I was, you know, really, you know, really excited to get.
And then when I finally got to grow it out and smoke it, not that it wasn't that bad,
but it wasn't that good. And I can kind of see how it had its time and place in history at one time.
But by the time that I got it, I already had other strains that fucking, you know,
the crush that, you know, I mean, so, you know, there's a lot of things out there that, you know,
that you hear about and are hyped up and so on and so forth. And you know, you finally get into
and you're just like, it's not all that. And you know, that's kind of how I feel with know a lot
of the designer strings that, you know, that are coming out now and everything. And so,
you know, the skittles, you know, I finally got to try the skittles. I mean, it had a nice,
you know, nice taste all in all to it. But I mean, at the end of the day, I mean, probably
I would have tested out in the low teens in THC. But once you put that into concentrates,
now that becomes a whole different product. So, yeah, on one hand, I can say, yeah, I didn't like
the flower, it kind of sucked. But it, you know, it had a nice flavor to it. But once you put that
into concentrates, now, you know, now you're talking about concentrates, where you're
concentrating the THC. And really, at that point, it's only about flavor. You know, so now you're
taking something that is not really such a great flower and now making it into a concentrate
product that is exceptional for some people. So yeah, it's, you know, it's you just don't know
what, you know, what will become out, what can become out of a strain, should I say?
Yeah, good insight. So let's do a desert island situation. If you could only take
three strains with you onto a desert island, what are you going to take?
I'm going to take the Chem D. I'm going to take
probably the Black Haze Pith. And probably the OG, a good OG. You know, so that I mean,
that's, you know, so really, that would be kind of like, you know, I got a really good heavy indigo.
I got a really good Haze Sativa. And then the OG could kind of be like a nice little hybrid,
you know. So yeah, I think that those three would be my choices.
Yeah, three really nice picks. I could get behind those. So now to be a little bit devil's advocate.
All right. So now we're going to drop someone else off on the island. And you don't like this
person very much. But you get to choose the three strains you leave them with. What are you going to
leave them with? Well, if I don't like them very much, I'd have to, you know, I guess,
you have to give them the Blue Dream, just because, you know,
I guess I'd have to give them the Girl Scout cookie. I'd have to give them something to
something just to give you just enough. You just don't get it just doesn't get you quite there.
You're almost there, but almost not quite there. You know, and then I guess, you know, I just have
to give them a skunk one, you know, because what can be more generic than a skunk one nowadays?
So I guess that those would be my three. Some really good answers there. So final
question for the interview. If you could go back to any place and time in history,
where would you go? And what seeds would you collect while you were there?
It would definitely have to be back, you know, in Afghanistan, you know, definitely
during the Silk Road time. There was a time, you know, and this is really, I believe, the inception
of mannery seeds, because in England, they used to run tours, you know, and they used to run
train and bus tours to India. And it would go as far as Bangkok. And if you know anything about
the history of the Silk Road and the routes that it took, you were able to basically, you know,
travel in a lot of these Muslim hash producing countries, you know, where hash was, you know,
originally from. And yeah, I mean, you used to be able to just travel freely across Iran, Iraq,
Afghanistan. You know, the Hindu Kush, India, Nepal, Morocco, all of these countries
were very friendly to backpacking hippies, and adventurers. And most of these countries
were legal back then. You know, we're talking early 70s, late 60s. You know, before the drug war,
you know, it was really during that time that Nixon really forced a lot of those countries
to go illegal because we were, you know, we were funding a lot of those poor countries.
And we just basically told them either you make it illegal, or we're not giving you any more money.
And so, you know, a lot of those countries were just forced, you know, to go illegal. And, you
know, over, you know, generations, you know, it's just a lot of it has become taboo. In some of
these countries, like Thailand, for instance, you know, cannabis is pretty taboo with the general
population over there. And the same could be said in a lot of Asian countries, you know,
most of the modern Asian countries, should I say, you know, you can go to Vietnam and Laos and,
and that in those places, and, you know, the cultural still is alive, you know, and, you know,
and that really dates back to, you know, them just using cannabis and hemp for general use.
And in medicine, you know, so they've been using, you know, this stuff for centuries,
and had been until, you know, the United States came in and told them they couldn't do it anymore.
So, you know, hopefully, you know, all that stuff will, you know, will be coming back in the future
as we get over the stigma of illegal cannabis, and it's harmful, and it's a gateway drug,
and so on and so forth. Yeah, what a fantastic sentiment to end things on. So, you know,
thank you so much, JJ, for coming by and for sharing all your knowledge and your experiences.
Did you have any comments or shout outs you wanted to make before we wrap things up?
No, no, no, I know, I appreciate you have having me on. And yeah, I just appreciate everyone's
support. And, you know, if it wasn't for everyone that's, you know, supported me and helped me
over the years, you know, I wouldn't be, you know, the person that I am now. So I just want,
you know, to thank everyone that's, you know, that's ever, you know, ran a pack of seeds or,
you know, made any type of, you know, shown any type of support. It's, you know, it's nothing
that I ever really imagined it's blossomed into. So I just really consider myself very lucky.
And, you know, you know, and consider, you know, just to be in a very special, special
spot, you know, and I just want to thank everyone because if it wasn't for them,
it wouldn't be possible. So. No, fantastic. And, you know, likewise,
thank you for everything you've done and for coming on the show and sharing all your knowledge.
It's great to talk to you.
And there you have it, gang, the end of part three, a fantastic ending to this monster trilogy
episode. That has been JJ NYC of Top Dog Genetics sharing all the information he has on the New York
scene, breeding with Top Dog, strains, so much more. Thank you so much, JJ,
for sharing all of your knowledge. We're incredibly appreciative.
As always, a huge shout out to our amazing sponsors for helping us to make the show happen.
CTMI, best seed bank in the game. Go hit them up for all the hottest drops from all the breeders
you know, you love. Guarantee on satisfaction at the end of a cycle, not just guarantee on
germination. Why would you go elsewhere? Likewise, go check out Coppert Biological Systems with all
the most advanced technologies. These guys have got you covered and will keep the pests at bay.
Check out the Apiparem or the Spidex Vital, both of them incredible products going to help you
overcome any infestation you have, or more importantly, keep away a potential infestation.
Nothing better than being proactive and getting on top of a problem before it even exists, guys.
Go check out Coppert Biological Systems, incredible sponsors. We really appreciate them.
And last but not least, Pro-Mix Connect, your number one mycorrhizal product in the game.
You know Pro-Mix, you've probably bought their peat before. Guess what? They've got a killer
mycorrhizal product now, and if you check it out, I promise you, your plants will be better off for
it. No questions asked. Better resin, better flavor, better yield. You know mycorrhizal is
fantastic. I don't need to sell you on it. Go check it out. Pro-Mix Connect, number one mycorrhizal
product in the game. Furthermore, huge shout out to Charlie's Cannabis, your number one family-owned
small batch craft cannabis producer out of Oklahoma, providing you with incredible flavors,
chemical sunset, star pebbles, so many more on the horizon. Check out their Instagram to see what
they're phenohunting at the moment. I'm really excited to have these guys on board, and I think
it's going to be magical to see what they produce going forward. If you need some high-quality
smoke, and you're in Oklahoma, go check out Charlie's Cannabis. You'll be poppin' good, I promise.
Finally, shout out to the Patreon gang. I love you. I appreciate you. You are the best. If you want to
get access to unheard content, early access to interviews, giveaways, so much more, go check it
out. We recently got a Discord, guys. I'm a bit late to the Discord party, but I tell you what,
I'm loving it. Some good chats going on there. Be sure to check out Patreon if you want to help
support the show, and ensure content continues to be made. That's it for part one, guys. I'll see
you back for part two and part three. Thanks for hanging around. We'll see ya.
