Alright, alright, alright.
Welcome back to the podcast.
Your number one podcast for cannabis enthusiasts.
As usual, you're joined by your boy Heavy Days here from the Upside Down Library.
And as always, we couldn't make the show happen without our fantastic sponsors.
Huge shout out to Seed Tier Now, number one seed bank in the game.
You know them, you love them, they've got all the hottest drops and they're going to
sort you out.
Satisfaction guaranteed.
Check them out, Seed Tier Now.
Likewise a huge shout out to Coppett Biological Systems.
Number one choice for any beneficial predators that you need to keep the garden happy and
healthy.
Check out the Afi Params or the Spidex Vital.
Two phenomenal products that are going to keep bugs at bay and your harvest popping
and pest free.
Coppett Biological Systems, check them out guys.
Furthermore big shout out to the one and only Pro-Mix.
You know Pro-Mix, they've been around forever making high quality mediums.
You might even be using it right now, but did you know they make a killer mycorrhizal
product?
Pro-Mix Connect, your number one mycorrhizal product with a guarantee on the viable spores
inside meaning you're getting amazing value for money because you know the product works.
Go grab Pro-Mix Connect, your number one choice.
Last but not least our buddies at Charlie's Cannabis.
If you're after some high quality flower, hit them up.
They've got amazing strains that they pheno hunt themselves using the work of some fantastic
breeders.
If you're after a high grade product in Oklahoma, check out Charlie's Cannabis.
You will not be disappointed.
Charlie's Cannabis, thank you so much for sponsoring the show.
And last but not least the Patreon gang, we could not do this without you.
If you want to get access to content early, if you want to hear unheard interviews, extra
segments and so much more, please consider joining the Patreon.
www.patreon.com forward slash the podcast gives you access to everything you're after
and more.
You are the lifeblood of the show.
We appreciate you Patreon supporters.
Thank you.
On this episode, we're joined by the mastermind soul of Soul Fire Genetics.
Here to talk all things Bahama Mama, Black Bananas, Don Mega, breeding, science, trends,
so much more.
Let's get into it.
Alrighty gang, we're back with another one.
A big thank you and welcome to the maestro of Soul Fire Genetics, the curator behind
the fire you've undoubtedly been seeing in your feeds recently.
A big thank you to Soul of Soul Fire Genetics for joining us today.
Hey, what's up man?
Thanks for having me.
Not a lot, my friend.
I've been looking forward to this chat, but the first question we ask guests when they
come on the show, what have you been smoking on recently?
Somebody sent me some banana runs hash and I've been smoking that.
So lately I've been just smoking a lot of solventless hash.
I just love the taste of it.
So that's really my go-to.
And yeah, the banana runs that this couple made is really good.
So yeah, it's kind of almost got like a Sprite taste to it with like a banana hint to it.
It's pretty awesome.
So that's what I've been smoking on.
Nice.
That sounds undeniably delicious.
Did you find that the banana runs tended to produce a range of flavor profiles or they
were more just sort of one parent or the other?
Yeah.
You know, the crazy thing is, and it's kind of like an inside joke, man, is that when
you cross runs to things, they almost always come out like runs dominant, especially in
the smell category of it.
Like you'll get some run structure and then you'll get the run smell.
I see that like almost with all runs crosses.
So it's like when I see all of these runs crosses, I'm just like, dude, you could have
just got one pack of anybody's runs cross and it would have been similar to the runs.
But about 20% of those, at least in the banana runs, lean towards that banana flavor.
So you'll get like, I don't know, we've seen some that are just like all purple and frosty
and then just smell like bananas.
And that's the ones that I like.
I mean, there's some green ones that do that as well.
And then there's some that just come out super like runcy, I would say on the run side of
the things.
But yeah, you're going to find that range from like that runs dominant kind of phenol
all the way to this, like, I don't know, just like this, this just blending of both of them
where you get this purple, frosty banana flavored phenol.
That's the ones I love.
Yeah, look, I mean, that sounds like the winner to me as well, right?
It's beautiful.
I guess I was sort of interested in asking you, we sort of don't see that many breeders
working with the banana OG and I've always wondered why, because it's such a good cut.
Do you have any theories on maybe why it's not as commonly used?
You know, I really don't know.
So I've always been like, even if you go back to my first line, when, you know, with the
black banana, I've always loved that banana terp, like that banana candy flavor.
So that's one of my favorite flavored candies is like the banana Laffy Taffy.
So some people either like love this terp or they absolutely hate it.
So and that's in like the food world and in the pot world.
So but for me, I love it in both.
So you know, that candy fake banana flavor, it's just something I like.
I don't know why more people don't work with it, but, you know, we kind of go through these
phases, right?
Like sometimes it's orange and it's tangy and everybody's just gravitating towards that.
Or sometimes it's banana and, you know, people like that at a time.
Like I know when they had that, it was like a California, a Chiquita banana or something
like that.
People were loving it at that point.
And then, you know, strawberry.
So we go through phases.
Yeah.
Ain't that the truth?
It's all sort of circular, isn't it?
You just reminded me, I totally forgot about that Chiquita banana thing.
You were right.
It was huge for a minute.
So that's some good insight.
I guess the other thing you mentioned was that it was your on like the solventless hash.
Where do you fall on the concentrate flower sort of divide?
Are you more a hash or more a flower sort of guy?
Where do you sit?
For me, I like the hash.
Like ever since I was really got turned on to it, I just, I don't know, I love it.
I smoked a lot of hash when I was a kid that wasn't like the hash that we have nowadays.
It was just like much different.
But yeah, I really got into it.
And then the whole Don mega line that we did just before this Bahama line, my whole focus
of that line was hash.
Like I went out and bought a goddamn freeze dryer and I turned a whole room into a hash
room and I was like, you know what?
I don't care what anybody wants me to do.
I don't care about runs.
I don't give a shit about anything.
I want to make a line that all washes.
I don't care if they're pretty.
I don't care.
I want to show that you can breed functionally.
You can breed something to do something specific.
And that's what we did.
I hunted down plants that I knew washed.
I put it with the Don, which we knew washed.
Then I just washed all the whole tests and smoked a bunch of it.
And everybody that gets those seeds from that Don line, we're constantly hearing from them
about how well they wash.
So it was kind of a fun thing.
So yeah, I love hash.
I love the process of it.
I'm by no means an expert.
I'm a newbie at best at making hash.
Don't worry.
I'm right there with you.
It's cool to hear that that's sort of how you intentionally did it.
And I was sort of wondering that.
So you sort of answered the question.
So thank you.
But I guess the next question that makes me wonder is, do you think eventually we'll get
to a point where for a strain to be commercially viable, it has to wash well, even if it's
for flower?
Or do you think there'll just always be a sort of divide?
I don't know.
Honestly, at least here in Seattle, I don't see a lot of guys that their whole company
is based around washing strains.
I mean, there's a couple of them I know, like no mids up here and like American hashmakers
and stuff like that.
But I think it's I don't know, I'm not an expert on it, but I think that it's just really
hard for them to make the money on it, you know, in the store.
Right. Because they got the store has to put a tack on their money and then the state tax
on their tax.
And by the time they get done, that gram is so expensive, the like casual smoker doesn't
want to pay like 80 bucks for a gram of hash.
They just don't want to do it.
So I just don't know how commercially viable it is, which honestly, to me, kind of keeps
it cool because it's like it's more for the heady, the heady guys, you know, like the
real.
The real the guys are really into those turps and the and smoking the very best.
You might have to get it from your homeboy and not go to the store.
Yeah, I get you.
And that sort of makes sense.
It's interesting.
I've been wondering about that sort of high and low end divide, but I just want to jump
back to a minute.
You know, you were talking about the runs and something that I noticed about that was
it seemed like you hit the market just at that perfect timing where, you know, like
runs was really hitting its stride with consumers.
And then when you paired it with, say, you know, all of the other feminized crosses you
made, it just made some phenomenal results.
My question is sort of, do you feel like you have to keep your finger on the pulse a bit
with the canna community and trying to time these things perfectly so they go off?
Or is it just a sort of a case of trying to be in the right place at the right time?
You definitely do.
You definitely need to read the crowd, right?
Like, I don't know, people aren't really into hazes right now.
So if you just go try to breed like a whole line of hazes because you love haze, it might
not go over as like you want it to.
But at the same time, you can't just breed because the names sound cool.
Like there's a lot of breeders out there that are just like, oh, I got this cut and it's
this name and I'm going to throw it together with this, you know, these cool names.
And here's some seeds for you to buy.
That's definitely not how we do things over here.
The way we do things is I can bring that cut in if a homie is like, oh, this is, you know,
soul, you got to check this out.
This is awesome.
Okay, I hear you.
Give it to me.
Let me grow it.
Let me see if I really feel like it's going to work in this lineup.
It might be awesome and not work for this lineup.
And I don't give a shit what the name of it is.
I could care less if everybody's talking about it and it's awesome.
If it's not going to work for this line, like if it wouldn't have worked for that, that
wash lineup, even though it has an awesome name, it's out of here.
You know, so you have to use some of your own judgment on what you're trying to accomplish
in your project.
And that should trump the names of the streams that you're trying to put together.
But I think we did, you know, we were one of the first people I think to do a wrench
cross.
And I think that banana runs really, you know, caught people's attention.
And then I know my homeboy exotic right after I right after he saw the runs, the banana
runs, he is like he reversed it and did a whole lineup.
You know, he reversed it and put it to all of his strains for a whole runs lineup.
And that thing went crazy.
People loved it.
And then after after those two things, after you saw the banana runs, then Mike's big runs
drop just everybody was doing wrench crosses.
And now they're just, I think people are almost over it.
Yeah, it certainly had a good run the old runs, hasn't it?
But I guess the follow-up question for me is given that you're one for one with your
predictions on runs, what do you think is going to be the next big flavor to hit the
scene?
I mean, you tell me man, I have absolutely, hopefully it's the Bahama Mama.
I don't know.
I have absolutely no idea.
And I'm waiting on it.
Like in our circles, we talk about that kind of stuff, right?
Like what's going to be the next like big hit like a GMO or like, like a run or, you
know, cause we want to catch that, that new one that's tight and get it in the stable
and grow it and see if the hype is real.
But you know, I don't know.
Gary Payton seems to be floating around and, and we've grown it.
I think it's awesome.
Yeah, it's just really hard to say which, which way the it's going to go.
Yeah, for sure.
It's a bit unpredictable like that, isn't it?
To loop back a bit, we actually did some breeder awards for the year just gone by.
And as it turns out, both James Bean and myself who sort of do the awards each year, we both
voted you as the sort of breakthrough breeder of the year, which I guess not so much about
like your first year, obviously, but the year where we feel like from a commercial perspective,
things are really sort of taking off.
So I guess first of all, congrats on that.
But the question is sort of, did you expect things to really gain so much momentum over
the past few years?
And in the last year, have you felt like you've really sort of had an upswing in terms of
popularity and people growing your work?
Well, first, I mean, awesome.
Thanks for, you know, recognizing, recognizing me.
I really appreciate that.
That's huge.
You know, like the opinions of peers is huge for me in the game.
But no, I, you know, I don't know.
I don't really concentrate on that, on the popular.
It's really not about me very much or anything like it's just the company, you know, and
what we can do.
Like I talk to, I try to answer every DM, which I probably shouldn't say that because
people are going to be DMing me all their questions.
But we try to answer every DM, every question.
And I try to comment on anybody.
Like if I see somebody that's growing SoulFire and I'm tagged in that picture, I will stop
by, make a comment on there.
And I just try to interact with absolutely everybody.
And we've done that since, you know, 2015.
So I think after once having that rapport with people that you actually give a shit,
it starts to resonate with them like, oh, you know, SoulFire actually cares what we're
growing.
And for me, I'm all about the guys that are in the trenches.
You know what I mean?
I'm making these strains for the guys that are in the trenches, not really the guys that
are like in big commercial grows and warehouses and, you know, for the recreational market.
It's cool when they grow my stuff, don't get me wrong.
I like that too, but I'm really here for the guy that's like growing pot in his garage
or growing it in a tent and blowing out the block and stinking up the neighborhood.
That's, you know, that's who I'm here for.
I like to comment on their pictures.
I like to see what they're doing.
So yeah, I think that it's starting to build.
I think they see that, like, you know, we test our work.
We put a lot of thought into what we put together and that can show in the end result.
And nobody can guarantee you like you're never going to have a HERM or nobody can guarantee
like you're going to have the best results ever.
No.
But if I can somehow make you a little bit more confident in what you see or in what
you're going to get or lower that chance that you're going to have a HERM or a problem,
that's what it's all about.
Or if I can, you know, help you, talk to you and help you, that's what it's all about.
I think that's, you know, that's a driving force.
I think that's helping build our popularity, given a shit.
Yeah, for sure.
I think that sort of customer service really goes a long way and a testament to the brand
image you want to maintain.
So while we're on the topic of customer service, let's say you got one of those sneaky DMs
and it's someone who says, you know, pretty new to growing, like your stuff, which one
strain would you recommend?
And I guess the question sort of comes down to like without knowing too much about a person's
interest, what strain do you feel you could really get behind and recommend to most people?
Well, you know, when someone, I get that question all the time.
So when somebody asks me that question, I have to hit them with a barrage of questions.
What kind of flavors do you like?
I mean, if we're in a, you know, we're in a small space, maybe regs aren't what you
want.
Maybe fems are what you want.
What kind of flavor profiles are we looking for here?
We looking for gas or we looking for fruit?
You know, I'll have to ask them a bunch of different questions before I can kind of tailor
something for them to grow and have success with.
Because ultimately what I want to see is them have a successful grow and, you know, put
their pictures up on Instagram.
So I can be like, damn, you crushed it, bro.
Look at that.
It looks like some heat.
So, yeah, it's a hard question to answer.
Like a lot of people ask me in this Bahama line, well, which is the best one?
All these pictures look so dope so far.
Which is the best one?
Well, it's hard to say what's the best one, because if you like gas, maybe this is the
one for you.
But if you like fruit, maybe this one, or if you're looking for weight, that one might
be the one for you.
So it's really different.
You know, I love them all.
That's why I chose them for this lineup.
Yeah.
And look, totally understandable, right?
All of the new Bahama Mama lines are just looking so incredibly frosty.
I easily put them in the hype train worthy category and that I'm excited to see them
and to see how they do.
It makes me wonder, what was it about the Bahama Mama itself that stood out to you and
made you think, let's do a line with this, let's blow it up?
Well, when I saw it, when I saw the guys at Rugged Roots growing it, and those guys are
amazing growers over there in Maine, right?
So when I saw them growing it, I was like, dude, what?
That thing is black and it has crazy leaf to flower ratio, right?
And as we were talking about earlier, I'm not a huge fan of trimming.
Like I got better shit to do.
It's one of the least favorite things to do.
So if we can get a leaf to fan ratio or a leaf to flower ratio that's favorable, I'm
all for that.
First, I saw the structure, the color, the frost.
They were nice enough to give it to me.
And when I got it, I was like, okay, we're going to grow this thing out because you got
to stick to the plan.
Anything that comes in, it doesn't matter how tight it looked when you were growing
it.
I'm going to have to grow it, assess it, smoke it, and then decide if it's worthy.
Did that.
And I was just like, oh my God, this is fucking amazing.
Look at this thing.
It's so frosty.
It looks like he could literally.
I'm not even lying, dude.
It looks like he could go up with a little dab tool and just scrape that shit off and
smoke it.
So I was just like, okay, this is awesome.
I just killed it.
I just crushed this.
But let me give it to a couple homeboys and let's see them grow it.
They grow it.
Hit me up.
Soul fire.
This shit is crazy right here.
Boom.
So now we're kind of have a consensus like, all right, this thing is awesome.
So I think that's how it got shows.
I mean, we looked through probably over a thousand different Bahama Mamas over from
the time it was released because we knew the first time we made Bahama Mama, we're
like, this thing is awesome.
This strain is cool.
Like it dumps.
It's great for hash.
It's beautiful colors, but in so many of them, and it's not that it's a bad thing,
but because that chopped cookies in there, we're getting that tangy smell in a lot
of them.
Right.
So that's great.
But in what I wanted to use for this lineup, I didn't want that tangy smell.
And the rugged cut did not have the tangy smell.
It had like vanilla icing, Hawaiian punch, hard candy kind of smell completely devoid
of orange citrus.
So and that was another factor.
I was just like, okay, now we got something unique.
We got the color.
We got the structure.
We got the leaf to flower ratio.
That's insane.
The weight was great.
I washed it because I was going through my I want to wash everything hash face.
And even for a new like me to wash it, and they came back like 5.5% or whatever.
And that was me just taking the best of the best too.
So not like full spec or whatever.
So yeah, it was awesome.
And yeah, I think that's how the decision came down on that.
Yeah.
It makes sense why you picked it.
I mean, if people haven't seen the photos, please get over to SoulFy's Instagram, check
it out.
It's a no brainer.
But I sort of hear this sentiment at times that a lot of the cannabis community in terms
of like the connoisseur cannabis community, they complain about being burnt out on that
tangy terp in general.
But then I also realized that there's this huge part of the market, especially the more
sort of casual smokers who definitely don't share this opinion.
And it makes me wonder, do you think it's better to cater to the greatest number of
customers or do you feel like you have some obligation to sort of the hardcore heads?
Well, for me, I mean, again, this is kind of like a personal thing.
I love the tangy.
Do not get it misconstrued.
You'll see a lot of our crosses have that trop in it because I love that.
I love smoking it.
I love the extracts that it makes.
I love it.
I just didn't want it for this because I feel like there's already that in the market.
You know what I mean?
Like you can go get that from Trump if you want it.
Right.
Like it's out there.
So I wanted to do something different.
And yeah, that's and the only way I could do it is if it wasn't present and it took a
long time to find something that is present.
But do I feel like loyalty to any one group when I'm doing my breeding?
Now, I'm casual or hardcore, heady guys.
No, I'm just trying to make the very best that I possibly can make and and, you know,
bring it to the market at a price point that anybody can afford to grow us.
You know, back to that.
Like, I love the guys in the tents.
I love the home, the home grower that's breaking it off in their backyard, in their
garage or just out in the sun.
And yeah, so I just try to keep it, keep it accessible for everybody, I guess.
Yeah, I think there's huge value in that.
And, you know, obviously being in Australia, I'm one of those people who's like not burnt
out on Tropicana cookies at all.
So I'm totally in the same boat as you.
I love it. I think it's amazing.
I guess it makes me wonder then, how would you describe the the Rugged Mountain cut
itself? Is it very trop heavy lean?
Or does it bring some other sorts of flavors and turps to the table?
So it the how I explain it is it grows similar kind of to trop, but I feel like it's
heavier and it's just jet black and it comes on kind of late.
So like when I was growing, I was like, I don't know, man, you know, like I don't think
this is going to be very heavy and I don't I don't know if it's going to be very
colorful. And then we're like pulling into like week five and boom, the color show
starts. It starts going like like sunset, orange, frosty madness.
And then from there it just goes to jet black.
So it's it's just really cool.
And then like, yeah, flavor wise, it's just it's like this vanilla.
It's like a vanilla icing Hawaiian fruit turp, kind of like a fruity pebbly turp.
It's weird. And that's another thing.
I didn't want the flavor of that to overpower everything in the in the lineup.
Right. So like when I choose the one that's the other side of it, right, the the other
part of the cross, I want that to kind of shine because I choose some of those for their
their flavors. And I want some of that to shine through.
And sometimes if you choose something that's just too dominant, then now it's like the
runts thing, right?
Runts, beautiful, beautiful plant, does excellent crosses, breeds very well, but makes
everything taste like runts.
I didn't want that.
Yeah, sure.
It does bring this topic to mind for me, which is that a lot of the casual consumers out
there, as I'm sure you're aware, they're obsessed with like the idea of exotic.
You know, everything's got to be exotic for them to want to have it.
And to me, it raises this fundamental question.
What is exotic?
Like what makes a strain exotic?
And I'd be interested in your perspective on that.
I don't know, I really don't.
I hate it's irritating that whole exotic, but what I think it is, is one, it has to be
an it has to be an amazing strain, right?
It has to almost be kind of known worldwide, but not able to be obtained.
So, it has to have some sort of like really hard to get, because once everybody gets it,
is it exotic?
No, it's not.
Now it's mundane.
So, it has to be hard to obtain, well known, and it has to be absolutely amazing.
That's the three things it has to be to be exotic.
Yeah, that's a good criteria.
You know, I've heard a lot of different answers and it's interesting that there's no
consensus on it.
I think it was Compound who we had on not too long ago, and he sort of said some many
similar things to you, except he also said, I also think it's got to be purple to some
extent, which I think was an interesting sort of tidbit.
And I guess your work sort of fills that criteria anyway.
Yeah, but I mean, are we saying that we can't have an exotic strain that's like green?
I mean, I guess we're just not in favour right now.
And I understand what he's saying, that it needs to have some colour to be exotic.
But I've seen some of the Banana Runt's phenos that are green and are absolutely
exotic. You know what I mean?
Like when you pop that jar open, you smell it and you look at how frosty it is.
Whoa. So, I don't know if I agree completely that the colour part of it.
Yeah, no, I definitely get, yeah.
And then I can't remember who it was, but someone else threw out an interesting answer.
I think it might have even been Masonic.
But someone was like, what about like Acapulco Gold?
You know, like that. Is that like that sort of exotic just by virtue of how hard it is to
get? But I digress.
We could go down a whole rabbit hole with that one.
But I mean, speaking of exotic, you notably have a pretty good friendship with exotic
Mike, as far as I know.
How did that all come about?
Yeah, I mean, we go all the way back to like community college.
So, we've been buddies since way before.
I mean, I would say like brothers.
So, we go all the way back before exotic genetics, the company and SoulFire or any of
that. I mean, we go back to community college.
We met in pre-Cal math class.
And we used to take trips down to Humboldt to see my uncle, who's a farmer down there
for obvious reasons.
Back in the day, we used to make that run back and forth.
And we've just been friends for a long time, man.
He's a good dude.
Yeah, what an organic sort of connection you guys had.
And you got me interested now.
What was sort of some of the old school strains you were smoking on back in the day when
you were doing those trips?
Well, back then, we were doing it, we were like, oh, at least that, like we would go to
school and then we would come back and we watch like Subcool in his old in his YouTube
channel. Right.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. So, we were really into like TGA Subcool back then.
So, we were like smoking the Flav and and like a bunch of different different stuff.
I know I was growing up Subcool's crazy train.
A lot of train wreck was floating around back then.
Yeah, yeah.
I think the first award that Mike won, like I had, was it it was a grape God.
I had the it was grape God crossed with the Flav.
And I want to say so it was my grape God selection.
And he took a Flav male, crossed that and won his first high times here in Seattle.
I think he got like second place or whatever.
It was exciting. You know what I mean?
It was like one of my selections, one of his selections.
And it was the first time like he won some shit.
And that shit was so exciting.
I think that really kicked off everything.
Yeah. Wow.
I mean, before we move on, I want to quickly ask you out of personal curiosity, because I
too used to watch a ton of the weed nerd and, you know, big up Subcool.
We miss you. The question is, what's your favorite TGA strain?
You know, I just when you mentioned the Flav, it brought all these memories to mind because
there's some TGA strains where you hear a lot about them, like Chernobyl and Space Queen.
But other ones like the Flav have got like a bit of a cult following.
So I'm curious to hear what was your favorite TGA strain?
I think it was that like Mike had a really good cut of the Flav.
Like we loved growing it.
It grew like these eggs all over it.
And then it just like these egg shaped nugs all over it.
And it just had a crazy smell.
Like I was talking to him like a month or two ago and I was like, bro, we need that.
Where who has that fucking cut?
Like where's that? Where's our Flav cut at?
We just don't got it anymore.
But that I loved the Crazy Train just because the colors that it put out, you know, like the
smell wasn't it was like kind of more of an earthy smell.
But the color show that that thing would put on and the frost for like even back then was like
ahead of its time. So, yeah, I think those were my two favorites.
Yeah, solid picks, solid picks.
Just to follow up on another thing relating to Exotic Mike, I think it was James Bean who told me
that you had been sort of one of the influential people who had sort of helped get Mike on
board with Femmes.
Is that true?
Yeah, so, I mean, he had tried a few times.
I mean, he had used different sprays that are on the market and he had done different things
and they just weren't working.
They were like burning up his plants and they just weren't working.
So I just, you know, I got a background in science.
I put my my head in it and I kind of came up with my own little recipe.
And yeah, I made it and then I reversed.
I made that banana runs and then he kind of helped me get the timing down because my timing
wasn't very good.
Like I was a little bit off and, you know, my canning was like, man, you know, you got it like
your reversals are amazing.
And I was like, you know, so I showed, you know, I helped him to do that.
And then he's like, yeah, but we got to get this timing right.
And that's something about Mike that, you know, he's really focused in on what he's doing.
So he was able to like focus in and really tune our timing down so that we could we can
nail it. So, yeah, I definitely helped him learn how to make Femmes and I pushed him in
that direction to make Femmes because I felt like the exotic genetics company was missing
that portion of it.
And I want to see all my homeboys succeed.
There's nothing more I want to see than than everybody at the table.
If anybody knows me, I want to see all my my people do well.
So I was pushing him on that.
I was like, look, man, you're just going to have to make some Femmes.
And finally, he was like, all right, I'll do it.
And and he really helped me get that timing correct.
So I appreciate it for that.
Yeah, brilliant.
And that's a question we get regularly from listeners is like, what's the optimal time to
pollinate your harvest?
I remember back in the day, Subcool actually was he would always say like, I think that you
want the females to sort of get hit by the pollen around sort of end of week three, week four
sort of thing. Where do you fall on that one?
Yeah, I think that's about right.
Like a week.
Yeah, end of week three.
Like, so what are we talking about?
Like day 28-ish?
Yeah, like right around there, I think is the best.
I mean, it needs to be like nice cotton balls everywhere.
If you do that, if you do it too early, you're just going to cheat yourself.
You're just not going to get as many seeds as you could.
So you got to watch it.
And I've learned a lesson on that.
Jumping the gun a little bit too early on that.
But yeah, so you want to have really nice, nice cotton balls for it.
So timing is key, especially timing with your with your family creation.
You need to have your timing right.
Yeah, definitely.
I think I've one of those people have been burnt before and you end up with like
a hundred seeds or something and you're like, what happened there?
Yeah, that could happen.
So, I mean, on the topic of feminized work, you know, obviously you do a mixture
of both regular and feminized work.
And I'm sort of wondering, do you have any preference?
And as a follow up, do you think it's easier to make a good
feminized cross than it is to make a good regular cross?
Um.
I don't know if that's quite true, I think.
From the selection standpoint, it is a little bit easier to make a good
feminized cross because you're looking at that female plant, you already know
what it's going to do, you know what I mean?
Like, well, not what it's going to do, but you know what you're looking at.
So you're looking at it, you're like, oh, man, it's got beautiful color.
It's got frost.
It's got all these different things.
That's a little bit harder to see in a male plant.
Right. Like you select differently with the male criteria.
I mean, some guys select for like frosty male plants.
Some guys have a bunch of different ways.
They select male plants like stem rub, all those different things.
Do you really need that when you're when you're reversing
a already known like banger?
Probably not.
So, yeah, it might be easier.
But then again, I mean, you're going to need to grow out all those fems because
people's people seem to say that the fems have this reputation
for her being easier.
I don't really see that.
I think that's kind of pro science.
Really? I've popped a bunch of guys regular reg seeds
that are all over the place.
So, you know, I don't know.
Yeah. I mean, you just answered the next question for me.
So thanks for that.
And as a follow up, sometimes you hear breeders say that
they feel using a mother that comes from fem stock
is like a bad practice if you're going to make seeds.
Do you do you also have a similar point of view where you think
that's maybe not true?
Yeah, I don't know.
I don't know that it's true or not true.
I mean, I guess that's part of the problem with
where we're at and like cannabis breeding, because a lot of it is just anecdotal.
Right. It's like, oh, well, this happened to me this one time.
So this must be the science.
And me kind of coming from like a science background.
I just don't go unless it's proven.
I just don't go for it.
You know, so hard to say.
I mean, there's guys that reverse fems all the time and use them in their
in their stuff.
So hard to say.
Yeah, sure.
And I guess just as a bit of a far out question,
would you ever consider making like S2s or something like that
if you found a killer, say Bahama Mama S1?
I mean, I would I would be open to try it.
It would just have to have to make it through the rigorous testing.
You know, like we'd have to see what that with the project would do.
Would they come out all weird?
I don't know.
Yeah, I guess so. Right.
I mean, you're stacking a lot of genes on top of each other, right?
Yeah. It'd be interesting if you could somehow get some sort of like ABC
or freak show sort of expression out of doing that.
Do that freak show thing looks crazy.
Yeah, it's interesting, isn't it?
I mean, you've got me, you know, on this freak show train now.
So I'm going to ask the question.
I look at plants like that and I'm sort of like, this is cool
and I see the value in it, but I also don't see the commercial value in it.
What's your thoughts on those weird sorts of strains?
For me, it's not.
I mean, that particular one isn't something that I would breed with
or I would grow.
So I agree with you there.
It's not it's interesting.
I'll give you that. It's interesting.
I'm just that's that's about that.
But like we bred with
with the creature from from belief over there, he sent the cover.
We grew that out. That's a weird plant.
It just like makes these fingers a super frosty.
So it was a little bit odd, an odd plant, but it wasn't like that.
We're like, I don't even know what the freak show really is.
Is that a mutant?
I've never grown it.
I haven't seen it grown personally, so I've only seen pictures.
Yeah, I think it's like a weird hybrid of Big Sur,
Holyweed and Banana Roji of all things.
So, yeah, pretty weird genetics in it.
Weird. I didn't even know that.
Yeah, there you go. OK.
Well, take me back to the start.
What was your first experience with cannabis?
I mean, the very start goes back to my my uncle from Humboldt,
like just being a little kid and just walking into his
his grow room and being blinded.
So, I mean, I guess I've had a relationship with it since I could walk.
But I think in high school, like in the middle of high school,
you know, just.
Well, shit, even before that, I guess I was
I would steal my my my cousin's car when we were 13
and go to Yakima and buy
Mexican brick weed ounces and smoke with all the all the homies
back in the early, early 90s.
So I guess there and then
midway through high school, I was I mean, I live in a
I live in West Seattle, White Center area.
It's kind of like the shitty neighborhood of of Seattle.
And back then when we were kids, I mean, you didn't have any money.
We didn't have shit.
So I was I was like a water, a water boy for a,
you know, grow house here.
So, I mean, I got I got a real intimate relationship
with at least taking care of plants.
I guess that was like.
Ninety four, ninety four, ninety five, maybe.
So, yeah, I mean, man, we didn't have filters.
We didn't have any of that, dude.
It was just like the whole block would just reek.
Just it was crazy. But yeah.
So that and then with breeding, like those guys that I was watering
those plants where they're like older guys, you know, I got I was one of those
plants where they were doing some breeding back then.
And then like near the end of high school, I would
we live really close to Canada.
So back then we would drive up to Canada
and you could go to these coffee shops where you could go in the coffee shop.
You could roll up joints and they sold seeds there.
Right. So we would go there and I would just buy all kinds of seeds,
enjoy smoking weed inside in a coffee shop.
Like I thought that was a cool shit. Right.
And then I would smuggle all the seeds back and we would pop
all these different seeds and go through the phenos and stuff.
So I guess that's kind of where it started.
Yeah. Wow.
Is that sort of like the Mark Emery days of it all?
Yeah, that was definitely the Mark Emery days. Yeah.
Yeah. Wow. That's cool that you got to experience that.
And you referenced that, you know, some of the more senior guys
when you were younger were toying around with breeding.
Do you happen to remember what they were working with by any chance?
I mean, everything back then was like
like skunks and like Northern Lights.
And just I mean, I thought that the pot that we were growing back then
was amazing. If we saw it today, I'd probably be like, ooh.
But yeah, I don't know.
I mean, they were there. They're making all kinds of things.
It was it was a wild time
and super illegal, right?
Like back then, it wasn't romanticized as much as it is now, like where
nowadays in Seattle, your neighbors don't give a shit.
They don't everybody is pro pot.
Well, back then it wasn't that like it was a
it was a operation.
So it was a good learning experience.
I mean, I learned a lot
watering those plants and listening to those guys.
And a lot of those guys now are in the industry today
in the legal industry here in Washington.
So it's cool to see them move forward.
Yeah, definitely.
It's always good to see the people who sort of lay the groundwork
initially getting some recognition for that.
If we fast forward a little bit, when did you decide to get your first
sort of grow going in terms of like it's yours, you're running it,
selecting the genetics and whatnot.
How did that occur?
Oh, I mean, we've been growing.
We've been growing since 96
at for different reasons and from then on.
So always I mean, I I feel like.
Growing is almost therapeutic for me.
You know what I mean? It's like church.
It's it's where I go sometimes to think it's where I go sometimes
to just get away from people
and sometimes where I go to, you know,
to have to talk with the homies or whatever.
So I don't think that
I'll ever not have a grow and growing goes back
all the way before, you know, before 2000 for me. So.
Yeah, yeah.
It holds a it holds a place in my heart, I guess.
I think I'm going to steal that line from now on.
Growing is like church for me.
I like that a lot.
Yeah, it is. I'm not very religious myself.
I'm pretty agnostic, but
but there's there's some sort of religious connection
from a spiritual connection, I guess, for me with with growing.
If if I didn't if I didn't make a dollar from it, I'd still be doing it every day.
Yeah, for sure.
And I mean, you sort of raise an interesting point when you say that,
you know, even if I didn't make a dollar from it, I'd still do it.
It sort of makes me think about the trajectory of someone
who's looking to craft themselves out a position in the industry,
maybe as a breeder, maybe as just a grower and having a brand.
But obviously, at some point, everyone starts off where they aren't getting paid
a dollar for it, and they're just sort of doing it for themselves.
What might be some advice you'd give to someone who wants to, you know,
sort of do things in the right way and not just, you know,
sort of cut corners or whatever?
What's your advice for a newbie breeder or brand?
Well, well, don't worry about the money.
You know what I mean?
Like, don't don't do it for the dollars, man,
because there's other shit you could do.
You can make better money, you know?
At least if you're doing it right.
I mean, you see me.
I we don't drop a strain every day or every week.
You don't hear a new strain for me every week.
Yeah, that's because the shit takes time.
And if you're doing it right and you're testing,
you're growing everything out the proper way and you're really
doing it the proper way.
In my opinion, there's no real proper way. Right.
You do it however you want. But this is the way I do it.
We just are able to drop a strain every every five minutes.
Like that shit takes time. So
and time is money. Right. So.
You know, don't do it for the money.
Do it because you love doing it.
And then that's it'll show in your work.
If you're doing it, if you're doing it because you love doing it,
because you absolutely enjoy doing it.
We're going to see that, you know, we're going to see that in your crosses.
And you might be surprised.
We might love it, too.
Yeah, that's some great information, and you gave me a brilliant segue right there.
And I remember in a chat I was having with James Bean last year,
he was telling me that you had a release sort of scheduled to go live.
But sort of as it was getting close to the day, you decided to pull the plug
because you sort of weren't happy with some of the results you were seeing.
And it raises the question, you know,
what's it like to have to make that call, you know, and how does it feel to have done that?
And what many would say is probably the honorable thing, if that's how you feel,
while others in the industry, you know, have sort of knowingly dropped
strains that are just horrible, you know, and I mean,
the one that everyone's probably thinking of is Candy Rain from the Cookie Fam.
You know, like they don't give a shit about that.
Like, so what's it like to have to make that call?
And how does it feel when you see that other breeders don't do that sort of thing
when maybe they should?
For me, it was absolutely easy, easy, easy call to make.
Like, you know, we looked at it and we're just like,
and that was it was a Don Mega cross.
There's a bunch of crosses in that.
And we're just like, you know what?
Maybe with this mail, the mail that we use, which was awesome.
What we thought was awesome.
Now we're just seeing too much, too many problems.
So in some of the in some of the crosses.
So we're like, we're going to back up.
We're going to just hold back then.
I mean, the money's not that important.
The money is definitely not worth my reputation and the money is not worth
people having all kinds of issues all over the place like that's not what we're about.
So we just pulled back off that and then and rewent and then rewent at that
with a different focus, you know, and then that's when that when we made the line
with the washing in mind, we came at it with a different mail
and then tested all that stuff again and we didn't see those problems.
So we're like, oh, we found it, you know?
Yeah. Again, just emphasizing, you know, I feel like that's a very honorable
thing to do, which you don't really hear a lot about.
And it makes me wonder what is unacceptable.
And there's this hypothetical I've been giving to guests on the show.
So I think it's an interesting sort of moral dilemma.
Let's just say you've got a seed line and like half of the seeds home.
Right. So a very high percentage, like 50 percent.
But the 50 percent that don't home is the most fire thing you've ever seen or created.
What do you do with that line?
Well, obviously, you probably should work at some more, even if it's even if it's super fire.
But you know what you could the one thing you could do is be honest about that
and and tell people like, hey, this is what it is, you know,
get it at your own risk or or you could go back to the drawing board
and rework that or you can take some of those ones that you found in there
and work work from there out.
There's a bunch of different things you can do rather than just drop the shit.
Like 50 percent that are actually harms like intersects from the bottom to the top.
Yeah, that's a that's a problem.
I mean, I get some guys that will say, you know, hey,
like things harm for a bunch of different reasons, right?
Like sometimes if it's just on like the lower, like you see some stuff on the lowers,
that could be a bunch of different things.
Like one guy could get a plant and it'll pop out some nuts on the bottom
and another guy can get the same plant and grow it just fine.
So, you know, there's a difference between problems in your grow room
and problems with your tech versus problems with the genetics.
If you got to if you're testing some seed, 50 percent of those seeds
have full blown harms.
I don't give a shit what the other 50 percent look like.
You need to probably start over.
Yeah. And you raise a brilliant point there sort of about honesty,
like is it you just be upfront, just be honest about it,
like this is what you're going to get.
And it further segues into this discussion about do we need to test seeds even?
Because we've sort of entered this new domain of breeding where you've got
some breeders like Masonic, for example, where he's just open.
Like I don't test my seeds straight up. Don't test them.
And then it makes you wonder, is it better to be honest or is it better to test?
Dude, that is exactly why I fuck with Masonic so strong.
I love that guy.
You know what I mean? I get people I did across.
I did a collab with Masonic.
I used his papaya God with my Don Mega in my Don Mega cross. Right.
And I got guys in my DM talking shit to me because I use Masonic's work.
And I, you know, I don't even get into it with them.
But here's the thing about Masonic, the guy has never lied to you.
He's never he's told you the truth from day fucking one.
He told you straight up, I'm going to take everything.
I'm going to cross Wilson with it.
And that's what it is.
And, you know, I was listening to him one time.
He was like, you know, you can go buy seeds from some breeders
that they do all this testing and they do all this stuff.
Or you can you can get these right here, you know, that that we made.
And you can get these deals on.
And I just I don't know, man, I just support the honesty
and the openness that he brings to the table.
And furthermore, when I popped that
that papaya God and I grew it out, that shit was tight straight up.
That's why it made it into the line for no other reason.
It was a banger.
And we see pictures of people that grow out the
the Don Magic Wand all the time that that found it to be heat.
So props to Masonic.
I agree. He's an interesting character, very polarizing.
But the thing which I find most interesting is exactly what you said.
There's like people like to hate on him, but it's really hard to point
to anything ethically, so to speak, bad that he's done.
Because as you said, it's been it's been so upfront, you know?
Yeah. I mean, he he's never lied to you.
Like, that's all I got to say.
Like, hate on him.
If you don't like his personality or you don't like it, his trolling.
That's you, man.
But the guy in the at least in the breeding from the breeding standpoint,
he's been up front and he's been honest with what he's doing the entire time.
So, yeah, yeah, it's funny.
Likewise, I had a lot of people in my DMs and even publicly, you know, really upset.
We had him on the show and, you know, this whole get real breeders on the show.
And I'm just I always just thought he's opening a store in like Fairfax.
Like he's obviously doing something right.
Like, don't you feel like you've got something you could possibly learn from him?
Yeah, I don't get it.
Like I said, I I have popped a bunch of breeders.
I'm not going to out anybody or whatever, but I pop
and anybody in the game that somebody I've popped their gear and I've grown it.
And I just like that.
I mean, I we met at at the Denver show.
He was like, you know, so far, here's all these seeds.
And I was like, bro, this is so many seeds.
I can't pop all these seeds.
Tell me which one of these is a banger and I will pop that pack.
He's like, these ones right here, these ones are a banger.
I said, tight.
I'm popping these when I get home.
Just like I said, when I got when I got off the plane, I got home.
I put out all my different seeds because I always collect seeds.
Don't think that just I'm buying seeds all the time.
I get seeds from everybody.
So I went in the in the in the group to get popped.
And when we were going through it, I was just like, this shit is tight.
Like the smell was tight.
The frost was tight.
Everything was like it just came together, man.
And I was like, and there's a few of them, right?
Like there's a couple of keepers.
So I was like, yeah, this is some heat, period.
That's why I made it in the lineup. No other reason.
And it shows in the like the progeny with that dawn, like it crossed really well.
It washed awesome.
Like, yeah, there was a so.
Yeah. He also referenced that one when we're interviewing him
and he said it's a banger. So that's good to hear.
But if we take a step back and look at the mail, we've spoken about it
a few times, the Don Mega in itself was, you know, what I consider
to be a pretty successful commercial release.
What was it about the Don Mega that stood out to you?
And how would you describe the turps and sort of flavors it brings to crosses?
Well, you know, that that came around like it.
So it's a GMO cross.
So, you know, right off the bat, you're going to get those funky turps.
But it was a little bit different.
It was kind of like a funky gym sock corpse plant.
Nasty, funky turp.
Like you got to kind of be into it.
And then the commercial guys like the
the rec growers really liked it because you're getting this funky turp.
You're getting a high THC test score.
You know, most of the keepers are testing around 30, 30 plus.
And they're just weighing super heavy and they're finishing before 65.
So that's kind of like a trifecta for those guys.
You know what I mean?
The guys that want to make money
and they have like these this like little box criteria that they need to stay in
to be able to hit these numbers for their investors
or just to stay open in a market that's overly taxed and overly regulated.
They they love it.
Yeah. So and it washes.
So and I think, you know, that comes from the GMO and probably the black banana
having that blackberry cushion in the background, which is also a good washer.
So, yeah, it just checked a lot of boxes for people commercially.
I think that's why it was really popular.
It's if you're like a home grower, it might not be the one for you
because that thing gets so tall and gnarly.
You know, if ceiling height is like a thing for you, then
and the vigorousness of it, too, it'll it'll overshadow other shit in your garden.
So it'll just crowd them out.
Yeah. OK. I mean, would you have a specific cross?
You might recommend that has the Don Mega in it.
That is maybe a little more sort of indoor tamable.
Or would you just say stay away from the F2s?
Because that's sort of the more vigorous, lanky one you referenced.
Yeah, the F2 is super vigorous.
But like the the happy hour is a great one.
I mean, the Scorpion crew, those guys out of Spain, they've won.
They've won some competitions with that and extract.
It's got a nice strawberry with that raunchy turp.
It stays a little bit shorter.
You know, that's a really good one.
So if I was going to do if I wanted to Don Mega cross and something indoors,
that's probably what I would go with.
No. And I mean, as we wrap up on the Don Mega quickly, I'm just wondering,
will we will we see it show its head again or are you just sort of always moving
forwards?
I like to I like to move forward sometimes if something's like really popular
and people are just like, hey, we need
come on, do something, bring it back, then we'll consider it.
But I think part of like going back to that, we're talking about exotics.
I think it's cool for things to go extinct.
Right. Like the banana runs.
We're probably going to let that run its course and be done at some, you know,
because then when you have that pack in your vault
and we're not making it anymore, it's extinct, it's done.
That value goes up kind of like a baseball card.
And I think that's part of the culture with seeds.
And I think that is what makes it cool.
Seeds are not going to be as cool if there's huge companies making so many of them.
It's like, you know.
Celery and watermelon seeds or whatever that you can buy at Home Depot,
they're never going to run out, so it's going to be the exact same.
That is boring to me.
So I think it's much cooler if
things become rare or gems that you just can't find anymore.
Yeah, definitely.
I definitely feel that's got some value to it.
And before we move on too much, I do want to actually quickly ask you,
you referenced the happy hour, the strawberry jelly that grabbed my attention
because you can find so little information on it.
I think it might be one of Mike's strains.
Can you give us any backstory on that one at all?
Yeah, so the strawberry jelly actually is a cut.
It's a cut of mimosa.
It's a very unique cut of mimosa, where if you've grown mimosa,
it kind of has like a citrusy
orange smell generally.
But this one did not.
And it was given to Mike at a show by a guy named Pure Mel.
And Mike recognized it right off the bat.
He was like, oh, this is this might be something because he just had the flower,
you know, and then Pure Mel brought Mike the cut.
And Mike gave it to me and he was like, hey, man,
grow this out.
I was like, all right.
Just like anything else that comes into our crew.
Shit gots to be grown out. Right.
So number one rule
comes in. I grow it out.
I'm growing it with a bunch of different stuff.
You know, I got I got some cap stuff in there.
I got I got the creme de menthe from Mike in there, which was kicking ass,
like just doing amazing.
And then I had the strawberry plant and it was wild.
I remember I was like it was day 52 finished.
Frosty as hell.
Green. This is a green plant.
It's more on the green side of everything. Right.
Kind of like a little bit of pink on the under leaves, but overall green
and just super like dense and frosty.
But what the real kicker like the what grabs you
is the super fake artificial strawberry smell.
Never smelled anything like it.
And I've I've grown strawberry cough.
I've grown a bunch of different strawberry crosses all over the place.
And I called him up and I was like, you know, X, what's up?
He's like, what's up?
I said, the strawberry plant, this is the real deal.
This is it. It's awesome.
And yeah, he and he grew it in this facility and boom,
he made strawberries and cream, a bunch of different strawberry crosses,
all bangers like look at his red pop line with that heaters. So.
Yeah, that's a that's a cool little backstory on that, I guess.
Yeah, I wouldn't have expected that out of my most everything I've seen
was like what you mentioned, so orange dominant, but sort of you
touched on the idea of, you know, testing stuff.
And we've seen a bit of a move in the past few years from breeders
having like public testers and admittedly,
you know, sometimes getting a bit frustrated because, you know,
you don't get back all the reviews and the grow reports
that you're hoping to get to sort of more of an in-house testing format.
How do you test things?
And do you like to have external testers or do you just keep it in-house?
We just do it in-house right now, but I'm thinking about.
Well, here's what I'll say about it.
Nothing's better than you doing it yourself,
because when I test something myself, one.
I can talk about it to people.
So if somebody if somebody hits you up and you've used all these different testers
and they hit you up on Instagram, they're like, hey, how does the hody dough grow?
Well, you don't know how the hody dough grows
because your testers know how it grows.
So that for me is problematic right off the bat.
The fact that you can't talk about your own strains.
I know guys do it for whatever reasons, and it just bugs me personally.
So I have to be able to be able to have a long, drawn out conversation
about exactly how it grows, what the females look like, that I found,
how they smell, everything.
I can tell you everything about my strains because I grew them before you did.
Not a tester.
Nobody else.
I grew them before I ever thought about selling them to you
so we can have whatever discussion you want to have about the plant.
And I can hopefully give you an informed answer.
I should be able to because I've seen it.
I mean, that said, though, I we kind of want to open up a
a testing program at SoulFire.
We put an application on our website
for to take in some testers, maybe like 30.
But they have to be amazing.
Like when I look at your pics, they have to be that dope
that you could be accepted. So it'd be a high bar.
And then those things that they test
would probably I'm thinking about just doing it with one line. Right.
And then taking these applications.
Picking, say, 30 testers and then dropping a line and calling it,
you know, and labeling it community tested.
And maybe I'll have a different price point, like a little bit lower,
because obviously I'm not doing that work, which is vital.
And just trying that one time, not an all the time thing,
but maybe one time have this community tested line drop.
I think that would be cool as like an interaction thing.
But outside of that, now I'm testing everything myself.
Yeah, it makes sense for a variety of reasons and especially for getting,
you know, high quality photos of the end result.
And that's something which I think you, along with a few other people,
really excel at.
And if there's anything we've learned from our chats with James
being in the past, it's the good photos sell packs.
So I guess I'm sort of wondering how much focus do you place on getting good photos
and what sort of a setup do you use to get these photos?
Are you using like a DSL, like a high end sort of camera or just like good quality phone?
I just use my iPhone.
I use my iPhone to take the pictures.
What I do, you know, I'll just go into like 4K mode or whatever and just snap a picture.
And that's really it.
And, you know, yeah, I have a DSL camera
and I bought like this badass DSL camera and macro lenses and all this shit.
But honestly, there's so many different settings on there and like different.
Apertures and f-stops,
and it's like I need to go back to college to take another course on how to use this damn camera.
And then when I take the pictures with the camera, they don't come out any better than my iPhone.
So I just stick to the iPhone.
Yeah, I mean, it's sort of like good and bad at that point.
Like it's good that you can just use your iPhone, but it sucks that anyone who's got
really good cameras, it might not be giving them that much better results.
And I do want to touch on your days at university,
but I just want to squeeze in one question first, which is sort of related to the photos.
We've seen a lot of people getting a lot of photos taken down by Instagram
and some people even having their pages banned.
And I guess what's sort of more notable is that this is occurring
even in the case where like like yourself,
your legal business operating in a legal state just doesn't really make a lot of sense.
Do you think this is a problem we as a community have to sort of address somehow?
And what do you think might be a solution?
First of all, it sucks.
And a lot of it is competition and guys telling on each other
for whatever reason.
And that part of it is I'm going to get me started on that part of it's despicable.
But I think until there's like some federal.
Legislation, this is going to keep happening.
And why is it going to keep happening?
Because Instagram wants to get paid, right?
I mean, let's just be real.
That's what it's all about.
Like they're not getting paid on cannabis guys marketing their stuff on Instagram.
They can't sell you little ads.
They can't legally help you sell seeds.
So, you know, they're trying to bully us.
I mean, that's basically what it is until they are able to make their money
because Instagram is not free. Right.
I mean, we
social media has been around long enough just because they let you use that app.
Nothing's free.
Like your time, your data,
what you look at them using the algorithm to track you.
All that stuff is is how they get paid for that app.
And it's kind of like a free ride for cannabis guys. Right.
They don't get any money from us.
So until they do, I think we're going to be in for this.
You know, the persecution.
Yeah, great point.
And do you think that, you know, we see the rise of alternative
social media platforms focused for cannabis users?
Do you think they'll take off or do you think ultimately Instagram
will just change its rules and try to become profitable off us?
I think ultimately Instagram will change its rules
and try to become profitable, profitable off of us.
I've popped into some of those.
I popped into Burners like social club thing when it was up
and instantly popped right out because there was some crazy shit on there.
So, you know, I commend him for trying, you know, for trying to
to make a different way because he was obviously sick of having his account
taken down.
I think he probably wasn't really ready for how much like
you have to do to have one of those apps up and and police it properly.
But yeah, I think we're just stuck with Instagram for now.
I don't see a way out.
But I will say I did pop over to Capulet's bean basement.
So he's kind of brought back that like forums thing.
And, you know, I just kind of lurked through there
and was reading some of the the grow journals and whatnot.
And I thought that was it was pretty cool.
You know, like I read
one of the guys who grew a banana rent.
I saw banana rent and I was like, OK, let me check this guy's journal out.
And his journal was so detailed from like they they do it from the
the start of the seed pop all the way to the end of the plant.
So I don't know.
I thought that was kind of cool, you know, not it's obviously not Instagram
where everybody's there like liking and that, but much more like
intimate with the whole growth process.
And if
yeah, if you're into that kind of thing, you should pop over and check it out.
So that was pretty cool.
Yeah, hugely.
I mean, I guess we don't really see a lot of like dedicated grow journals.
And with the very nature of like the the feed that just flies by,
it's sort of hard to do it on Instagram in a sense.
But yeah, it's cool.
And I mean, I guess it makes me wonder, you know, do you think those forums
will ever take off or it's more of a side thing for like the the hardcores?
Nah, it's a side thing for the hardcores.
I think here's where I think things are going to go.
And I think everything's going to go to Discord.
We have a we have a big Discord following right now.
I mean, not big.
I guess we got like a thousand guys or something.
I know Masonic has his own Discord, but yeah,
Discord is where it's at because we can do all those things.
We're auctioning packs of seeds in there.
We're auctioning, you know, things that are hard to get from myself
and from other breeders.
And we're able to give you that one on one, like you can ask questions
directly to me or to other team members.
There's moderators in there making sure it's, you know,
there's nobody in there saying things they shouldn't or posting things
they shouldn't. And I just think like, if you're in this game right now,
you should be looking to to move your people
also to Discord, because if your Instagram goes down,
at least you have your community there.
Yeah, hugely. Everyone go, go jump on the Discord for sure.
I'm going to have to join as well.
Yeah, you should. I mean, we're giving away.
We do huge. I stopped doing the giveaway.
Like we do a lot of giveaways on Instagram.
I stopped doing those on Instagram. I just do them in Discord.
Now we try to do like a giveaway every week where you just interact
with the little emoji, you see the giveaway there, and then
it just randomly picks who wins and then we congratulate them.
And we have like, you know, we could see we could do the image.
You know, we put up your images or you can show your grows.
You can ask all kinds of questions.
If you have a plant problem, you take a picture of the plant, put it up.
Guys are right there, you know, to assist.
I mean, it's it's pretty awesome.
So it's kind of like a mix of like almost like Instagram forums
and like chat all together.
It's pretty cool.
Yeah. You know what?
That's an interesting prediction.
And that's that's cool to hear.
So, I mean, let's just jump back a bit.
You mentioned how you had your first grow going and you're growing things
like TGA and whatnot.
I'm wondering at that time before you had really got the ball
rolling on your own breedings, were there any specific breeders
who you sort of really looked up to or who you felt you learned the ropes from?
Well, I mean, obviously, I
I learned a lot from from watching those TGA videos
and then the homeboys from here in White Center growing up.
I mean, they didn't know what they were doing at all.
They were just doing things just for seed.
Like there's no money in it.
There wasn't no reason to do it except for ourselves.
And then and then just Mike, you know, like being around Mike
while he was taking off, like he started exotic.
And I went to university
and just being around that the entire time,
like a lot of times we joke that our style of growing.
I watched a lot of kung fu movies as like a kid,
and it's almost like a kung fu style.
You know, there's a bunch of different ways to grow pot.
There's a bunch of different ways to do things.
And that doesn't none of them are wrong, per se.
But in our crew, we have a specific style.
That we grow. And yeah.
And it's cool to be part of that.
It's cool to to be in a group of individuals that, you know, I mean,
Mike's got his big facility now.
I know he uses a trellis and shit, but I know he misses
staking up all those fucking plants because that's part of our
that's part of our our style, like staking up everything.
You see it in our pictures a lot.
We use bamboo stakes.
Yeah. So, yeah, I think being around him, being around.
I mean, he's a giant in the game like you can't deny him.
So just all the things I've learned from him and the people around us,
I think really shaped it.
Yeah. Great answer. Great answer.
And you sort of referenced it in some prior answers,
but I'd love to know a little more, you know, like you went to university
and you did a bachelor of genetics.
How do you feel like that's impacted on your growing and your breeding?
Do you think it's sort of beneficial and something you might recommend others
sort of look into if they're interested?
Yeah. So I went to the University of Washington here in Seattle.
I mean, it's a it's an amazing public
university is one of the best in science, like it's number one for family medicine.
So it's top notch as far as as far as universities go, in my opinion.
Go dogs.
I graduated with my bachelor's of science.
I don't I wouldn't say that it like really helps my breeding
like a whole bunch of what it did is it gave me like a way to think.
It rounded me out for sure.
Like as a as a person,
I feel like being in those groups and working through problems
and failing, failing fucking Ocam
and going back and like doing it again, you know,
it just it it really brings that that resolve to the table.
Like you're not going to quit.
You're going to you're going to do this shit regardless.
I mean, dude, I'm I'm just a kid from the hood, man, from a broke ass part of town,
you know, just raised by my by my mom brothers in the fucking in the joint.
And I got I have kids, too, so I wanted to show them like,
hey, man, you know, I if I can do this, you can do this.
If I can pass Ocam, you can you can definitely pass Ocam.
If I can pass genome, you can do it.
And I don't know, I just loved it.
I love learning that stuff.
I don't think that it helps helps me be a better breeder,
except it helps me to solve problems, not quit and just
like really stick to like a protocol.
I guess that's what I learned in the lab.
I worked under, I think, some of the most brilliant minds
in plant biology.
Like I worked in a in a plant lab with this professor,
talk about this Japanese guy from the University of Washington.
He was just so smart.
Like we were doing tissue culture and like what?
Hopefully I can talk about this.
I'm sure they already released their paper, but they were
working on the circadian clocks of Arabidopsis
and able to to make them
better pollinators or get pollinated better by moths.
And it was just super interesting, you know, like like what they were doing in there.
So I got to learn a lot there.
I know the lady above us was like even doing cooler stuff, like she was
genetically engineering plants to be able to have stomas
on the bottoms of the leaves, like add them or remove them, which I mean,
that's I mean, think about that.
Like you can make a plant not lose water as quickly and could like
you could grow maybe corn in like a much more arid area or desert or something
and they wouldn't die.
So I don't know.
This is I love the university.
I loved my time there.
I'm proud of myself for for graduating and sticking it out.
And when people ask me, like.
You know, should I go there?
I want to get into cannabis. Should I go there?
I always say you should just go there because of the experience and and.
And what you learn about yourself and about how working with other people
and and, you know, how science works.
You know, I love physics, too, and yeah, I just love the whole thing, really.
Yeah, that's so awesome to hear.
I'm glad you felt like it was it was beneficial and likewise encourage everyone,
you know, get amongst to get yourself a bachelor of science if you're into it.
It sort of makes me wonder,
how does it feel to have this sort of very formal scientific background
and yet to be on Instagram at times and, you know, you look at other growers
and you sometimes see some highly questionable slash
maybe even pseudoscience about maybe growing or just in general, you know,
do you just have to sort of ignore it at times or what's your take?
Yeah, I got to bite my tongue sometimes, like I just I don't like the bro science.
You know what I mean?
Where because you saw something maybe happen one time in your garden
that does not make it a scientific fact.
That's actually like, you know, I just
it irritates me, but I just leave it to what it is.
I mean, we're all doing the best we can.
This is mostly a game of of selection.
It's it's a lot of art to it.
You know, and the scientists really haven't got in the game yet,
and I'm a little nervous for when they do.
So right now, this is more akin to breeding dogs than it is to.
You know, genetically engineering a plant to be the very best plant on the planet,
which they can do so.
You know, I don't know.
It's it's art to me more than it's like this hardcore science
where people are people are paying for the art.
People are paying for the art.
People are paying for your eye, for your selection,
and then for your your work, making sure that that
your selection in your eye comes through.
So I look at these guys more or less artists than I do as scientists.
So, yeah, look, you raised a brilliant discussion there in that,
you know, like fundamentally, do you think that breeding is more of an art
than a science in the sense that do you think one day we'll be able to like
program a computer to be like a better breeder than a human?
Or do you think it'll always have a sort of an element of like
that feeling you get when an experienced breeder
like looks at a certain planet is like that's the one?
Yeah, I think it's I think it's art.
And, you know, maybe the CRISPR will come into play at some point, but
not right now.
I think it's I think it's completely art.
Like even in this last in this Bahama Mama lineup, I did a
a collab with a local graffiti artist
named Creature Panic, and he I didn't even know the guy.
You know, I just any time I walk outside my house
in West Seattle White Center, we got a lot of graffiti around here.
I always see this like squiggly bear graffiti, and it's fucking everywhere.
You know what I mean?
Like it's on a fence.
It's on an overpass. It's up on science.
It's everywhere. Right.
And to the point where like when I'm driving around or when with the homies
with my kids or something like, oh, there there you go.
There's another another bear. There's another bear over there.
So I tracked the guy down on Instagram.
I found some other graffiti artists.
I was like, who the hell is this? Who is this?
Who is this? They finally I finally found them.
And I hit him up.
I was like, hey, man, you want to you want to do some a box art collab?
I was like, I really enjoy your the bear that I see everywhere.
You know, it kind of like it makes me happy when I see it for whatever weird reason.
And he was like, hell yeah, let's do this.
So he did the box art.
And then we we have a sticker for that's in there of that bear.
And, you know, if you get that strain
this month, I don't even know how many of them we sold quite a bit.
I'm going to buy a can of spray paint for him for every box that we sell.
So and I'm a pull up in my truck and give him this pallet of spray paint
so he could fuck Seattle up.
So, you know, and the reason I did that is because
in that box of seeds, you get two pieces of art from Seattle.
You get the soul fire art, which is in my seeds.
And you get that little that that graffiti art from creature pack.
And that's just because I feel like, you know, it's
breeding and graffiti are just two subcultures
of of Seattle or of of American art, you know,
breeding and and graffiti.
It's just it's just two forms of art.
Yeah, look, thanks for bringing that up, because I was going to ask about that.
So you saved me the effort.
And that's really cool to hear that you're, you know, collaborating
with other artists, even in a sort of less than conventional sense.
And I was hoping to ask you, do you have any other of these
sort of more interesting, slightly left of field colabs
like, you know, shoe colabs, like stuff like that, or even
just the more standard ones, Breeder Breeder colabs?
What can we expect in the future?
Yeah, well, I love doing I love working with other breeders.
You know, if if it's tight, you know, I love doing that
and definitely going to have some more
colabs that are outside of the realm of cannabis.
I just don't know exactly what they are yet.
I mean, they they got to fit with what we're doing and they got to have a purpose.
And it just really worked well with Creature Panic because,
you know, these guys, these graffiti guys, man, they're going out there
and they hang their ass on the on the line and they don't get anything for it.
They do it for the culture, man.
You know, they do it for they do it for the love of the shit.
And that's why I do what I do, too.
I do it because I love it.
And so I recognize that and I loved his work.
So I had I had to track him down and get down with it.
So, yeah, that's awesome.
And a cool backstory.
So fill me in.
When did Soulfire as a brand officially start?
What was the first sort of project you did where you were like, it's time to launch it?
That was the Black Banana.
I think we're like two, two thousand fifteen, two thousand sixteen right there.
Back then, we could still go to shows.
So we were just doing the whole show circuit, just shaking hands,
you know, picked up an award out in Michigan.
I love Michigan props to the Minton.
I love that state.
I love the growers out there.
Great concentrates out there, too.
And that was it.
And that's really what launched it.
And it was like just people loved the the the line.
That's where the Don Mega came from.
The work was all very, very stable.
And it just kind of took off from there.
You know, like I said, just talking to absolutely everybody who
who grew our, grew our strains.
Yeah. And I noticed the brand has like the slogan, Rise with the Phoenix.
And it's cool slogan.
And you don't see a lot of brands with slogan.
What does that sort of mean to you?
And where did the name Soulfire itself come from?
Um, so Soulfire kind of came from Mike and I had a glass shop in in Seattle.
So we were selling like bongs and shit for a while there.
And that was the name of our our glass shop.
And it just kind of stuck with me.
I came up with it for the glass shop.
And then and then the slogan, which wasn't part of the glass shop.
It it just kind of
the Phoenix, you know, represents rebirth anyway.
And what better of an icon than that for like a seed company?
Right. Because every one of those seeds is potential.
Every one of those seeds is rebirth.
So that's where the Phoenix part of it came from.
And the rise of the Phoenix is just kind of like, you know, our ethos.
I mean, that's just kind of how we think.
Like you're you're right.
We want you to rise. We want you to do well.
Our whole goal is to see you crush it.
Nothing makes me happier than to have somebody hop in the DM,
show me their plant and be like, SoulFire, look at this crazy shit I just grew.
And then I you know, I love that shit.
I basically live for it.
So then that's rising with the Phoenix.
But every time I see that
or see people happy because of the genetics are growing.
That's that's where that came from. I love it.
Yeah, that's that's so cool to know that you had like this glass shop
and that it's all sort of even further intertwined back with Mike
than what at least I previously knew.
Dude, it was a nightmare, man.
The glass shop was like in the so like I said, our neighborhood right here,
White Center's rough neighborhood as far as Seattle goes right.
And it's just a nightmare, man.
Like people are fucking breaking in.
We're having all these problems.
Eventually we had to shut it down, man.
They just can't let you have nice shit.
But it was a it was a fun time.
Definitely back in the day.
Yeah, that's cool.
And I mean, I'm sure you were smoking lots of cool stuff back in the day.
Are there any old school cuts that you have particularly fond memories of?
Maybe ones you can't get access to anymore?
And if so, what's some of the ones you would love to get back?
Yeah, I mean, well, obviously the Flav, like we missed that.
We had a grape god that smelled like it was very similar to how that,
you know, that strawberry jelly is where it had like this fake grape smell.
I feel like I'm constantly searching for like a fake grape.
I'm you know, I think I have some bloom co's
grape cream or something like that.
I'm going to pop some of those or whatever.
It's grape something.
I'm going to pop some of those and go through some of his work
because I see a lot of his stuff. It looks interesting.
That and blueberry, like we used to have this blueberry cut that would it was a super
it was like a bitch to root can't seem to ever get that blueberry smell.
Or it's just not that popular anymore. Right.
But I used to like it.
So I guess that if I had to answer.
Yeah, nice. Look, is that does that happen to be the one that Mike used a few times?
He had some crosses where it was like old blueberry
and that you don't really see it anymore.
Is that maybe related?
Yeah, that is the cut.
Like he had a really we had a really good blueberry back in the day,
and I know he used it in some of his crosses like in the early works.
And yeah, it's just gone.
I mean, that's kind of like the story, right?
Like we have these sometimes amazing cuts that we wish we still had,
like that that flave and the grape guard.
And yeah, there's a lot of them, really.
Yeah. Wow. That's really cool.
That's really cool to hear.
So I'm keen to chat about some of your releases that have come out.
But before we do that, I want to quickly glance to the future for a moment.
What's on the horizon for Soulfire?
What's the next big project you're looking to sink your teeth into?
Um, well, I've I've already kind of started to formulate the next project,
but I don't want to talk about it too much yet until we're there.
So I think maybe that community testing, that community project,
I think that might be something coming up where if I can iron it out,
I'd like to do something like that because I have so much fun testing our stuff.
It would be fun to do like some sort of interactive like little
sort of interactive like where we send them out to our few testers and they
they run them down.
But again, it wouldn't be like something that we do all the time.
Or I just don't know. So,
yeah, a community test project that that would be fun.
Yeah, I don't know. We got a lot of stuff coming.
Really just takes time. It takes.
We just people say the whole time, when's your next drop?
Or when is that new stuff going to come?
Or banks are like, where's the drops at, bro?
I'm just like, hey, don't don't rush it, man, because we don't do it like that.
You know? Yeah, sure. OK, well, look, if we go back,
I was looking at the banana fire cookies from Relentless Genetics
that you used initially to do the black banana cookies.
And I was sort of curious as to what was it about those genetics
that drew you to it initially and thought, you know, let's make a line using this.
Yeah, it was awesome.
I mean, it just it had that banana smell to it, but it had the cookie structure.
And I'm just drawn to that.
Like we were talking about that banana smell early.
And I was like, I like this, you know, and I, you know,
I loved it. And I I hit him up and I asked permission
to use it, you know, and he said, go ahead.
So, yeah, yeah.
I just it just checked all the boxes and then
I went through all the progeny.
I grew out all the progeny before I landed on that.
The the black banana.
So there was quite a bit of.
I would say testing and second guessing
and OCD perfectionism that tends to mire me down sometimes.
Some things that may be awesome to some people will just get thrown out by me
like, oh, no, I don't like it, but it was actually awesome.
You know, so that's just a personal problem.
Yeah. Look, a problem I think many of us have faced before.
When you when you bred the F2s of the black banana,
was there any specific traits you were looking to sort of hone in on?
Yeah, I was trying to narrow it to try to bring that
the genes down a little bit and narrow it.
And also because I was using, you know, a strain from Relentless,
I didn't want to release the F1s.
I still have all the F1s from that.
So I wanted to.
Have it be my own, you know, a step further in my own selection.
So that's why you can only get black banana F2.
You you'll never get the F1.
And is that sort of like a concept
do you think you'll use going forward or more just in this case,
it was the appropriate thing?
Just in this case, because, you know, I used his work,
even though he gave permission, I didn't want to just take his male
and cross it with, you know, and then release it.
No, I wanted to take it the next step of of my own selection.
Sure. So, I mean, when you're looking to select a male
for the next generation of breeding, are there any particular traits
that you look for or think are, you know, sort of synonymous
with a good quality male?
Yeah, there's a bunch of different I mean, I have a checklist
of things I go through on a male and before it's like the one.
So it's really there's just a lot of different things.
You know, the leaf structure, the way the plants lining up.
You know, I've heard some guys talk about reversing a male
to see what it looks like.
I've never done that personally, but I want to.
I think it'd be interesting to do.
Yeah, I think that'd be hugely cool, wouldn't it?
So, I mean, it sort of gets us to this place where we normally ask
the growers about what style of growing they do, but you're so very transparent
on your Instagram about it.
It's probably easily known by most people listening.
But for the sake of it, if anyone hasn't checked out your Instagram,
what style of growing do you utilize and do you have any tips on,
you know, how people can get the best results out of growing your strains?
OK, so for me, and this is, you know, kind of going back to our our style,
we use we use ProMix HP for the medium.
It's kind of like an inert dirt, right?
It's like a soil that doesn't really have nutrients or anything like that.
It's like kind of a peat based
with a little bit of perlite and stuff in there.
So I don't add it. It just comes like that.
So I love that medium one because it's not too waterlocky.
It doesn't it lets me get that water and get the nutrients in.
And it just doesn't hold the the water for too long.
So it allows me to pound them if I need to.
So I use that and then size of pot.
It just varies depending on what I'm trying to do.
I like to give my plant structure mistakes.
So like in my pictures, you may notice that I use bamboo stakes,
which can be a bitch when we're talking about hundreds of plants.
But that's how that's how I like to do it.
Then as far as nutrients, I use house and garden.
I've used house and garden for ever.
So over a decade there.
Amazing nudes, I I think it makes
I'll see a guy grow with something else and I'll be like, dude,
why don't you just go ahead and use house and garden?
Here's how I use it and how I use it is exactly how they have on the
on their little feed scale.
So I don't go aggressive, but
I just use the house and garden.
I use the aqua flakes with my for the A&B part of it.
And this last run,
the guys from Power SI or whatever, they sent me some and I saw the hype around.
And I was like, you know, I'll give it a shot.
The show was amazing.
Like I didn't have to bring in those bamboo stakes to a way later in the game.
And I really saw a benefit from using it.
A lot of times guys will send me products.
I'll give them a shot.
And I just don't see any change.
You know what I mean? So no, not going to use that.
I like to use things that I see a direct change.
And in house with house and garden, you can you can see that
like when you hit week six and you use their shooting powder.
I tell guys this all the time.
You use their shooting powder.
You go in your room the next day.
You see a change like a marked change.
So, yeah, I can't say say enough good things about house and garden.
And I really like the power.
Power SI, I think is how you say it.
Other than that, this was my first run with LEDs.
Really impressed with the LEDs.
I might never go back.
That's about it, man.
That's comprehensive.
And I'll tell you what, you've now got me wondering, is it power SI?
Or what would the alternative be like power C?
Oh, I don't know. I mean,
it's it's I mean, they're using a periodic table for silica, right?
So is it you just call it power silica?
I don't know.
But great guys.
I mean, they they sent me.
They hit me up and they're like, hey, you want to give us a shot?
I was like, yeah, they sent it.
It took me a long time to to use it because I was like making seeds.
I didn't want to use it was making seeds
because there's really nothing to to show or see or whatever.
So they didn't like hit me up like, hey, are you using that stuff?
Or they didn't bug me or anything.
And then I told I was like, you know what?
I'm going to use it for this test.
So just stay tuned. We'll see.
You know, we'll see how it is.
I know my buddy, Miss Jackson, Co., I saw him using it.
I saw Cush Forest over in Boston using it.
And I was just like, yeah, man, let's go.
Let's go for it.
And I like it. I like it.
Yeah, nice, nice.
And I mean, an ongoing discussion we have on the show is organic and non-organic.
Do you feel like the style of growing you use
ultimately affects the end product in the way that it's sometimes made out?
I know that I'm a diehard sort of organics guy,
but I also recognize that at like the very pinnacle,
I it can get hard to to see the difference, though.
I like organic, I guess, at the end of the day.
Do you feel like if you grow a well-grown product, it makes a difference?
Or do you think there's like a bit of bias from people?
I think there's I think as long as you
as long as you have a well-grown product, I think you're good.
I think people bring in their own biases.
If you've ever went to like a growth store or whatever and like waited in line
and like four or five different people will give you different advice
on what is the best thing in the world to use. Right.
So, you know, it's to each their own.
There's a bunch of different ways to get to the finish line.
There's a that doesn't make any one of them the right way or the wrong way.
It's like we're all from different.
We're all from different dojos.
We're all from different styles, right?
We all have our style.
You may have the crouching tiger style.
I might have the crane style.
It doesn't it doesn't change it one bit.
I've smoked organic and I thought it was tight.
And I definitely like mine.
So it could be.
Yeah, everybody has their own biases, I guess.
Yeah, sure. And I mean, it makes sense.
Makes sense.
So if we move now on to some of your work, I mean, many of your strains
are very interesting for a variety of reasons.
The first one that grabbed my eye was the green, which you use the little valley
OG, and I guess I was particularly interested in the little valley OG.
I'd never heard of it before.
Is there any backstory on it and what's it sort of like on its own?
Yeah, so the little valley OG came to me from my homeboy Duke over in Yakima.
So Yakima is a small town over on the east side of Washington.
So Washington is kind of divided by this mountain range where over in Seattle
on the western side, it's kind of rainy and more, I don't know, northwest.
And then on on the other side of that mountain range is more like desert
and hot over there. Right.
So anyway, my my my homeboy lives over there and he's always telling me about this
this OG plant they got over there.
And I was like, OK.
And then he he came over to our side for for a night.
We're playing dominoes and shit.
And I smoked some and I smelled some and I was like, oh, that is like old school,
like, oh, gee, like that shit is tight.
Go ahead and bring me three of those things.
I need to grow them out.
Do my homeboy's name is Duke.
He's like, OK, I got you. I got you.
So he brings him over.
I grow them out.
And it's like it's got that structure, that stick and ball
OG structure.
And then that just that smell.
And I was like, this is gas like this is real gas.
And they didn't really know what it was.
You know, they don't they just know it was like the OG that they love.
So we just called it Little Valley OG because it didn't really have a name.
And they're from a little valley over there in in Yakima.
So shout out to the five or nine in Yakima and Duke and and to the Little Valley OG,
which is one of the gaseous strains I've probably ever come across.
No, I like that.
I mean, there's I think everyone has a few OG's that they've tried
throughout history, and they're like, if only I knew which one that was.
Right. Like they're so like they're mysterious.
But like these guys over there in that area, they like that flavor profile
much more than like fruit and shit.
Like I got them some packs of like
Trump cookies maybe back in the day.
And they're like, yeah, we don't like this shit.
Smells like perfume.
Like where's the OG at?
You know, just old school gangsters.
They don't want that.
They want that.
They want that fucking gas.
Yeah. OK, well, Musty Mojito, that's another interesting strain
where you use the Grim Bastard OG as the male in it.
And I guess, you know, seeing as we're sort of discussing it,
where does OG fit in the arsenal for you?
You know, like are you a big fan of the gas and you like to breed with OG?
I do. I mean, I am a fan of the gas.
I think we're kind of it's kind of getting harder to find
as we get all these polyhybrids, especially with like this,
like everything crossed with gelato, which I don't know if anybody's tired of it.
I'm kind of I try to limit it.
You know, like if you look at this line, there's not a whole lot of that.
Whenever we whenever we sit down to create a lineup,
we try to make it diverse.
You know, like if you look at any of them, there'll be a little bit of gas.
We'll maybe try to slip a lemon in there.
We'll try to slip some different fruits in there.
We try to make the menu diverse because who wants to sit down at a restaurant
and there's just nothing but meatloaf like, OK,
meatloaf is good one day, but not all the days.
So or maybe no days, depending if you don't like meatloaf.
So I like to keep that menu diverse.
Maybe there'll be a gas.
Maybe there'll be a, you know, a gelato, but not the whole damn thing.
Yeah, I think that's kind of the direction.
Something for everybody, you know?
Yeah, sure.
And another strain I wanted to flag was you've worked with the Northern Fire
Cookies, which one that comes from a buddy of the show, the Northern Fire.
Shout out to him.
What is it about this cut that you like and how would you describe
some of the hybrids you've made with it like the I'm going to pronounce it wrong,
but is it the NF Sheesh?
Well, you got to you got to say it right.
It's NF Sheesh.
Yeah. The NF Sheesh came out awesome.
Like that thing is so frosty.
And that's why I love using the North Fire's cut.
Shout out to North Fireman.
He's a he's a great grower.
And, you know, we appreciate him letting us use that strain.
So, yeah, it's just a banger, man.
Like it has beautiful structure.
It washes very well.
It's it's got a good smell on it and it breeds well.
Like, you know, Caps, I think Captive was at the El Norte with it.
We've done a couple with it.
It's and it really I think with the Bahama together.
I mean, it is so frosty.
Like if you look at some of those pictures, it is crazy.
So, yeah, it came out well.
Yeah, nice.
I might just try to bang off some of the ones that I was personally curious.
So we'll just get them all done in one segment.
But the the Mando was another interesting cross
because it used a mother called Yoda.
And you had me wondering, is that related to the baby Yoda
we see from compound genetics?
And if not, what is it?
Yeah, so that's another one like that we just don't know.
So it's an unknown like that got slipped out of a
out of a warehouse or out of a wreck in in in L.A.
I can't really say a bunch about, you know, where it came from per se.
But no, he just was like, hey, grow this out.
It's it's gassy, you know, super gas.
You got to grow this out.
So I got it back to Seattle.
I I grew it out because he doesn't know shit.
And I'm definitely not.
It's just in the pool of things until it makes the cut
to even go to the next phase.
It's nothing.
So and when I grew it out, I was like, oh, yeah, this is tight.
You know, like this is gas.
I love the frost on.
I love the structure of it.
Kind of had like this
almost like.
Oh, the Mando crosses had like this
gray blue tint to them, which I found like really cool.
I didn't see a bunch of those in the Phenol's, but I did see a couple.
There were like this blue gray color with like heavy frost
and like a gassy nose.
So, I mean, that's what got it in to the to the lineup.
And like the other females were tight, too.
So, yeah, it was tight.
But as far as like the background lineage,
there's so many different Yoda cuts, there's like a Yodo G.
There's over the years, there's so many of them.
So who knows?
Yeah, I can get like a bit of a myriad like that at times, I guess.
Yeah.
Like I think it might even be one of the most recent posts on your Instagram.
But the biddies, it looks phenomenal.
Like these super swollen hand grenade type buds, just gorgeous, rich purple hues.
Do you find that the purple lines like this sell well?
Or do you feel like that somewhat prevalent myth around purple
strains not being super potent sort of cancels out any increase
in terms of like sales or interest?
No, I think they go well.
People like that color pop, you know what I mean?
And that biddies, that comes in a bunch of different colors.
So like I had...
That's a great strain because you get so much selection in that.
You got Mike's selected cut of the Jigglers, which is already fucking awesome.
And then you get this selection of Bahama reversed onto it.
And now we're getting, you know, crazy phenos.
So, yeah, the one with like that hand grenade size nug,
you're exactly right. Like it's that big.
It fills the palm of your hand.
So it was super heavy, had a great,
you know, more gelato-y side nose on that one.
And like the leaf ratio, there's like no leaves on that.
Like that's there's like no trimming to that.
And yeah, I mean, that's I kept,
I definitely kept that keeper cut to work with down the line.
But some of the other phenos that were in there had different,
almost like gassy kind of weird smells to them.
And there was even like a grape one.
Like it was ugly.
Like it was one of the, you know,
like it was one of the touchier ones.
It just didn't have the right leaves to it to be a keeper.
So I didn't keep it. But the smell was crazy.
It smelled like grapes.
But yeah, there was quite a few cool jigglers.
Some of them look awesome.
I loved it. I think it's one of my favorites.
Miami Mami too is one of my heavy favorites.
I really loved everything in the lineup.
Yeah, look, strong sales pitch.
And I got to admit the biddies was one that I was looking at myself
thinking this might be the one I'd pick.
It makes me wonder.
I like the name Biddies. I think it's cool.
And I always think how important is a strain name?
Do you think it's sort of only really matters if the strain isn't good?
Like if the strain is good enough, it doesn't really matter
what the strain name is.
Or do you think it really actually makes a difference?
I think it does to an extent.
I mean, I named that Biddies because if you know my boy Mike,
he kind of with some of the most outlandish,
sometimes borderline offensive names ever.
So I figured like, OK, if I'm going to, you know, it's a it's an exotic
Soul Fire collab. It's got to have a name that
that that would be proper.
So I went with Biddies.
But yeah, I think the names do matter a little bit.
People want some creativity in the names.
People want you to take some time and figure it out.
And it's not easy with like absolutely everything.
You got to make sure that nobody has the shit or it causes a dust up.
So, yeah, names are important.
And I guess as a little follow up to that, do you tend to name strains
before you've grown them out or do you like to grow them out
and sort of use that experience as some inspiration for the name?
Yeah, I got to grow them out first.
Yeah, I just the reason why I ask is because I find it interesting.
You sort of see it more commonly these days where people put a post up being like,
hey, the name Biddies is now taken and it's like they've just dusted
the female with pollen and it's sort of like, don't you want to grow it out first?
So I guess Biddies is a bad example of people like, you know,
orange lemonade cookie.
And it's like, don't you want to make sure that's actually like the flavor in there?
Like what if what if you don't find it? Right.
Yeah. I mean, how do you how do you name something
before you've seen what it is?
Because it could be completely different from what you may think.
So, yeah, you got to grow it out because and honestly, it's going to help
you name your plant much better.
Like you're going to see something in there that maybe triggers like a name that.
Like has a distinguishing characteristic for that plant.
So, yeah, grow your plants out before you name them, in my opinion.
Yeah, I get you. I feel you. I feel you.
But I mean, a lot of people just don't grow their shit out.
So, you know, it is what it is.
That's it, isn't it?
So one of the final strains I wanted to grill you about was the baby cakes.
It looks great.
And I love the description.
You know, you sort of talking about how it's a very consistent cookie type phenos.
But something which I was also curious about was how did you get that cake mix clone?
Like, I swear that's got to be one of the most lockdown cookie fam clones there is.
How did that happen?
Yeah, I mean, they're not that locked down because they just be sliding around.
And we have a really good circle of friends that get these things.
So, yeah, it might not be as locked down as you think.
There you go.
I mean, like I think people always talk about Envy genetics in that regard.
You know, it's like, how did he get it?
But I guess, you know, it just sort of speaks to the crew you've got.
Yeah, definitely.
I mean, Envy's right there in the mix.
He's down in L.A.
He's got, you know, he's got a good network of people.
So, he's able to find things that other people might not be able to.
That's awesome.
That's awesome.
So, as just someone who has a very, you know, soft spot for sativas, I'm wondering,
do you have a plan to do any work with some like, you know, strongly sativa type work?
Or is you just more into the indicary sort of hybrids?
I definitely am open to it, man.
I want to, I was just talking about this the other day, I want to grow a sativa plant.
It's almost like people always ask, like, is this sativa dominant or is this indica dominant?
And it's almost to the point where like that nomenclature is kind of dead, you know,
where we call things sativa or indica.
Everything is so hybridized now.
It's almost hard to like find a true sativa, I guess, unless you're ordering seeds from like the UK.
So, in general, which of your strains do you think is sort of one that's most sort of slept on by the public?
Like sort of like that secret dark horse that you think is a real winner,
but maybe just needs a bit more time before it catches on?
I think our Mind Flare is, you know, it came out in the White Jelly lineup.
And it was just, I thought it was amazing.
It just, all these different flavor profiles were in there.
And then we just used it again.
We used our Keeper in with the Bahama Mama, and that's what made the Miami Mami.
And it just crushed in there.
Like so many Keepers, I was throwing them away.
Like, I just can't keep them all, you know?
So, I think when people dig into the Miami Mami and see what that's all about,
and when you get these kind of like chocolatey, really rich, like smelling phenos,
and like this frost that it's putting off, and the colorways that they have,
I think that, you know, it's going to really open their eyes to the Mind Flare
and the selections that we've done over time with it.
Yeah, heck, maybe we can change that.
And I mean, sort of in a similar light,
what do you think is the most consistent line in terms of plants produced?
Like what the plants produce?
And the reason why I ask this is because we've got a lot of listeners who grow outdoors,
and for them, they ideally want to be able to, you know, like harvest a bunch of plants,
and it just all goes in the same bag.
So, like consistency for some people is quite important.
Which line do you think gives pretty consistent results?
Right.
So, you're talking about like phenotypic consistency across all the crosses?
Sure.
I mean, you're going to see a lot of that in this Bahama line,
because the Bahama was so dominant in like passing on that color, frost, and structure.
You're going to see a lot of phenotypic similarities in this lineup.
If I would say not in the Black Banana lineup,
because everything was vastly different in that one.
Yeah.
And probably could see some of that in the white jelly,
because the white jelly kind of did that as well.
Like where it brought those similarities.
But yeah, definitely the Bahama line, it was a strong presence of Bahama in there.
Yeah. Nice.
Nice.
So, what genetics in general excite you?
You know, like what are you sort of excited to hunt next?
And if you were to sort of pop some other seeds from someone else,
how many seeds do you like to pop to get an idea of what's going on with that line?
For me, I'll just grab like interesting packs.
So, if I can't find something tight in just one pack of your seeds,
I'm probably not fucking with you.
So, like I said, I'm going to pop this Bloom Co.
Pop some of his stuff.
So, that of course, Mike's creations, I'm always popping shit out of his stuff.
Mostly because I can just hit him up and get him.
What's up, bro? Those are looking tight.
What's up with those strawberry gears, bro?
I need my fix.
So, yeah.
So, any of exotic stuff is tight.
Like I said, Bloom Co.
Relentless always has great work.
You know, you can really see that he puts a lot of time in his stuff.
I might pop a pack of Masonic's stuff,
because I had such great results with what I got from him last time.
Who else?
I want to pop some Deadpan Head, I think his name is.
I want to pop some of his stuff.
I think I have some of his peach stuff.
I might be popping some of the Wave genetics.
I think I got their peach rings, I think it's called.
I really want to find this peach chirp that people are talking about.
So, I'm going to hunt a bunch of peach flavored stuff, see what I can find.
I'm looking for peaches and grapes, kind of.
So, we'll see what I can find.
I enjoy popping other people's work and seeing what cool shit.
It's fun for me.
Yeah, for sure.
I definitely can get down with that sentiment.
So, the Lumpy Space Princess, that's a cool strain,
both because it's a great reference to Adventure Time,
as well as it looks phenomenal.
When you look at the plants, it's both been bred with and it on itself.
Do you find that you name strains with references?
Also, there's the Grim Basterd OG,
which is a phenomenal reference to Trailer Park Boys.
Do you name these because these strains remind you of that reference in some way,
or it's just special to you?
And what sort of makes you think,
oh, I'm going to give this a cool name that's a reference to a show
or to a game or something like that?
Both.
So, that thing looks like Lumpy Space Princess.
So, like what we were talking about, you got to grow them out.
Once I grew them out, I was like, I'm slumping on these lumps right here
because that thing looks like Lumpy Space Princess.
So, yeah, I like the LSP.
I think that might be something that we revisit at some point
because people just absolutely love that cross,
like the pink hues that it comes with and that musky lemon flavor
that you can actually taste.
They like that strain.
Those things have been sold out for a while.
But yeah, I like to reference pop culture.
I play a ton of... I'm a gamer myself.
I play a ton of video games with my kids.
We even run a Grand Theft Auto server,
like where people come in and play Grand Theft Auto online.
It's kind of wild.
Yeah, so, I mean, we're pop culture fanatics, I guess.
That's cool. You got your own GTA server.
Oh, yeah, we love it, man.
Yeah, it's like an RP server.
So, you get in there and you roleplay whatever you're playing
and people really get into it.
So, yeah, it's pretty awesome.
There you go. A whole new world for both me and the listeners
to go and explore a bit more.
Yeah, I think we're going to...
I was thinking about doing like a seed drop in the GTA server.
So, you would just get in and do something maybe
to get a specific pack of seeds that you can only get
by hopping in and hopping into 5M and coming into the city.
So, it might be something in the future to look out for.
Now, that's the next level drop.
That's right.
So, I noticed amongst the various strains you've made,
you've worked with a few different cookie cuts
or sort of cookie related strains,
like, you know, from just straight cookies
to the Northern Fire cookies,
to even things like biscotti, stuff like that.
Which of the cookie cuts are your preferred ones
if you had to pick, say, one or two?
And do you like to breed with cookies, generally speaking?
I do, because I like the structure of cookies.
I like the smell of cookies.
I think that the creation of cookies
really was a turning point in breeding and in cannabis culture,
you know, and however you feel about the cookies machine
and brand and burner and all that,
put that shit to the side.
And you really just can't take away from these guys
what that plant has done, at least breeding wise, for sure.
So, yeah, I like it.
I, right now, I like the North Fire cookies.
I used to have a cut of cookies and cream
that I thought was the best one,
to me, far better than the 13.
In my opinion.
But, yeah, I do.
I do enjoy breeding with cookies.
I think it adds some characteristics to the progeny
that can only be found in those plants.
So, I don't try to over add too much of it to the lineup.
Like I said, I like to have a little something for everyone.
I guess I'm missing that mark by not having enough sativa.
And maybe we'll fix that in the future.
But, yeah, it's a good one to add.
North Fire cookies right now is the one.
Yeah, love it.
Good answer.
So, on the final question,
before we do our quick fire questions at the end,
I noticed that you'd had some nice write-ups in High Times.
And I feel like in the past,
High Times played a huge role in our scene
and in promotion and awareness,
but as Instagram and other social media platforms
have taken off, it feels like it's faded a little bit.
Did you feel like you got a bump out of those write-ups
and those features,
or do you feel like they are sort of fading
a bit into obscurity?
I think, I mean, maybe we did.
I didn't pay too much attention to them.
I feel like High Times is kind of,
it used to be like this flagship for our industry.
It used to be like, oh, High Times, you know,
and maybe it's because of the COVID and the shows are gone,
or the shows have been so fucked up with the regulation.
Like, you can't even enter any of these damn shows anymore
without being licensed in that state.
And it's just turned a bunch of bullshit.
So, I'm just disappointed in High Times in that aspect.
Like, it used to be the one thing
that we all used to come together to do
to go to these competitions.
And they've really just turned it into like an advertisement
for whatever local recreational breeders
are gonna line their pockets.
And that's unfortunate.
Like, they've really, I don't know if it's the new owners
or what's going on over there,
but I think the general sentiment
from like most of the heads in the industry
is just like, they're pretty irrelevant at this point.
And they need to come back to like what started them.
And I don't know.
So, if we got a bump from it, I don't know,
but I miss the old High Times, to be honest.
When you say that, do you sort of mean like
before it was like pay to play?
Yeah, like-
Well, I'm sorry, I should clarify.
Obviously it's not all pay to play
because I can bet my left leg,
you didn't pay for that article.
But like, that's one of the criticisms
which gets leveled against them at times, I guess.
Yeah, well, it's, I don't know, man.
I know when Mike and Cuban were winning all of their,
just on that run, like winning all their trophies
and whatever, those guys weren't paying to win that stuff.
Like, I'm right there in the circle.
Those dudes didn't pay that shit.
They just had fire and they were winning.
So, like I hear so many times like,
oh, like if you won a cup, that's because you paid
or that's because you did that, that's bullshit.
Like that's absolutely not true.
Those guys won that shit fair and square.
But now, yeah, I think it's like, I don't know.
They're just, I think maybe high,
I don't know their financials,
but maybe high times is upside down.
They need to make some money.
But they can make all that money by showing,
by making, having some awesome shows
once maybe COVID gets up off of our ass.
Yeah, that's some really valid points.
I definitely have heard that criticism raised before
about the purchasing of the cups.
And I think like what you said is really valid,
people like Exotic Mike and various others,
clearly not paying to win, clearly got the fire.
I think some of the frustration is more like
when you see strain write-ups in the magazine
and it's like, we're doing a write-up this week
on Crop King's blueberry.
And you're like, oh, come on.
Yeah, I think, yeah.
But anyway, so, I mean, bringing us to sort of
our quick fire questions that we'd love to ask
all guests at the end.
The first one I wanted to ask you is,
what is the best or most memorable
single weed experience you've had?
So it might be like smoking a certain flower
or smoking a certain hash or just whatever.
What stands out the most to you?
Lemon tree.
Yeah, I don't know why, but one of the,
just when Mike and I smoked the lemon tree at the,
I think it was the Emerald Cup or something.
We just were like, just love the flavor so damn much.
We had to get a cut for ourselves.
So I remember that.
Yeah, nice.
It's a really interesting flavor, isn't it?
Yeah, it's one of a kind actually.
Like the, it's the aftertaste, man.
Like that, it stays on your palate
and that's like what we're looking for
when it comes to flavors.
Like the weed could be pretty,
the weed could be this or that,
but if it leaves that aftertaste in your mouth,
like that lemon tree does, yeah, that's memorable.
So that's definitely one of the most memorable.
Yeah, brilliant answer.
And I can understand why you'd say that.
So on the other end of the spectrum though,
was there ever a situation where people around you
or people who you sort of generally trust the opinion of
are like hyping a strain up and then you finally taste it
and you're like, oh, is that it?
Yeah, I know there is.
I just don't know it off the top of my head.
One that we're just like, oh, that's not that tight.
Yeah, I'm not sure.
Not for me personally.
I can't think of one off the top of my head.
It's almost a good thing, right?
Yeah, yeah, definitely.
There you go.
The people around you are only suggesting
and hyping up the good stuff.
That's good to hear.
So let's do a bit of a hypothetical.
I'm gonna drop you off on a remote desert Island
with just three strains
and you can theoretically grow them for the rest of time.
What three are you taking with you?
They can either be clones or seeds, whatever you want,
but just three.
Just three, GMO.
Probably take my cut of banana ruts
and I'll only get one more.
Let's see, we got some funk.
We got some...
Did you say I'm on an island?
Yeah.
I gotta bring the Bahama mama, it's an island.
Good cross, good cross.
Okay, cool.
So now there's a chance to be a little bit devilish here.
Let's say the roles are reversed
and instead of you being dropped off,
we're gonna drop someone else off.
And let's just say that you're not a big fan of this person.
You get to pick what three strains
you're gonna drop them off with.
What are you gonna leave them with?
I'm gonna leave them with a CBD strain.
I'm gonna leave...
So I'll leave them with some CBD.
I will...
Not a big fan of this person, right?
Okay.
Other strains are not that great right now.
What junk would I leave somebody with?
I'd probably still give them GMO,
even though I don't like them
because we know it's gonna take them 12 weeks to finish it.
So that's just gonna be frustrating either way.
And then I'll probably leave them with...
So he's got some CBD, he's got some GMO
and maybe I'll leave him with some apple fritter.
Ooh, you're not a fan of it?
No, not that I'm not a fan of it, but...
Yeah, I'll just leave him with...
Yeah, leave him with some fritter.
It seems like what everybody wants to grow.
So he can grow that.
Yeah, no, look, we've heard a lot of blue dreams in the past.
So I guess it's sort of like that.
Oh, I mean, hey, dude,
there was a time the blue dream was awesome.
I don't know why people ain't on that shit.
That's it, right?
That's it.
Okay, so final question.
If you could go back in time to any place,
anywhere in history and just collect some seeds
or a clone if you wanted,
where would you go, what time and what are you collecting?
I don't know, because if you go too far back in time,
it's gonna be some boof.
So I would probably go back.
I would probably go back to when I was a little kid
and my uncle was growing and I probably snatched
some of his clones from the garage that I would walk into
when I was a little tiny kid, blind myself.
Yeah, I'd probably grab some of whatever he was growing.
He's a old hippie from Humboldt, from Arcata.
So I'd probably grab some of his strings.
Yeah, nice.
I'm sure there's probably some cool gems
lurking in the vault from him.
I think that just about brings us to the end of things.
Was there any comments or shout outs you wanted to make?
Just shout outs to all the homies, man.
And shout out to James for, you know,
he's got seats here now.
It's a great spot to grab beans from.
I was really proud when we got put onto seats here now
back in the day.
Like that was a really big, big move.
He's one of the first banks
that ever really took a shot with us.
So appreciate him for that.
So shout out to James Bean on that one.
Yeah, likewise, you know, shout out James Bean.
We appreciate you being a sponsor.
And also you referenced earlier,
one of our other sponsors, ProMix.
You know, you use their medium, shout out ProMix.
Oh, I didn't know they were one of your sponsors.
Yeah, they're great.
Shout out ProMix.
It'd be awesome if you could get it to Seattle more
because we have ProMix like desert sometime
where you just can't get it.
So I gotta like stock up on it.
It's crazy.
Yeah, there you go.
Are they Canadian?
They're Canadian, right?
Yeah, they are.
But I think they're sort of more
the other side of Washington, unfortunately.
Like the, what is it?
The Quebec side.
Yeah, let them know, man.
Sometimes I stress out because if I don't have the ProMix
then I gotta get something else
and I hate using anything other than ProMix.
Yeah, good call.
Well, with that being said,
we've been very grateful to have you on.
So again, thank you so much,
Soul of SoulFire Genetics for coming on,
giving us the lowdown on all your strains
and a bit of history and predictions for the future.
Yeah, man, thanks for having me.
I appreciate it.
So there you have it gang.
Huge shout out to Soul,
SoulFire Genetics for coming by,
talking all about science, history, breeding,
so much more.
We're very appreciative.
Likewise, hugely appreciative of our sponsors,
Seeds here now, best seed bank in the game.
They got SoulFire, go grab it.
Likewise, Copper Biological Systems.
Thank you so much for everything you do
without your amazing predatory bugs.
Our gardens would be so much harder to keep clean.
Check out the Aflipar M or the Spidex Vital,
two absolute killer products
that will help your garden to be successful.
Shout out to Pro-Mix for their Pro-Mix Connect,
best mycorrhizal product in the game.
Increase yields, resin, cannabinoids, terpenes,
whatever you're after, probably gonna increase it.
Check it out guys, Pro-Mix Connect.
Charlie's Cannabis, number one spot in Oklahoma.
If you need fire of any sort, they got your back.
Remember, Charlie's your bud.
Big shout out, Charlie's Cannabis.
Last but not least, thank you to the Patreon gang.
We love you.
Without you, the show really couldn't happen.
If you want access to episodes early,
additional interviews, unheard content,
giveaways and more, check out the Patreon,
www.patreon.com forward slash the podcast.
I'll see you for the next one, gang.
I'll see you.
