Hello and welcome to another episode of The Podcast, a cannabis podcast for budding enthusiasts.
This episode, as always, was brought to you by our amazing sponsors, Seeds Here Now, best
seed bank in the game, guarantee on satisfaction, not just germination.
Get all the hottest breeders, the latest drops, get all that fire you need right now.
You know where to hit them up.
And we'd like to welcome onto the show, Coppert Biological Systems.
These guys have a wide range of products to help keep your garden pumping, 100% activity,
full of life.
Whether you need predator mites, predator bugs of any sort, microbial powders, or heck,
even just some artificial feet to keep your beneficial mites alive.
Keep boosting those numbers, hit up Coppert Systems.
They're amazing, international, and we're appreciative to have them on the show.
And as always, a big shout out to the Patreon gang.
These guys are the lifeblood of the show, helping to make it happen.
As always, if you want access to additional content, early episode access, and a few other
little goodies, be sure to check it out, patreon.com forward slash the podcast.
On this episode, we are extremely, extremely, extremely grateful to have our friend from
India, Irazine, come on and give us the lowdown on what's happening in this part of the world,
that land race love magic, and what we can look forward to in the future.
This is a two-parter, four hours, buckling game.
Let's get into it.
All right, all right, all right.
A big thank you and welcome to the one and only, the land race legend himself, Irazine
of Indian Land Race Exchange.
Thanks so much for joining us.
Thank you so much for having me on the show.
I'm really grateful to be here today.
Awesome, my friend.
The question we like to ask people first off, what have you been smoking on recently?
I've been smoking on some Doge Valley resin.
It's been cured for a little over three months, has a really nice zesty, citrusy flavor on
the front and background is all really floral.
It's very nice combination.
The effects are really mild.
It really does not really takes you out of your working groove.
You can get on with your work, go about doing what you want to do in the day, and at the
same time, not feel like you want to indulge in smoking, get interrupted in between your
curriculum.
I think it's a great smoke to start the morning for anyone.
That sounds lovely.
You've got me interested.
You said it was cured for three months.
How do you find as a hash cures, it affects the flavor and potency?
It definitely does that.
Especially, if you're going to talk about the resin that was hand rubbed from the plant.
We have to understand, if that resin is produced in a much different way, then it's going to
have certain properties, which will be very different from your conventional hash that
is made by water or is made by dry sieving.
I'm going to just elaborate a little bit on that.
What happens when you're hand rubbing the plant is that you're also taking out some
of the plant matter and a lot of water content.
Your final hash is basically like a ball of a lot of resin, which is stuck around some
impurities like dust and plant matter, which is binding it together.
It's binding the lipids together.
And then there's a lot of water content at the same time.
Now, if you attempt to smoke something like that at the same time, I mean, if you smell
it, it's going to smell amazing.
The smell is going to be amazing.
But when you try to smoke it, you will not feel any flavor at all.
It's going to be very harsh.
Your nostrils are going to burn like somebody put chili powder in there and it's going to
hurt your throat as well.
And that's because of the water that is present in it.
So when you age it or how you guys say you cure it, there are a few different things
happening there.
The first thing that is happening basically over there is that the decarboxylation of
the resin.
The other thing is that the plant matter that is lost in between, that is going to lose
the taste that is interfering with the final flavor.
And the third and very important thing that is happening is that it's losing that water
that really needs not to be a part of the hash, because if that hash is then taken to
a humid place, it's eventually going to develop rot as it's going to have mold in it.
As we see in a lot of resin, which is not aged properly or it's packed in polythene
right away and they don't let it just sit out for a while.
So we see that a lot.
We break up pieces and it's all white from inside.
So that kind of tells the story.
So it becomes very important here to cure, to age your hash.
And without that, I mean, that hash really is not worth smoking.
But just after a few months, it becomes something divine from something which is not worth
smoking. So I think that's a big difference.
Wow, what a great little rundown on that.
And so I guess my little next question on that is, is there an optimum period in your
mind for hash? Do you think, you know, between three and six months is the minimum you'd
want to do it or how do you think about it?
So I'm not really sure about that.
I mean, I haven't really thought about it in that way.
But within the circumstances that I'm in, I think three months, three or four months
works the best, because after that, what we usually see is that we see, I mean, not
through testing, I mean, through what we feel subjectively when we smoke it.
Right. So what we see is that it becomes more sleepy.
I mean, the high becomes in a way that, you know, it induces more sleepy feeling instead
of more energetic feeling.
Right. So and that I probably think is what's happening is the THC begins to degrade to
CBN at a certain point.
Right. So that that starts to happen because eventually after March, it starts to get
really hot in India and not everyone has the capacity to store their hash and, you know,
seal Ziploc pouches in freezers.
So by the time it's just, you know, if when they take it out in January, I'm sorry, in
October and November, December and January, it sits in the village or anywhere in India,
it's fine because it's still cold.
And after that, after February, you know, as the heat begins to surge, I think that
it's really not ideal for people to store the hash here.
I mean, unless they have a freezer and they can really, you know, just vacuum seal it.
That's a whole different thing.
But in India, because of the diversity and the dynamics of the season and the way they
play out, because winter is very cold and, you know, when it's summer, it's so hot.
I mean, you cannot imagine, you know, that there was a winter in the same country at
some point. So, really temperate kind of climate overall.
So, it's three months, four months.
I think that that's really what does best in the environment and the circumstances we're
in.
Yeah, what a fantastic answer.
So, the next question is, what was your first experience with cannabis?
My first experience with cannabis is, I mean, this is going to be vastly different from,
you know, because I've heard like some of your podcasts before and, you know, people
have these really nice stories that my first experience was I went there and I smoked.
But it's entirely different for people who belong to places, you know, where it grows
everywhere. So, you're just growing up along with this plant.
As you grow up, you just see it everywhere.
So, it's kind of is normal until the society takes hold of you and starts telling you
that, you know, it might not be a very good idea if you start smoking this plant.
And that really helps in actually propelling a lot of teenagers towards it because then
they become curious and, you know, that they really want to smoke it.
So, it's really different in India, you know, because it's everywhere, you know, it's in
our worship, it's part of our food.
We use it for the ropes, for shelter, for medicine.
Even, you know, sometimes when, you know, the cattle get sick, we can feed cannabis
plants to the cattle and it pretty much seems to do well for the animals.
And one of the things that I've seen for myself is if you let those animals lose and if
they're having some, you know, stomach issues or some problem, they go and they munch on
the cannabis plants as if they already know, I mean, you know, that this is the medicine.
So, just, I mean, the whole perspective is different here.
I mean, so we can't really pinpoint or I can't really pinpoint, OK, this was the first
time that I said, hey, this is cannabis because it's just part of your daily affair.
Like, you don't really, you know, realize what was the first time, you know, that you
saw people around you because that's, you have people around you and that's just
normal. We don't really try to pinpoint those things in the way some other significant
things like what was the first time you got your job or what was the first time you went
to a beach. So, those kind of things could be pinpointed because they're very specific
to your, you know, experiences.
But this is just part of your life.
I mean, so it's really different, you know, growing around the plant.
So, I'm just going to go ahead and, you know, tell a really little story.
And that would, I think, really help a lot of people understand, you know, how things
work here. So, we don't have a water supply in, you know, in our village.
So, what we had to do when we were kids, we had to grab a pot in the morning and just
run down the hill, you know, get the water.
There are some spots where no water comes out of the mountain.
So, you can get the water and you can go about doing your things as well.
So, we were accompanied with some, you know, elder guys who are around like 25, 27, 19,
20. Right. And we were really kids, seven, eight, nine years old.
So, we would go there and by the time they're, you know, descending down the mountain,
they're rubbing the plants, making the hash as they go down so that once they reach
there, before they take the bath, they can smoke and then they can, you know, really
freshen up and start their day as we do.
So, we were like completely unaware of what this plant is or like what is happening, why
they're rubbing it and, you know, why they really empty the cigarettes, fill them back
up and smoke and get crazy.
So, this whole thing is a bit confusion for us, but we kind of enjoy that.
So, they would also make us rub those plants because they think we have these small,
supple hands, you know, because we were kids.
So, it's kind of a myth in India that, you know, if kids rub it, you know, their hands
are soft. So, they take out like the best hash.
I don't necessarily think that's the case, but that was it.
So, we would do that for them and they would take out the hash from our hands and we
have no idea what they're doing and why they're doing it.
But it was weird. So, it was like one of the things that I do remember.
So, if I really have to pinpoint, I mean, experience wise, then I would say this was
one of those things and it was happening almost every day because just again, that's
part of your being, I mean, as a person and where you live, your culture, you see it
everywhere in the temples, you know, on the Mondays, which is the day of the Shiva, you
see a lot of ladies, you know, just cutting some branches, taking it for the worship.
So, it's a whole different world out here, I mean, yeah.
Yeah, wow, interesting.
And I mean, when the slightly older guys would get it off your hands, do you remember
how they smoked it?
Yeah, they would empty the cigarettes and, you know, they would mix it and fill it up.
And I was pretty much getting disgusted.
Hey, man, like I thought like they're taking, you know, what do you call, a new body
waste kind of thing and smoking it.
It's kind of weird and disgusting.
But, you know, as you grow older, you understand what's really happening.
And I'm not trying to say, you know, that not some part of our, you know, whatever's
there on the hand is not getting mixed with the hash.
It certainly does.
But again, I mean, this is it is the way it is, I mean, in India.
I mean, so, yeah.
Yeah, of course.
And so, do you remember when you first, like, can remember feeling high maybe from
smoking some hash yourself, for example?
Yeah, so I started smoking, I mean, like around 14, 15, 16 years of age.
I mean, I don't exactly remember like, you know, what was the first time because it
just happens eventually that someday, you know, one of your cousins says take one
puff and then, you know, the other time you're with some friends and, you know,
you're also getting drunk and you take a couple of.
But as a whole in Uttarakhand, you know, the hash, it does not really get you that
high. Right.
I mean, it's not cultivated or selected for THC in particularly like some of the
other places. So it's not that potent.
And again, the domestication part is not very prolific as well.
So it's really nowhere close to some of the other regions in India or somewhere else
in Asia. But I think I was in college when I really remember getting high and that
was, you know, some guy who had like come down from Shimla and he had like one of the
best residents he thought at that point in time.
And, you know, I really got high on that because I was just, you know, hanging out
with these guys in their hostel rooms.
And all of these guys belong to Himachal Pradesh, which was really close to Punjab
where I was in college at that point in time.
And I'm hanging out, I'm smoking, but mostly it's the cheap stuff that they can
share, you know. But every now and then somebody would come back from the village
after the vacation and he will bring a little bit like two or three joints of really
good hash. And I happen to be lucky to be there.
You know, at that point in time, and I smoked it and, you know, the effects were just
nothing like I'd ever experienced.
I think the intensity was up to a level which really got me thinking that, you know,
this is this is an amazing feeling.
And I mean, whatever I'm feeling right now, I mean, this is a great state of mind to be
in, you know, and it just really kind of pushed me towards, you know, scouring for more
of it. You know, how can I find more people, you know, who would have something like
this, which is not ordinary, but, you know, something better, because now I've gotten to
understand, hey, you know what, these are there's there's difference.
It's not just hash.
There are levels to this hash and there are like many of them.
So you have to find, you know, these people who have the best resin, which are usually
the older guys, you know, 25 and above, because they had really graduated smoking by
then for over seven to 10 years.
So they kind of have found their places where to get hash on a regular basis.
And they usually smoke good.
But at that point in time, I mean, we were all like 17, 18, 19 year old.
So we had an entirely different circle.
But every now and then we would get something good, but not regularly at that point in
time. For that, you had to go out and, you know, make friends in other groups and, you
know, meet other people.
So it's such an amazing thing.
I mean, it just pushes you to socialize.
I mean, not only that it psychologically puts you in a state of mind where you feel like
socializing more, it also has this effect that in order to find it, you have to connect
to more people. So it's just amazing how, you know, this plant has this intrinsic
property of bringing people together psychologically, physically and every which way
you can imagine.
Yeah, of course.
And I mean, kind of raises an interesting point you just brought up yourself where
people in past episodes have spoke about how, you know, it was kind of a glue, like
when you met someone who was a fellow smoker, you kind of felt like you could trust
them a bit. Is that a similar thing in India?
Like if you meet a group of people and you say, oh, hey, I'm a smoker, you're a smoker,
are you kind of able to make friends easily or is it you still got to kind of prove
yourself a bit?
Well, it really depends on you as a person.
I mean, what kind of behavior you have.
So in India, I mean, behavior is big.
So there is a saying in India that your behavior is your introduction.
So if you are humble and, you know, you want to learn and, you know, you do some, you
run some errands for the other guys, you know, then sure, I mean, they will make you
part of your group. And of course, you can then make friends.
I mean, I think that's a very subjective kind of issue.
You know, it goes case to case basis, you know, what kind of really person you are, if
you're the kind of person who can connect to the people.
So people don't really have like a fixed, I should say this, a fixed hierarchy or
something that you have to have these many years at a certain level to be able to smoke
with someone. But it just really depends on you that, you know, how curious you are and
how resourceful you are in, you know, getting to these places, getting to these people.
And then once you do get there, I mean, how good you are in making sure that, you know,
you're accepted in these groups and, you know, you can then contribute eventually and
become a part of it.
Yeah, that's awesome.
That's lovely to hear, you know, if you're kind of good intention and heart, people are
accepting. So you mentioned you first experienced the nice hash that was brought back by
friends after vacation.
Did that stimulate a curiosity in you to kind of think I've got to go find a consistent
source of this for myself?
Yeah, absolutely it did, but not in terms of like I have to go out and find the fields
pretty much, but more like that, hey, could I find more people who belong to this place?
Because, see, the way our thinking evolves is it happens step by step.
I'm sure there are some people, you know, who are really gifted and, you know, I mean, they
would really get to the conclusion very quickly.
But for most people, you know, you go step by step.
And really, when you have such a great experience on something like hash, the only thing
that really comes to your mind is I have to find more people, you know, who has this kind
of stuff. Like I have to be, you know, connecting with, I ought to be connecting with
these people so that I can get access to more of it and see how much, you know, more
variety and diversity is out there.
And, you know, what all experiences are waiting for me, you know, in terms of smoke.
So, yeah, really, I mean, it didn't really, I mean, push me in a way that I would go to
the fields because that really pushed, I mean, that push really came later from a, you
know, whole different angle, I think, is when I saw someone was growing it in front of me.
Because there was this friend of mine who was growing, and this is in New Delhi around
2015, I think.
He got some seeds from Alana and he grew in his house and, you know, he was able to make
hash. So that really pushed me and I was like, OK, I have to now go there and I have to
get my own seeds.
But I had no idea what was waiting for me once I got there.
And once I really got there, it blew my mind.
And then I collected my mind all over again and rearranged it in a way that, you know,
then I was I knew what I had to do in my life.
I pretty much, you know, abandoned my masters at that point in time that I was, I mean, I
was in the final year of my masters.
And I thought, you know what?
You know, I have to wholeheartedly focus on this thing and preserving this because there
are there were a lot of other things that I was becoming aware of at the same time.
I mean, I had at the same time I had connected to people over Facebook from the United
States, a lot of people who are growing.
And, you know, I found out that there's a larger community that exists outside who
already knows so much about this plant and, you know, who have done so much work for it.
And I understood that, you know, I have to play a very important role here by collecting
these seeds and making sure that, you know, before this is lost, we collect as diverse
of a seed sample, you know, make an archive as diverse as we can.
That includes pretty much every possible cannabis variety that we can so that people who
are really putting in the work, the breeders, you know, who are in a position in legal
places to do this kind of work, they can go ahead and they can, you know, work with these
varieties, incorporate them into their gene pool and take it further, you know, just like
our contribution to I mean, because if you like something and you think this thing
helped you in any way, you know, shaping your experiences or if you feel that, you know,
this is something you enjoy, then you inherently have a duty towards promoting that
thing. So, immediately my understanding shifted and I knew that I have to go to these
other places and I have to connect to more people to get access to different varieties.
And that's what really pushed me towards going out.
But smoking was, I mean, the first step, but it was not really the ultimate step, I would
say.
Yeah, OK.
Like, what a really interesting recount.
So, you mentioned that you kind of had that epiphany moment when you went on a trip to
Milano, was it?
Can you tell us about that trip?
Yeah, that was in Milano.
So, it was an amazing, like I said, the moment I got there, I didn't know what was waiting
for me. I was just going thinking, OK, now I'm going to the village where I'm going to get
the hash. So, I'll have a lot of options to choose from and I can have a good time over the
week staying there, sampling all these different resins.
And at the same time, I was thinking a little bit about, OK, you know, there will be plants
as well so I can get some seeds.
I mean, they couldn't be growing their plants without the seeds, right?
And this is the time, I mean, when people are not really clicking pictures and they're not
really bringing back pictures from Milano.
So, I pretty much didn't have a very good idea at that point in time that, you know, what I
was going to encounter there.
So, we get to the Milano and, you know, we just get down.
I mean, we're not even close to the village right now.
It's about two kilometres away and we can already see the trails of plants, you know, just
leading along the way.
You can see and they have all these different expressions which are so beautiful.
They have colours, they have variety of smell from florals, citrus, woody, you know, something
like pine, like turpentine.
So, it was really nice, but that's what we saw at that point in time.
So, we liked it.
We thought, oh, this is it.
This is what they make hash off.
And then, you know, we go a little further and then we find, wow, I mean, you know, there
are even better plants in the village.
And then once we cross the village and we eventually get to places like Wai Chin Valley,
Magic Valley and, you know, Wailing Valley, we really understand, you know, what is the
full potential of the varieties, you know, these people make hash out of.
And that, I think, was a profound moment.
I mean, it has to rearrange your thinking in a way because that was the year after which
I started going to these different places.
Like I went back to my village, first of all, because I realised that, you know, a lot of
hunting has to be done there.
There are a lot of hot spots just like, you know, Himachal Pradesh has so many.
So I went back there, we did, you know, a lot of collection out there.
We went to and we went near into Tibetan border.
We went near into Chinese border that is at the Mana Pass.
We collected samples.
And let me tell you, this is a different kind of thing.
I mean, you cannot go to those places and, you know, be doing anything around the
cannabis plants because the moment you cross into those areas, you're under observation
all the time from the towers.
People, Indian-Tibetan border police is looking at you at all times what you're doing.
So being a local from that place is really going to help you.
I mean, because if you're from outside, then you can just forget about it.
I mean, you can just forget about going to those places, those border regions.
But then there were other places which were more relaxed and more tourists like
Orgam Valley, where you can just easily, you know, you have easy access to any tourist.
Anybody can go there and collect seeds.
So we did all of that.
And then, you know, we went back to Malana again and we started going to, you know,
started going there at different phases and not just during the flower.
And that really made a lot of other things apparent to us, which you don't realize in
one glimpse or you don't realize even in a week if you just go there in October when,
you know, things are pretty much ripening.
So those things started happening at the same time.
So, I mean, it was just all coming together from that point for us.
And, you know, we were just beginning to understand, you know, what has to be done and
how it has to be done, because, you know, we are in North India.
So geographically, we're blessed.
I mean, we're close to almost every cannabis hotspot, you know, within and we can get
there in less than 24 hours.
So that really enables us to do all these things in a way that, you know, I don't think
it would be possible for a lot of other people.
Yeah, wow.
What a powerful little sentiment right there.
And I think that, yeah, you're in such a valuable position to be in.
Let's wind it back, though, for a minute.
That initial trip to Malana, when you got there, what type of variation were you seeing
in the plants? Like how many different phenotypes were there and were they really
different or still pretty similar for the most part?
What did you observe?
Yeah, that's a good question, I mean, because I think this is probably the aspect that was
most intriguing, I mean, from because, of course, you see a cannabis plant, so you see a
few things, you see the physical embodiment and you smell it and, you know, and you look
at how beautiful the flowers look or the way it grows.
And there's so many other things, right.
But I so I think what was really interesting to us was the diversity that was present
within Malana. I mean, I'm just going to give you a little example.
The first field that I was in, in Wai Chin Valley, and I'm seeing this field, there are
about 150 or like 100 plants there.
And I can see a lot of different phenotypes, a lot of different plants.
I mean, just from a casual look, I mean, I don't even have to be an expert.
I don't have to be a person who has some prior understanding of, you know, how plants
work and all of these things.
You could just be a normal person, look at it and be astonished and be, you know, just
be in awe of, you know, how much variability is present within a very small chunk
because they're growing like tens of millions of plants.
If I'm talking about 100, 150 plants field as a sample, I'm just talking about a
negligible proportion.
So the variability was just immense.
I mean, and it just brings you to a place psychologically that you are bound to think
if this one place has so much diversity, just imagine what other places which have
vastly different environment, like you go to Ecuador, near Kerala, or you could go to
you know, Indo-Tibetan border that is a cold desert.
So they have to have something, you know, they have to have something different.
They have to, you know, the plants there have to grow differently for the reasons that
the environment and the cultures are different.
So I think that really started a relentless cycle.
So, yeah, in terms of variation, when we talk about in Malana, I think that in itself was
one of the things that, you know, got me thinking.
And I think that was possibly the best thing I ever did that I thought that if this one
place has so much diversity, imagine if I could go to other places and how much more I
can get and whether or not I can preserve it.
Because at the same time, you know, the destruction of the habitat is going on for
cannabis because we don't recognize it as a useful plant other than in the Hindu
cultural practice and religious practices.
So the government doesn't see it as something, you know, which is good.
So there's not going to be any preservation from the government side.
As a matter of fact, the government has been bent on, you know, taking it out, bent on
taking it out. I mean, in Kerala, they have like completely devastated, you know, these
places used to have cannabis fields in and these people then are forced to go back
deeper into the jungles.
And what happens is they ultimately fall in the trap of nexolites.
Now, these nexolites are pretty much running the show for them.
And what they do is they provide them protection, of course, from the government, the
police. And, you know, they also help them take that stuff, pack it up and, you know,
get to the metro cities like New Delhi, Bombay, Pune, you know, where you can really
get a price for that.
But again, I mean, the local farmer is really pretty much getting bent over.
I mean, he's not getting any money.
So they're making a lot of money and, you know, they're using it for their organization
because of the activities they have to carry out with weapons and all of these things.
So it's sad.
I mean, the way things are going and the same things happening in Himachal Pradesh, where
they're really concerned about their tourism and they have this feeling that the
cannabis is somehow is going to destroy their tourism industry.
I mean, it's just nuts when you think about it, because most of the people who go to
Himachal Pradesh, you know, they go because of the cannabis.
But, well, that's how the government sees it.
And, you know, there is relentless pressure from all sides, from all sides to just
take, I mean, take this thing out of here.
And, you know, we really feel that if something is not done
right now, then it might be a little too late.
Yeah, OK.
So, I mean, earlier on, you mentioned that basically you grew up and it was all
around you, but then you just mentioned that kind of the government's actually a lot
more cracking down on it.
Has that been a recent change?
What's the government's actual stance on it?
And is there any sort of medical program?
And so there are a few things and a few ways the government is working.
So there are places which are of more interest to government, like Himachal
Pradesh and places like Kerala have been in highlight.
I mean, ever since the Internet has become more widespread.
So government definitely have their eyes, you know, stuck on these two places.
And most of the funds that come, I think, from the European Union to eradicate the
cannabis in India is directed toward these places.
But if I talk about Uttarakhand, the state I belong from, one of the Himalayan states, I
have not seen much of the eradication process, except for sometimes what they do is
they would make small local government bodies and they would gather people on a
Sunday and say, let's go out and take out all the cannabis plants that you see
around the roadside.
But that pretty much doesn't make, you know, that doesn't really make the farm
population or that the cannabis, which is growing around the road in Uttarakhand, is
not really the part of the plants which would go on to then make hash.
Those farms are safe somewhere in the valleys.
So it's all good. And the terrorism, I'm sorry, and the tourism is not that much in
Uttarakhand, you know, when you compare it to Himachal Pradesh.
Uttarakhand is more known for pilgrimage.
It's it has four of the most holiest sites for Hindus and for Sikh religion as well.
So a lot of people travel there, but for an entirely different reason, their tourism
has a whole different, you know, it is it happens because a whole different region
because of the pilgrimage. And when you look at Himachal Pradesh or you look at
Kerala, their tourism is based around more like recreation and the things you could do
there that you could not in the in the other places.
Yeah. OK, brilliant.
So just quickly, was it before?
Sorry, let me re-ask that.
I kind of asked that really badly.
Yeah, awesome. So, I mean, I'm interested to know, when were you first able to start to
link up with other people who were kind of like minded?
Was it before or after the Manila trip, which really kind of solidified things in your
mind? Yeah, that was really, I mean, because before Malana, I was just connecting to, like
I said, people more to acquire like hash, if I could get more of that experience that I
liked at that point in time after smoking that.
But once I went to Malana, you know, and I came back and I traveled a little bit to other
places, like I said, so that I realized, I mean, I could only go to so many places, you
know, that I have to have other people.
I have to have friends and people, like minded people in other states, because India is a
vast country.
Right. So it's hard to travel, you know, all across the country.
So I thought this would be a good idea.
But in the end, I mean, that didn't really work out too well because, you know, a lot of
things that happened.
And it's understandable because if you're going to involve, you know, if human beings are
going to involve in something, then there is going to be some fuss at some point.
So that was not really a big deal, though.
But yeah, after that, I mean, I was really, you know, inclined towards getting connected
with more people, you know, who are like minded.
But after I realized that, hey, you know what, this is not going to work.
I mean, I cannot trust somebody who's sitting on Internet because I see that is the trend
right now that, you know, you get hold of someone who's on Internet.
Let's say he's in, you know, Africa and you say, oh, you're in Africa, so you can get me
African seeds. Well, he can get you African seeds.
But I mean, if that's how you're going to go about it, then I think then we're at two
different places, you know, thinking about this thing.
So I thought, you know, I have to go there.
And the other more bigger part was that, you know, that it had started to generate some
sort of revenue. And I had a concern that, OK, now I have this revenue coming in from
the seeds. So what happens to this?
What do I do with this? So eventually you start thinking about it.
And you understand that, you know what you have to do.
All of your answers lies in one thing that you have to physically go to these places.
You have to meet these people, people, make them understand, you know, what your program
is all about, what you're doing and how it's going to help them.
And, you know, the other community on the other side of the world and just make them
understand that this is something bigger than you, me and all of us put together, you
know, and, you know, get them on board.
And at the same time, they get paid for the seeds that they're giving.
So that makes you feel great.
I mean, you know, that, you know, not only that you're helping in preservation, you're
also able to mobilize resources to these people who could never imagine making money
of seeds. I mean, for them, it's the resin that makes really the cash.
Now, I'm trying to make them understand the value of the seed and, you know, value of
just about everything in that plant that, you know, they may be undermining so far.
Yeah, of course, that's a really valuable point to make.
And it brings on a range of different questions I had, such as, do you think that money is
one of the best things you can trade people for the seeds?
Or what are some other things?
Because I remember in a previous Bodhi episode, he mentioned a few different things he
likes to trade and they all sounded really good.
Like he'll take some basic medicine sometimes or, you know, some coloring in books for
the kids and whatnot.
What are some things you like to trade?
Do you think just money is the best?
No, I don't think money is the best, at least not for the villages, you know, which are
really located in remote areas.
So, for them, even if I get them some money, I mean, it's more like being on an island
with a lot of cash. I mean, you can't really do anything with it.
Right. So, what I feel more appropriate is I really go there and understand their
situation. And, you know, we look around at how could we make life better for these
people, but at the same time not interfere with the culture enough that it begins to
morph into something, you know, like a third thing.
So, you have to be very careful about that.
So, what we do is, you know, mobile phones is one of the most sought after things amongst
the villagers because, you know, they can hardly get to those places where good mobile
phones are available.
And then, you know, battery backups and LED lights, which are charged by solar energy
and just a bunch of batteries and, you know, clothes for the kids.
And of course, some, you know, other things that kids would really appreciate and, you
know, you just could not find there.
But still, I mean, being very careful that, you know, we don't bring something that might
lead to any detrimental change in their culture or that, you know, could be the beginning
of something which is not desirable.
Yes. I mean, to kind of throw you in the hot seat, what do you think about what greenhouse
seeds does where they go to these places and trade their crappy European genetics for the
landrace seeds?
I don't really have an opinion about that.
I mean, because I think I've seen the documentary, you know, that they came in Malara and
it was really nice. It was shot, you know, very professionally.
But I don't have a very strong opinion about it.
But I will say this, that, you know, they should not be giving people those seeds, you
know, I mean, because, you know, then I heard an argument from someone.
It was a really stupid argument that somebody said, hey, you know, these are like feminized
seeds and, you know, it doesn't really matter.
And you just begin to understand, I mean, how short-sighted and myopic, you know, these
people, these people's visions are because they're not thinking even if it's a feminized
plant, if it gets pollinated, which it will get pollinated by the males around it, and
sudden seeds are going to drop.
You can't you can put like an umbrella under those plants and make sure you collect every
seed and just takes one seed to fall down, you know, which is like a hybrid, which is
hybrid in nature. And I'm not saying that it's going to ruin everything or but you have
to understand, I mean, we already have a lot of that.
I mean, you know, we have all the hybrid varieties we want and we have these places where
it's even legal and you could grow it and it's being sold and being taxed.
You know, people are making T-shirts and trays and I don't know what not.
You know, so that's just, you know, I think that's enough.
You don't have to really bring it to places, you know, where it's really not required.
I mean, that's just how I feel about it.
Yeah. I mean, I'm probably going to go down a wrong path here, but just as a one
isolated question, because we're going to talk about this a lot more later.
Yeah, no problem. I mean, no problem.
Have you ever gone to an area like a regional area, found a patch and you thought, oh, my
God, this is all just like super lemon haze or like something like that?
Mm hmm. Yeah, of course.
So if you go to Himachal Pradesh, there are certain places, you know, you could absolutely
tell what's happening there.
So Himachal Pradesh is a very interesting place.
Let's just first of all, understand something about, you know, how people are and then
that would really put a lot of other things in perspective.
So when you compare three Himalayan states, Kashmir, Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh, I'm
going to say the most advanced state and the most advanced people are living in
Himachal Pradesh. When you just compare it, I mean, amongst these three states, not rest
of the India. And why that is?
Well, that's because of the exposure that they're getting.
They have so much tourism going in there.
You have these Israeli people who would almost never go out of Himachal Pradesh.
I don't even understand, you know, how they can be there for indefinite periods anyways.
And you have Europeans, you have Americans and you have, you know, all these other
countries like Australia, Canada, New Zealand, you know, people travel over there.
And what happens is that over time, you know, people get more and more exposure.
It's almost like those people are traveling to those countries because the experiences are
so frequent.
So they have been acquainted with the information that is just not available, you know,
to other places of traditional, you know, cannabis.
And these people know that there are varieties that exist, you know, which flower
faster and can grow, you know, bigger buds.
And, you know, they're very, very potent as well, you know, which would ultimately, you
know, get you more money if you were to make hash from them.
So there are people who understand.
But where those people are, they are in Manali.
They're around Manali, in old Manali especially.
There's a place called Washisht that's like famous for that.
And then you have Nagar.
There's a place called Nagar that is also around like old Manali.
So these places are like really famous.
And you go there and, you know, you could just look at the plant and smell it.
And, you know, this is not a plant, you know, that's been grown here or has been, you
know, domesticated from the wild populations.
You just understand that, you know, this is an effect of, you know, genetic infection
rather. So, yeah, there are places.
But luckily, places like Kashmir and Uttarakhand have, you know, stayed safe from
things like that because, you know, first nobody goes there really.
And, you know, even if they do, I mean, you don't get enough tourism from other
countries that you would eventually start to have people who can bring seeds over
there. Plus, you know, we've been going around those places and, you know, we've never
really seen anything, any sign even remotely close to something that would suggest
that, you know, there's been an activity like that.
Yeah, of course.
And I guess the follow on question I have is that do you think that people trading
these modern seeds to land race regions could ultimately lead to the extinction of
those regional cultivars?
Yeah, this is I mean, this is pretty much how it's going to go down and it's
inevitable in a way.
And no matter how much we, you know, dislike it or say, you know, we're going to be
warriors and we're going to stop this.
You know, we're all human beings and, you know, and we're not even like a government
funded program or something.
Right. So we understand that eventually when a lot of people, you know, would become
aware that, you know, there is a global community and, you know, the interaction would
begin to happen in a way like it happened in the IT sector, you know, which is just
absolutely maddening.
Then you're going to have tons of people, you know, selling seeds to India and it only
is a matter of time that someone goes out to all of these places and, you know, start
growing these plants and start infecting everything and changing them eventually.
But that's what, you know, really our existence is all about.
And, you know, as much as I don't like it, I mean, I'm not going to say that it will not
happen because that's just not practical.
Yeah, there are going to be some places which will be saved, places like Lollap
Valley in Kashmir or because you just can't go there.
And I mean, like it's hard.
And the only very few people who can go there, I mean, you know, we know who those
people are. So for the longest time, I think they will be able to save their natural
varieties. But places like Malana and places like, you know, even Urgam Valley in
Uttarakhand, you know, where tourism is more, those places would be the first one to
fall prey to things like this because they're easy to access and, you know, the
villagers are very friendly.
And well, I mean, that's all you need.
And, you know, they have an inclination towards making more money from this plant.
So I just don't see why they would not want to have those varieties.
And they would understand that clearly we can make more money off this and just make
the whole situation better for us, harvest early.
I mean, you cannot deny the fact, you know, that there are certain advantages, inherent
advantages, which are attached with these, you know, hybrid varieties.
But you just have to move to a different plane to look at it from a different angle
and understand that it's not all about that.
But for the villagers who are making money off it, to them, it's all about that.
And as soon as they realize that they can do something better than they would, they
would do it.
Yeah, OK. And I guess my final question on this topic is, how do you feel about the
fact that greenhouse seeds, for example, has never reproduced and sold to the
public, these lines, as far as we can tell, it's just sitting in their seed bank?
And again, I don't really think about those things and I don't really seem to have an
opinion or, you know, available emotion for that that I can readily express right now.
But what I think about that is, I don't know, there could be reasons because they did
take Melana line and, you know, they made certain varieties with it.
But at the same time, you're right, they never really released those things in pure
form. So then you have to understand, I mean, you have to begin to think at least that
these people, I mean, someone who does not want to include everyone into the club
basically, you know, is not for the people, right?
Is those people are just trying to do something which is very specifically beneficial
to them, but at the same time make it appear as though, you know, other people are part
of it. So, I mean, it's pretty clever, but at the same time, you know, it's a business
and, you know, it's not a surprise.
I mean, you know, human beings have done so many things.
I mean, this just does not even, you know, this just doesn't stand in a way that it
would surprise anyone that, you know, that has happened, that they've never released
any of the pure lines. But, well, that's changing because we're here and, you know,
other people are here. So many other people from India right now who are actually on
Instagram and they're actually, you know, interacting with these other folks and
getting these seeds out as we speak.
There are folks from India I know, and these are all decent collectors.
OK, they're good guys.
They're trying to do good things as much as they can.
And they have partnered with certain folks in America.
And, you know, they're going around doing these partnerships and, you know,
preserving the pure variety and then making some hybrids with it and, you know,
rolling it out to public, you know, collect the funds and then, you know, distribute it
amongst the grower and, you know, the collector and the other people, the farmers
who are involved. So I'm just saying, seeing these so many, you know, multitudes of
facets, you know, in which people are discovering, you know, how the preservation of
the landrace and heirlooms could become more prevalent and could become a thing,
actually, that, you know, if you are a person of cannabis and you don't grow a
landrace and heirloom variety, if you haven't preserved one, then it should be like,
you know, shame on you, something like that, you know, that you seem to say that, you
know, you derive a spiritual pleasure from this plant, right?
But at the same time, you haven't done anything to preserve the source from where
you derive that pleasure. So once people have that kind of understanding, once we
understand on the spiritual level why the history matters, why we cannot ignore these
people who have done all the work for thousands of years, who have gone out in
the wild, recognized the plant, brought them back, domesticated them, and got them to a
point where they started to look like the cannabis plant that we, you know, look at.
And then some people from Europe or America, you know, they went out and they
grabbed those varieties and, you know, made hybrids within a matter of few decades.
I mean, that was only possible because before that, those varieties were, you know,
domesticated for thousands of years. Let me just say this very bluntly.
I mean, if those people had to go out to places where, and, you know, get the
varieties which are absolutely wild, you know, they grow like just really weed, you
understand why it's called weed. And if you had to work with them, a lot of people
would still be breeding them and getting them to a point, you know, where they have
some sort of consistency, some sort of homogeneity in terms of their traits that
they like. And that's really when, you know, so it would have taken a lot of time
and we wouldn't be nowhere near where we are. And a big part of that is to understand
that, you know, the domestication part, the foundation work was done by the people, you
know, who are these indigenous communities in Himalayas, in Afghanistan, in Pakistan,
you know, Africa, in Laos, Cambodia, Thailand. And like, I don't want to just
like list all of these, but you know, all of these places. So we have to recognize
them in an organic way. This is not a political way of seeing it that, hey, you
know, these guys deserve it. No, it's not like that. I mean, if you're going to say
that, you know, that I get a spiritual experience from cannabis, then let me ask
you something, you know, what is the essence of spirituality? I mean, it lies in
the deeper subjective understanding, you know, of our own self, of our things that
are around us that makes us happy. And this is one of the things that I can think of
that makes me happy. And, you know, it has a deep impact on me for that reason. So how
can you like completely or truly, I mean, reconcile that spiritual experience without
actually knowing or understanding or even appreciating the magnitude of work which
indigenous communities have put in these thousands of years before we came into the
picture. So once those things become, you know, common knowledge, and we know all of
that history, the cultures, that's when we can truly say that we are able to now have a
complete spiritual experience from this plant. Just what I feel.
Yeah, no, really powerful sentiment. I dig it. I dig it. So if we just jump back in the
story, I just wanted to quickly ask another question about the Milana fields you went
to, were they making charis or hash from those plants? And if so, what was it like?
Um, yeah, I mean, so they don't actually like stand in the fields and rub them. What they
usually do is either they send the women of the house or like somebody would go out venture
into the fields with like a makeshift basket, which is attached to rope and you could wear
it like a bag, right? So they would, you know, cut a bunch of plants and they would just
bring them to a designated place of rubbing. So let me just tell you some a little about,
you know, the rubbing here so that, you know, it becomes a bit more understandable. So one
is Milana village and most of the rubbing does not actually happen over there. Most of
the hash is not actually made in the Milana village because their fields are around the
village, which are these different valleys, Vaishan Valley, Wailing and Magic Valley and
a few others. What these people do is that these people have makeshift houses in each
of these valleys where their fields are. So they're not traveling back and forth every
day to their house during the harvest season because the harvest window is small. At the
same time, police is cracking down on them and they have to make sure that they go get
through their, you know, whatever they've grown, they're produced very quickly. So the
best way to do it is during the Octobers, they would move with the entire family to
these places like, let's just say in Wailing Valley. And now from that point onwards, every
day is simply dedicated from morning till they go to the sleep, rubbing hash, producing
hash, it's just a relentless process. They're speaking to you. I mean, you could be there
smoking or eating food or looking around and you would just see these people are going
about it as if like we go about breathing around that point in time. So it gets normalized
pretty soon once you know, you get, you grow accustomed to it because you see so much of
it. I mean, as soon as you get in there, if you go there, you know, the season when, you
know, plants are flowering, that is around October, of course, October and November as
well. But November, you don't see much of rubbing, but October is everywhere. I mean,
you just get near Malana and you know, the air has this freaking smell of cannabis, you
know, it drives you crazy and it tells you, you know, where to go. You can just leave
the smell.
Oh, wow. That sounds lovely. I think I actually saw on one of your Instagram posts that you
were saying a lot of the kind of hash and charis and whatnot that comes out of that
region is kind of like a 50-50 of THC to CBD. And I thought that's really surprising. Do
you, like, what do you think of that? What do you make? How do you think that really
happened? Because I don't think many people would have predicted that.
Yeah, first of all, I'm going to tell you like why I think that is the case and like how I
got to that conclusion. So there was somebody in Europe who imported by, you know,
however he managed it to import some hash, which was from Malana. OK. And that was tested
and it came out to be like 50% THC and almost like nearly 50% CBD.
Now, you have to understand that if hash is coming from Malana, it's not coming from one
plant. What you have there is you have a small chunk taken out of a huge chunk that was
made from so many different plants.
I mean, if you were to do like a random sample, like you were doing an experiment, that's
exactly how it would be done.
You would just go about without discriminating amongst the plants.
You just say the first 50 plant that I encounter, you know, I'm going to rub them and
whatever the hash tells me is going to be the story is going to be the phytochemical
story of this population.
Right. So when that happened, what we saw was you see, you actually see a higher amount
of CBD, by the way, but it's still, I mean, almost equal.
It's like 60-40 kind of thing.
And then there was another incident.
So this was one incident.
The second isolated incident was I gave some seeds to one of the guys who grew it and he
grew actually a few of them, not just one or two.
And this guy did something really interesting.
He did not seed them and, you know, he trimmed them and cured the buds and he smoked
everything separately and he had marked the plants.
And then he came back to me and he said, hey, he said, look, it's weird, but here's the
deal. Some of the plants, you know, have a great high and then these and some plant have
mild high and there are some plants which have no high at all, no effects.
And they're like this.
They have all the trichomes.
They have all the beautiful smells just like the other plant, but they just don't have
any effects to them at all.
And that gets you thinking that what is happening there.
So basically what you're seeing is you're seeing resin on the plant.
So there has to be some something, some cannabinoid in it.
So if it's not THC, then what is it?
I mean, the only more abundant cannabinoid that, you know, actually is present in the
environment is CBD.
And I had already known from that test that came from Europe for that hash that was
imported from India that a major part of the, you know, the chemical composition is CBD.
So if you just put these observations together and, you know, think in a, you know, in a
reductive manner, then you ultimately get to a conclusion that, look, there seem to be
this distribution of population in a way that there are plants which are purely, you
know, making CBD.
And with that said, they have certain amounts of THC.
I'm not trying to say that's zero THC.
There's some THC with predominantly CBD.
And then you have plants which have a very nice balanced CBD and THC content, which is
close to 50-50 or, you know, just various combinations.
Then you have plants which are dominantly producing THC and they're, you know, they
produce very little CBD.
So what you see in nature is, I mean, in Malana, that you seem to have these three
varieties and they're intermixed.
They're getting cross pollinated.
So the population or the dominance of the population, you know, it works out in a random
fashion. So what you see is that the dominant genote, sorry, the chemotype is the one
that produces CBD and THC.
And I actually fell back to one of the studies that happened in 2003.
I think this was from America.
Somebody did an experiment.
He took a drug variety and he took a non-drug variety, which is a hemp.
He crossed them. And what he saw in F1 was, you know, from the heterogeneous population,
he saw that most of the plants carried a co-dominant expression, which was THC and CBD.
And about like 25 percent of the plants, close to 25 percent of the plants with CBD and
close to 25 percent were THC.
So it was almost like a one ratio, two ratio, one in F1.
And that tells you something that if these populations are led to mix and intermingle,
then which chemotype would eventually be more dominant and which would be a little more
recessive in nature.
And that's exactly what we're seeing in Malana when we isolate these plants and grow
them separately and, you know, take out the resin separately and sample them.
Because that is just not a thing that's going to happen in Malana.
I mean, you can't get people to just rub one single plant and give you the hash and then
rub a different plant. Although we are going to try to make that happen this year, we're
hoping, we're hoping that we're going to make this happen.
But it's going to be difficult because it's hard to find plants big enough that you could
just rub and make a tangible amount of resin to sample for five to six people.
So we'll see if we can work it that way and if I can get some of the samples out for
testing as well. And I can have the testing done from one single source to really get a
comprehensive report, which can be taken a little more seriously.
Yeah, that's a cool little goal for this next coming year.
I guess the question that comes to mind for me is why do you think we see this strong
occurrence of CBD in this type of hash compared to say Afghani hash, where we just
see it's primarily THC?
I think that the answer lies in the way human beings have interacted with the cannabis
plant. A big part of that is the way they have been domesticated.
So if we just rewind a little bit and let's just start from a time when human beings are
not really aware that cannabis is something that they need as a plant and has so many
beneficial properties and such a wonderful thing to be around.
I'm sorry, just give me one moment.
I'm sorry. So once that happens, once a community, let's say, let's take an example of
Hindu Kush. A community in Hindu Kush realizes that, hey, this is a great plant.
This is growing around us and it has certain properties and it's really cool.
So what they do is they take that plant and they bring it to their surroundings where
they grow other useful plants like tomatoes or coriander or anything else that they grow
over there and they would start cultivating it along with it.
So eventually what's going to happen is some physiological changes would be observed over
time because of the frequency of the nutrient increasing and the plant would eventually
accommodate to those changes and become vigorous, right?
Would increase the surface area of the leaf.
The stem is going to become more rigid instead of the spindly one.
And it would, of course, produce more because of all those changes present in the plant
eventually. So the domestication that happened in Hindu Kush, basically that happened
around the recreation part, because I don't think in Hindu Kush they were making ropes out
of the plants. I don't think they were domesticated, those domesticating those plants so
they could take out seeds and make chutney out of that.
I don't think those things were happening over there.
What I really think was happening there was that they had realized that this plant has an
amazing capacity to produce substances which are just amazing.
Like, you know, it could take you into a different realm altogether.
And, you know, for someone who's more religious, he could associate it in a way that, hey,
this could be spiritual, you know, and it brings me closer to God.
So for those reasons, I think most of the domestication that happened in Hindu Kush, that
happened around the recreation part.
They were more inclined towards, you know, cultivating the plants, which had a more
significant effect on our cognition rather than selecting plant which looked to be more
beneficial or had like more stem to it or, you know, larger leaves or whatever.
But once you come to like, you know, Southeast Asia or Central Asia, it's a whole
different thing. Central Asia is in the North Indian part of Central Asia.
So a whole different thing.
What's happening there is, first of all, you look at the plant.
The plant has a different morphological structure.
How does it differ from the Afghani variety?
Well, the way it differs is it's much taller and it's and it flowers for a little longer.
But when you look at the leaves, you know, closely at a domesticated variety, let's say
from, you know, Malana, what you see is the leaves are not narrow.
They are actually pretty broad.
They are actually pretty broad leaves.
It's just that the plant grows in a way that when you look at the overall plant, you
cannot say that it's a broad leaf variety because it does not have the other
characteristics which would correspond to that.
So basically, I mean, same thing is happening in the Hindu Krishna.
The same thing is happening in Malana.
But what is the difference?
Now, the difference is that in Malana or in India or Southeast Asia, people are selecting
for various traits and not just for recreation.
They're selecting the plants because they want to make ropes out of it.
They want to they're selecting those plants because they want to be able to use that
fiber or those thick stems or, you know, thick stems for a shelter or something.
Right. So those changes ultimately led to the way those plants are.
I mean, they have like a hemp like structure and basically they are not as potent, not
nearly as potent as any of the Afghani varieties.
And I think the biggest difference that I mean, the difference between, you know, having
a variety which is very potent and not very potent is the way they were domesticated by
human beings and what they domesticated them for.
I mean, that's what the embodiment of the plant show with.
Of course, a lot of feature has to do a lot with the environment as well.
But I think we'll get to that later.
But just for the domestication part and from the part that you said, why a certain variety
seemed to have, you know, a much more intense effect than the other one.
Then I think that really is the answer.
The answer lies in the way they have been domesticated from the earliest time and the
people and the communities which have engaged with those plants.
Yeah, what a fantastic answer.
So, it makes me think then, do you think that maybe this selection for a bit more of those
hemp traits like what we mentioned in the Southeast Asian region, do you think that
how they did select for those other traits such as the fibrous characteristics and whatnot
added to why these plants perceived as having a more uplifting high?
Or do you think the uplifting versus sedating component was almost independent of that type
of selection?
I think they have not really selected for the effects very specifically.
I mean, that could be something which is just innate to the plant that a certain type of
plant, I think it could have something to do with the environment because what you usually
see and I don't necessarily subscribe to the idea that, you know, the narrow leaf varieties
would always have or necessarily have an uplifting high in an Afghani variety or a short,
you know, short flowering variety would always have sedating effects.
I think it's not that black and white, first of all.
But yeah, even to a large part, if you feel, I mean, that is the case which we see to a
large extent it is, then I think that is that's byproduct of more like the environment that
they grow in, I think.
And I don't really understand.
I'm not trying to say that I do understand that.
But I would I would lean more towards the environmental factors which may have
contributing in the, you know, in the way the plant makes you feel.
And I'll give you one example.
I mean, that might make you understand that why I'm leaning towards more environmental
factors. And that is the quality of the resin.
So when you go to a when you go to a region, you know, that's that has a very dry climate
and the rain is very scarce.
And it's very arid and cold.
What you see is the trichomes have a very dry texture on the outside.
I mean, they're not very sticky.
I mean, you really have to, you know, I mean, what do you really have to touch them to
break them apart? You know, and you can't just touch them and expect that, you know,
like a jelly like like a saliva like, you know, thing would happen as you touch the
resin because it's just not sticky.
But on the other hand, when you go to places which are like which have a subtropical or
a tropical environment where rain is prevalent and it's really wet during the
flowering, what do you see?
What you see is that the resin has a very gluey, sticky texture.
And, you know, it makes perfect sense, you know, because in a situation where it's
constantly raining while your plant isn't flowering, what you would want is your plant
to have a very sticky kind of resin so that the water does not hold on in between them
and it just, you know, slides right through the buds because that is really going to
help you mitigate those environmental risks.
I mean, apart from that, there are certain innate qualities in plants which make them,
of course, resistant to things like mold and mildew and all these factors.
But the apparent physical traits, some of the apparent physical traits are also there,
which you can see as the adaptations in the plants because of the environment they grow
in. And now we're talking about the texture of the resin.
I mean, we're talking about the thing that actually induces the, you know, the
psychological changes when you smoke it.
So if the texture of that thing is dictated pretty much by the environment to grow in,
then it's only reasonable to believe that you could take it a step further.
And, you know, it probably transcends into, you know, the effects as well.
And but again, I'm not going to say that that's the case or I understand that, but that's
what I feel about it.
No, that makes a lot of sense and it perfectly segues into my next question, which is that
we often hear this idea expressed about, let's just say you're in some region and you
smoke some of the herb and it's brilliant and you're able to get some of the seeds.
People would often say that if you take that back to where you come from, let's assume
you're from a different country, you go back to where you're from.
If you grow it out, say indoors or just under some quite controlled conditions, it's just
not going to be the same, you know, because it was all about the terroir and the
environment. Do you think that's the case?
Like if I get some really nice bud from India, am I never going to be able to reproduce it
even with the seeds in Australia, for example?
I think what's contributing to that sort of thinking is a few different factors.
And I'm just going to like lay it out here.
I think the first and the foremost thing is that we have to understand if you're in a
place like India where it grows naturally, let's take an example.
Let's take the example of Malana because it's a known place.
Right. So if you're in a place and you find a plant, oh, this is a great plant.
You know, I would love to grow this plant when I go back home to US or Australia,
wherever. And you take out seeds, but you don't know which males went on to, you know,
pollinate that plant.
But apart from that, what you're looking at is not a true breeding variety.
They're not true breeding in nature.
So that means they are not homozygous for all the traits you're seeing in them.
And that's one of the reasons why you see so much variability in the field.
I mean, when you look at 100 plants and like there are like 35 different kinds in 100
plants, then you understand when there is a lot of variability in terms of genotype.
Right. So it becomes really hard to find that plant.
That's one of the things, because it's not being, you know, bred by someone.
It's not being narrowed down or bottlenecked.
They just emerge as like one off plant that you may encounter and may like.
Now, the second thing is the question that you asked that, is it all about the terroir?
Is it going to be the same?
Well, of course, terroir plays a pivotal role in the way your plant is going to look.
For example, if your grow room is too hot, I mean, you know, your plant is going to look
like shit pretty much. Right.
And if you have a colder environment in your room, which is around 22, 24,
20 degrees Celsius, then, you know, your plant's going to pretty much have a very good
time, even if there are some other deficits, the plant would still do much better.
So we understand that even in real time.
I mean, you know, the plant reacts to the environment it's in and it's trying to
mitigate those things by, you know, expressing itself in a way that it could just get
through this somehow and produce flowers and make seeds.
Because at the end, we have to understand the plant is not working for us.
OK. The plant is working for itself.
It wants to make seeds.
It wants to reproduce.
And that's it. So now it's up to us, you know, that we have to save it from the mail
and, you know, you know, make it sensibilia or like whatever we want to do.
But again, we have to understand that the environment, while it's having an impact on
the plant, it's not so deep that it would change the characteristic in a way that you'll
not be able to recognize it.
And I'm going to give you an example for that.
Let's just say that you went to Kerala and you collected some seeds.
Now, we all understand these are equatorial varieties and, you know, they flower for a
very long time, around 16 to 18 or even 20 weeks sometimes.
It's rare, but they do.
Anyways, so you bring that back and you grow inside your house.
So what you may see is that you might just see that you have slightly broader leaves
because your indoor grow room or your outside condition may be a little colder, you
know. So you might see that, but you're not going to see that a Kerala plant is going
to finish in eight weeks.
That is not going to happen.
I mean, a change of that magnitude would never happen.
That is one thing.
And then the other thing is that are you able to find the very specific bud or the flower
or the flavor that you're looking at?
Now, in terms of flavor, you can get lucky because flavors, even in, you know, even in
the population, which have great variability.
I mean, you know, the flavor seems to be pretty homogeneous.
I don't know for what reason, but it is.
So, yeah, you can have, you know, you can find the flavor within a relatively small
population. But if you really want to find the same plant, there is no guarantee.
And if somebody is like offering you seed by saying that, I mean, well, then you should be
very skeptical of that person as well.
I can definitely agree with that sentiment.
So, I want to ask a little bit because, I mean, I'm the first one to admit I could
probably be a bit more educated about this, but what's your take on classifications?
Because I know that you're not particularly into the whole sativa indica thing, because
as you said, it's just not so clear cut.
How do you try to classify plants?
And as a little follow up, how would you describe most Indian varieties?
I've heard that they're more kind of uplifting.
How would you describe them?
Yeah. So, I mean, before I really get down to the classification part, first of all, I'm
going to speak briefly about, you know, what exactly is the problem with the current
nomenclature that, you know, we seem to use.
So, the indica sativa thing, I mean, now I'm hearing a lot of people, you know, they're
trying to say that, hey, you know, this indica sativa thing doesn't seem to work.
I mean, the distinction is not, you know, great enough.
And then there are a lot of plants in between.
So, you don't really know what to call them.
So, people are, you know, the more they get exposed to different varieties, the more they
would understand that how these, you know, labels are just not going to be enough to
encapsulate the whole idea of this plant.
Now, where it particularly fails is, I think, in the settings that where people have not
been who are using these words.
So, let's just say somebody and I'm just giving an example, right.
So, let's just say, for example, in someone in America says one day, I'm going to call
all the cannabis plants with narrow leaf sativa and everything that grows with broad
leaf and stay short, you know, subsequently, I'm going to call it indica.
And he's like, OK, that's perfect because that's all I see.
I see narrow leaf plants and I see broad leaf plant.
But that's really his world.
I mean, I mean, it's not other people's really fault that you have never gone out of
your house or you've never gone out of your country.
Right. And you've never seen that, you know, there's more exist in the world.
So, from that person's perspective, it's perfectly OK.
And, you know, the system seemed to work OK up to a point where other people start to
come in and, you know, they start sending in all these varieties.
And what you see is you see narrow leaf plant that finish faster, like, you know, what
you would expect from an indica.
And then you have, you know, broad leaf, really broad leaf plant that would go on to
flower like 13 to 14 weeks.
And that's when you begin to think that, hey, is it really, I mean, is it really
sufficient, the sativa indica label, to, you know, capture the whole idea?
And clearly the answer is no, it's not.
I mean, at the best, it creates confusion and nothing else.
Now, another problem with that kind of labeling is that when you go to, I'll give you
an example of Kashmir, if you go to Pulwama.
So what you're going to see is there are farm population which are being farmed by
the farmers, right, domesticated ones.
And just on the vicinity, what you're going to see is there are a lot of wild
population, untamed population, which is just growing like wheat.
And nobody is stopping those two varieties from interacting with each other.
And then you see a third variety stemming from that interaction.
That is an intermediate variety between those two.
So how do you account for that?
I mean, it's hard.
It's hard to account for it.
So that label sort of like fails us in like so many ways, you know, that I just
don't feel comfortable using it because I often get to points where I just feel that
this is not enough. So what I did as a solution, because you just can't complain
about it, right? You have to do something about it if you don't like it.
So what I did was I thought, you know, this I think I may be wrong, but I think
Robert Clark was the person who proposed that, you know, these should be labelled
as broadleaf and shortleaf plants.
I'm sorry, narrowleaf plants, which is good.
I find I find that, you know, much better because, first of all, those words are
self-explanatory. You don't need to tell someone what a narrowleaf drug variety is.
It just explains itself in itself.
That's amazing. You want it to be simple.
Now, the second thing that it does is that, you know, it effectively classifies those
two plants that we are referring to a narrowleaf drug producing variety.
And then you could have varieties which are narrowleaf and non-drug producing.
So it also accounts for those varieties, which is great.
But then again, you run into a small problem.
And that small problem is when you encounter varieties like, let's say, from
northern Kashmir, which are narrowleaf, but they flower very fast.
They, in fact, flower within 55 to 66 days.
Then it seems like that there has to be a little more to that broadleaf, narrowleaf
section, if you could.
Well, there is a very good answer to that.
So what I thought was you could basically look at these plants and I'm not I'm not
talking about hybrids here, OK, because those are like man-made, you know,
combinations. So we're just talking about the naturally occurring varieties and the
varieties which were derived later and domesticated in those regions and elsewhere.
OK, so what we can do is we can distribute the word in basically four to five
different zones. So initially I did four zones.
And what I did was I thought, OK, so I'm going to start from the equator.
So what do I have is the thinnest leaves, like needle-like leaves in the plants which
are growing near the equator.
But they're also not at high altitudes.
I mean, you can be like, you know, like Colombia, you know, where you have highlands,
even though it's pretty close to the equator, not that close.
I think it's around 26 degrees north, but still.
So but there are highlands, so it's going to affect the plant in a different way.
So I thought, OK, pure first category is going to be the purely narrow leaf plants
which grow in the equator. And I call them equatorial long flowering varieties.
Now, what this does is, first of all, it tells you about where that variety is coming
from. Equatorial. You immediately know this is an equatorial variety, comes from
equator. The second thing you immediately understand, it's a long flowering variety.
OK, so an equatorial long flowering variety.
Now, this is where I say that you go around the equator anywhere in the world and if you
find a plant that is naturally growing or being domesticated around the equator, it's
going to have a very long flowering period, around like 14 to 16 weeks, which is
quintessential to the cannabis varieties which have adapted around those regions.
And it's going to have narrow leaves because it's going to be hot.
And the plant would, you know, the way plant tend to mitigate that is by, you know,
reducing the surface area of the leaf.
Then we move on to the second section.
The second classification was highland long flowering zones.
So now if you come to places like Colombia, like I spoke about Colombia or I would
actually like to talk about Himachal Pradesh or Malana because it's around the same
latitude. It's around like 29, 30 degrees north.
Right. So again, these places are not very close to the equator, but they're not very
far away from the equator either.
But at the same time, there is a very interesting characteristic attached to the second
category. That is that these are highlands.
These are the places which have altitude over 1500 meters.
So anything and any region that is below 33 degrees north and I will come back to it.
Why 33 degrees north?
I'll come back to it later.
Any place that is 33 degrees, which is below 33 degrees north or south of the equator and
it has an altitude of 1500 meters or above, that would be classified as a highland long
flowering variety. Because when you go to these places, what you see is you see a
medium long flowering varieties that it that flowers just a tad bit earlier than, you
know, the equatorial ones.
So your Kerala finishes around 16 and your Malana is going to be done around like 12, 13.
So there'll be about a month's difference.
OK, then we move on to the third category and this is where, you know, things will get
really interesting. And the third category is the areas which are high latitude, short
flowering zones. Now, the word tells you that these all areas are situated in high
latitudes and the plants that grow there are short flowering in nature.
So we're talking about places which are 33 degrees north or above them, they seem to
have a characteristic that those varieties will finish faster and they always tend to
have bigger resin glands and like more copious coverage of resin, which again makes
you believe, makes you think or believe that the colder environment has a direct
relationship with, you know, the resin coverage or the production of resin, because
when you go to the places near equator where it's hot, the resin is not never in copious
amount and trichomes are really small, which is exactly the opposite as you move to the
high latitude regions where it's always really cold because you're in the higher
latitudes. So the varieties tend to have these characteristics.
And the last one is high latitude highlands.
So there are some highlands within the high latitude because the third category that we
spoke about high latitude, short flowering zone, that was for all the places which are
below 1500 meters in altitude, but above 33 degrees north.
So they still have a significant short season and the varieties tend to finish around like
eight to nine weeks, but or around like 10 weeks, sorry.
And then you go to a different region, you know, which is highland, but it's again
situated above 33 degrees north.
Now things really get interesting here because not only those places are going to be
cold, you know that those places are going to get the snowfall right around the end of
November, around the end of October or the beginning of November, because one, they
are so higher up in latitude.
I mean, they're above 33 degrees north.
Secondly, there is 1500 meters of altitude or more involved.
So places like Hindukush, you know, Hindukush mountains or certain places in Pakistan like
Chitral or Abbottabad, all these places are like above 33 degrees.
And, you know, they also have an altitude of 1500 meters and more and they seem to have
completely different characteristics.
These are the plants, you know, which have an insane amount of resin.
I mean, some of the plants have so much resin coverage on them that, you know, it could
really, you know, rival any of the hybrid varieties.
And we understand that all of these places, you know, where high latitude, highland, you
know, regions are of natural cannabis varieties or for domesticated cannabis varieties.
All these places are luckily, you know, situated in dangerous areas where, you know, your
greenhouse or yellow house seed company could not have gone, you know, with their seeds
or whatnot. So we understand, you know, whatever we're seeing there is a byproduct of the
environment. So that's how you can basically classify four categories.
And you can go on my website that is www.indianlandraceexchange.com.
I have written an article that was written, I think, about a year, year and a half ago
about this. And I need to amend a few things to it because I'm always learning and trying
to put together, you know, more information in a more coherent manner.
So you guys can go and actually read that article, you know, if I may not be explaining
it very well here. So but that's one of the classifications which I feel is really
complete and it kind of encapsulates everything, you know, that is present in the
cannabis hotspots where cannabis has been growing either traditionally for a very long
time or has been growing naturally or has been domesticated.
The only issue that I had later on was with one of the regions that became apparent to
me and that was the cold desert regions like Neeti Valley in Uttarakhand.
This is close to Indo-Tibetan border and it's only at 31 degrees north.
So this place is not above 33 degrees.
However, the conditions, the environmental conditions at Neeti Valley are exactly the
same as they are in Hindukush mountain top.
These are, first of all, let me just explain to you, explain it to you why it's that
because Neeti Valley is a cold desert because it lies in the rain shadow of the
Himalayas. So Himalayas has a rain shadow and anything that lies under it will never get
the monsoon. Okay.
It's going to be absolutely dry.
So that's one of the reasons it's absolutely dry and, you know, arid.
And the plants that grow there, they kind of grow in exactly the similar conditions
than compared to the plant which are growing at high altitude and high latitude like
Hindukush. So they seem to acquire exactly the same features as plants from Hindukush or
plants from Chitral and these places, except for when you go to Neeti Valley, there is
no domestication that has happened.
But you can apparently see a short stature plant, you know, in the absence of moisture.
It grows really tucked to the ground to keep all the moisture intact.
And the flowers are dense.
The resin is really dry.
Leaves are deeply serrated, which is very characteristic of plants which come from, you
know, high latitude and high altitudes.
So you see all those features and, you know, we have and that really solidifies our
understanding that, yes, indeed, environment is that one scale that, you know, we can map
everything against.
And, you know, it will be really helpful in understanding and in classifying these
varieties. But again, this does not really encapsulate any of the hybrid varieties.
So then if you want to have a different system for referring to hybrids, I think then
somebody would have to, you know, come up with a way to do that.
There was another classification which was done after that because environment is not the
only factor, even if it is the biggest factor in shaping the way plants are.
The second biggest factor is the human beings.
Now, so we did a little, we made like three different types on based on how human beings
interact with the plants. And the first plants are, which are completely wild primordial.
They have no contact with human beings.
Human beings have never domesticated them.
They have never fed them.
And that's one. And then the second category we made is of directly affected wild plants.
Directly affected wild plants are something you find in the cities.
These are primordial varieties, naturally occurring varieties, never been domesticated,
but they're getting affected by human presence.
They're getting affected by the artificial lightning, by all the pollution that we're
creating and all the other situations, you know, our kettles graze on them and stuff like
that. So those have, you know, driven some changes.
And once again, I wrote an article on that that is also present on my website.
So if you guys want to get a little more insight into that, I would, you know, I would
say that you should read that.
But coming back to the point, so that's the second variety which we classified in terms
of human interaction, that varieties which are also wild, but they are affected by human
beings, not domesticated by them, affected by them because of our activities, because
of what happened after industrialization, industrial revolution, you know, lights became
widespread and, you know, things had to change.
And if you go look populations at, you know, Punjab, what you see is that a lot of plants
now auto flower because, you know, they are constantly growing under different light
patterns from artificial streetlights.
They have figured out a way to induce flowering without the light hours because that's
a much better way to reproduce in a situation where, you know, light is not natural.
And then you see some of the plants, you know, they have intersex tendencies and the
auto flowering tendency, you know.
So a lot of different things which are and these changes are, you know, more or less
driven by our activities, our, you know, involvement consciously and consciously with
those plants. And then we selected third variety, I'm sorry, we made third category in
terms of human interaction.
That was the domesticated varieties, the traditional varieties like in Malana, in
Uttarakhand, in Balochistan, in Pakistan, in Afghanistan, you know, which are actually,
you know, affected by human beings, but are actually domesticated, not affected in an
adverse manner, but are like cared for and, you know, made into something which is more
meaningful. Wow, what a really comprehensive rundown.
That was awesome. I appreciate that.
I guess my next question is quite broad, so I understand if you find it a bit hard to
give specific answers to, but everyone I speak to who's really into land races has the
same sentiment where they say, I've never really tried an Indian land race.
You know, it's one of those ones which just doesn't get as much attention as some of the
others. What other land races might you try to compare India to if you just wanted to
try to give someone an idea, if you were like, oh, it's kind of like a tie, but a bit
different, like, you know, how would you describe it to someone?
That's a great question.
Thank you very much for framing it in that way.
So now it's really easy to make comparison and answer that.
Now, like you said, I mean, Indian varieties, I mean, you know, they get like
undermined big time.
And I'm telling you, you know, even though there's a little bit of work involved there,
because again, like I said, and I accept this, that, you know, the domestication, the
level of domestication that has happened in India is nowhere close to what has happened
in places like Afghanistan or Pakistan.
I mean, right. So rightly so, people are right in choosing those varieties more often
over the Indians or even some of the Southeast Asians for that reason.
But I think another reason that's there is really the cultural reason.
And I'm going to try to, you know, I'm going to actually try to, first of all, answer
the other question that I would say if you go to Kashmir, if you go to southern Kashmir
or Pulwama or Srinagar, how I see those plants look very similar to your Ethiopian
plants, you know, the plant that come from Ethiopian highlands.
And they're very spindly and they look absolutely the same to the Kashmir varieties,
at least to me. And, you know, that's one of the very sought after varieties.
So, I mean, yeah.
And the South Indians like Kerala and Shilavati, they're like pretty synonymous to your
average, you know, Southeast Asian varieties that comes from Thailand and other places
like Vietnam. But now coming back to the cultural reason that I was going to touch upon,
actually, that is, I think, I mean, try to think about this.
All the varieties which are really famous in America or in the larger world are the
ones where America had like had a war.
So they had a Vietnam War and like Vietnamese seems to be very famous.
And, you know, they constantly have something going on in Afghanistan for so long.
So Afghanistan seems to be, you know, of, you know, seems to be very famous.
So there are a few things we have to understand.
And the first is the psycholinguistic aspect of it, that if you're going to hear about
something for so long or you have certain memories attached to it, right, so you're
naturally going to incline more towards those things, even though you don't understand.
I mean, there are a lot of people who have never actually had a pure Vietnamese and they're
going to tell you that is the best sweet in the world.
And that tells you something about, you know, how people are getting to these
conclusions. I mean, I'm sure there are some killer varieties coming from Vietnam,
right. And some people have had them and some people truly know that, you know, these
are mind boggling stuff.
If you run into one of those psychedelic plants that induce the psychedelic effects, it's
really uncanny to feel that way on cannabis.
But do we really feel that everybody has gone through that kind of experience?
I don't think so. I think a lot of the, you know, opinion that people have about these
different varieties is just shaped by because of the culture, the way cultures have been
and they are emotions are attached to certain places.
And also because you had a war in like Vietnam or let's say somebody had a war in like
Afghanistan, then there is a bigger, there's a fat probability that that person is going to
get some seeds back.
Right. And you can only appreciate things that you have.
So if you only have Vietnamese and Afghani, then of course you're going to appreciate
them. You can't appreciate something you don't have.
I mean, in a way, in a subjective way that you've had them.
Right. So I think it's only a matter of time as the Indian varieties become more
available to people that people would understand that.
However, it requires a little bit of work.
But there are so much untapped potential in these lines and, you know, there is no one
way to really work with those varieties.
I've seen people work with them in different ways.
Some people just try to find very nice plant out of a thousand plants and, you know,
reverse it and just go from there.
Some people like to, you know, select for traits and, you know, eventually homogenize
them and then, you know, work them, work with those varieties as true breeding varieties.
And some people just take them and, you know, hit it with other hybrids.
And that creates fantastic plants as well.
Requires some sort of selection work later on, but all good.
So I think once these things become more prevalent, it becomes like a norm because I
have been doing this for about like five years now.
And I can tell you this, that five years ago, you know, when I was on Facebook and I
initially come here, I mean, people were not as inclined, you know, towards collecting
and preserving land. And I'm not trying to say that people weren't doing that, you
know, because it could be viewed as that.
And it's not because there were a lot of people who I consider to be legends, you
know, like Bodhi's there and then you have Snow High.
And, you know, I want to name a lot of other people, but, you know, I couldn't.
But all these people out there, they have done all that work, you know, so nobody's
saying that, you know, it wasn't done, but it was not widespread.
And I don't think that, you know, people were, how should I say this, people readily
wanted to, you know, get these varieties and grow them because the culture was not, you
know, the cultural, the flow of the market as well, because, you know, there is a market
which we cannot ignore.
Right. So you have to understand the dynamics are such that people are inclined towards
varieties, you know, which will finish faster and, you know, which are being hyped by the
media or the social media.
So a lot of there's a lot of small things, you know, which have contributed so far, you
know, in Indian varieties not really being, you know, one of the ones which are sought
after really when you talk about Landry's and Holt.
But I think at the same time, the same technology helped people from India to connect
with all across the people on the globe and, you know, really get these seeds out to them.
And it's only now that people are beginning to understand that, you know, no cannabis is
bad or good cannabis.
It's just you have to grow enough of it to find that great one.
Yeah, what an awesome sentiment.
I mean, just to jump off topic for one second, because you kind of brought it up yourself
there. How would you describe the effect that social media such as Instagram has had over
the cannabis scene and the community within India?
Has it changed it fundamentally in your opinion?
Yeah, it has. It has a lot.
And I think Instagram has done possibly a lot more than YouTube, Facebook and all the
other platforms we know of put together.
Because first of all, you know, when Instagram came in, I mean, it gives you a seamless
platform to just go ahead and, you know, upload pictures and talk about them.
So that's basically like just being in being in that place and listening to that person's
story. So it's really intuitive, first of all.
So I think that had a very deep impact on the people in India.
And apart from that, all the information that is coming from the Western world, you know,
because now people in India, a significant amount of people in India knows what OG is,
what cookies. I mean, they don't know about all the, you know, stories behind them and all
the controversies, of course, because that is something internal to the community.
But they know what cookie that there is something called cookies and oh man, it's the
best thing. And in the most basic way, I mean, you know, you cannot really blame someone.
And I'm not trying to say that cookies is not good.
It's really potent. I've smoked it.
It's great. OK.
But I mean, that's how people are getting their information.
They're getting it from.
I mean, I don't want to say, but from the lowest common denominator sort of sources, you
know, who just brings it down to a point where, you know, more people can understand it
opposed to a thing being more factual.
I mean, I think because the social media is more inclined towards making it more universal
to wider audiences, they seem to lose on a lot of content, which could have been, you
know, a lot more meaningful and would have imparted knowledge in a sense that people
would then be curious because, see, you cannot teach someone in one video or in one
audio and one picture, whatever.
Right. It has to be a relentless process from the person itself of learning.
So all you can do is you can incite the curiosity inside that person by telling him the
truth, telling him, you know, how things exactly are and how there are some things we
don't understand and how there are some things we understand now.
And I think unless you're leading these people into a larger pursuit for understanding
the plant, then we're just creating a similar society here, you know, where people
would just fall back to some of the well-known and respected varieties like Oji and
Kukiza, you know, they would breed with them.
There are a lot of people who are actually breeding in India.
I mean, they're not necessarily in India on Instagram or Facebook for obvious reasons.
But there is a lot of work going on and all credits to, you know, social media.
It has really brought nothing short of a revolution, if I may say so.
Wow, what a great path for us to go down.
I really want to keep going down this road.
So, I mean, my first question is, do you see what we would refer to as Kali import within
India? Oh, yeah, a lot, a lot, a lot.
I mean, more than you would think.
So here's the deal.
I mean, first of all, let me go ahead and put things in perspective for you that in India, if
you have hybrid wheat, as we call it, OK, in India, if you have hybrid wheat, it sells for
anything between 800 to 1000 US dollars for every ounce, about 30 grams.
OK. Yes, sir.
That is that is the least price that you will get it for.
And then, you know, there'll be instances you might be spending like fifteen hundred
dollars or twelve hundred dollars because it's not available in India.
And there is no such quality.
I'm sorry. There's no such thing as quality in India.
OK. About when it comes to hybrid.
So if you have hybrid, if it looks different enough from the conventional wheat and you can
say it's hybrid and it would sell for seven, eight hundred, nine hundred thousand dollars,
man, like whatever you feel like scalping off of other people.
Right. Yeah.
So, yeah, I mean, they love it.
I mean, because the prices they get from, you know, people in US, it's insane because I
know I had some friend, you know, who would send an ounce for like a hundred bucks, like
hundred dollars. Right.
So if imagine if you could just get announced for a hundred dollars from US and you could
sell it for a thousand dollars in India, I mean, that's insane.
Right. I mean, you'd be.
Yeah, you'd be pretty rich, I would say.
But at the same time, I mean, this is a whole different domain, you know, people who sell
wheat. I mean, so but I'm just trying to put things into perspective that that's how
people, you know, view wheat in India.
And that's the price is like, I mean, that's the kind of price tag that
comes with it. So, yeah, a lot of people are smoking it at the same time, but it's not
readily available for Indians here.
But we do see a lot of bags of cookies and runs, you know, making it over.
Oh, my God, I love that you see runs.
That's so good.
So, you know, I got kind of like a little triple question here for you.
So, the first part is, do many people grow indoors and are there any kind of
strains which are grown locally, which people are well aware of, like, you know, like
the Indian blue dream type of thing?
Is there anything like that?
Yeah, I think most of the people grow indoors because of the obvious reason, it's not
being legal. And some people are blessed to be in places like one of my friends, who's
actually one of the guys who breeds along with me.
He lives in a place where he can grow it outside and, you know, because there's nobody
around him. But most people, this is not the case for them.
I mean, you know, we have to stick to the indoors.
Now, to the more interesting question you asked, the local variety.
So there is one such variety, but I cannot vouch whether it's simply being, you know,
bred out of Kerala gold or whether it's a combination of Kerala gold and a hybrid that
was then selected, you know, which.
So I don't understand that.
But here's the thing. There's a strain called Shilavati and you can Google it.
And I would recommend you Google that.
Just write Shilavati in Google.
I'll give you the spellings later.
And you would see that, you know, there's so much being written about it.
And it's grown in South India.
And this variety is not confined to one place.
It's grown all over South India.
And then it makes it over to North India and everybody knows the name.
This is one weed everybody seemed to know the name of because it would get you higher
than any other weed, you know, and it has a dense structure.
The buds, I mean, they're not dense like the like Oji or Kukki dense, but, you know,
they're relatively dense when you compare it to Kerala or its predecessors like
Idukki gold. But it has a great smell.
It has, you know, probably a more intense smell and the high is better.
So, it's really taking India by storm.
But again, you can't really compare it to, you know, some of the varieties that you guys
have been able to breed.
I mean, nowhere close to that.
But sure, yeah, we're getting there slowly, I guess.
Yeah, well, that's still really cool to hear.
So, when people are doing their little indoor grows or even outdoors, how do people tend
to grow? Do they do it organically in soil?
Do they use salts?
Like what's the most common style you see?
In India, most people choose to grow organically and it is not based on how they feel
about, you know, different growing methods.
I'll give you an example for in America.
What I see or at least I feel is that why people choose to grow with salts or no-till
or water or whatever is because of how they feel about, you know, if it's grown
organically or if it's grown with salts.
But that's not the case in India.
In India, I think it's driven by something else.
So we don't, at least the younger generation, is not really sensitive about this organic,
non-organic thing because we're just in a different sphere here in India.
Most of the things come organically to us.
And we are more concerned about how can I spend the least amount of money and still
pull off a grow? And that inevitably leads you towards organic growing.
So that's really what the motivation is behind more people actually doing organic
and very few people actually using these nutrients.
And I'll tell you which people do use these nutrients.
And it's very synonymous to the Western countries.
The people who are growing for selling the wheat.
Now, there are a lot of people who are pumping units from their houses.
OK, they're like growing the tents and like big rooms.
And they feel that, you know, if they can use these nutrients which come from Europe
and America, then their wheat would look as good as theirs look in picture.
But that's, I mean, and you know how that translates in the end.
But at least that's how those people feel.
And they tend to spend a lot of money.
And the other hand, you know, they don't have a concern around money because they're
actually getting paid for it.
They're not growing it for their consumption.
So they have a whole different financial situation going so they can actually think
about, you know, using something like, you know, expensive fertilizers which come from
countries like America, Europe.
So there are different groups, but basically that's what the thinking is in India.
Yeah, of course.
Well, I mean, that certainly makes sense.
And especially considering most things are organic, you could understand most people
would do that. So just to kind of stay on this general topic, what would be your
advice to someone if they've just flown into India somewhere?
Is there kind of like a general strategy you would advise for them to be able to track
down some wheat or do they really just need to like ask around?
Like what's the way to go about doing that?
Well, it depends, I mean, where you're headed to, because I mean, India is such a
diverse country when it comes to culture and people and languages and so much more.
You know, every 10 kilometers language changes, you know, the dresses changes.
So does the culture and the way people behave and people feel about certain things
which also involves cannabis.
So, for example, if you go to Uttarakhand, that is my hometown, and you see a very
relaxed kind of demeanor towards cannabis from other people.
I mean, you know, you could literally go to a tea shop and you could buy a tea.
And after five minutes, you could ask him, you know, if you could like help me score
some. And if he doesn't have some, you know, he will like let you know where you can
get some. And, you know, if he doesn't, then he would just likely say that, I don't
know, or he would probably send you to another guy who would be able to help you.
But if you're going to, let's say, South India, it's not, I wouldn't say, it's not
recommended that, you know, you go ask any random person, but you rather try to connect
with the youth in South India, because in South India, the younger people are a lot
more into cannabis than I would say in North India.
So there's a very good probability if you're speaking to someone, you know, who's of
I was between 18 to 30 years old that he would know the whereabouts of the weed.
But in North India, yeah, pretty much you can like speak to the people who are driving,
you know, go-kart rickshaws or who are selling, you know, cigarettes.
And these are the go-to people.
You know, you go, the best place you can go to is go to a guy who's, you know, driving
that go-kart rickshaw kind of thing, you know, the three-wheeler.
I don't know what you guys call that over there.
Yeah, rickshaw, right. So those people are really famous.
And even so much that, you know, when our parents had to scold us for like, or had to
tell us that weed is bad, they would say that, hey, this is the drug of those rickshaw
pullers, you know. So you smoke it and you're like, yeah, you're like them.
So, I mean, it's so engraved in the culture that, you know, it becomes something, it
becomes something of an expression to scare kids.
So you have to, I mean, we generalize a lot.
I mean, it's really bad.
No, no, no. I totally understand that.
So, I mean, if we just kind of move on to kind of the physical landscape a little bit
more, what's the soil like to growing?
Because you mentioned that people tend to grow organically.
Is the soil well suited in your opinion?
Is it rich in nutrients, fairly depleted?
How do people work with it?
OK, now, soil is a very important aspect for growing plants, as we all know, but I think
there is a vast difference between how things are happening in, I'm not going to talk
about Europe because I'm not really aware of that.
But in terms of America and India, I can draw like this little comparison that in
America, I see a lot of people buy soils.
And for someone in India, that is completely insane.
I mean, you know, nobody would give money for soil.
I mean, it's not in a way insulting other people, but you have to understand from our
culture, we don't pay for soil, like we pay for food.
We don't pay for soil ever.
OK, it's free.
And what another reason behind that is because most of the soil is fertile here,
because what is northern India, by the way?
Northern India used to be a big flood plain for all these different rivers.
I mean, there are only five rivers flowing from Punjab itself, that used to at least.
And all of the soil that is here is actually alluvial deposits and the minerals, you
know, which the rivers have flown down into these plains from the mountainous regions.
So the soil is really good.
It's alluvial soil, mostly like it has a clay loam like texture.
You know, in some places it's more yellowish.
You go to other places, it's a little bit dark.
But soil is really good.
And, you know, the pH is right around like seven, I think like seven, around like
seven, seven point two.
It just hovers around that.
So it's perfect for cannabis.
I mean, and even, you know, if there are some varieties, you know, which do not thrive
in like higher pH, because you're using the natural soil, you have the indigenous
microbes. I mean, they're just going to, you know, equalize that effect.
I mean, they're going to counteract that effect.
But at the same time, you know, we have to be very careful when using, you know, things
like mycorrhizae because we're using indigenous soil.
So there's already a species of that, you know, which is present.
And, you know, sometimes people would buy mycorrhizae from outside of India and then
you would have two different species competing and, you know, it could lead to other
problems. But yeah, overall, we mostly have this, you know, clay, loam and alluvial
deposits, you know, vast deposits of alluvial soil and, you know, the cow dung and is
just free. You can get it from anywhere.
So in India, I mean, people really don't have that kind of like soil buying culture or
like nutrient buying culture.
I mean, it's certainly coming to India.
I'm not going to say that Amazon is not now selling.
Amazon is selling soil.
But I don't think a lot of people are buying it as of now.
But the culture is due for a change.
Things are going to change, you know, because, of course, the economy is also getting
stronger. I mean, apart from this coronavirus thing that just happened now.
Apart from that, things were going good for India.
And I think eventually, because people are going to, you know, going to be making more
money and they would be more resourceful, they will eventually be able to move on to the
ideas like, hey, let's try to invest in soil.
Let's try to buy soil and see if that makes a difference.
And I think it would make a difference because, you know, while the clay and the loam is
great, but I just feel there are certain properties, you know, that could be changed.
Like it's not very loose.
You know, it's not like it's very compact.
So certain properties like that.
But overall, the soil works fantastically.
And this is the I mean, North India is the Mecca of cannabis.
Right. So all of these varieties has been naturally growing here.
So I could say very confidently that the soil that's in northern India, at least in
northern India or northwest Himalayas, is very suited for growing cannabis.
And that's why most people just go ahead, you know, dig some soil and they're good to go.
Yeah, well, I mean, it makes total sense, doesn't it?
You raise an interesting point, though.
I would really be interested to see what some of these cultivars would end up looking
like around harvest time if they were put in some kind of like American no-till soil,
because I remember my first run with that sort of soil composition and it was quite
different to what I was using before.
And it was it was a very different outcome for the same clones.
But to get back on topic for the people who are just using the soil around them, that's
just free. Do they try to supplement it with like basic, you know, like basic compost they
make or anything? Or is it really just planted in the soil, water only and what you get is
what you get?
People do make compost because compost making has been an integral part of Indian
culture. So it's something that people are readily aware of.
So I've seen a lot of people use, you know, compost.
They have compost bins or they have a designated place or a pit where they stockpile all
the leaves and everything.
So, yeah, that happens.
But again, I mean, the nutrient part is people are not big on nutrients, like buying
nutrients, just like buying soil.
But like I said, if something someone is running a commercial setup, you know, he's able
to sell it for a fortune, then of course they can afford it.
And they are doing that because they don't want to leave any stone unturned and making
their weed the best in the market.
Right. And probably make more money off it.
But at the same time, they can afford it because they have they're getting some returns
out of that. And the same time, there are other people, you know.
Who are interested in doing that because at the end, the plant grows amazing in that
soil without any inputs.
But you see a lot of cow dung being used, which is just, you know, very inherent to
in people in India.
So, yeah, I mean, we use cow dung for a lot of other things.
I mean, we, you know, like dry it up and, you know, smoke it, like burn it up.
So it takes care of the mosquitoes because we, you know, we have a big mosquito problem
in India, as you know.
So it's always around us.
So it's only a matter of for us, it's only a matter of time, a matter of looking around
and, you know, finding those things and fertilize it.
And everything is just all around us.
And because the cattle are also, you know, going around everywhere.
So they're taking shit and it's getting mixed in the soil.
So the soil seems to be really good overall.
So people are not really inclined towards using nutrients.
Some people do use them, but it's a negligible portion of the, you know, overall community.
Yeah, of course.
Really, really good answer to that one.
So the Indian climate itself, you know, I know that it can get quite hot and also quite
cold. How do you feel that impacts things?
And for how many months of the year can you grow in, say, North India, for example?
In North India, if you are at a fairly lower altitude like I am right now, I'm at near
Shivalik right now and I think around 700 meters.
OK, so here it does not snow at all, but it gets really cold in the winters, but not as
cold that you cannot grow the cannabis plants.
Right. So you can go 12 year, I'm sorry, 12 months and you can grow pretty much around
the year. But there is a significant change in the light duration.
I mean, it's not like equator that you have a 12 hour day all around the year.
So because of that reason, then you would have to supplement light or you would have to,
you know, veg your plants inside if you're going to do that towards the end of the season.
Let's say I decide to grow my plants in October after just going through my first cycle,
then I would have to give them some vegetative time indoors or have to at least
supplement some light outdoors in my balcony or whatever to make sure that, you know, they
stay in vegetative state for a significant amount of time before they hit the flowering.
So then you can eventually have something on the plant.
So that's one thing.
I mean, that 12 months are available, but then you have to look at the light.
The light is not really in your favor all the time.
Right. Another thing that happens around here in North India is that what you see, these
feral varieties which are growing in the flatlands, especially Punjab, Haryana, New Delhi
surroundings, these plants grow all around the year, like, you know, like you would see
in some of the equators.
That means in springtime, some of the plants would come up, OK, and they would go on to
they would suddenly go into flowering because the light is still relatively less.
But they would just kind of stretch and not really start to flower because these are long
flowering varieties and they tend to have a stretch before they really start to flower.
So those varieties will, you know, stretch and then they would again go into vegetative
state as the summer would hit around like end of April and May.
And then they would again go into flower sometime in, you know, around August then and
they would finish around like November ending.
But as soon as the November end comes and those seeds, you know, fall down on the ground,
I mean, they don't stay dormant like some of the places like Kashmir, where because in
Kashmir what happens is once the seed fall down, there's snowfall on them.
So those plants have evolved different features in them, like some of the plants in
colder places like Kashmir in higher altitudes where the snowfall happens for like two to
four months. They have developed features like seed dormancy, which can be chemically
or physically induced, like physically induced in a way that it could have a very thick seed
coat, you know, that will take a very long while to wither and eventually it'll take the
time till the snow is off and it will ultimately pop out in spring.
So one is that and then there's chemical dormancy.
You know, I think that is caused because of the abscisic acid in the seed.
And really the only way to break that is you have to take those seeds and put it in the
refrigerator and, you know, mimic what would happen in what would have happened in the
nature, like it would have been under the snow.
So you keep it like a couple of months under in the refrigerator and then you try to pop
them and they pop, you know.
So that doesn't really happen in here, northern India, because here you have the
varieties, they fall down on the ground and next week they're out because, you know, it's
not snowing and it's not that cold that they're going to die.
So you just have this perpetually seedlings coming up and plants going into flower at
different stages and reverting to vegetative state.
So it's a very complex picture.
I mean, you have to live here and you have to go out and, you know, with a little
notebook every day and just look around you.
And it's not that hard to understand, but it's complex.
And if somebody is going to come here for like a day or two from a different country, I
think it's going to be very difficult for him to really, you know, appreciate all those
little things.
Yeah, certainly there's a huge layer of complexity to it all with everything going on.
I'd love to know, though, you've spoken about how there's all these different areas
geographically with India, you know, we've got like the high altitudes, the lower, some
kind of in the middle and even deserts.
Out of all of them, what produces the nicest end product in your
experience?
Okay, well, if you're going to talk about the nicest end product, I mean, there can be
few ways of looking at it.
So some people would say bigger bud or some people would say more potent
resin. Right.
So I'm going to talk in different aspects.
Okay. Like I'm going to say that this region or this place would produce
the best of this certain characteristic.
Okay. So first, if we begin with cold desert region, a cold desert is
basically what it's extremely cold place and that it doesn't rain at all,
nothing at all. I mean, maybe once or twice a year.
And all you see is just rock withering away in a very arid,
desolate region.
So you have some plants growing in those regions.
So, number one, I'm going to put those plants right up there for their hardiness and for
their survival skills.
So if you're going to look for a variety that has the
abilities to survive in least amount of water and in marginal conditions as
they are in cold desert, then that would be the number one for me.
Okay. But then let's talk about in terms of resin production.
Okay. And when we say resin production, I'm talking about in how dense the resin
coating is. Okay.
And whether it's confined only to the floral bracts or is it also moving on to the
leaves and to the stems and the periols?
Okay. Because some varieties do that.
And once again, if you go to cold desert regions like Neeti Valley,
you know, close to Indo-Tibetan border in Chamoli,
those plants tend to have a very dense coverage of
resin, surprisingly.
And the trichomes are big as well.
Even though the plants are really feeble and small, they have absolutely zero
vigour to them and they barely look like cannabis plants, by the way.
But you would find plants which have just amazing and parallel amount of
resin on them. And similar is the case with Kashmir.
I mean, the places.
So basically what I'm trying to say here is that if you go to the colder places
and more drier places, places like Hindukush, places like Chitral in Pakistan,
places like Neeti Valley, then you're going to encounter, you know,
populations which have a dense resin coating and, you know, the resin is abundant.
Now that could be because these places are higher up on the latitude,
higher up on the globe and, you know, also have altitudes.
So they may be exposed to, you know, a more intense ultraviolet radiation.
So we don't understand, you know,
what basically trichomes are doing or what all they're doing at least.
So if it is to deflect, you know, UV radiation,
then certainly it makes sense, you know,
why those varieties would have bigger trichomes and a more dense coverage,
even on the non-reproductive parts like leaves and, you know,
patioles of the plant.
But if you're going to talk about the girth,
if you're going to talk about the produce, well,
it's absolutely zero in these places.
You go to Kashmir and you go to places like Neeti Valley, the cold desert places.
And again, the cold is doing something here.
The cold is somewhat like a factor that is directly influencing, you know,
these changes that while the resin coating is going to be absolutely maddening
on the plant, the plant is not,
the plant itself is not going to produce anything.
You may even see plants that has no bud at all. I mean,
there's a couple of floral bracts here and there and leaves coming out of them,
but they're just completely smothered with resin. So that's what you see.
So they're not fully complete. They have certain aspects, you know,
which are really desirable to us as if we talk in terms of like commercial
production, but they don't have all of them.
They just seem to have like one or two. Okay. So then you,
you could move to the other extreme and the other extreme is the equatorials.
When you go to the equatorials, what do you see? Equatorial regions, I'm sorry.
What do you see is that the plants produce huge buds,
huge yields. I mean, you know,
it's hard to find a plant that is not yielding a lot,
but when you get closer and you try to look at the resin production,
it's not even close, not even close to, you know,
what you have seen in places like cold desert or in places like Kashmir,
you know, not even close. It's not dense. It's sparsely scattered.
And it's very hard. It's very hardly you see that on, you know,
patios or on the leaf surface.
It's mostly confined to the reproductive part. And again, we don't understand,
you know, what all things, you know,
trichomes do so we can't really say what's driving that,
but at least that's what we see. And at least we can, you know,
relate it to you know, the environment,
because those results because those observations kind of
hold up, even if you go to different places with different cultures.
So we know that it's not because of the domestication.
We understand that this is something which is inherent to these varieties or
inherent to this terroir that they are growing in and they've been growing in for
so long. And so then what's left,
what's left is in between your highlands, your, uh, the, the places which are,
you know, very close to a Tropic of Cancer around like 28, 26,
29 degrees, 30, 31 degrees of North.
And they also seem to have a little bit of Highland. So, you know,
because the temperature is cold, but at the same time, it's not extremely cold.
So what do you get is a beautiful mix of both of those worlds.
You get good resin content. I would say at least decent resin content.
And you can find plants which more than often would produce, you know,
good yields. So then it only becomes a matter of, you know,
looking for the right plant. I mean,
I'm just growing enough to run into a plant that you can say, I mean,
you could say that, yeah, this is, this is it. This is what I, uh, you know,
what is good. So, um,
if somebody is going to find that ideal plant and then either he would have to
take both of the extremes and, you know,
cross them and just go from there or he would just have to look for these
intermediate varieties from Highlands of, uh,
which grow around the tropic of cancer and, you know, have,
seem to have best of both worlds to some extent.
Yeah. What a really awesomely detailed explanation.
I think viewers will probably have to listen to that one a few times to pick out
all the awesome bits of info there. So there you have it guys.
Part one of two done. What'd you think?
Just buckets of information. Irising, Skola. What can I say?
I hope you guys are getting rid of part two. As always, huge shout out to CT Now,
best C bank in the game. You know, they got you covered. Hit them up.
You want that fire. It's the only place to go.
Pop it biological systems, hit them up. They got the beneficials.
They got the microbial powders. They got your artificial feeds.
They got everything you need to keep that garden pump and happy and healthy.
Big, big, big thank you to our Patreon supporters. Everyone in the Patreon gang.
I appreciate you guys so much.
Hope you're enjoying listening to this early and we'll see you for part two guys.
I'll see you there.
