Hello and welcome to the next episode of The Podcast, a cannabis podcast for budding enthusiasts.
You're joined by your host, Heavy Days, and this episode, as always, was brought to you
by our incredible sponsors.
Seeds here now, number one seed bank in the industry, guarantee on satisfaction, not just
germinate.
Go check them out, all the hottest drugs, all the best breeders.
They've just put up some new stock.
Go see if it's what you need to make your next run fire as hell.
Likewise, in order to get the best run out of your genetics, you need to keep your garden
happy and healthy.
And for that, we'd like to give a shout out to our friends at Coppert Biological Systems.
These guys have all the best predators in the game to keep bug infestations away and
to fight off any unwanted issues you may be experiencing.
Check out their Spidex Vital or their Afipar M, both fantastic products for fighting off
spider mites or aphids respectively, two pests a lot of growers struggle with, but they're
here to help you get on top of it.
Furthermore, huge shout out to Pro-Mix.
These guys have been in the industry for years.
As you know, they make great media-based products using peat and mycorrhizal, but guess
what?
Now you can get their fantastic mycorrhizal product on its own.
Pro-Mix Connect, the number one mycorrhizal product in the game, helping you to achieve
greater yields, better resin, enhanced flavor and terpenes, helping you to make your next
harvest the best today.
Check out Pro-Mix Connect for all your mycorrhizal needs.
I'd like to welcome our newest sponsor onto the show, Charlie's Cannabis.
These guys are family-owned, small batch craft cannabis out of Oklahoma City, providing you
with fantastic flavors and incredibly high quality flower for anyone who's in need of
some high quality medicine.
Growing strains like Star Pebbles, Chemical Sunset and so many more.
Go check out Charlie's Cannabis for all the best craft, small batch, Oklahoma grown cannabis.
They've got all the flavors and herbs you need to make sure that you're puffing good.
Last but not least, huge shout out to the Patreon gang.
You guys know you're the lifeblood of the show, helping to ensure episodes happen.
If you would like to help support the show and ensure future content is continued to
be created, please go to patreon.com forward slash the podcast and sign up.
You'll get access to unheard content, additional interviews, giveaways and so much more.
Patreon gang, love you guys so much.
Appreciate you.
Thanks for joining me for part two of the interview with JJNYC of Top Dog Genetics.
If you haven't checked out part one, I recommend you do.
It was a killer.
In this part of the episode, we chat more chem dog genetics, some history on top dog
seeds and some more about the future.
So without further ado, let's get into it.
Amazing, amazing.
And by the way, I love the name wheelchair for a strain.
That's got to be the best.
I mean, if we just go back, you spoke about the genetic drift you've seen in plants and
a question that comes to my mind about that is, do you think a similar thing happened
with the original sour diesel?
Because it seems like so many people would just, the original sour diesel was the best
thing they'd ever had.
You know, they, people talk about the delivery services in the nineties and how it was just
so good.
And now it sort of feels like it's been lost in a sense.
What do you think has happened to the real sour diesel?
Yeah, I mean, you know, it's, it's probably has drifted a little bit.
I mean, some of the cuts that I've gotten back recently have gotten that kind of variegation
that mosaic.
But I don't think it's the mosaic disease, but it is some type of virus.
I believe I've been seeing it a lot on a lot of older cuts.
You know, has that kind of little variegation to it, like the, like the ChemD does, but
you know, the ChemD has always had it since day one.
So I mean, yeah.
So I think some of the sour diesel is, I mean, you got to think about it.
I mean, that stuff, you know, has been around since, you know, 95.
So you know, how many years is that?
You know, and so it really reaches the point, you know, you get a cutting, you know, how
many generations old is that by now, by the time you get it?
You know, so, and, you know, even, you know, like a lot of people that I know, they don't
keep mothers, they just go from clone to clone.
So, you know, after a long period of time, you know, there's got to be some type of genetic
drift that happens.
And yeah, it's really hard to explain, I guess, some strains a little bit more hardier
than others.
I guess I have seen, I guess, Indigo is kind of dead out faster than Sativas.
But yeah, I think some of the, some of the sours are getting kind of old.
So and that's why I kind of decided to, you know, start to do some back crossing.
And I've gotten to the back cross fours, but that really wasn't my intention.
I really wanted to do the back cross three.
And I have back cross three F twos that I'm, I just popped and I'm gonna be working into
F three sour diesel.
So yeah, hopefully, you know, and a lot of the back crosses a lot of the reports, the
stuff that we've grown out, a lot of it is, you know, like the old time sour.
So you know, it's going to be really just, you know, trying to sift through, you know,
some of those genetics and trying to find, you know, the perfect sour.
So I mean, yeah, we've, you know, grown some of it out in the in the warehouse.
And we're excited with, you know, one of the phenos that we found that was super soury.
And so I think, you know, from the reports that we've been getting from the back cross
threes have been all just really good people excited saying that the sour is back.
That's really exciting to hear.
I mean, out of all the sour cuts that are in circulation at the moment, which one do
you put sort of your weight behind in terms of the one you like the most?
Well, to me, I mean, they're all the same.
I mean, everyone says, well, you know, this Chaco and Rez and this one and that one.
And really, you know, back in the day, there was only one, you know, when I when I first
got the sour diesel, I got it from AJ's girlfriend.
That was the only cutting that they had, you know, and so that was the original, you
know, and how that's, you know, you know, become all these different types of phenos
that people claim is probably because of genetic drift, you know, and how people maintain their
mother and their cuttings over the years.
So, you know, they're, you know, if I have a cutting and you have a cutting and both
of us, you're growing organics and I'm using salts, and we're just going from clone to
clone to clone to clone, you know, after 10 or 20 years, you know, my sour could be different
than your sour a little bit, you know, even though the genetics, you know, are different
or the same, you know, there could be certain qualities that are had evolved to the conditions
that it was growing in over the years.
And that's one thing I think cannabis does, it evolves.
So if you have it in, you know, in a shitty fucking condition over a long period of time,
what do you think is going to happen, you know?
So yeah, it's, you know.
Yeah, I think it's probably only more recently people are starting to realize how detrimental
it is to have those subpar conditions for the mothers.
Something I was interested to ask you about is, there's a lot of notable strains throughout
history that come from sort of chem bags that were maybe lost, like, you know, earlier on
in the episode, you referenced the original guava, things like that.
It made me wonder, were there any other genetics, you know, over say the 90s or the early 2000s
where you really liked them and they weren't chem genetics, but maybe they got lost and
they just sort of don't get mentioned because the chem tends to take the limelight?
Yeah, well, I specifically remember a hash plant that my friend used to get and that
was from an indoor grower.
And we used to call the guy, his name was Dave, Dave Lincoln, and he used to have a
Lincoln beard.
So that's why I used to call Dave Lincoln.
And my friend met him in the Staten Island Hydro store.
He was in there shopping one day and this guy, other guy, odd character was in there
and they just, you know, started a conversation and hit it up.
And so this guy was going back and forth to Amsterdam and had gotten some hash plant seeds.
I specifically remember this stuff because the shit used to blow me away.
And it used to leave the room in, you know, almost in a light perfumey kind of pungent
smell to it, almost like a haze like smell to it.
But I remember this stuff was just, you know, super potent.
I know that AJ, he was able to get some early on.
And yeah, unfortunately, the guy, Dave, he wound up going on vacation somewhere and left
some drunk to, you know, to take care of his place.
And so the guy somehow or another winds up locking himself out of the apartment and is
like banging on the door.
The neighbors called the super and the police.
They opened the door.
And as soon as you open the door, it was just like, bam, you walked into his room, I guess.
And so unfortunately, that hash plant wound up, you know, coming to an end.
And I never, you know, wound up seeing anything quite like that ever again.
You know, I could only assume that those genetics were probably coming from Neville, you
know, because we're talking probably the late, late 80s, early 90s.
So, you know, I would assume that those, you know, genetics came from Neville.
But, you know, that was one specific strain that I remember back in the day.
And there was like a couple, you know, stuff that they used to call Kush and Northern
Lights. And those two things were very kind of and when you say Kush, I'm not talking
Kush. It was a different type of Kush and not Bubba Kush.
So, yeah, I mean, I can't really remember exactly what, you know, that could.
I just remember it was like super crystally and this bomb.
And, you know, I also remember some Northern Lights that used to be around that was kind
of medicine-y and pine-y.
And yeah, so I mean, yeah, there were some really good strains that, you know, used to
be around back in the day and some really good tie.
I remember getting this tie weed that was just unbelievable.
It was called the Golden Eagle Tie.
And the thing about the Golden Eagle Tie, my friend in Times Square wound up getting
it and it used to come in kilos and the kilos were wrapped in cellophane.
And so the brick was wrapped up and then they had a stamp on it of a golden eagle.
And the funny thing about the story is, you know, that stuff only came around once.
It was back in 89.
I specifically remember it because I remember getting some of it and taking it to the
Grateful Dead show.
And it was a memorable run.
And we, I don't know, we had a bunch of people there.
And my friend had a van and we had, I don't know, like three or four cars.
I don't know. There was like eight or 10 people hanging out.
We're getting ready to go into the show.
And I had this fucking tie weed, this Golden Eagle Tie weed.
I rolled up two joints and I lit them both up at the same time.
And we're all in a circle.
I'm smoking on two joints.
I passed one one way and the other one the other way.
So we smoked those two joints and there was a lot of people there.
And so I figured, oh, you know, maybe, you know, everyone didn't get high enough.
So we smoked those two joints.
I wound up packing a bowl and like everyone just dropped out.
I mean, you know, when I had everyone like, no, it's not everyone just fucking bailed,
you know, and I just specifically remember that.
And I just remember, man, this shit must be really good, you know.
So, you know, that that I remember and I remember getting big, huge seeds in it, too.
They're really big seeds.
And eventually I lost them to the cops.
But anyway, the funny thing about the story is that there is a book out called
Tice Tistic.
I don't know if you're familiar with it.
Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. And so I kind of became friendly with the author and.
One of the one someone that.
That I know someone that my friend knows, a mutual friend, they see those stamps of the
Golden Eagle and they framed them in a picture frame and they took a picture of it and he
sent it to me.
And I recognized it right away.
And so I made a I posted that Golden Eagle stamp and the author of the tie stick book
recognized that stamp and actually knew of that particular load and knew of that particular
load that that came because they were they were coming.
They were those stamps were coming from a particular group of people in which he
documents in that book.
And yeah.
And actually he has a picture of I think it was in one of the newspapers.
They had busted part of that load or something.
But they have a picture of that load of the Eagle stamp in there and everything.
So, yeah, that was like a real amazing thing that kind of came.
Another amazing thing that came full circle of was actually being able to track track.
And he actually knows the actual person that he tells a story.
The guy went up into Laos, into this farm and started a farm.
You know, you know, they these guys were smuggling the tie back back then.
And so, I mean, they instead of buying it from people, they actually started their own
farm. That's how deep they started getting into it.
You know, and, you know, if you really get if you if you get into the book, a tie stick,
yeah, it's all documented.
So, I mean, that was an amazing thing.
I thought that, you know, which wound up, you know, coming through.
But but really the really the Internet has really been an integrate part of cannabis
evolve, you know, evolving everything and putting, you know, being able to figure out
these stories of the tie and the chem dog and, you know, you know, being able to
communicate with someone around the world.
And, you know, when it first came out, really gave us the ability to someone in New York
could talk to someone in California and actually like the concept of mailing clones and
and all of that.
It, you know, you know, like, like, if you really think about it, like you, you know,
like, how is that going to work?
Like you're going to mail me something in the mail.
And like, so, you know, all of that was just, you know, very new and and fresh.
And, yeah, you know, it was just amazing.
And really, you know, I'm a product of the Internet.
You know, if it wasn't for the Internet, you know, I wouldn't be who I, you know, and the
people that that's helped me.
I wouldn't be who I am, you know, because how else are people going to know about you,
find out about you, you know, or even connect with you?
And in the beginning, it was never really about being trying to be about trying to be
someone in the industry.
It was just trying to trying to make your hustle and trying to make money to pay your
bills and feed your family and so on.
So, you know, in the very beginning, you know, no one was ever trying to be some kind of
big kind of a breeder or, you know, we just kind of evolved into that.
And, you know, we were just hustlers, you know, from the very beginning.
So kind of being in the right place at the right time and just taking advantage of the
situation, you know, and really having the the balls to really do something that was
illegal, you know, at the time where people now, you know, it's pretty easy for anyone
to, you know, to jump in and, you know, become an Instagram seed breeder.
Yeah, I mean, I've been reflecting on that point myself a lot recently that like any
perceived struggles people have these days, probably quite minimal compared to what, you
know, yourself and some of the other sort of original guys really had to go up against.
So, you know, kudos for taking the risk at a time when, you know, the punishments were
arguably incredibly worse.
I'd love to just link back though, when you were talking about the hash plant that was
lost, it brought to mind, I'm wondering what's your thoughts on the Skelly hash plant?
You know, it's often a really well received cutting among the chem heads.
And as a sort of a follow up to that, do you think there's a link between Skelly and
the Chem 91?
I don't think so.
I mean, I think the hash plant itself is kind of greasy.
You know, there's no chem in it whatsoever.
It's more of a raw Afghani type of plant, very similar to other hash plants that I've
seen in the past.
Hash plant number one being one of them.
I mean, it's a I mean, it's an old it's a very old cutting.
It can be very tricky to to dial in.
It doesn't clone very well.
Yeah, you know, it's I mean, just to describe it, it's you know, I would describe it as
now as a heavy Afghan, you know, which can be kind of bland to some people, you know,
because there's not a lot of, you know, a lot of flavor and there's more of a dankness to
it. So I don't I don't really see a real, you know, between the two of them.
It's kind of a night and day because that the the hash, the Skelly grows really kind of
short and bushy and, you know, kind of like a typical hash plant, Afghan land race type of a
plant where the chems are a little more stretchy and more turpy.
And yeah, I mean, I can kind of see there is a little bit of a similar similar, you
know, they have similar traits to them, but a lot different where I would describe the
Skelly as probably a pure indigo in the chems, kind of more of a little bit of a hybrid
sativa. They just have that little bit more sativa hybrid to them, it seems, and growth
and and structure and everything to.
Yeah, certainly, I've I've had similar thoughts myself, you know, about I guess to me, the
Skelly hash plant has some similar taste to the chem dog, but as you said, that's just
sort of an Afghani taste, I guess.
It doesn't really explain why there's such a dramatic difference in the way they grow
and whatnot.
But sort of, I guess, at the heart of the question is like, what do you think are the
genetics in the chem dog?
And there's a bit of a follow up.
I remember I spoke to P-Bud years ago and and he said, you know, look, Joe Brand's the
only one who probably really can give you any more information than what already exists.
Do you think we'll ever get that information from Joe or someone?
No, I mean, I don't think no one really knows, you know, I mean, I suspect it's got to be,
you know, obviously sometime some type of Afghan.
I mean, just by the chem 91, just by the dark, the dark leaves, you know, which is kind of
similar to the Skelly.
You know, they get that really kind of darkness to them, the shiny darkness to them.
So there's definitely some Afghan influence in there.
You know, I'm hearing, you know, I've heard some rumors of the dog Bud being in Oregon
in the dead family.
I'm trying to get some more information on that.
But that was from an outside source.
I mean, the the rumors all go back to that same area of Oregon and Washington.
You know, so I have to believe it probably came out.
It definitely came out of there.
It could be some type of Northern Lights thing.
But, you know, I would like, you know, if and I'm sure, you know, guys like Greg McAllister
in summer, older and older heads than me can probably answer this question of plants that
were fueling, you know, that chemi fueling this.
Now, I don't know if that was ever a tree of any of the NL tree and NL strains or any of
the Afghans that these guys got back in the day.
But there's got to be someone that's out there that could recognize.
I mean, I mean, that that that, you know, diesel, chemi, whatever you want to call it.
You know, that's a specific term, you know.
And so, I mean, I'd have to think it's got to come out of the some of the Afghans or
Kush's, you know, from from from those regions of hash making.
So, I mean, you know, and you'd really would have to go back to some of those regions.
And, you know, I mean, do you know, do these turps still, you know, survive in their
original form?
Was it something that was was crossed into a sativa type of a plant?
Or, you know, there's a lot of different, you know, a lot of different questions,
because I think, you know, the chem itself is quite complex, you know.
And then, you know, if you look at the 91, the way that it grows, you know, very similar
to an OG Kush.
You know, a lot of you know, there are a lot of people like me think that they're
definitely related to some form or another, just by the way that, you know, that it
grows, bud structure, the fueliness.
Now, obviously, there's, you know, a turp difference and there must have been something
that was something different that was brought in.
So so really, you know, really getting back to, you know, the origin of that fueliness.
Where does that originate from?
And I don't think anyone could really answer that question.
Yeah, it may well be one for the ages.
As sort of a follow up to that question, did you ever have any sort of relationship with
Joe Brand and did you ever see the chem one, two or three?
I never personally met Joe.
We had many conversations over the years online.
We were always one step away from meeting, but couldn't for whatever reason.
I met Pee Bud first before I met Joe.
You know, unfortunately, Joe fell off over the years due to a bad drug habit.
You know, me, Pee Bud, Greg, you know, lots of other people have always kind of, you know,
reached out and, you know, tried to help him.
And, you know, he I mean, he really could have been someone in the industry, but
unfortunately chose a different path.
He definitely has a place in history and has a story to tell.
But unfortunately, other other demons are, you know.
We're winning the fight.
And so, you know, we haven't heard from Joe in, you know, in a few years.
So I don't know if he's still with us or not.
I mean, he could possibly the last time I reached out to someone that had tabs on him.
They couldn't locate him.
So, you know, we don't know the status of Joe.
And we, you know, we, you know, we hope and pray that, you know, he could, you know, get
his shit together.
And, you know, there's there's there's always a place in history and a new beginning for
him if he wants.
But, you know, these are things that, you know, that we we can't control other people's
actions, unfortunately, and can only go forward with ourselves.
So, yeah, that's, you know, that's pretty much it on him.
Yeah, no, that's that's a good response.
That's a good response.
So on a recent episode, we had Mr. Bob Hemphill on and we're sort of talking about the Hash
Plant 13.
And I know that you've had a little bit of experience with that one.
And I was wondering if you had any sort of insights you'd be willing to share with us,
because there's such little information about it out there.
Yeah, well, the Hash Plant 13.
Yeah, I mean, I recently I unraveled the mystery behind that.
You know, I had purchased some landrace seeds from someone.
And when I grew them out, it was just that that that salty onion, garlic skunk that's
unmistakable to HP 13.
And when I smelled it, I was like, that's it, you know.
And so I had been searching for that strain for quite some time because it was always
a mythical strain that was around New York City at the same time that the Hash Plant
was, but I never, ever got to sample it, but I always heard about it.
So, you know, when I saw, you know, and over the years, I saw multiple breeders offer that
strain, but it never, you know, I, well, I grew it out from two different people.
And the first person I grew it out from it was not, you know, anything that I really
thought was worth keeping.
And then when I grew out the second breeders pack, that's when I, that's when I found the
real deal.
And recently I was at the New York City Gene Trader Show.
And, you know, that's, you know, my, that's my stopping grounds, New York.
So when I went home, when I went to that, it was like a homecoming.
A lot of my old friends came out, a lot of my old customers, a lot of people that I,
you know, worked with, you know.
And so a friend of mine came out, you know, that I had known for a long time and introduced
me to the breeder of the HP 13, Eddie, this guy named Eddie.
Eddie originally was from New York, was in the New York City scene in the nineties.
He create, he was a grower.
He created HP 13, and then he moved to Maui in Hawaii.
So when he moved out, there was a whole bunch of people from New York at that time that
moved out, moved out to Hawaii.
And they, there was a whole, whole scene that, that, that started out there.
And that's kind of where the, that's how the HP 13 wound up being in Hawaii because those
guys brought, brought it over there.
And that's how some of those other guys got a hold of it out there.
So, so yeah, I mean, I mean, when I, when I, you know, I got the original HP 13 as a
cutting, it was a little bit tired and, and it always, you know, it always, you know,
when it was growing, it always had that really, you know, really, the turps were just amazing
when you smell it, just very, very, very unique.
And, but it was a hard, it was a hard plant to grow.
And it always, it was a bug.
I mean, if you had any kind of bugs in your, in your grow, they would just, you know, for
some reason it was, you know, just one of those plants that the, you know, the mites
would just, they would be on the HP 13, but the plant next to it, they wouldn't be on.
So it was just one of those type of plants where the bugs just loved it.
And yeah, I mean, over the years, it kind of, it's kind of lost some of its vigor and
some of the turps and stuff.
It had gotten tired over the years.
And so, yeah, the original cutting, you know, I wound up doing some breeding with it.
And then I just eventually, I unfortunately lost it.
But the special thing about it was just turps about it.
And, you know, a lot of people used to, you know, used to say the same exact thing that
they're saying about the sour, you know, that they say about the hash plant, you know, that
early on it was really strong and really turpy this and that.
Now it's kind of weak and weak, weak, weak across the board.
So, you know, when I, when I picked it up, you know, I brought it back to a BX1 and,
you know, then kind of just, it kind of just fell off from there.
You know, I have all that original stock.
But, you know, when I found, you know, the original mother plant, you know, I was really
excited.
And so I'm hoping, you know, I'm going to be doing some breeding with that real soon.
Actually, I mean, I got it right now.
And unfortunately, I had a HP13 back cross.
I popped some seeds and a few plants that I wound up getting.
They were all female.
So like sometimes you pop seeds with the hope of finding a male and they'll come out female.
And yeah, that's a little disappointing for me.
But unfortunately for me, I have some pollen stored away.
So I'm going to, I have some UW back cross pollen.
And that was the UW, you know, that was the original cross was double dog HP1 puck times
the UW.
And then I back crossed the UW twice.
And so the UW hash plant kind of has it.
It's almost a little similar to the HP13 and probably similar to the hash plant that I
remember back in the day, because it kind of has like a very distinctive kind of pissy
skunky, like it's really hard to describe.
But when you smoke it, it's got that pungent kind of smell.
Kind of just like when you smoke the bubble kush.
When you smoke the bubble kush, you know, it does leave a spiciness in the air.
So there is, you know, some of these hash plant kushes out there that's got this kind
of spiciness to it, you know, which is very unique in the indigo because you don't really
find that like spicy, like kind of pungent hazy type of smell, you know, in indigo.
So I find those ones really interesting.
Yeah, definitely.
Definitely.
It sounds like a killer.
I might be confused here, but one of our listeners was wondering, because it might be the same
plant we're talking about, but hopefully you can clarify for me.
They were just wondering how you would describe the hash plant slash puck slash double dog
mother you used in the HP91 cross you made.
Is that the same plant or is it different and how would you describe it?
Yeah, no.
Yeah, no, it was more kind of puckish, you know, kind of, you know, more indigo.
Yeah, all that stuff kind of just kind of leaned toward the puck because it was, you
know, the HP1, you know, and the puck were kind of like very similar plants.
It's very kind of short, short indigos, kind of leafy, single cola, you know, fat nugs,
kind of blandish and taste and terps, more of a, you know, heavy, stony indigo type of a plant.
Yeah, nice.
Great.
I was going to say, I used to have this cutting I got from your seeds that I miss so much.
It was from the Skunk OG.
Did you ever hear much back from customers about that?
I had these killer cut.
I loved it.
Yeah, yeah, I mean, we got a little bit of feedback, but it wasn't something that really
gained a lot of traction.
It's kind of funny how sometimes those things work out, you know, sometimes it only takes
someone, one person like you to find something like that and then start blowing it up and
then it just starts creates a lot of interest.
And that's kind of how those things work.
Like, you know, the only way I can describe it is they kind of take a life of their own.
Like I could say what I want about how good they are, but until they get into somebody
else's hands and especially if it's someone that has any kind of influence or following,
and if they start blowing it up and just that's the only way that I can describe like
my whole the way everything is kind of evolved for me.
It wasn't really what I did with everything.
It's what everyone else did with my genetics, you know, and I made them.
But, you know, other people actually have made them famous, more famous than I have
for me.
You know, I'm saying people have gone out and won awards with them.
People have, you know, you know, when something's that good, it just kind of stands out and
it takes a life of its own.
So, you know, like I said, it doesn't really matter what I think or say about it.
It's what you say and what everyone else thinks and says, you know, when I show you
something that good, you're going to be like, wow, that's amazing.
You know what I mean?
And you show your body and then it just, you know, before you just take it.
That's the only way I can describe it, you know.
Yeah, no, I totally agree with you.
And I guess people may be a bit apprehensive if a breed is telling you, you know, this
is the bee's knees, like maybe they've been sold something that wasn't very good before
in the past.
So, yeah, when someone else blows it up, it's like, hey, this is, there's no reason for
me to say it's good if it's not.
But that's interesting to hear.
And another thing I was thinking about earlier today was your star cookies cross.
It was sort of like the original GMO, right?
Because like, you know, Stardog's like a lot of Chem D in it, right?
And then it's crossed to the forum cookies.
It's sort of like its own GMO in a way before GMO was big.
Did you ever find any Finos like GMO in there or is it sort of a bit different?
No, not really like that.
Really like the GMO is just, I don't know, it's just kind of like an anomaly.
It just, it's, I don't think they've been able to find anything, the same cutting, you
know, I'm sure it's been remade and it's just like, it's, you know, it's just one of those
things that one in a thousand seed or whatever, whatever it was, they can't, they can't
duplicate that, you know?
And that was really because, you know, it was very Chem D heavy, you know, when you
smell, you know, when you smell, you know, GMO, you just get like full garlic fuel, you
know?
Yeah.
So, I mean, the blend of that was just kind of an amazing thing and really, I don't think
that they can duplicate it.
I mean, I forget the name who made, what was the name of?
I think it was Mamaco seeds.
Mamaco, okay.
Right.
And I know that he's remade them.
I know that he's remade them.
So, I don't hear anyone, you know, finding that and I kind of look at the same thing
as the motor breath, you know, the motor breath was SFBOG times Chem D.
And so, when you get a bag of that stuff and you smell the motor breath, it smells
heavy Chem D.
I mean, you know, but when you smoke it, it tastes like OG, you know?
So, it's just one of them things where, you know, the genetics just, you know, fell into
place and it was a, you know, winning ticket.
But to try to recreate that, I mean, I think you're probably better off breeding with that
to recreate it than to try to use the original parents because there's going to be so much
diversity in the gene pool and you probably got to go through who knows how many seeds
to find that, you know?
It is in there, but how, you know, often is it going to pop up, you know, one in 10,
one or who knows?
And if other people aren't finding it, you know, then that must tell you that it's a
rare thing.
So, yeah.
Yeah, hugely.
I think I can't remember who it was, but someone came on the show a while back and said, oh,
you know, GMO, it's just Chem D dressed up like cookies.
And it made me think, like, sounds kind of true to me, but I guess it sort of made me
start thinking about how it's funny that you need to dress the Chem D up like cookies for
people to be more interested.
Like, it's sort of a weird concept because for people like, you know, in the real Chem
diehard fandom, like, you know, you don't need to sell them on Chem D, but the sort
of newer generation needs it to look like cookies to be able to really get into it.
Well, you know, to me, you know, I grew the GMO and a Chem D in a warehouse in production.
I both got both of them tested.
And actually, the GMO tests higher than a Chem D, if you could believe it.
You know, the GMO was in 28.
You know, the Chem D was maybe like 25.
And I could take, you know, both of those buds side by side, and I could smoke that
GMO.
And then when I smoke that Chem D, it would just rip apart, you know, the GMO, you know,
the GMO has a little bit more of the cookies, a little bit more sativa.
So it's got a little bit more of an upper and up to it, you know, where the Chem D,
I mean, just, I mean, that shit just rips right through you.
I mean, there's no up to it, it will just devastate you.
So even though the Chem D was testing lower than the GMO, it smoked way stronger.
You know, it was for me, the GMO is nice.
It could be a little unsatisfying for me at times because of the sativa tip to it.
The same could be said to the Chem Sister.
And the Chem Sister is a very garlicky onion, very Chem D, terp, same exact thing, but it's
more on a sativa and tip to it.
And so it does not give you that devastating high.
I would describe it more kind of like the GMO is a little bit upper, more sativa.
So that's why I like the, I mean, the Chem Sister has never really been a real popular,
you know, popular thing.
And then, you know, getting back, you had asked me about the Chem 1, 2, 3, and 4.
And yeah, I grew the Chem 1 from an Inspector.
It grew very, very, no, yeah, yeah.
For me, I don't know, some people said it was NL5 haze a little bit.
Like, I don't know, to me, it was like kind of blandish.
I didn't really see anything special about it.
I didn't catch any, I don't know.
I bred to it a couple of times and lost it.
But I mean, to me, it wasn't even like smokable head stash for me.
I thought, you know, the 2 was a little bit more, was a little bit nicer.
And, but still nothing real special.
You know, it's kind of weird because as, you know, as you get to the 3, you know,
I thought the 3 was probably better than the 1 and the 2.
And then, and the 3 was very similar to the 4.
But grew shorter and was a little more citrusy, I would say.
And, but it wasn't really, it wasn't really a strong smoker.
It was nice, you know what I mean?
And then you had the 4.
So really out of all of them, I thought the, you know, the 4 was really the best one out
of them all overall.
Smoked best.
Grew the best and everything.
So that's really what the reason why really the 1, 2 and 3 aren't really relevant because,
you know, they just never, you know, I don't know.
It's never was really that good.
And, you know, when you're talking about, you know, having a number of different plants
you can have and the space that you have and everything.
So, you know, a lot of that, you know, you take into account where, you know, it just
doesn't, you know, this doesn't make it, you know, it just gets, it gets cold out and,
you know, you move on to something else that's better.
So, but yeah, the 3 and the 4 were definitely, you know, the best.
The 3 and the 4 were definitely the standouts out of the 1, 2, 3, 4.
The 2, you know, was better than the 1.
You know, and both of them, all of them were kind of really more heavy indigo, more,
even like, you know, I'm trying to think, you know, and a lot different too from the
91, the D and the sister, you know, where, you know, it's kind of weird because you got
like the 91, which, you know, is fuely and skunky, but not, it's not real super turpy,
you know, it's more kind of got that blandish Afghan tip to it, you know, with the darker
leaves and the dark, you know, even the, even the fan leaves and stuff, you know, the sugar
leaves are darker and everything. And then, you know, you compare that to the, the, the,
you know, the skunky garlic onion, the, of the, of the chem D and a sister,
and then you kind of get into the more piney, chemy, you know, little, you know,
like a little citrusy on, on the, you know, the 3 and the 4 and stuff. So, yeah, it's just
interesting that, you know, the different profiles that, that, that came out of that whole line.
Yeah, definitely. I mean, there's a lot, there's a lot of stuff sort of locked in there, isn't there?
What you just said made me think of something which, you know, never popped to mind before,
but I'd love to know if you knew anything on it, which is, there's another guy out there,
relatively unknown breeder named Incognito and he breeds with like chem 1, 2, 3, and 4. I think
it's legit. Do you know who he is or how he ties into it?
Yes, yes, yes. Yeah, no, we, we, we know who he is. You know, we, we, we had a little bit of a
disagreement, you know, some, some years back and, you know, we don't really talk, but I know that,
that Monty Mike was friends with him and he did have, and gave him the chem 3. So, I know that his
chem 3 is legitimate. Now, I can't really speak on his 1 or 2 chem cuts. I know that he had,
you know, he's up in Massachusetts and I know that he, you know, had friends who were friends with,
you know, I think some of the chem families. So, he's been able to, you know, source those genetics
through those people. But as far as I know, he does have, you know, legitimate chem genetics.
Ah, that's cool to hear. That's cool to hear. In your, in your prior answer, you referenced,
you know, like some of them weren't really what you'd call head stash and it sort of made me
wonder what to you qualifies as head stash, given you've got such a superb sort of foundation of
like what's good weed to you and what's not. What are the sorts of things that would make
something fall into the head stash category for you? Well, you know, it's, you know, it's hard to
say. But, you know, like when I go, you know, for head stash, I'm looking for, you know, something
that, you know, I'm looking for fuel. I'm looking for, you know, chem or OG or sour, you know,
diesel. You know, I need something. I need something that's, you know, that's gonna,
you know, that's gonna get me high. But, you know, I'm a connoisseur. So I like, you know,
all different sides of the spectrum. So, you know, I like a really good haze also,
you know, and so, you know, and what really makes it for me is when I take a hit off a joint or off
a bowl or bong or whatever, and I take a really big hit and I hold it. And, you know, you get that
long expansion, you know, and you blow that you blow that hit out. And as you're blowing that hit
out, you know, you now all of a sudden, you know, you start to get the head rush, you start to feel
the effects of of that. Now, and I'm just talking about one hit, you know, and even like with a good
haze, like I could take a hit off of a really good haze and just close my eyes and blow it out,
and then feel the effects of the third eye in the headband. And just the different, you know,
effects that you feel inside your head, you know, and you just get, you know, a feeling of a
warm, fuzzy blanket that that's put over you. You know, that's how the chem makes me feel,
you know, so, you know, there's a lot of different strains that are going to give you
different effects. But, you know, in the end, for me, you know, I want to be able to take
one big hit and blow it out and then be able to be like, Whoa, that's, you know, that's something.
And there's not a lot of strains that can really, you know, that really, you know, hold up to that
test. You know, so, you know, you know, I'm willing to, you know, try anything, anything
that's good. But, you know, in today's, you know, today's world, there's not a lot that, you know,
that, you know, that, that cut it. And most of the stuff that does is really closely related,
you know, the chems, the OGs, the sours, the hazes, you know, there's not a lot of different
diversity out there, so to speak. You know, and it depends on what you're, you know, smoking for,
you know, I described what I what I smoke for. Some people are just about the flavor. You know,
I'm not one of these guys that just take a hit and blows it out quick. And, you know,
enjoys the flavor of it. You know, like I said, when I take a big hit, I'm gonna hold I want to
feel that lung expansion. And then I want to, you know, blow out a cloud that's going to make me cough
and make my head, you know, to explode. Yeah, brilliant. It's funny as you were saying that,
it made me start thinking that feeling you describe, you know, like you take the hit,
you hold it and the feeling comes over you and the third eye, it's almost, it's almost like a
human experience for good weed across the board, isn't it? It's funny. Well, sometimes, you know,
and then sometimes, you know, you know, you feel that not just with the head, but with the really
good stuff, you get the full body effect. So you know, I mean, the warm, fuzzy blanket, that's
what I described it as. So, you know, and some strange, you'll just get that strictly head high
where you're just getting that. But you know, so, you know, that's really the difference between,
you know, indica and sativa. And for me, it has to do with, you know, the burning of the
cannabinoids and the vegetative matter, because I don't get those same effects with hash,
or any kind of concentrate or something with the vegetative matter, the burning of the vegetative
matter, that just the combustion of those cannabinoids, just there's just something
special about flour. For me, the effect that I just don't get that with hash or any type of
concentrate. Yeah, here, I can agree to that. So I just want to quickly take us back to talk about
the Chem D for a moment, because you were talking about it earlier, and you're referencing the Chem
CIS and a few other cuts. And I guess what I'm wondering is, what's your take on the situation,
given there's so many different Chem D cuts going around, you know, I think I've seen like three or
four different ones now. And, you know, there's the original one and the variegated one and the
Chem CIS and the Chem DS one from Bundy and all that. Where do you, how do you lay out the chem,
is there one Chem D in your mind, that's the real one? Or how do you view the situation?
Well, there's only been one real one, that's a variegated one. And I think what's what's happened
a lot is a lot of people are mistaking the Chem CIS as the Chem D. And then yeah, and then you
get into the Bundy thing. And, you know, maybe some other S1s that could come into play. I could just,
you know, speak from personal experience that we back, you know, back in the day,
popped a Chem DS1. And it was very, very close to the original, but a little sweeter. We called it
the Chem D3 or something like that. We had that around for a little while. But we, but we let that
go eventually. But so really, my point is, is really like, you know, anyone can really find
that type of pheno in an S1, you know, in a Chem dog seed, Chem D seed. So, you know,
depending on the situation, you know, if it, you know, if it's self-harmed or whatever.
So, yeah, I mean, so all of that kind of muddies the water a little bit. And so unless you,
unless you, you know, unless you don't know what the original is, you're not going to know.
And yeah, it is some type of Chem dog or whatever. But the other, you know, the original D,
you know, grows a certain way. It grows kind of medium to short. It's not really stretchy.
And Sativa, like the 91 grows in the sister. So, yeah, so, you know, it's really trying to really
know the real characteristics of, you know, of the real thing and compared to what you have.
So, it's, you know, kind of hard to say, you know, the same thing with, you know, with a lot
of the strains now, the OGs, the Sours, and now it's starting with the Chems where, you know,
there's so many different names and a lot of them are the same thing, but just mislabeled.
Yeah, hugely, hugely. It made me wonder, a lot of people these days have been running a lot of
S1s of both the 91 and the D, and I think it's probably because they're now sort of more available
to people, but a lot of cool phenos popping their heads out. And as you've referenced a few times
now, some sort of more fruity ones coming out of those seeds, which to me was quite surprising.
You know, I guess I never really thought there was a lot of fruitiness inside the Chem.
Have you ever popped any bag seeds or S1s and found something like just really that blew you
away where you were like, I did not expect to find this in these seeds?
Yeah, actually we find kind of like a maple, and there's like a maple type of
pheno that comes out of some of the Stardog stuff. And I've seen some of it come out of
some of the Chem D stuff too. And it's more of an astringent kind of an Afghan, you know,
I would think. But you know, that turp is very distinguishable. And yeah, it does come out
the maple stuff, but the fruity stuff we haven't, you know, I haven't really gotten
no, not much fruit out of the Chems, out of the stuff that, you know, that we've run.
And yeah, the more than that maple, the maple stuff is, you know, and like I said,
it's more of a real kind of an Afghan, I feel type of turp.
Yeah, that's so very, very interesting. I guess, you know, time will tell. And I think I should
maybe clarify when I say fruity, I think the reports I had read were sort of like,
um, maybe sort of near that guava end of things, like sort of a, what did they say? Like grape
fruit. So I guess like, you know, a bit of bitterness slash not like the most.
Yeah, well, we found some kind of a little citrus, like I said, we found a little bit of citrus,
there was a little bit of citrus in the threes. So, you know, I would think that's probably what,
you know, they were referring to, that you're referring to is kind of like a little citrusiness.
Yeah, that explains it perfectly. There's been one question that I've been wanting to ask you for
like six or seven years now, because it's just so conflicting all over the internet. But basically,
I was wondering if you could give us the backstory on the Day Wrecker, because everything I'd read
about it said that it was basically gone. But you still see people saying, you know,
I've crossed this to the Day Wrecker. And I'm like, isn't it gone?
Well, you know, referring back to my original post on the internet on, on Overgrow, I had referred
to the Chem 91, you know, as the original diesel, which was, you know, it was called the diesel
originally, you know, that, you know, so we never, we never called it original diesel,
it was just called diesel people like, yo, you got that diesel shit, you know. So, you know,
that's how that really first came about, you know, and, and really, the,
the underdog, you know, and so I had, which I had referenced previously, you know, people would be
like, yeah, that, you know, the underdog, which was the super skunk nl times 91. And people used
to refer to that as the Day Wrecker, that'd be like, yeah, that shit wrecked my day, you have
more of that Day Wrecker shit, you know, so I referenced that as, as, you know, the Day Wrecker
I referenced that as, as that, you know, and so, and that in all of these other little names that I
had, you know, the Day Wrecker and the headband and the headband was another one be like, yeah,
you know, that shit gave me after I smoked, I got a headband thing, you know, like, you know,
we're talking about the third eye, and whatnot. So all of these things were all referenced to the
cam. So when I made that original post, I named all of those all of those names, I named the
headband, all that stuff. And what happened was that people just kind of picked up on those catch
names on the internet. And, and being like, you know, they might have found some kind of s one or
got some kind of diesel that they didn't know what it was, or whatever. And they just came up with,
oh, we'll call it the headband, or we'll call it, you know, underdog or, you know, and so like,
all these names have kind of been like, hijacked from the original.
Yeah, I guess it makes sense. You know, people just even knowingly or unknowingly using the
inappropriate names. So with that being said, then when people talk about original diesel,
and they talk about like, you know, the DNL, and L5Hase sort of components to all that,
do you think there's maybe less truth to that than what the internet maybe makes out at times?
You think it's maybe all just cam? Or do you think it's it's just so convoluted? It's hard to track at
all? Yeah, I don't know. It's kind of hard to tell, you know. It's Yeah, I mean, because people
just just changed, you know, people just, you know, because back in, back in those early days,
like names weren't really, you know, as big as they are now. Yeah, I mean, so like, we just kind
of, you know, that's kind of like how the PIF and all these other Hayes type of church and, you know,
these were just all kind of the creepy is real kind of just catch names, you know, back in the
day, you know, so, you know, they weren't really anything specific, you know, some things were,
but like, some things were just kind of like, catch names. So people just kind of just,
you know, they just, you just, you know, they just kind of, someone just made up made, you know,
thought that, you know, we'll name it, this to sell it, you know, and that's what happens to is
like, people would change the name of the product, because they couldn't sell it under
the original name for whatever reason, because they were given a clone, and they weren't supposed
to get it. So they couldn't call it. Oh, gee, Chris, they call had to call it underdog or,
or, you know, so that, you know, a lot of the names have been changed for a lot of different
reasons, you know, so a lot of it has to do with just making money, really.
Yeah, yeah, I can understand that.
And the other thing is, so the other thing is, too, like, if I, if you if you never seen
a certain strain, and if you never seen underdog or, or whatever, and I and I, and I tell you,
it is this, you know, you think, you know, you got to think it is because you don't know the
difference. And so, you know, so you go thinking it's the real deal. And now you're spreading that
as gospel. And because that's the only thing that you know, and so that's kind of how these things
get started. And then, then it just kind of gets a life of its own. And it kind of just overtakes
the original story, I guess.
Yeah, certainly, certainly. I mean, yeah, that happens with a lot of things, right?
So, if we get back to sort of the timeline that you were traveling on in your whole journey,
when you started to develop, you know, you referenced earlier that you wanted to make
a mail and you were like, well, I'm going to use the strongest stuff I have, which is the chem,
when you started doing all of that, was that with the long term goal of
wanting to breed? Or was it more of just like a fun project?
No, for me, it was just about preservation, because, you know, I would, you know, back then,
it was hard to get clones. So when you got a clone, it was, you know, and if you lost it,
you never knew if you can get it back. So, you know, my theory was, well, I'm getting all of
these clone only strains, I got to try to make some kind of representation and see form for
for preservation. You know, even if I get like 70 to 80% of the original, of the original thing,
I consider that a home run. So that was really what, you know, my thought process was really
just about preservation in case we lost the chem or the sow or whatever it was,
at least I'd have some type of seed stock to fall back on and use because otherwise,
it would be gone completely. Yeah, sure. Understandable. So,
at what point did Top Dog officially become a brand?
I think, well, I had been selling seeds on IC Mag, but not under the top. I'm not sure. I
I don't know if I Yeah, I don't think I really officially made the brand until I crossed over
until into THC farmer, you know, because because up to that point, you know, I had
I was selling some seeds on seed Bay. That's how I first started selling seeds was on seed Bay. And
that was just for that was just for seed credit. You know, they wanted all your banking information
and wanted to do a bank transfer. And back then that was just like, Are you crazy? You know,
I mean, so I was just like, Alright, I'll start selling seeds. And you know, we'll see how it goes.
And, you know, I'll build up, you know, some money, some seed credit, and I'll just buy a
whole bunch of packs on seed Bay, you know, that was, you know, so that's what I did at first,
I wound up getting all the all these different stuff I got, you know, I forget I had, you know,
like $1,000 worth of, you know, credit or 2000, something like that. And so like, wow, this is,
you know, a lot. And so, um, so really, what started to happen in over at the IC Mag was
that's when res was really in his prime. And, you know, he was, you know, doing his sour crosses.
And at that time, you know, he was just, he was just rolling over everyone, you know,
stepping on everyone's toes, like he wound up getting the chem D. And at first, you know,
he said he wasn't going to breed with it. And then, and then it turned into a charity auction.
And then he was going to give, give Greg a Rolex for compensation. It just went from one thing to
another and just evolved into where he fucked them. You know, so what what was happening was
he was making I see mag and gypsy so much money. Like, you know, I mean, these guys are doing drops
and making like 50 grand and a drop and 100 gramming doing stupid numbers. I mean, and you
know, when he was, you know, starting to do all this, he was getting called out, I was calling
them out, other people were calling them out. And so I really reached the point where we became,
you know, detrimental, you know, a threat. And so they just kind of muted us and they,
you know, wound up deleting us and all of this stuff. And they banned it, they wound up banning
me and deleted my account. So I went over to THC farmer. And that's where the top dog brand was
really launched officially, I guess you could say where I was actually getting getting money getting
paid for, you know, the seeds that that I was selling, you know, and you know, and eventually,
you know, logic, you know, because, you know, I mean, he had everyone over there, he had OG
rascal and I mean, everyone from back in the day, because everyone left I see mag and he, you know,
he had a he had everyone over there. And he just wound up fucking everyone, you know, he fucked me
fucked everyone. And yeah, the guy is just, you know, even to this day, I think he's just doing
the same thing to scamming people just trying to get newbie breeders on there get trying to get
them to send him seeds, and then he never paid in, he never pays you. And that's basically how
it used to work, you'd have to sell your, you know, send the seeds up front, and then they would sell
them, and then they would send you the money. And so I wound up going to Spain and getting cash from
logic in person one time. And yeah, and then after that, he just, yeah, he just fucked me. So
but by that time, that's, you know, kind of like, when, you know, I guess that's like,
kind of like, like the early beginnings of Instagram by that point, I believe, you know, and
there. Yeah, what an interesting progression at all talk. And that sort of makes sense to me now,
because I remembered being on IC Mag, and you see some big name people are banned. And I'm like,
how did this person end up getting banned? But I guess it's, as you said, you know,
sort of a bit of shady stuff on the back end of it all.
Yeah, well, he anyone I mean, if you you know, if you wound up calling any, you know, res out,
or, you know, they just saw that saw that as a threat for them to their money, because that
was their cash cow. So they had to protect him. So he was, I mean, all you know, yeah,
that all kind of backfired on all of them in the end. So yeah, interesting stuff.
What I've always found interesting is the sort of parallels between yours and res dogs, Chem D lines,
how you both kind of use the Afghan male initially, obviously, he used the Hindu Kush,
you use the Afghani number one, but they're generally speaking, you know, sort of from a
similar general area of the world. Do you think that the Afghan one paired better with the Chem D
than the Hindu Kush? Yeah, well, he, you know, I was the first one to get the Chem D,
you know, and breed with it, you know, so I had that, you know, going for me, you know, so, you
know, he had to copy, he had to try to copy me somehow. But the Hindu Kush that I grew was very
leafy. The, you know, I thought this, the plant itself was more in had more sativa in it, because
it was thin leave, it kind of grew more stretchy and leafy. And I didn't like the structure of
the plant, it was more floppy, you know, a thinner stemmed and everything. And I thought that it
didn't smoke as well either. You know, the, the Afghan kind of had a medic medicine, he kind of
piney tip to it, the Afghan one, and a thicker stem, and thicker buds and everything, the bud
structure. So I thought overall, that, you know, that plant was the better plant to use.
Yeah, certainly, certainly. And I guess as just a sort of a general one, how do you feel given,
you know, Rez has returned to the scene and is looking slash in the process of releasing new
seeds?
Yeah, it's kind of funny, because he's using my Afghan, I mean, African haze, you know, and you
know, he had, you know, some good things to say about me, in the very beginning of his return,
how he admired me and cornbread, Ricky and a few other people. But now after I kind of spoke out
over a couple of things, he kind of, you know, withdraw, withdrew those, you know, those claims.
But yeah, I mean, you know, the paperwork kind of speaks for itself. I think it was sun grown
mids that that published all of the court documentation, which shows that Rezdog was
a queen for a day. And for what people, if people don't know what that means, that means that you
get to go in and spill the beans on everything that you know, and none of that stuff will be
held against you, just as long as you don't lie about what you're telling. So you know, they,
they had the scene in Goodfellas when a guy goes in, and he was queen for a day. And you go in and
you tell them everything. And what they hope to do is you, you collaborate the stuff that they know,
and you tell and then you tell them stuff that they don't know, because you don't know what they
don't what they know what they don't know. So when you go in there and spill your guts, you're
basically going there and tell everything, every exact thing that you did and everything that you
know, and implicate other people, and so on and so forth. So that's what that is. And so you know,
there's people that say that, you know, that the story that I got was that Dutch grown was going
to be bringing a shipment of seeds back to England and got caught in in Massachusetts at the airport.
And supposedly someone routed them out. And the customs was looking for them when they made,
you know, went through there. So I guess at that point, you know, she supposedly was an
an ex law enforcement person, and I guess that she spilled her guts, and led them back to res,
and he spilled his gut, you know, everyone just routed on rolled on everyone in the end.
And, you know, so you know, the the paperwork, you know, clear, clearly shows that so.
Yeah, so I mean, you know, you know, it kind of just goes to show, you know, that people still
support him. And in this day and age of Instagram, I don't think there's really anything that you can
really say or do. And, you know, then people were still, you're still going to get people that
they're going to support you. So no matter how low you go, you know, if you're gonna, you know,
if you're going to copy someone and rip off their genetics, or if you're a known rat, or, or, or
whatever, you know, I don't know how, how low the bar goes to where, you know, reaches the point
where people aren't going to support you. So I mean, I mean, that's just the way that it goes on,
you know, and on Instagram, no matter who you are, or what you do, you know, there's always people
are going to hate on you. And there's always going to people are going to support you. So, you know,
it depends on, you know, your character, and you know, how you want to conduct yourself and perceive
yourself. So, I mean, I've always been, you know, upfront in everything that I do, and open and
transparent, you know, and so no one can really say, you know, anything but the truth.
Yeah, certainly. I think there was some, some screenshots, maybe just one or two of the
paperwork that have existed for some time, and they, they look pretty bad, but they sort of
existed in isolation. So as you said, yeah, when SungrowMids posted all of the documentation, it was
a much more interesting and longer sort of read, and it sort of painted a more clear picture,
didn't it? I guess if we sort of just jump back to the ChemD, one of the questions I've been wanting
to ask you for a number of years is, what were the reasons you chose to work with the ChemD as
opposed to the 91? I didn't have the 91 at the time. I only had the ChemD, so that was like the
best thing that, you know, we had at the time. At that time, even Greg lost the 91. So, I mean, at
that time, I think Skunk VA was the only one that had it, and so that didn't really resurface until,
you know, a few years later, until, you know, everyone kind of got connected on the internet.
Okay, yeah, that makes sense. I've noticed that Chem people tend to fall into like one of two camps
of like they're either diehard 91 or diehard ChemD, and, you know, I like them both. I see the merits
to both of them. I think, you know, D's probably a lot better commercially and probably, you know,
applicable to a wider number of people, but I'm interested, where do you fall? Are you diehard
Chem91 or ChemD? ChemD for sure, you know. The ChemD just has that way more stronger effect for me.
It's way more terpier. The 91 is nice, don't get me wrong. I think it falls a little short on
on strength, and it's definitely, you know, it doesn't really have that same
taste and stuff to it, you know. It's a little more blandish, more kind of Afghani, you know,
where you just kind of got that little blandy, you know, it's kind of like a skunky Cheminess,
but there's not a real over terp file on that. So it still smokes really strong, you know. So,
you know, it's definitely, it comes in probably second in all the chems. You know, I would rate
them ChemD, 91, Chem4, Sister is how I would rate them. Then the three probably, then going down
the rest of the line, but that's just me personally. Yeah, no, good answer, good answer.
So I read some old forum posts, and what I sort of realized from them was that in the early days,
there was actually like a lot of people posting that they wanted your genetics, but I think like
there was only a limited number of packs sort of available through the sites you were referencing
earlier. And then there seems to sort of be this shift at some point where like the availability
went up. And it made me wonder, was that sort of like the point when you were like, I'm going to
do this full time or was it coincidental? Well, you know, early on, yeah, I mean,
I'm trying to think, you know, really, I didn't really probably start getting, you know, gaining
traction until, you know, 2009, 2010. You know, that's about when, you know, Kyle Cushman won that,
won that, the High Times in San Francisco. We started first going, our first show was
was in Denver, High Times in Denver, 2011. And yeah, so really, you know, by that time,
that's when we really started, you know, to, you know, started to get popular. And I was like,
right, you know, 2010, 2011. That was really when the Stardog really started to gain traction.
After that, after that, well, it had gotten written up on High Times. And then, you know,
it had won the cup. And so that's really when it really started, you know, gaining traction and
stuff. So yeah, so really, really what happened, you know, so I, you know, that's when I really
started, you know, decided to really, you know, you know, start exploring getting, you know, kind
of, you know, kind of put my toe in the water, sort of speak, you know, we did that first High
Times thing, but we didn't sell any seeds, you know, we weren't, you know, we were really green
at the time. So we were kind of, you know, we didn't know what we were getting into, we really
had to, like, you know, survey the fucking situation and seeing what other people were
doing and what we can get away with and everything. So, yeah, so we, we came to Denver in
2011. And a lot of people came up to us and wanted to buy seeds. And, you know, we were just kind of
like overwhelmed and being like, yeah, this, you know, can really, you know, be something. And so
we, you know, we did the, so we did the show the next year 2012. And then we started selling seeds,
you know, at the shows. And, you know, by that time, you know, and that's pretty, you know,
pretty, you know, that's really kind of coincides with, you know, the internet thing. And
because we, you know, we were over at THC farmer. And then there was another site that
and then and then there was a bunch of other sites that started popping up at that same time.
I'm trying to think of the other one we were on. There was can
can a collective I think you can a collective. So, you know, I was having trouble with,
with DJ with logic. And then so I went and then I started going over to can a collective.
And that was right around 2012. And I wound up going to Amsterdam in 2012. And meeting,
meeting a bunch of people out there and you know, and so that you know, but what happened was in
in 2013. Yeah, I think it was in 2013. I wound up getting arrested, driving,
coming back from my grow house. And what happened was I was up at the house. It was I was Memorial
Day weekend. And the septic system was broken. One of the pipes got clogged. So you know,
I couldn't use a shower, the water or anything like that. So I was up there cutting. And usually,
you know, I would cut and then take a shower, change my clothes and you know, go home. So
I couldn't take a shower. So I washed up and I changed my clothes and I drove I was driving home.
And you know, I had maybe like a gram or two of flour on me and a little pipe, you know,
I never traveled with a lot of stuff. And so I'm driving and not paying attention. And I'm going
down the hill and I'm doing 82 and the speed limit 65. I'm going down the hill and then it
goes up the hill. And so at the top of that hill, there was a cop underneath the bridge.
He was shooting radar going down the hill. So as soon as I started going down, and then I started
going up, he got me. I knew that he got me. So when I passed him, he pulled fucking out and he
pulled me over. You know, and then I rolled down the window. The first thing he said he smelled
marijuana. If I had marijuana in the car, you know, and so I knew like, you know, I was in
trouble at that point, you know, so he rips me out of the car, searches the car, and there's an empty
fertilizer bottle in my trunk. And then they start asking me about where am I coming from?
You know, and if I don't, and then they start asking me about growing weed, this and that.
Now these are New Jersey State troopers. You know, I told them I was coming from New York
State fishing. I had my fishing gear with me. But then they started asking me if I own property up
there, blah, blah, blah. So I knew like, you know, I was in fucking, I was in danger. And the only
thing that they had to do was call the New York State troopers and be like, yeah, run this guy's
name. They would have ran my name and saw that my name would have popped up on the utilities.
You know, I, you know, all the bills were in my name. So they would have saw that, you know,
I had an electric bill. They would have taken a look at the electric bill and seen that I had
high usage. So it had been one red flag after another red flag after another red flag. They
would have saw that they would have sent someone up to the house to do a walk around to do some
type of investigation. So I had this all premeditated. So after that, you know, I ripped
the room down. And you know, I decided that, you know, I had to shut my operation down for
a year or two. And so what I had to do was I had to fix the septic, I had to fix the house up and I
sold it. And then, you know, then, you know, I was, you know, I was at that point, I was just
sitting on limited stock stuff that I had made and stuff. So I was, you know, selling some of
that stuff off. And then, you know, I came out to Colorado and did the Colorado High Time Show in
2015. And, you know, at that point, you know, I had sold my house, I had money in the bank,
like I was ready to make a move. I wasn't sure what I was going to do. I was talking to people
in Seattle. And I was talking, you know, thinking about Denver's either gonna be Denver, Seattle,
I had a I had a possible deal with someone, you know, in that had, you know, they were building
out a warehouse and stuff. So I had to decide on where I wanted to go. And then so, you know,
a friend of mine, you know, the Seattle thing kind of fell through. And a friend of mine,
he had moved out from Michigan. And he had just moved out here. And he's like, Yeah, come on out,
you could stay with me for two weeks. So the the show was around 420. And I came back like a month
later in May. And I was here for two weeks. And I was just asking around looking to rent the house.
And I was asking people if anyone knew that someone you know, with, you know, that was
cannabis friendly landlord. And so my one friend, he's like, Yeah, I rent from a guy and he has a
couple of he rent, he has a couple of houses for rent. So he hooked me up with his landlord and I
was able to rent. I had a house for rent that I was able to grow in. And so, you know, I decided
that I was going to, you know, come out here and live for a year and grow and see how I liked it,
you know, and so that's what I did. And so I started back up and, you know, started making
seeds again. And, you know, things, you know, we're going good. And I decided at that point
that I was going to buy a house, you know, so I, the lease was over, I got kicked out of there.
I had to rent for a short while. And then I bought a house up in the mountains.
And but then I still had a house in New Jersey. So so I had the house up in the mountains. And
then we started looking at another house down in the Denver area. And so we sold sold our house
in New Jersey. And you know, we move full time to Colorado, pretty much. And so from that point on,
I just been kind of, you know, just been in, you know, once I decided to move here, it was pretty
much full time. Because the whole time when I was back in New Jersey, I worked for and I had a full
time job in construction. So I used to go work eight hours a day. And I'd wake up, you know,
like five, six in the morning, be on the job at seven o'clock. We'd work till like 3-3.30.
And then I would drive into New York City. And I had an apartment in New York City. And that's
where I sold weed out of. And so I did that, you know, Monday, Tuesday. And then on Wednesdays,
I would drive upstate two hours to my grow house. And I would water everything. And then I would
turn back around. And that was my day two hours up water two hours back. Right on Wednesday,
Thursday, you'll be back at work. And now Friday, back at work, Saturday, back upstate.
You know, so I did that for like 12 years. 12 years, I did that, you know, and you know,
just doing all the driving and all the traveling, I was constantly beginning pulled over. And you
know, getting you know, so finally, this this was the last straw, you know, when I got, got, you
know, the last time I got, you know, stopped. And so I was like, I'm out of here. I don't want to
have to deal with this bullshit. I knew that I had, you know, that there was a good prospect of
the seed thing happening. And the last thing I wanted to do was I get jammed up, you know, in,
in a system and you know, have to go to jail or probation or whatever, because when you do when
you're on all that stuff, they're, they're in your life. Like it's very hard to operate
an illegal thing without, you know, getting jammed up. And if you do, then you're definitely going to
go to jail. So I decided I wasn't going to be taking that chance. I'll just go to a state where
I can grow. I'm not going to be growing for production, I just need to grow for seed production.
So I'm not going to be doing, you know, the big, huge room, which I, which I, and that's what I
originally would do was, I was originally a grower for production. And I used to do these little side
seed side things on the side, you know, and that's kind of how it started. And then it just kind of
evolved into where the little side thing, seed side thing became bigger than, than, you know,
growing for, you know, production. So, you know, once I saw that, you know, I had that,
you know, that that possibility was out there, I just decided to run with it. And,
you know, luckily, it's all worked out for me.
Yeah, wow. What a run. I mean, kudos for driving upstate two times a week for 11 years. That's
brutal, dude. I bet you're sick of driving.
Yeah, no, I put on, I mean, I used to put probably like 30,000 miles a year on my vehicle easily.
Wow.
Yeah.
While, while you mentioned it, you've stimulated a thought and I want to quickly ask you before I
forget it. I was talking to Bob Hemphill and he was telling me about this strain that they grow
in upstate New York. Never heard about it before. It's called the Shire. It's like a super silver
sour diesel hybrid, something like along those lines. But he said like goes for like a hundred
days. It's like in upstate New York, these guys love it. And like, they swear it's the best.
Have you ever heard of that one?
I've heard of the Shire, but I'm not over familiar with it. It almost sounds like a
Rezdog cross, but I don't know if that's true or not.
Yeah, I'm just not familiar with it. I never smoked it.
So I know nothing about it, but I've heard of the name though.
And there you have it guys, two out of three in the bag. You pumped for part three.
That was sick in my opinion, as always. Huge shout out again to JJ for taking the time to
come on the show and a huge shout out to our amazing sponsors for helping us to make the
show happen. CT now, best seed bank in the game. Go hit them up for all the hottest drops from all
the breeders you know, you love. Guarantee on satisfaction at the end of the cycle,
not just guarantee on germination. Why would you go elsewhere? Likewise, go check out Coppert
Biological Systems with all the most advanced technologies. These guys have got you covered
and will keep the pests at bay. Check out the Afipar M or the Spidex Vital. Both of them
incredible products going to help you overcome any infestation you have, or more importantly,
keep away a potential infestation. Nothing better than being proactive and getting on top
of a problem before it even exists guys. Go check out Coppert Biological Systems.
Incredible sponsors, we really appreciate them. And last but not least, Pro-Mix Connect,
your number one mycorrhizal product in the game. You know Pro-Mix, you've probably bought their
peat before. Guess what? They've got a killer mycorrhizal product now. And if you check it out,
I promise you, your plants will be better off for it. No questions asked. Better resin,
better flavor, better yield. You know mycorrhizal is fantastic. I don't need to sell you on it.
Go check it out. Pro-Mix Connect, number one mycorrhizal product in the game.
Furthermore, huge shout out to Charlie's Cannabis, your number one family-owned,
small batch craft cannabis producer out of Oklahoma, providing you with incredible flavors,
chemical sunset, star pebbles, so many more on the horizon. Check out their Instagram to see
what they're pheno-hunting at the moment. I'm really excited to have these guys on board,
and I think it's going to be magical to see what they produce going forward.
You need some high-quality smoke, you're in Oklahoma, go check out Charlie's Cannabis.
You'll be puffing good, I promise. Finally, shout out to the Patreon gang. I love you,
I appreciate you. You are the best. If you want to get access to unheard content,
early access to interviews, giveaways, so much more, go check it out. We recently got a Discord,
guys. I'm a bit late to the Discord party, but I tell you what, I'm loving it. Some good chats
going on there. Be sure to check out Patreon if you want to help support the show and ensure
content continues to be made. That's it for part one, guys. I'll see you back for part two and part
three. Thanks for hanging around. We'll see you.
